Document of
The World Bank                   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3088-GH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
June 8, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients ouly in the performance of  |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bnuk authberztin.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =    Cedis (¢)
US$1              =    2.75 Cedis
1 Cedi            =    US$0.36
US$1              =    SDR 0.803744
(The US$/SDR exchange rate used in this
report is that of February 17, 1981.)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB      -    African Development Bank
GCC       -    Ghana Cocoa Council
GBC       -    Ghana Bauxite Company
GHA       -    Ghana Highway Authority
GPA       -    Ghana Ports Authority
GRC       -    Ghana Railway Corporation
MTC       -    Ministry of Transport and Communications
ODA       -    Overseas Development Administration (UK)
RITES     -    Rail India Technical and Economic Services (India)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GHANA - RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Ghana
Beneficiary:         Ghana Railway Corporation (GRC)
Amount:              IDA Credit of SDR 23.3 million (US$29 million) equivalent
Terms:               Standard
Relending Terms:    SDR 22.25 million (US$27.7 million) of the proceeds of
the credit would be relent to the Ghana Railway Corporation
(GRC) at 9.6 percent per annum for 20 years including 5
years of grace.
Project
Description:         The primary objective of the project is to bring about
urgently needed improvements in the management, operations
and facilities of the Ghana Railway Corporation with a
view to strengthening its capacity for the movement of
Ghana's bulk export cargoes (cocoa, timber, manganese and
bauxite) for which the railway is either essential or has
a significant comparative advantage. Specifically, the
project would include: (a) strengthening the management
effectiveness and the efficiency of GRC's operations and
maintenance through provision of 478 man-months of
technical assistance and staff training; (b) track reha-
bilitation and maintenance on the Western line (Takoradi-
Kumasi) which carries a major portion of freight traffic;
(c) rehabilitation and maintenance of 37 diesel locomo-
tives and 240 freight cars; (d) renovation of the existing
workshop facility and equipment for effective repair and
maintenance of diesel locomotives and rolling stock; (e)
new telecommunications and signalling facilities on the
Western line; and (f) consultant studies for further
development of the railway. In addition, the project
would provide about 100 man-months of technical assistance
to strengthen Ghana's overall transport planning and
coordination capacity. The project would face no major or
unusual technical risks. However, the realization of the
institution building objective of the project would
require continued Government support and close moni-
toring by Government and IDA. The degree of success of
the project will also be influenced by the macro-economic
environment and the extent to which freight traffic
recovers.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: (Net of Taxes and Duties) 1/
Local     Foreign       Total
(US$ Millions Equivalent)
(i) GRC management improvement,
training and studies              5.00         6.74        11.74
(ii) Track rehabilitation and
maintenance                       4.78         5.88        10.66
(iii) Rehabilitation of
locomotives and freight
cars                              1.37        10.84        12.21
(iv)  Renovation of workshop            1.55         4.91         6.46
(v) Telecommunications and
signalling                        3.67         6.69        10.36
(vi)  Transport planning                0.15         1.30         1.45
Sub-Total                  16.52        36.36        52.88
Contingencies                     5.48         5.64        11.12
Total Project Cost               22.00        42.00        64.00
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign    Total
(US$ Millions Equivalent)
IDA                       -        29.0       29.0
AfDB                      -        13.0       13.0
Government               22.0        -        22.0
Estimated Disbursements:  IDA FY:            FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85   FY86
(US$ Millions)
Annual              1.0      6.5    12.5      6.9    2.1
Cumulative          1.0      7.5    20.0    26.9   29.0
1/   The project will be exempt from taxes and duties.



- iii -
Economic Rate of Return:                 32 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:                 Report No. 2326-GH, dated May 27, 1981
Map:                                     IBRD 13990 and IBRD 13991






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA FOR
A RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 23.3 million (US$29 million) equivalent on standard
IDA terms to the Republic of Ghana to help finance a proposed Railway Rehabil-
itation Project. SDR 22.25 million (US$27.7 million) of the proceeds of the
credit would be relent to the Ghana Railway Corporation (GRC) for 20 years
including five years of grace at 9.6 percent per annum.  The foreign exchange
risk would be borne by the Government.  The African Development Bank (AfDB)
is expected to cofinance the project on a parallel basis with a loan of US$13
million equivalent.  The AfDB loan would be for 20 years including 5 years of
grace with interest at seven percent per annum and a statutory commission of
one percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Ghana: Economic Memorandum" was
distributed to the Executive Directors in May 1979 (2345-GH) and a special
study "Ghana: Report on Domestic Resource Mobilization", in February 1981
(3072-GH). An economic mission visited Ghana in February/March 1981, and its
principal findings are incorporated in the following paragraphs. Basic
economic data and selected social indicators are summarized in Annex 1.
Basic Structural Characteristics of the Economy
3.        Agriculture is the largest sector of the economy accounting for
50.5 percent of GDP in 1979. Industrial production and services account for
17.5 and 32.0 percent respectively. Although Ghana had traditionally enjoyed
a fairly high standard of living compared with most other West African nations,
the growth performance of the economy in recent years has been uneven and
poor. In the period 1975-79 real GDP declined at an average annual rate of
1.1 percent, implying a decline in per capita income of at least 4 percent
annually, as population was growing at 3.0 percent. Per capita GNP is esti-
mated at US$400 in 1979. The incidence of absolute poverty has been on the
increase and almost one half the country's total population is now estimated
to live in absolute poverty. Accompanying the stagnation in the economy has
also been a worsening of income distribution and growing unemployment. At
least 13 percent of the labour force is estimated to be unemployed, and
underemployment is also widespread.
4.        The most significant factor underlying Ghana's poor economic
performance in recent years has been the decline in the volume of exports,
which depend almost entirely on a few traditional export commodities--cocoa
(of which Ghana is the world's third largest producer), timber, manganese,



- 2 -
gold and diamonds, which together constitute 94 percent of exports. In
addition to contributing about 80 percent of the country's export earnings,
cocoa has provided around one half of government revenues and employs more
than 20 percent of the labor force. Cocoa exports have declined substantially
in recent years due principally to low producer prices (a highly overvalued
currency has constrained the authorities from establishing realistic producer
prices), inadequate rehabilitation efforts, and shortages of labor, imported
inputs and transport equipment. Aggravated by adverse weather conditions in
1975-77, cocoa output in 1977-78 fell to 271,000 tons, compared with well over
400,000 tons in the early 1970s; in 1978/79 output fell further to 265,000
tons. Cocoa export earnings, however, remained firm because of the high world
market price for the crop. In 1979/80, cocoa output recovered to 296,000
tons. This partial recovery was in part due to the doubling of producer
prices in 1979. But with the present problems of input availability and
continuing decline in real producer prices due to inflation, this recovery is
expected to be only temporary. Production of most minerals is stagnating,
because of depletion of the mineral ore reserves, poor transport facilities,
run-down equipment, and the discouraging effects of an overvalued currency.
5.        Near self-sufficiency had been reached in basic cereal production
with the "Operation Feed Yourself" program launched in 1972. But food pro-
duction declined due to the prolonged drought in 1975-77, and because of
inadequate support services and lack of fertilizers and inputs requiring
foreign exchange. Rising food prices have been an important component of
the high inflation rate. With improved rains,food production recovered to
some extent in 1978, although this recovery was not sustained in 1979. Cereal
production is estimated to have declined from 722,000 tons in 1978 to 604,000
tons in 1979. In 1980 it is estimated to have recovered to about 716,000 tons.
6.        Manufacturing in Ghana remains heavily dependent on imported inputs.
Manufacturing contributed 14 percent of GDP in 1971 but this figure has
declined progressively to 10 percent in 1978 due to lack of raw materials
and spare parts caused by continuing foreign exchange shortages. Most plants
are estimated currently to be operating at around 20-30 percent of installed
capacity. This sector provides full and part-time employment to about 12
percent of the labor force.
7.        Traditionally, Ghana has imported its entire petroleum requirements,
mostly in the form of crude oil which is refined domestically and used chief-
ly as a source of fuel for the transport sector. Rising oil import prices
have resulted in crude oil imports absorbing an increasingly large percentage
of Ghana's export earnings, from 12.5 percent in 1978 to 25 percent in 1980.
Recently, some oil deposits have been discovered and commercial exploitation
has commenced. Production of crude oil in the 15-month period to December
1979 reached about 700,000 barrels, equivalent to less than 10 percent of
Ghana's annual requirements. Hydroelectric power meets most of Ghana's
non-transport energy requirements in the modern sector.
8.        Despite its economic problems, Ghana has in the past devoted con-
siderable efforts to development of its human resources. The education system
is well established, elementary education has been free and universal since



- 3 -
1962, and there has been considerable investment in public health facilities.
However, social infrastructure and basic amenities in the rural areas remain
poor: for example, only 14 percent of the rural population have access to safe
water and only 21 percent of the country's health establishments are in
rural areas.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        During the last decade the country's economic performance has been
characterized by a high rate of inflation, widening budget deficits and a
persistent foreign exchange shortage. This deterioration took place notwith-
standing a relatively good natural resource endowment and a significant
improvement in the country's terms of trade and has to be ascribed essentially
to poor economic management. There was a growing imbalance in public finances
due to rapid growth of budget current expenditures and slow growth in budget
revenues reflecting in part a sharp decline in cocoa production. Also, the
uneconomic operations of a large number of government enterprises have been an
additional factor contributing to the budgetary imbalance. Revenues declined
as a proportion of GDP from 15 percent in 1974 to 11 percent in 1977, and with
lack of control over Government expenditures, the overall budget deficit
increased from about 6 percent of GDP to nearly 13 percent over the same
period. With low level of external capital inflows, the growing overall
deficit was financed through an excessive reliance on inflationary borrowing,
mainly from the Central Bank. During the period 1971-77, money supply in-
creased on average by about 35 percent per annum. In 1977/78 alone the money
supply increased by 60 percent. With no significant increase in production in
the economy, the rate of inflation accelerated, reaching about 116 percent in
1977. In the management of the external sector, too, Ghana has been afflicted
by the adverse effects of continuing domestic price increases. With the
official rate of exchange fixed at ¢1.15=US$1 since February 1973, the cedi
came to be increasingly overvalued.
10.       In June 1978, in the face of an increasingly critical economic
situation, the authorities commenced a program of stabilization. A managed
downward "float" of the cedi was introduced, and in August 1978, a 58 percent
devaluation was implemented which changed the rate to 02.75 to one US
dollar. The devaluation was quickly followed with a tough budget for 1978/79
which aimed at drastically reducing the overall budget deficit. Other measures
included: a doubling of cocoa producer price from 040 to ¢80 a headload
(30 kg) to stimulate production; a 25 percent limit on the increase in money
supply in 1978/79; and tightening of credit.
11.       With this stabilization program, government expenditures were cut
by about one third in real terms in 1978/79, and for the first time in recent
years, the budget deficit too was reduced; the overall deficit for 1978/79
was 01.2 billion, compared with a deficit of 01.9 billion in the preceding
year. Growth of money supply was also sharply curtailed--money supply increased
by only 29 percent, as against a 60 percent increase in the preceding year.
The authorities continued to pursue a policy of expenditure restraint in
1979/80 and growth in total expenditure (26 percent) was considerably less than



- 4 -
the rate of inflation. However, the overall deficit increased to 01.8
billion, due to a rise in emoluments and allowances granted to civil servants
in March 1980 and to the relatively slow growth in revenues.
12.       Curtailment of monetary growth, improved local food supplies and the
rolling back of prices between June and September 1979 under coercion by the
Armed Forces Revolutionary Council, all contributed to moderating Ghana s
inflation. After registering a 116 percent increase in 1977, the consumer
price index rose by 73 percent in 1978, by 54 percent in 1979 and by 50
percent in 1980. Although this is a significant achievement, the Ghanaian
rate of inflation still far exceeds international levels and the beneficial
effects of the 58 percent devaluation of August 1978 have now been negated;
and in more recent months inflation has once again accelerated. The overvalued
exchange rate continues to act as a strong disincentive to exporters, it
encourages smuggling and results in significant losses to the country½s
official foreign exchange reserves.
13.       The overall balance of payments in 1979 registered a surplus of
US$147 million as against a deficit balance of US$112 million in 1978. The
improved balance of payments position has facilitated a reduction in Ghana's
payments arrears. In terms of growth in GDP, the recovery initiated in 1977
continued into 1978. In 1979, however, GDP fell by 8.4 percent.
14.       The budget for 1980/81 took further steps to control expenditure
and raise revenues, and the overall deficit was expected to be slightly lower
than in 1979/80. However, with the increase in the minimum wage in November
1980 and a projected shortfall in revenues, the overall deficit is likely to
increase, and the improvements in budgetary performance in 1978/79 and 1979/80
are not likely to be sustained. Particularly dramatic has been the fall in
cocoa duties which is expected to drop to 5 percent of total revenues in
1980/81 from 47 percent in 1978/79. This collapse in cocoa revenues is due
to the fall in cocoa prices in the world markets, compounded by acute diffi-
culties in evacuating cocoa from farms and increases in marketing costs.
Unlike in previous years, foreign financing of the budget has increased by a
significant amount. The FY81 budget statement reiterated the Government's
intention to progressively clear the backlog of short-term external debt.
15.       In late 1978 the IMF approved a one-year standby arrangement of SDR
53 million and Trust Loan Fund of SDR 25 million (totalling US$102 million) in
support of the Government's stabilization program introduced in June 1978. As
a mid-term review of progress under the standby arrangement could not be com-
pleted by the IMF as scheduled in May 1979 because of the military intervention
at that time, Ghana was not eligible to draw the last two installments of SDR
10 million each under the standby. Discussions are now in progress between
the Government and IMF on the possibility of compensatory financing and a new
stabilization program as a basis for further IMF support.
Prospects
16.       Ghana is relatively well endowed in terms of natural resources
and has the potential to achieve a rate of growth considerably in excess of
its performance of the last decade. The country's slow growth in revenues



-5-
and export earnings and the acute inflation have severely hampered economic
development; the restoration of economic stability including improved budget
performance is an essential prerequisite for Ghana to resume effective develop-
ment. The measures on the balance of payments and the budget initiated in
June 1978 reflected an awareness of needed policy directions. Much of the
prospects for recovery will hinge on whether the authorities will be in a
position to pursue such a program of stabilization. The Government has
indicated that its development strategy will emphasize increased food produc-
tion through assistance to small farmers, rehabilitation of existing infra-
structure, including mines and transport, and support for manufacturing
enterprises giving priority to those using locally produced raw materials.
However, the present acute shortage of foreign exchange constitutes a severe
constraint upon the Government's efforts to move as quickly as the situation
demands to increase production and generally rehabilitate the country's
existing assets.
17.       Ghana's growth prospects over the next few years will depend to
a considerable extent on the determination of the Government to take action in
a number of critical economic policy areas. Key policy measures should aim at:
(a) correcting the imbalance on external account through a more realistic
structure of prices and costs and the achievement and maintenance of a viable
exchange rate; (b) restraining growth in consumption, improving public revenue
performance and reducing the strong inflationary tendencies associated with
large public sector deficits; and (c) a concerted drive to expand production,
particularly cocoa and mining exports, through more appropriate price incen-
tives, support services and more assured supplies of necessary inputs. The
previous government had no long- or medium-term strategy to deal with these
development issues. The present government too has been slow to address the
fundamental problems of the economy which require early and resolute action.
Although the authorities have been preoccupied with short-term issues, they
now seem to appreciate the need to move ahead seriously with the formulation
of medium-term programs and policies and work on this has now been initiated.
With improvements in performance over the recent past, growth in GDP of 3
percent per annum should be feasible. With sustained improvement in economic
management the economy is capable of higher rates of growth. However, the
attainment of even a modest rate of growth will require that Ghana's own
efforts be supported by an augmented flow of external assistance to overcome
the present external resource constraint. At the same time, the managerial
and administrative effectiveness and efficiency of the Government and other
public sector organizations should be improved to remove logistic bottlenecks
and ensure greater capacity utilization.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
18.       An agreement on a long-term rescheduling of Ghana's medium-term
external debt was concluded in March 1974. Under this agreement, all payments
due after February 1, 1972, in respect of pre-1966 debt obligations, will be
paid over a period of 28 years beginning 1982, after a grace period of 10
years, at 2-1/2 percent per annum. Ghana's medium- and long-term external
public debt outstanding and disbursed at end-1980 is estimated at US$1,022
million representing about 20 percent of GDP. The debt service ratio of
public and publicly guaranteed medium- and long-term debt is about 4 percent
of exports of goods and non-factor services and is expected to rise modestly
in the late 1980s after the grace period on the rescheduled debt expires in
1982. Arrears on Ghana's short-term debt increased from US$245 million in
1977 to US$489 million by end-1978. By December 1980 these arrears had
declined to US$332 million.



19.       Ghana is relying on official sources for the bulk of the external
capital required to support its development program, and relatively little
of its medium- and long-term borrowing is on commercial terms.  As at end-
1980, Bank loans and IDA credits disbursed together represented about 20
percent of the estimated country's total public external debt.  Service
payments on Bank loans and IDA credits in 1980 accounted for 23 percent and
2 percent respectively of the country s external debt service.
20.       The country's difficult economic situation and its vulnerability
to fluctuations in cocoa export earnings, make it desirable that future
debt service obligations should be kept as low as possible. Therefore,
IDA credits will have to constitute the bulk of Bank Group assistance to
Ghana over the next few years. This is also consistent with Ghana's rela-
tively low per capita income. At the same time, to ensure an adequate flow of
foreign exchange resources to the country it would be appropriate to finance a
portion of the local costs of projects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
21.       Since 1962, when the Bank Group financed its first operation in
Ghana, the Bank has made 10 loans totalling US$190.5 million and 16 credits
totalling US$177.7 million. Bank Group lending has covered power generation
and distribution, highways, agricultural development (including oil palm,
cocoa, sugar, livestock, fisheries and regional agriculture), water supply,
telecommunications and two DFC operations. Ghana is also a beneficiary of
a Bank-financed regional clinker project covering three nations (Togo,
Ivory Coast and Ghana). There are no IFC investments. The recent high
inflation in Ghana and the shortage of foreign exchange have adversely
affected the implementation of several ongoing projects. Annex II contains
a summary statfneiLa of Bank loans and IDA credits as of April 30, 1981 and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.       The principal objectives of Bank Group assistance to Ghana are:
(a) to support the adoption of economic policies designed to strengthen the
balance of payments and improve domestic demand management, (b) to help reha-
bilitate and improve capacity utilization of the country-s existing assets,
(c) to stimulate agricultural and industrial production, particularly for
export promotion e.g., cocoa, mining and efficient import substitution, and
(d) to improve the country-s essential infrastructure (transport, power) so as
to relieve constraints upon economic growth. The Bank Group is also supporting
projects aimed at raising the living standard of the poorer groups of the
population.
23.       In line with the country's development priorities, future Bank
Group lending will place increasing emphasis on the productive sectors of the
economy and related infrastructural support. In agriculture, a smallholder
development credit was approved in May 1980 which is designed to improve farm
incomes and the standard of living of about 60,000 smallholder farming families
in the Volta Region. This is the second Bank-financed integrated agricultural
project in Ghana, following a similar ongoing smallholder project in the Upper
Region. Following two cocoa projects--one in the Eastern Region and the other
in the Ashanti Region--further assistance is contemplated for increased cocoa
output to strengthen Ghana's foreign exchange earnings. As a prelude to a



third project, a cocoa sector study was undertaken in 1980 analyzing in depth
the constraints to increased production. The study's recommendations are
under discussion with Government and preparation of a third cocoa project is
being initiated. Further Bank Group assistance to the sector being considered
includes a forestry project aimed at increasing the country's exports; the
project would rehabilitate wood processing industries, improve port facilities
at Takoradi and strengthen forestry institutions. Also, an oil palm project,
which would consolidate and expand the effort initiated under the ongoing
first phase project, has recently been appraised.
24.       In the transportation sector, the proposed railway rehabilitation
credit aims at halting and reversing the decline in the capacity and operating
efficiency of the Ghana Railways Corporation (GRC) and thereby relieving
transport constraints to Ghana's major export industries (bauxite, manganese,
cocoa and timber). In the highway subsector, an emergency road maintenance
credit was approved in May 1980 which would provide urgently needed foreign
exchange to import spare parts, lubricants and equipment to reactivate the
country's road maintenance program and assist in the remobilization of the
trucking fleet to improve the movement of foodstuffs and other agricultural
commodities. As a follow-up to this project, the Bank is preparing a fourth
highway project which would assist Ghana to undertake rehabilitation of the
country-s trunk road network as well as bridges.
25.       In the field of energy and water supply a major emphasis will be
placed on the rehabilitation of the existing investment. In the power
sector, a power distribution rehabilitation project is under preparation which
would help restore the reliability of the distribution system by carrying out
urgently needed backlog maintenance and repair of the existing distribution
facilities and strengthen the management and operations of the Electricity
Corporation of Ghana (ECG). The Bank is also preparing a water supply tech-
nical assistance and rehabilitation project; this seeks to help rehabilitate
the existing water supply transmission and distribution facilities in the
Accra/Tema Metropolitan Area and to strengthen the managerial and operational
capability of the Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation (GWSC). In the petro-
leum subsector, a petroleum exploration and pre-development project is cur-
rently under preparation which would help strengthen the Government's capacity
to plan, coordinate and promote further exploration and production activities
and thereby reduce reliance on imported petroleum.
26.       In response to Government's request for assistance in the area of
public administration, the Bank is considering a technical assistance project
to help initiate the process of change in the management of Civil Service and
parastatals which need to be strengthened if Ghana is to successfully carry
through an economic recovery program. Also under preparation are an urban
development project which would seek low-cost solutions to Ghana's urban
problems through provision of sites and services as well as urban employment
in low-income areas and a small-scale industries project which would provide
financial and technical assistance to small entrepreneurs utilizing local raw
materials.
27.       As noted in Part I of this Report, Ghana has experienced severe
economic difficulties during the last few years and there has been a low level
of Bank Group lending during the last two years. Continued improvement in the
Government's management of the economy will be important in determining the
level of future Bank Group lending.



- 8 -
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Introduction
28.       Compared with other countries in West Africa, Ghana has a relatively
well developed transport system comprising an extensive road network, a
railway, lake transport, two ocean ports and three major airports. Until
recently, the system has adequately served the country-s needs. In recent
years, however, the country's macro-economic difficulties, especially the
shortage of foreign exchange, have severely constrained the capacity of
Government to maintain existing transport infrastructure. While the shortage
of foreign exchange has adversely affected the operations of all sectors, its
impact has been especially severe on the transport sector which depends on a
continuous supply of imported spare parts and supplies to maintain its exist-
ing facilities and to keep its vehicles and equipment operating. As a conse-
quence, the whole system has deteriorated sharply, and it has now come to
constitute a most serious obstacle to the timely flow of goods. In particu-
lar, the evacuation of cocoa, timber, bauxite and manganese - Ghana's princi-
pal exports - has been adversely affected with a resultant loss in the coun-
try-s export earnings; the movement of foodstuffs has also been badly dis-
rupted, aggravating food scarcities in the urban areas and fueling inflation.
The Road System
29.       Ghana has as extensive road network totalling about 25,400 km.
About 4,700 km are paved, and the remainder are gravel or earth surfaced.
During the late 1950's and early 1960's, the Government carried out a major
program of road construction. By the early 1970-s, however, the system had
deteriorated into a generally poor condition, primarily because of unexpec-
tedly high traffic increases particularly of heavy vehicles, and also because
the maintenance program had become inadequate due to lack of equipment and
trained staff, and cumbersome funding procedures. The Bank Group's Second
Highway Project (Loan 1182-GH and Credit 594-GH) approved in 1975 was designed
to improve road maintenance by establishing an effective maintenance organiza-
tion, training personnel and providing maintenance equipment. However, due to
Ghana-s acute shortage of foreign exchange and the resulting scarcity of spare
parts, materials and other imported inputs, the road maintenance operation had
come to a virtual standstill in recent years and the entire road network dete-
riorated rapidly. In order to remedy the situation, the Bank Group approved
in May 1980 the Third Highway (Emergency Maintenance) Project which aims at
reactivating road maintenance through provision of urgently needed spare
parts, operating materials, tools and equipment.
Road Transport Industry
30.       Road transport is the dominant mode on a countrywide basis.  The
road transport industry comprises government-owned firms, including the State
Transport Corporation (intercity buses and trucking) and the Omnibus Services
Authority (urban buses), in competition with a well developed private sector.
The private sector operates in a generally market oriented framework, although



-9-
it is constrained by the inability to obtain spare parts for vehicles. Al-
though precise figures are not available, it is estimated that more than 40
percent of the road vehicle fleet is presently out of service, due to the
unavailability of tires and spare parts. This has resulted in capacity short-
ages, especially in the North and in other rural areas where spare parts are
even more difficult to obtain and poor road conditions increase the risk of a
breakdown. Spare parts needed to remobilize part of the agricultural trucking
fleet are being provided under the Third Highway (Emergency Maintenance)
Project.
Ports
31.       The commercial port system comprises two ports, Takoradi on the
southwest coast, and Tema about 30 km east of Accra. Takoradi is the main
export port with specialized berths to handle all of Ghana's bauxite and
manganese exports, virtually all timber exports and about half of Ghana-s
cocoa exports. The port-s capacity is adequate to meet traffic demand, which
has declined in recent years. There are, however, shortages of spare parts
for shore handling equipment and a recovery in timber exports could put a
strain on capacity. This problem would be addressed under a proposed forestry
project (see para 23 above). Tema is the main import and fishing port and
also possesses substantial dry dock facilities. Traffic is mainly general
cargo, crude petroleum, cement clinker and alumina. About half of Ghana's
cocoa is exported through Tema. Total dry cargo traffic is about 1.8 million
tons, of which general cargo imports account for two-thirds, and bulk traffic
over specialized facilities accounts for the other third. Port facilities are
basically adequate to handle this traffic. However, capacity utilization is
constrained by poor cargo handling operations due partly to inadequate mainte-
nance of equipment and the usual spare parts problem.
Transport Planning and Coordination
32.       Several Government agencies are involved in transport.  The Ministry
of Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP) is responsible for overall investment
planning; the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) is responsible
for transport policy and regulation and for control over the railway, ports,
civil aviation and the state-owned transport corporation; the Ghana Highway
Authority (GHA) is responsible for all public roads and operates short distance
transport on Volta Lake; and the Volta River Authority (VRA) runs long-distance
navigation of the Volta Lake. After substantial expansion of the transport
system during the 1960's, transport investment in the 1970's have concentrated
on rehabilitation. Over the 1964-74 period investments in transport totalled
about US$70 million of which 80 percent was for road improvement and rehabili-
tation. Government's primary objectives in the transport sector are to: (a)
continue rehabilitating the transport network and institute more efficient
maintenance; (b) improve the operational and financial performance of public
transport entities; (c) improve planning and management at the sector and
sub-sector levels; (d) ensure that investments along major corridors are
coordinated and based on sound economic criteria; and (e) develop the local
road construction industry. The complexity of the Ghanaian transport system
requires a strong transport planning mechanism. The body responsible for



- 10 -
this--the Transport Planning Unit in MTC--is poorly organized and understaffed
and consequently contributes little. Thus investment planning and coordina-
tion are weak and there is little effort to systematically establish subsector
priorities. The proposed project would include technical assistance to
strengthen Ghana's transport planning and coordination capability.
B. The Railway Sub-Sector
33.       The Ghana railway system (947 km) lies entirely in the heavily
populated southern half of the country and comprises three main lines--the
Eastern (Accra-Kumasi), the Western (Takoradi-Kumasi), and the Central (Huni
Valley-Kotoku Junction) lines--and four branch lines (to Prestea, Awaso, Kade
and Tema). The system is a single line track with the exception of 30 km of
double track between Takoradi and Manso. The haulage distances are short,
about 320 km maximum, limiting the railway's ability to compete with road
transport. Its traffic is thus mainly bulks and semi-bulks for exports: four
commodities (manganese, bauxite, timber and cocoa) account for nearly 90
percent of railway's tonnage and two of these, manganese and bauxite, can be
economically handled only by rail. The Ghana railway also carries about six
million passengers annually. GRC's physical assets are in poor condition due
to inadequate maintenance and the lack of new investments to replace or
rehabilitate overaged equipment. For instance, out of 99 diesel locomotives,
about one-third are awaiting spare parts for major repairs or overhaul and
GRC-s locomotive fleet includes 55 overaged and uneconomic steam locomotives.
Railway Administration
34.       The railway and ports operated as a government department until
1971, when a statutory corporation, the Ghana Railway and Ports Authority
(GRPA), was created. In 1977 the Ghana Railway Corporation (GRC) was estab-
lished as a separate entity with the responsibility for managing day-to-day
operations and planning development of the railway under the broad control
of the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC). The GRC Board has seven
Government appointed members, comprising a chairman, representatives of MTC and
Ghana Port Authority and four other members including the general manager who
is the chief executive of the Corporation. Presently about 9,800 persons are
under the employ of GRC. Imprecise definition of the powers and responsibil-
ities of the Board, general manager and senior staff, together with a lack of
financial objectives has exacerbated the problems caused by the excessively
large staff and resulted in lack of management control, continuing deficits
and the necessity for large-scale government subsidy.
35.       As a first step to redress the situation and to strengthen GRC
management, consultants RITES (India) were commissioned in 1977, with finance
from UNDP, to carry out a staffing and management study. Among the measures
proposed by the consultants were: amendment of the decree to define precisely
powers and responsibilities of the GRC Board and the general manager; a
revised organizational structure; and measures to relate staff norms to GRC
traffic expectations, which would require a major reduction in staff.



- 11 -
GRC has agreed to prepare by December 31, 1981 an overall staff reduction plan
satisfactory to IDA and thereafter implement the plan over a five-year period
(draft Project Agreement, Section 3.04(d)). GRC has agreed to achieve a total
staff strength not exceeding 6,000 by June 30, 1986. In order to ensure that
GRC will be able to recruit and retain qualified personnel necessary for its
operations, GRC has agreed that it would prepare by December 31, 1981 and
implement thereafter a manpower development and staff compensation plan (draft
Project Agreement, Section 3.04(e)). Also, in order to clarify GRC's authority
and responsibilities, Government has agreed to submit to the Parliament, not
later than December 31, 1981, a bill introducing amendments to the GRC Decree
to define more precisely the powers and responsibilities of GRC Board and
general manager as well as GRC's financial objectives and policies, including
the timely preparation of its budget and accounts (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.04). Following the recommendations of the RITES con-
sultant study, GRC has recently revised its organizational structure and has
appointed an international consulting firm--CANAC (Canada)--to provide tech-
nical assistance to strengthen senior management and to help implement
measures to improve the operations of the Corporation.
Operations
36.       The operational performance of GRC has substantially declined
throughout the 1970's. This was mainly due to inefficient management, lack of
staff motivation and discipline, low training standards, and inadequate
maintenance of locomotives, rolling stock, telecommunication and block working
equipment which resulted primarily from a lack of foreign exchange. In
particular, the local shortage of spare parts and essential maintenance
materials has led to severe decline in the availability of locomotives and
rolling stock. Diesel locomotive availability dropped from 77 percent in
FY72 to a low of 36 percent in early 1980 and the utilization of available
locomotives has been consistently low, averaging only about 130 km/day.
Overall, GRC's total train-km declined by 52 percent from FY72 through 1978,
thus seriously affecting the railway's capacity to carry traffic. This has
been reflected in a sharp decline in GRC's freight traffic from nearly 1.7
million tons in FY73 to under 800,000 tons in FY79, although the decline
resulted partly from Ghana's general economic stagnation including lower cocoa
and timber production and the gradual depletion of richer manganese deposits.
The railway's share of export traffic has also declined steadily: in the case
of cocoa from about 77 percent in the late 1960s to about 30 percent by 1979
and in the case of export timber from 45 percent to 30 percent between 1972
and 1979. In order to improve GRC's traffic capacity, ODA (U.K.) granted in
1979 a loan of about US$4.3 million equivalent which provided spare parts and
materials for rehabilitation of some diesel locomotives and rolling stock.
The balance of the rehabilitation requirement would be covered under the
proposed project.
37.       In the past the financial position of GRC has been characterized by
a heavy reliance on Government subvention to meet its large operating defi-
cits, which in FY79 amounted to over 031 million. No serious effort has
been made to make the railway self-supporting through adequate generation of



- 12 -
funds from its operation. Although significant adjustments have been made in
the railway tariffs between FY72 and FY79 (259 percent in freight tariffs and
483 percent in passenger tariffs), GRC's financial position has progressively
worsened over the period mainly due to overstaffing combined with substantial
wage increases resulting from Government wage policy and excessive overtime.
The proportion of operating expenses accounted for by staff costs increased
from 65 percent in FY73 to 80 percent in FY79. In order to ensure that
tariffs are systematically cost-related, the proposed project would intro-
duce analytical accounting and related staff training. Also the technical
assistance and studies provided under the project would assist GRC in
developing a viable long-term tariff policy (see para 48 below).
Prospects
38.       With proper strengthening of its management and operations as well
as improvement of its existing facilities, GRC is potentially capable of
playing an important role in revitalizing Ghana's export sector by providing
an economically efficient transport of the country's principal export commodi-
ties, i.e. cocoa, timber, bauxite and manganese. These four commodities will
continue to constitute the main source of the country's foreign exchange
earnings.  As a prelude to the Bank Group's third cocoa project, a comprehen-
sive cocoa sector study has been carried out and its main policy recommenda-
tions have been accepted in principle by the Government. A recovery in cocoa
production and exports, as a result of better producer prices and improved
control of diseases, is expected with an increase in railway traffic addi-
tionally stimulated by the recent Government decision that rail transport
should be used for evacuation of cocoa whenever feasible. In order to ensure
greater utilization of rail for shipment of cocoa, the Ghana Cocoa Council
(GCC) entered into an understanding with GRC in April 1980 that GCC would
guarantee rail shipment of at least 80 percent of bulk cocoa traffic, if GRC
can provide effective capacity. Similarly, timber production, exports and
railway traffic should recover significantly as a result of more adequate
supplies of spare parts to the logging companies under a proposed Bank forestry
project (see para 23 above). The improvement in rail capacity would be more
critical, however, for increased production and export of manganese and
bauxite, as their evacuation has to rely entirely on railway. However,
manganese resources are limited, and only a modest volume increase is forecast.
The much more important bauxite traffic is, however, expected to nearly double
in volume provided the present transport bottleneck is resolved. Based on
the above, the total GRC freight traffic is expected to increase by more than
70 percent to over 1.22 million tons over the period FY80-85. The freight
traffic could be significantly higher than forecast if economic recovery
becomes rapid, generating speedier growth in specific commodity traffics,
particularly timber, and/or GRC manages to improve its traffic share. The
resulting optimistic traffic forecast is 1.5 million tons by FY85; however,
this optimistic forecast still falls short of the 1.6 million tons freight
carried in FY72. Passenger traffic is not expected to change significantly in
either numbers or passenger kilometers.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The project comprises a broad based railway rehabilitation program
and concentrates upon priority items in the FY81 - FY85 railway investment
plan based upon an earlier plan prepared by consultants Transmark (UK). The
institution-building elements, upon which considerable emphasis is placed,
generally follow the recommendations of a UNDP-financed management and
staffing study, completed in May 1978 by consultants, RITES (India), and, in
the case of the telecommunications component, a Bank-financed consultant
evaluation. The project was appraised in July 1978 and updated in April 1980.
A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Ghana: Railway Rehabilitation Project",
No. 2326-GH dated May 27, 1981 is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. Negotiations took place in Washington from February 17 to 20, 1981
with the Ghanaian delegation led by Mr. Harry Sawyerr, Minister of Transport
and Communications.
Objectives
40.       The primary objective of the project is to bring about urgently
needed improvements in the management, operations and facilities of the Ghana
Railway Corporation to strengthen its capacity for the movement of Ghana's
bulk export cargoes for which the railway is either essential or has a signi-
ficant comparative advantage. The project seeks to achieve this objective by
provision of substantial technical assistance and training and rehabilitation
of motive power and rolling stock, modernization of workshops and telecommuni-
cations system and track maintenance. Through technical assistance, studies
and staff training, the project also aims at introducing necessary policy and
institutional improvements to ensure rational development and long-term
viability of the railway subsector.
Description
41.       The project which covers part of GRC-s FY81-85 investment plan would
include the following components: (a) management improvement and training;
(b) track maintenance; (c) locomotive and rolling stock rehabilitation and
maintenance; (d) workshop and depot modernization; (e) improvement of tele-
communications and block instruments; and (f) studies. Additionally, the
project would include technical assistance for strengthening Government's
overall transport planning and coordination capacity.
(a) Management Improvement and Training: The project would include a
total of 216 man-months of management experts to assist the senior
management of GRC to achieve a substantial improvement in overall
management effectiveness and operating efficiency as well as to
assist in implementation of the project. Also, 72 man-months of
accounting experts would be provided to help reorganize the
accounting and budgeting system, to assist in asset revaluation and
rationalizing and revising tariff policy. In order to strengthen
technical training of GRC staff, the project would provide a new



- 14 -
training school equipped with a diesel training laboratory, a
telecommunication and signalling laboratory and track maintenance
yard as well as 190 man-months of training experts to organize and
conduct the training activities, including training of Ghanaian
instructors.
(b) Track Rehabilitation and Maintenance: On the Western line which
carries a major portion of freight traffic, fastening materials for
85 km would be provided and 22 turnouts in stations with frequent
crossings replaced. The project would also include rehabilita-
tion of the GRC sawmill for production of wooden sleepers and
equipment for two operating quarries to provide sufficient, good
quality ballast. Railcars, trollies and spare parts for existing
machinery and tools needed for track maintenance would also be
provided.
(c) Locomotive and Rolling Stock Rehabilitation: The project would
provide for rehabilitation and overhaul of 37 diesel locomotives.
In addition, four new diesel shunters would be provided. Also,
200 existing freight cars would be equipped with roller bearings
and additional 40 freight cars supplied with new bogies. A total
of 180 man-months of technical assistance would be included for
rehabilitation and overhauling of locomotives.
(d) Workshop and Depot Modernization: The existing workshop facility
and equipment at GRC's Takoradi and Kumasi depots would be
modernized for effective repair service and maintenance of diesel
locomotives and rolling stock.
(e) Telecommunications and Signalling: An overhead insulated cable
connection on the Western line would be provided to replace the
existing old uninsulated conductors. The project would also include
new double line block instruments between Takoradi and Huni Valley
and single line token instruments for the rest of the Western
line.
(f) Studies: Funds would be provided for 18 man-months of consultant
studies to examine the operational, economic and financial con-
sequences of continuing the Eastern and Central lines with emphasis
on the economic costs and benefits of the passenger service and the
possibility of coordination of road and rail service. Also 8
man-months of consultant studies would be included in the project
to investigate the feasibility of integrating GRC communications
with the microwave communication system.
(g) Transport Planning and Coordination: A total of about 100 man-months
of technical assistance would be provided to assist in the establish-
ment of the Transport Planning Unit within the Ministry of Transport
and Communications as the main Government transport policy planning
and coordination body.



- 15 -
Project Cost
42.       Total project costs are estimated at US$64.0 million equivalent
net of taxes and duties comprising a foreign exchange component of US$42.0
million (66 percent) and a local cost component of US$22.0 million (34
percent). GRC is exempt from taxes and duties on goods and services related
to the project. Costs for track maintenance materials, workshop and training
school building are based on GRC's estimates of 1976, which have been updated
to 1981 prices. The cost of locomotive spare parts and workshop materials and
machinery have been estimated by RITES consulting team and updated to 1981
prices. Cost calculations for consultant and expert services have been based
on recent costs for similar services in the region and estimated to average
US$9,200 per man-month including salaries, overhead and local allowances.
Physical contingencies are generally 8 percent except for training school
construction (10 percent) and track renewal (15 percent). Price contingencies
averaging 11 percent per annum with respect to foreign costs and ranging
from 25 to 30 percent per annum with respect to local costs have been included.
A summary breakdown of project costs is given at the beginning of this report.
Financing
43.       The foreign exchange cost of the project would be cofinanced by IDA
and African Development Bank (AfDB). The AfDB has approved a loan of US$13.0
million equivalent which would finance on a parallel basis the cost of
spare parts for the rehabilitation of Henschel locomotives and the major part
of the workshop improvements. The proposed IDA credit of US$29.0 million
equivalent would cover the remaining foreign exchange costs of the project
including track maintenance, freight car modernization, telecommunications,
technical assistance, training, and part of locomotive and workshop improve-
ments. The Government would provide funds to cover the local costs (US$22.0
million equivalent) of the project as its capital contribution to GRC.
US$27.7 million of the proceeds of the IDA credit pertaining to project
components to be executed by GRC would be relent to GRC at 9.6 percent per
annum for 20 years including 5 years of grace under a subsidiary loan agreement
satisfactory to IDA (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(b)).
US$1.3 million equivalent would be retained by Government to finance the
foreign costs of the technical assistance for the Transport Planning Unit.
Project Implementation
44.       The project would be implemented over a four-year period from July
1981 to June 1985. GRC assisted by management and technical personnel
recruited under the project would have the overall responsibility for project
implementation except that the transport planning component would be imple-
mented directly by MTC. As a first step to strengthen its management and to
assist in the project startup activities, GRC appointed in December 1980 CANAC
(Canada) to provide three advisors to GRC's senior management and appointed an
internationally recruited expert as Chief Mechanical Engineer from July 1980.
Retroactive financing of up to US$400,000 would be provided under the proposed
credit to finance the cost of their employment incurred prior to credit
approval but after July 1, 1980. Track rehabilitation, installation and
operation of quarry and sawmill equipment as well as workshop and depot



- 16 -
modernization would be carried out by GRC on force account under the technical
guidance of equipment suppliers except that related civil works would be
carried out by contract. Internationally recruited experts would guide and
supervise the rehabilitation of diesel locomotives and the modernization of
wagons. Installation of the new telecommunication and block instruments and
erection of overhead cables would be executed by the suppliers under contract
with GRC. The construction of the training school as well as civil works in
workshops and depots would be carried out by local contractors.
Procurement
45.       Contracts for track materials, tools and equipment, sawmill and
quarrying machinery, workshop machines and telecommunication equipment,
which are estimated to cost US$19.6 million equivalent in total, would be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding following Bank
Group guidelines. Contracts for minor items, such as common tools, general
hardware, training equipment and furniture, costing less than US$250,000
equivalent, may be procured in accordance with local procurement procedures
satisfactory to IDA by solicitation of bids or on the basis of price quota-
tions up to an aggregate amount of US$2.0 million equivalent. Civil works for
training school and the structural alterations in the workshops and depots,
which are estimated to cost US$4.1 million in aggregate, are too small and
scattered to attract foreign firms and thus would be procured in accordance
with locally applicable competitive bidding procedures. Locomotive spare parts
and spare parts for track maintenance machinery estimated to cost about US$1.8
million would be procured through negotiated purchases from established and
reliable suppliers. Consultants and experts required for the technical
assistance package and studies would be employed with qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA.
Procurement of project items to be financed by AfDB (workshop equipment and
rehabilitation of Henschel diesel locomotives) would be under the rules of
the AfDB.
Disbursement
46.       The proposed credit would be disbursed to cover 100 percent of the
foreign cost of: (i) materials and equipment for track rehabilitation and
maintenance totalling SDR 4.73 (US$5.88) million; (ii) spare parts and
materials for locomotive rehabilitation totalling SDR 1.38 (US$1.72) million;
(iii) materials for freight car modernization totalling SDR 0.98 (US$1.22)
million; (iv) machinery and plant for workshop improvements totalling SDR 0.81
(US$1.01) million; (v) telecommunication equipment and installation totalling
SDR 5.38 (US$6.69) million; (vi) training totalling SDR 1.92 (US$2.39)
million, and 85 percent of the expenditures incurred for: (vii) GRC technical
assistance and studies totalling SDR 3.5 (US$4.36) million; and (viii) tech-
nical assistance for transport planning totalling SDR 1.05 (US$1.30) million.
The remaining balance of SDR 3.55 (US$4.43) million would be unallocated. The
credit is expected to be fully disbursed by December 1985.



- 17 -
GRC's Finances
47.       Despite substantial tariff increases between FY73 and FY79, the
railway-s net operating deficit increased from ¢4.4 million in FY73 to
041.7 million in FY79 and the corresponding working ratio from 115 to 222
mainly due to overstaffing and wage increases. Staff costs now represent 80
percent of working expenses. Freight's contribution to revenue has declined
and that of passengers increased resulting from changes in traffic pattern.
Depreciation and valuation of assets at historical costs are unrealistic and
infrastructure and rolling stock are presently estimated to account for 40
percent and 45 percent respectively of the asset value. GRC would revalue its
fixed assets on the basis of a physical inventory not later than December 31,
1982 and thereafter annually on the basis of indexation (draft Project Agree-
ment, Section 4.08).  Outstanding freight earnings are significant and cur-
rently amount to 04.8 million or about 50 percent of the gross freight
revenues.  An agreement was obtained from GRC that it would reduce the level
of outstanding freight earnings to a maximum of 20 percent by June 30, 1982
and not exceed this level thereafter (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.07).
48.       The last general increase in GRC tariffs was implemented in Jan-
uary 1979. Since then GRC-s financial position has appreciably worsened.
To compensate for increased costs since January 1979, the Government has
now approved a general increase in rail tariffs which is expected to increase
GRC-s revenues by about 75 percent. In order to ensure that in the future GRC
tariffs reflect more closely changes in its operating costs, GRC has agreed
that by December 31, 1982 it would revise its tariff structure and establish
new tariff revision procedures in a manner satisfactory to IDA (draft Project
Agreement, Section 4.08). In the meantime, GRC has agreed to maintain its
tariffs in real terms by increasing its tariffs at least in proportion to any
general increases in its expenditures on salaries and wages not later than
three months following the incidence of any such increase (draft Project
Agreement, Section 4.06). The forecast income statements indicate that the
working ratio will improve from 239 in FY80 to 225 in FY81, 175 in FY82, 145
in FY83, 125 in FY84 and 110 in FY85 and 100 for FY86 and thereafter. GRC has
agreed that it would take all such measures including the revision of tariffs
as required to achieve working ratios starting in FY82 not exceeding the above
levels (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.05). However, GRC is likely to
incur operating deficits for many years and there will be a continuing need
for Government operating subsidy.
Project Justification
49.       The declining capacity and operational efficiency of the railway
have in recent years contributed to the stagnation of Ghanaian exports and of
the growth of the economy. Bulk freight, especially timber and cocoa, has
been diverted to less economical road transport, putting an additional burden
on the already weak road infrastructure and the trucking industry. Production
and export of bauxite, the evacuation of which is captive to railway, had to
be curtailed due to declining rail capacity. By enabling GRC to increase its



- 18 -
effective rail capacity and improve its operating efficiency, the project
would have substantial benefits which would accrue largely to Ghana's export
sector in the form of increased export production, reduced transport cost and
reliable service. The track maintenance would produce cost saving benefits
through reduced risk of derailments and collisions. The workshop/locomotive
rehabilitation would increase capacity and eliminate excessive costs of steam
locomotive operations. Improved telecommunications would provide benefits
through increased efficiency of operations, which would be translated into
capacity increase and cost reduction. The economic rates of return (ERR) of
three major project components are 43 percent for track rehabilitation and
maintenance, 35 percent for locomotive rehabilitation/workshop, and 37 percent
for telecommunications component. The project as a whole including technical
assistance, studies and training, is expected to yield an economic rate of
return (ERR) of 32 percent. A shadow exchange rate of 05.9=US$l and a
shadow wage of one-third of the average level paid in GRC were applied in the
calculation of ERR. The sensitivity analysis shows that, with a 10 percent
increase in project cost combined with a 20 percent reduction in forecast
traffic, the ERR would be 25 percent, which is considered acceptable.
Risks
50.       The project would face no major or unusual technical risks.  The
rehabilitation of diesel locomotives would be carried out by GRC assisted by
internationally recruited experts and the telecommunication system would be
installed by the selected international supplier. The track maintenance,
freight car modernization and workshop improvements to be carried out by GRC
should not present engineering or technical problems. Arrangements have
already been made to insure adequate supply of local materials needed for the
track maintenance (e.g. timber for wooden sleepers and ballast). However,
given the present weaknesses of GRC in key areas of management and the low
level of its operating efficiency, progress in the implementation of the
technical assistance component would require close monitoring and continued
Government support to GRC would be essential if the institution building
objectives of the project are to be fully achieved. The degree of success of
the project will also be influenced by the macro-economic environment and the
extent to which freight traffic recovers (see para 38 above).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Ghana and the Association and draft Project Agreement between the Association
and GRC, together with the Recommendations of the Committee provided in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.



- 19 -
52.       In addition to the features of the Development Credit and Project
Agreements which are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of
Annex III, special conditions of credit effectiveness would be the conclusion
of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and GRC, and fulfill-
ment of the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the AfDB loan agree-
ment.
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.       I recommend the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 8, 1981



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
GHANA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GHANA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQO KM.)                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            238.5
AGRICULTURAL     134.1                                MOST RECENT         MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 200. 0      270. 0    400. 0               868.0                  1562. 9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    106.0       173.0    165.0                 699.4                  1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     6.8         8.6       11.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 23.3       29. 1      34.5                28.9                    63. 4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     21.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       56.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2130
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                      29.0        36.0      46.0                 61. 7                   28.1
PER SQ. KH. AGRICULTURAL LAND     46.0        63.0      82.0                126.0                   81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         45. 0      46.9       46.4                45.5                    41.4
15-64 YRS.                        53.0        49.5      50.9                 51.6                    54. 7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.0         3.6       2.7                  2.8                     3.9
POPULATION GRCWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             4.4         2.4       3.0                  2.7                     2.7
URBAN                             8.2         4.6       5.3                  4.9                     4. 1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    49.0        49.0      48.0                 46.8                    34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    24.0         20.0'     17.0                16.4                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..          3.2       3.3                  3.2                    2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        8. 3      33.5
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         2.0       4.4
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         93.0        101.0      77.0                94.0                   106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREENTS)                  88.0         97.0      86.0                 92.7                   107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          41.0        50.0      45.0                 53.0                    65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       12.0        16.0      15.0                 15.6                   33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     36.0       29.0      23.0                 21.3                     8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   40.0        45.0       48.0                50.1                    63. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          141.0       115.0       ..                   ..                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         35.0      35.0                 31.0                    65.9
URBAN                               ..        86.0      86.0                 66.8                    80.4
RURAL                              ..         14.0      14.0                  ..                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         55.0      56.0                  ..                     62.3
URBAN                              ..         92.0      95.0                  ..                     79.4
RURAL                              ..         40.0      40.0                  ..                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         12156.0    12915.0/d  9927.0               14508.2                  1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     5430. Oc    1066. 0/d  841.0              3279.5                  1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1057.0       760.0    660.0                1141.5                   480.3
URBAN                              ..        498.0
RURAL                               '        962. O
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          4. 7
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         ..
URBAN                               ..         ..
}fl                                 ..         ..         ...



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
GHANA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GHANA                         REFERENCE GRUPS (WEITED AVEGES
-NDT RECEN$TM T
MOST RFCENT         MIDDLE INCGIE           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 D! ESTIMATE lb  AFRICA SOUrR OF SA8ARA  LATIN ANERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                3S 0        61.0      74.0                  61. 7                   99.7
MALE                52.0        69.0      84.0                   69.2                   101.0
FEMALE              25.0        53.0      64.0                   51.4                   99.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 5.0        16.0      29.0                  20.6                    34.4
MALE                 9.0        23.0      35.0                   29.2                   33.5
FEMALE               3.0         9.0      23.0                   14. 7                  34. 7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY) 13.0        23.0      17.0                   7.0                    38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          31.0        30.0      30.0                  36.6                    30.5
SECONDARY                          ..        17.0      23.0                  24.3                    14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)      27.0/e      30.0      30.0                    ..                    76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        3.0         5.0       6.8                  38.8                    43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       43.0        82.0    106.0                   83.5                   245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        0. I/f      1.9       3.4                    ..                    84. 2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                30.0        34.0      51.0                  24. 2                   63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0        2.0       0.1                   0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    2915.3      3421.2   4135.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 40.2        41.8      42.0                  38.1                    22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            63.8        58.4      54.0                   54.3                   37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               14.1        16.7      19.0                  17.8                    23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              41.3        38.8      37.6                   38.8                   31.5
MALE                               48.9        45.6      44.3                   48.4                   48.9
P:MALE                             33.5        32.2      31.0                  29.4                    14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.1         1.3       1.3                   1.3                     1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS   ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS    ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCCSE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    307.0
RURAL                              ..          ..     150.0                     ..                  190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..     156.0                    ..                   474.0
RURAL                              ..          ..     130.0                     ..                  332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..
RURAL                              ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are populatiow-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  1962; L/ Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /e Ages 6 and over;  /f 1964.
Most recent estilate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April. 1980.
October, 1980



ANNE I
Page 3 of 5 pages
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL tnINDAlORS
Not-   khoogh the data are draw  fro  sources. geneall  Judged the s-e  authoritative and reliable, it  hanld alo be noted that they ey non he inte-
na tionally coparable hbcaue of the lack of stAndarizedydetisitins and ton.. Vt. u.d hy ditferntontia  i toilec1tiog the data,  The data  r,  na
thafass, .. usfol to descr ihe orders of sagnitnde. indicate trends, and oh-tt-te         certin major diffaretas.  etw-s  o-essiia..
Thereerecegrupsar  (1  te  an  outr  group of thesahno  country and 12) aonr   toop with somawist higher avrge tirem   than the  -nany gcne;
of the  oject co=try(ecp  fo              Cpti   uplus Glt  tpraS"tgoop wher  "Middle  noesohArc  and`elddiEan   ehsnbana   fsrma
aoco-cltoaiaffnites .      nhar-ferneo   groop data the  -raagS.  ar  pep.latin weightdaimeceantrsabniaorndhmemlsamt
int hal ofth  onotirde  in A grenp boa deta fnr that indictor..  Since thin co-rags of ro-teiwa   -Mn the iWdient-  depends an theavilaility ef
dataand  n no  unt oe, catio  aun  ha  neoisad ic relatn   neefagee. of on  indicaton  to anther.  These  -rrgaw  am  only ..sfo Iin comparing the vais
LADif AREA. (thoon"d sqk.)                                                                rouainotPYsti   - foynlatten ditdd bY semna Os Peaticing Pby-
Total - Total .1oP aceare  coprising toad an  noiland  .ae...cis  qamlifplad frM   a eaical ahdl as aniemnaity level.
Agticotua1     -tai-t1   o  agiocrlae   usd cenporarily or Pe-aety                      Prno   a  Morine Psraan - PVoplation dividedby  .t"ac a  peantinag
for cropa, pcetru  narkec and kitce-       ndn  ort  i    un   97dta,                   tal  ned tenni  gradnte naraa  proIs  nuras  ad nanita-  seag.
Pouata   e  gentad gd - tenal.  rben. and sued - nP"elatio   (ftwee.
lNP PER CAPITA (US$) - INP po t.caico .ncimae   tcret    make   rie,    -                     b-en  sa   url  divided by thete tanpetiv- ssas   f hengin. el 6
colacd by san  cocoerni.o  -thnd as World fc  Atas(97y-79 basis); 1000,                   avilable In pohlir and private gesra  ad apenialina  hngitm1 adem
1971, od  1979 data.                                                                      hebili_tci_n rater.t     nsiasenmtblat                     m l    od
-.d lig~~~it., pt-l-, I.tdbo.tg, ~~~by antleaa  -n  physician.  fateblisiets preidding pemmaipay  -.".Ia
tt tglY CfStfIM   _ i   oftT - -danua.dtcnnpio  ofoeria  energy (coa                       tunay     Io inclded.  Mral. haspited., h--ee, ie_lad  beta  ad  s.4i
and Y itot, pkri en   atrl gs  n  byd-  uncea                 97nd gethra 1978           cnesorPernetly staffed by   physician (bet by a ineisadaecat
driicy  inklouso  odeovln    rcpt;lO.1),ad1)                                               us,mdwife, et.) which offe  i-eises anrdetis   ad irseid  e
dctu.                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~limited raag  at medical facilitie. Per. 'ithetit-al pecias  nes  mpi-
ISTICS ~~~~~~~~~~~~tula inolde WM. principal genera  and                                                 h-iaieOsPites". adsue
-Y                                                 b. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~opitals   ..a  or rural heapitla end nedinal ad td    ..nt  sense.
totlPynain.   i-ta   WMIllon) - An of .toly 1; 19601, 190)0  nod 1970                AdmIssions ret HasPita1 Bad - Tnna1  -b-s at adesinesa te Ir dieneeps
Udatn.        "It--l-   -tI-Mi   f   b    .I..    ...i                                   Prom honPiale divided by the ntbha  of beds.
difrntdtniin   of' urba  a9mo ma ffect cooPr-bilicy  of dana              ocutiss
amngc.e.i.        ;160  17,  ndlIfdaa                                                  Avatr Sii.n of ttnumhcld fenn  nanhanshld) - Mtel. nebs. andtn-
Porulatin  ProinctonsPJ  t- t  b.dA household cani-s  of a gomap of inivdol  "h. shr  lvn   mane
Poplatce  n rar  000-  urrnt  opoatin pojetien  re  aee  on19f    ad their main inels.  A bod-r noilndg- may or amp ant he galieded be
toa   ouainby age and see and their   otlt  an_fttitroe.                     thehoseoldforsttitialpupesa
Projeotnan parameter  foreutaityren  copia  of thelvlsas-                     Aveag  numberl of.tetstiatret reamtpota_       ohm    dsut-An
lug lif  enpecuncy bat hin    nesu    thicotr'   e  ta pita ic_s                hoAo-   eroa-e  rOom IfaV alt urban, and cora   mo         .1ie  -sevetiwe -
level, and femls life I        -scanY scbiltaing at 77.5 y-nr.  The  .. yar-            ofniliog.s,  rep o-ivaly.1Peetibg  aniad  _1-gamatseoema
fertility  acceding in incom  inte.l and pat  ail 1innigyetrtacI                    .csa   o  ltniny(rotefdliel-tee.nh.adsd-
Each cootry is thee assigned on  o  tne. niecobnain  of mortaity                      Cnvenionedeings wi-th- elotf ct  inliig  n -r  am   -.rsea -
nod fertlilty trende for yro-jcin   rpoe.f C tonal, urba,lan  rura  desl_gsresecivly
itnonr  vrti      an - 7   Inuecionay  popultion there in no groth since                  ..,  b.    d-1dii.t_.t-
the birth rte It aqual to the death rate, and ano thn age stutueo-    MUanoONg
_an tcntan.   hi  i           -'bind oIr ate  feotilit y rtesdcln  t                 dlae  Enroilmeot cain
tie r-lcen - leve  ofui etrpoutionrte, eh.Itionahgnrto                                 rmr   cnt-tt    male sA  tfnle-ieee.. ntal, main ad tdn
of inner roplces itself unotly.  The attionery  torultion nire wa     enoletio   l an t the  rmr   ee  - -         I I   pernetgma ef renpstlsm
sotimat.d on the basis of the  rjoe  chrceisisf the youaim                               rmr  sho-g  pouaies; nomaly icem   uIdidr  age  h-l
in tie yea  2000, ned cbe rtet of decline of fertility rtet to replac-                  Yarn hoc ndjeted tar ditffran  tenehe of primay ed_tei_; fnr
sect level.- h  y                                    -               ..ltb               c__tisneith universa  educ.nian enu        -eemy anemed tOw pennat
Yer  taioa  pnoaici  ace     Ter               bnsainr  populationIsince som  pupilstare helm or abov  the eflf ic1 eshnl agm.
Per no. ha. - fid-y-c  population Per squar  klomt-  (lii hectarno) of                    prvdes, geea       tooi~    or neenhe orfaa  iP, tninafc  w
Per s. ha. agicultural land - Computed on shov  for agricultural land                     no.olud f12te1dY=.-d8- 1
Porulatino Aen irructure frprrectI  - fChild... (0-ic y-rn, norking-age (15-                 isid   ehia,idnrn,e   te   rg                        hth.- operstamingn
64 yanes), and retire  (65 yar  nod over  us p-rc.otages of aid-year p0p0                  dentIy or as deoeanae   naof         yietet
Lot Ion; 1960, 1970. and 1970 data.                                                     Npucl-ceec..er rafpt pti =ri   ,y ad anonede   - Tntat otedwet  aentd Ie
,poruatio- drench Sate (percet) - total - dAnnalgrot~h itro. of tonal mid-                  primar  and secandery level  divided by madsen n  tecebme  In the
per  opdaI_m  for 1050-hi, lOOf-i,D  ad970-78.                                         arrepanding levels.
,purutaionIrwi G ht-t rret              a   - anua  groth rtes. of urbno pupo-             Mollt literac  ra:ts f("oet.    - Literate adults (ohi  te e.d and wise)
tainefr  0065   96-l.ed1970-70.                                                  anyretg            ftonal adult pepulatten agd 15 year  adevr
Crude Birth binfon  thnead)-   oAnl Ive births pro thousand of mid-year
p~opui_ton  190,1970, end 19)  data.                                                 coiatn
CrudeInoti..  19ate (p  thousad) - Annul deahs Per thousan.d of mid-year               Poas-a.o Care(m   hanesd noa Pa) -.P.snarernse..man
pplto;96,1970, and 1070 data,                                                  Cornnetig  iee        .he  eight pee 1e;anidee adninlc,  aesed
irnsneruuoio          t- Av...nnube  of.doug.h nts an:              'IdI hearo in           ilt ty -hniiae..
he _nra  reroutive Period if she eserop       e  prset  ge.pcfi  Int-              tadl   .. Scin... fret thousad eeite)-All typa nf reciver  far radt
tiuty rats; .sualy tine-year s.e.g.  En ding to l96t. 1971   o   197.                   broadcaa tsr  aeme-a1 public Per th-nea  of pnp.Latia; antldne  .II-
PamidyPtanoic-Acnet_r. frna  (chounad)- 1ana  number of accptors                     .....d...inr in. 1  countries and is ymara whe  r-gi.nteise of .ndi. -m
of birb-nunirol devices under ...pio-af notiona  family pl.inoin  progr-                ... In effect; data for recant years may net he comparbl  sin   et
Pamlic Plaanins-f ate (percent of mariedumn   P ncgn cf ,mried                       coutries abolished  lcnig
eunc  f  higld-heaing ege (15-4A year) who use hitch-cotro  dvret                  f Icivr  fret- '    hoP an   enuain          rrrIver  fee breduat t
oil norrin  women in  ame cge grup.                              genera  publicpe  thouaamd pepolatien; ancldne ealisanee  TV - -  vee
to  -tuniris  sad In Years when ragiatratia  of TV emte  -e  L. effmot.
PlOtD Act NUTRITION                                                                       Sonae   inlainmrcnesdneltal -thw  nh   veae i.                                me
I.da  of Pond P-nd-cti   aecacito (h-71-lO0i - lIade  of Per canto anous                  ticonf "daily gI.e...  interes  oeappr"  dfne  n   pmrfdina pet
production of allfood comoitie.. Producion enlde   ed and feed and                      licetion devetd prie-rily to r-nodiog genra  gme   It In  gmien
Is on-aledar yea  hasin.  Coweditiencoe  primay goods (e.g. eoatae                      toh  "daiy  ifi1ppasanlat fou  timas a-ka.
Instea  of sugar  uhich sn  edihl  and c-c     ntint   eg.rtfee ad                    ciem   nna  Attendanc          ..rCaine an tea  - na-ed am she nefla  5
tenoreanc.iudd) .  Aggregate production of s-h coutry In based on                       titktn  sold during the year. incinding aeas           to dote-in   en
__io      g.oera  producer  Pric C.eigh-s; t961-65, 1970, ad 1070 data.d-bl
Per cooice eurryo  cdre                     --ret  frnirente) - computed trmcdmbieuis
font y  qiro let0gnt udeapie   vilable in country pen .. pita                   IjgR FORCE
prday. An-ilehbl  eupi    oprise domestic production, imotes                      TtllbrForCe f thsade  - tcoamial  nonive P.rn-, inctdimg
naycrie  and congee  n stoc.  Set sple   nide unima  fed   ees                  ed forces end uneployed hot anoldiag h..-aiv-.eten,ae
Ioci ienw  in fund process.ing, and icn-  In ditih o . tqoir-                   nfinici... in variun  o-tries are not o-ip blh; 1960, 1970 ad
t.i onto estimated by PAt b.esd.o..yiioin  nend - tot nma att-                       1070 dana-
city nod heal th considering  evrnena _sp_rnt-r, body enigh-s, age                  feae(ecni     eae lahoEno                   p-rmennaonf itetl labs  fete.
1_ nn  isrbution of  .poplation, andalowig 10 percent furcsee..iniue(eet   Loho  ar    inteinhfraiy   tanSi  ad
household leve; 1961 -65, 1970, end 1077 dora.                                        fishing ne pnr-ntge of tini tahoe ferns; 1960, 1970 ad 1978 dat.
Pet canto  urIc  f ris           cs  ret day_)- Prote.c  .on..    of per caPita       ladorn  fer...ent) - Labor foc  in. eiig   naroin                  atra
ne  sopyly of Yfond per day.  Set supply Ifof  od is definedo  co e.Or                 -dlcriiy  eae  ando gnaspereneg  of tnmal ibhn  ferns.; 1900,
qni=etn furt all cbotnirir  sotablisbed by USJOitA rvde for  1iita970 and 1970 data.
aIllwneoOfgaooctapoti  perStdy nod 11 graa  ofaiiad                                 Paccrta-aefncs)-ttl   ae    d feeds  P-Patinipanieme
pulse protnin, of  hich. 15 gram  .thuldpb  niaiprtein   ThsIa-                        mtivlnyrae  arcmpted as intel, mde  en   elsl rf ensm
node are owe  thnthose of 75 grac  of totalprotein and 23gasof                        preta         ftoa,ml end femal pepelstite   ef  `dieg_  spniay
nena   prtensno -n-rog  fur tin noi,pooe   y                   nteTid                1061. 1975, ad1971 data.  Those arm ILO's patin1potia             srdata
Ourid1 Foodtuey  1061-6, 10701 cad 1077data..fE    -                                                    ,t   t.P.ti                .dI8t- -.Af                 tl
Pe  carine ret_in suric f to  anma  and rule -frotini  supply o  food dn-              nc-mnt    nr.:  r  of tepplta.edln   i    ed        a   m
tired from animals and~ poise  ingrm  pe  day; 1901         th.     dL        E -           D.dyg-05, 1970 and 1977 data. EooIntnat-at  - Satie of ppulatian under 15 ad h5 adee
Child (gst4   MtraiyOt  (roe: ehnad) - Annual deaths pertosadi                             to the tonal Lbr Ferg.
age group 1-4 Y---., so ohilden In chin aegoP; f ormot   riop'n cone-
radte derived fran life cables; 1960, 1971  o   197 dor.ccet  cTIw'It
Peroantan  of Priegne Inm   (both in-ne  ad tied)-  nai    byrihe
gLif  E       -YT Bh                                                                        5 pecet. richen   0  ecnt   e 20 p       20pecat, ad pesent 60 parent
ct birth; 1961, 100 en  t070 date
infant Hociality Sate (er  thousad) - Aonne deaths of intents under enS 7-    POVEToY TARGET GROUPS
of nge pro tho..n.   lv  births.tautedt  Ahevlute Po-nr- Inc-   Levs1 (USi  we inteM                                                                  nt  a    ue
Access to infe Octet (o at  of orlro)-tta,ubn   n   ural - t.                              ananiute pvryInonn  leve  Lc toAt moan  levelbelo   Rhim   a mie
number  f people (total. -rhe,  an  rurn)nu    resnal         .srw   to eat               unicinlty adequate dint plus sena   n-fend reqeirant  I. set
matr pe yy (incldes trented  -ofacs waer  -r netratd but ucnaite                     affordable.
pretesof their  -npectivpouain, nnorbnroa publir                                   _ur   eltive poety innnlvli  estida_veaepregn
futiortndps  locatd ntmr the  700 antrnfrn h hous  maybe                        perona  inome of the  enr.Ohniv    sdrvdfo  the  ue
consided as- being withir; beluhi  acesIf tha t hous.            ftralres                evlst  adjusigenf-ortbys  cos.t-eflivin In arts, frsee.
resnbeaces  Iud impy thtthe honuenife or -ab-r of the house hold             intiatad Popalatlo  blo  Abeninn  Povsty Inom -Lve  (man-II  -bach
do not hen- to nped a diuproportio..ate part of the dey In fetching ths                  andrua  -  ennto   eUlote-  (urbanedsed   h   r  "                    lte P-ee
famly'   ea  neds.
di-po..at on per-eteges of them  respective populatinus.  fuo..ta din-                                                 tEnneic and Onoc beta Divisin
Peal ma  include the ncioinad diapo..al, cith or  ithent trntneer,Eteslo Analysim   n  Pr"stigm   DOpgett
of h-aa   __cet  and  nsawttby eae-horns systn  or cts one of                                                                         Ortber16
pi, prvessd ninilar I...iaio



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
GHANA: ECONOMIC DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1979: US$400
ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979                           (%, Constant Prices)
Cedis Mln.    %_                  1970-79
GNP at market prices             27,930      100.0                  -
Gross domestic investment         1,250        4.5                -6.2
Gross national saving             1,466        5.2
Current account balance             343        1.2
Export of goods, NFS              3,222       11.5                -7.3
Import of goods, NFS              2,962       10.6                -0.1
OUTPUT AND LABOR FORCE
Output in 1977           Labor Force, 1970
Cedis Mln.       %            Mln.       g
Agriculture                     6,275         56.2          1.787     57.2
Industry                        1,769         15.8           .485     15.3
Services                        3,119        28.0            .861     27.5
Total                          11,163        100.0          3.133    100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
 ----------    Central Government- -----------
Cedis Mln.    % of GDP         Cedis Mln.    % of GDP
1978/79                        1979/80
Total revenue and grants                2600.0         10.9            2949.9          8.4
Total expenditure and net lending       4400.0         18.4            4758.0         13.6
Overall deficit (-)                    -1169.0          4.9           -1808.1          5.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
-------(Million Cedis Outstanding End Period)-------
Money and quasi-money                997    1377    1900    3036    5113    5905    7931
Bank credit to public sector         922    1220    1967    3203    5636    6537    8481
Bank credit to private sector        265      306     385      560     739      796    1040
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and quasi money as
% of GDP                         21.4    26.1    29.1    27.2    25.7    21.1    18.9
General price index (1977 = 100)  22.8    29.6    46.2   100.0   171.5   264.8   397.5



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-78)
1978    1979    1980
(US$ Million)                             US$ Mln.    %
Current balance                -116.4   124.7  -104.9   Cocoa beans            498.8    61.7
Trade balance                  54.5   262.9    84.3   Cocoa products          77.2      9.5
Exports                       894.6  1006.0  1159.5   Timber logs             47.2      5.8
Imports                     -840.1   803.1  1075.2   Timber sawn              23.1      2.9
Timber products        4.4      0.6
Invisibles (net)               -170.9  -138.2  -189.2   Gold                    69.6      8.6
Services                       -240.4  -211.1  -258.3   Diamonds                11.1      1.4
Transfers                        69.5    72.9    69.1   Manganese               14.0      1.7
All other goods       63.3      7.8
Capital accounts                  0.1     3.6   138.7   Total                  808.7   100.0
Official capital (net)        107.3   136.8   119.7   Toa
Private capital (net)           7.3   -33.3    18.1   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980 (EST;
Errors and Ommissions       -114.5   -99.9       0.9                                       -
Overall balance                -112.4   146.7    53.5                              US$Mln.
Gross international                                      Public debt, incl.
guaranteed
reserves (end of period)    279.5   291.6   196.7   Total outstanding
and disbursed M&LT      1021.7
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                         DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980
February 1973 - June 18, 1978                                                          %
US$ = 01.15
Public debt, incl.
Since August 26, 1978                                       guaranteed
US$ = 02.75                                     Total outstanding
and disbursed            3.4
IBRD/IDA LENDING (DECEMBER 31,_1980)
IBRD IDA
Outstanding & disbursed   114.3  95.1
Undisbursed                  49.5  80.7
Outstanding incl.
undisbursed              163.8 175.8



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of April 30, 1981)
Loan or                                                        US$  million: Amount (less
Credit     Fiscal                                                      cancellation) 1/
Number      Year   Borrower                Purpose             Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Three loans and 11 credits fully disbursed                     56.5   88.6
500-GH      1974  Republic of Ghana   Livestock Development             2.0         0.7
531-GH      1975  Republic of Ghana   Oil Palm                         13.6          5.7
1122-GH     1975  Post & Telecom-       Telecommunications    23.0                 13.6
munications
1180-GH     1975  Republic of Ghana   National Investment
Bank                   10.0                 1.1
1181-GH     1975  Republic of Ghana   Ashanti Cocoa            14.0                 4.9
1182-GH     1975  Republic of Ghana   Second Highway           18.0                  5.1
1291T-GH 2/ 1976  Republic of Ghana   Agricultural Devel-
opment                 21.0                 7.9
1380-GH     1977  Volta River           Kpong Hydroelectric
Authority                                   39.0                 8.6
1381-GH     1977  Electricity Cor-    Third Power
poration of Ghana                            9.0                 1.1
901-GH      1979  Republic of Ghana   Second NIB                       19.0        18.9
1009-GH     1980  Republic of Ghana   Agricultural Develop-
ment                          29.5         29.4
1029-GH     1980  Republic of Ghana   Third Highway                    25.0        24.4
Total                                      190.5  177.7
of which has been repaid                    28.3    2.0
Total now outstanding                      162.2  175.7
Amount sold                  0.4
of which has been repaid    0.2              0.2
Total now held by Bank
& IDA                                      162.0  175.7
Total undisbursed                           42.3   79.1        121.4
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Interest subsidy fund (Third Window).



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6 pages
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 500       Livestock Development Project; US$2.0 million
Credit of July 26, 1974; Effective Date:
May 4, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Because of unanticipated difficulties in acquiring necessary land
and cost overruns resulting from high local inflation, the Executive Directors
approved a revised project description in August 1976. The project now
includes: (i) development of two commercial ranches for 4,000 head of cattle,
(ii) credit for 20 private livestock producers, (iii) the preparation of a
follow-up project and training for ranch managers. Revised project foreign
exchange costs are estimated at US$2.3 million. Improvements in management
performance and some physical development were noted until early 1979.
However, lack of adequate stock water on ranches is the most serious problem
adversely affecting not only herd buildup and therefore profitability of
ranches, but also contributing to the poor financial state of Ghana Livestock
Corporation (GLC). Further development cannot take place until water supplies
have been provided. Therefore, since early 1980 disbursements have been
solely for water supply development. Poor management has led to declining
herd numbers, unnecessary culling of cows, cattle in poor conditions and
failure to provide water and improved pasture for cattle. Since problems are
major and unlikely to be solved in short term, the credit will be closed when
the present credit closing date expires on June 30, 1981.
Credit No. 531       Oil Palm Project; US$13.6 million Credit of
March 5, 1975; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1983
Planting and smallholder programs are advancing satisfactorily. Pro-
blems have been encountered in finalizing acquisition of land needed to
complete the project because of slow Government action on compensation and
resettlement of displaced farmers. Chances are good that problems will be
resolved to allow project to complete current phase although it is unlikely
that sufficient land will be found to undertake a second phase along the
lines of the ongoing project (i.e. estate cum smallholder plantings within
concession area as presently delimited). Government has taken a positive
attitude toward carrying on the financing of expatriate management and foreign
exchange recurrent costs after Credit is fully disbursed by second half of
1982. Problems of mill contract and related foreign exchange shortfall have
been resolved and mill construction is proceeding according to schedule.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6 pages
Loan No. 1181 Ashanti Region Cocoa Project: US$14 million Loan of
December 23, 1975; Effective Date: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project consists of replanting and maintaining hybrid cocoa in the
Ashanti Region. As of April 30, 1981, cumulative planting was about 34,500
acres (excluding abandoned farms), leaving about 8,000 acres to be replanted
out of the combined Bank and BADEA appraisal target of 42,500 acres. The
major difficulty met by the project-s efficient management is insufficient
farmer response due to an unattractive producer price for cocoa. The
project's planting program was also severely affected by the 1977 drought
which caused heavy losses in newly replanted areas, and made a second replant-
ing in 1978 necessary. The project also faced problems of fuel shortages,
labor migration and procurement of nursery raw materials. To allow the
achievement of physical targets, the loan closing date was extended first
by two years to December 31, 1980 and then by another year to December 31,
1981. If the 1981 replanting program of 5,200 acres is achieved, the project
would have met about 93 percent of the appraisal replanting target by loan
closing date.
Loan No. 1291-T      Upper Region Agricultural Development Project:
US$21 million Loan of June 28, 1976:
Effective Date: April 11, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The project has two principal aims: raising agricultural produc-
tion and hence farm income, and establishing permanent farm support systems.
The recent situation in Ghana characterized by severe breakdowns in communi-
cations and services, severe shortages of most basic commodities, budget cuts,
has severely affected the project. The problems have been compounded by poor
management performance which has led to inadequate maintenance of much of the
equipment, loose store controls and poor staff morale. Following disturbing
reports of cases involving misuse of project funds and disappearances of
items, the Government in January 1981 agreed not to submit further disburse-
ment applications until outstanding issues had been satisfactorily resolved.
A Bank mission reviewed the project in March/April 1981 and found that en-
couraging progress had been made in several important areas. As a result
disbursements are now continuing on the understanding that by July 30, 1981
the outstanding issues (appointment of a Chief Accountant, action on the
recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry, completion and implementation
of the recommendations of the external auditors, project revision along
guidelines discussed with March review mission) will have been met.
Credit No. 1009       Volta Region Agricultural Development Project:
US$29.5 million Credit of April 22, 1980; Effective
Date: March 31, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project, which has just begun to be implemented, seeks to
raise agricultural production and farm incomes in the Volta Region of Ghana,
through the provision of a package of basic agricultural services. The
project is being implemented by the Regional Office of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture. A Farmers Services Compnay has been established and key project
positions have been filled.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6 pages
Loan No. 1180        National Investment Bank Project:  US$10 million Loan
of December 23, 1975; Effective Date: March 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project provides for a US$10 million loan to the National
Investment Bank to help finance industrial, agro-industrial and tourism
development projects. The loan has progressed satisfactorily with about
US$0.1 million remaining uncommitted and approximately US$8.9 million dis-
bursed. The institutional and procedural improvements introduced under the
project have withstood strenuous tests over the past years and NIB-s opera-
tional performance has been noteworthy given continued economic difficulties
in the country. However, due to poor investment climate and low production
levels resulting from insufficient foreign exchange for spare parts and raw
materials, loan approvals have decreased considerably, and arrears have
built up. NIB has intensified its collection efforts, but rescheduling of
sub-loans and write-offs have been required in some cases.
Credit No. 901       National Investment Bank Project:  US$19 million IDA
EEC/SAC No. 7        Credit and US$6 million EEC Special Action Credit of
October 26, 1979; Effective Date: May 14, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Under the project the Government of Ghana onlends to NIB US$24.2
million, of which US$12.2 million are being utilized to finance capital
investments, and US$12 million (including US$6 million EEC Special Action
Credit) to finance imported raw materials and spare parts. Beneficiaries
are manufacturing enterprises, agro-industries and related services. US$0.5
million will be utilized by the Government to finance consulting services
for its export program, and US$0.3 million are available to finance a tech-
nical expert for NIB. Sixteen subloans totalling US$2.9 million have been
committed; disbursements have so far only been made for technical assistance.
Disbursments have been slow due to the failure by Government to provide
matching foreign exchange fund to support subprojects as well as NIB's
relative inexperience with working capital lending. The recent supervision
mission has drawn Government-s attention to the problem of matching foreign
exchange funds and remedial action is expected.
Loan No. 1182        Second Highway Project:  US$18 million Loan and
Credit No. 594       US$10 million Credit, both of December 23, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project includes assistance to (i) Ghana Highway Authority to
strengthen maintenance management and planning, execute a four-year mainte-
nance program including comprehensive training, reconstruct 16 miles of road,
and study feeder road needs; and (ii) the Bank for Housing and Construction,
with related technical assistance, to enable them to onlend to domestic con-
tractors. Although the procurement of maintenance equipment is complete, the
output of GHA-s force account maintenance has been disappointing, because of a



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6 pages
shortage of spare parts, supplies and fuel. The construction item is about
60 percent complete. BHC has transferred equipment under hire-purchase
arrangements to 29 contractors and approved subloans to two quarry companies
totalling US$6.8 million. The regravelling undertaken by contractors is more
satisfactory than GHA's work by department forces. The low output is caused
by a shortage of spare parts and imported materials, as well as delays in
releasing Government-s capital budget. The problems should be alleviated by
the funds being provided and budgetary arrangements made under the Third
Highway (Emergency Maintenance) Project.
Credit No. 1029      Third Highway (Emergency Maintenance) Project:
US$25 million Credit of August 27, 1980: Effective
Date: November 4, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes reactivitation of Ghana Highway Authority's
(GHA) road maintenance program through the provision of spare parts, materials,
and technical assistance to GHA; and spare parts, equipment, and related
technical assistance to domestic contractors by a line of credit through the
Bank for Housing and Construction (BHC). The project also includes remobiliza-
tion of part of the domestic trucking fleet by the provision of spare parts
through BHC. The first orders for GRA spare parts have been placed and
delivery is expected shortly. The workshop and construction industry advisors
are in place and have started work. As spare parts and supplies have not yet
started to arrive, GHA's maintenance by department forces is still greatly
handicapped by the lack of operational equipment and staff problems arising
from low salaries. BHC advisors are now all in place. The bulk procurement
of contractors' equipment is underway, and agreements have been concluded with
supply houses for the importation of spare parts for contractors and truck
operators.
Loan No. 1380        Kpong Hydroelectric Project:  US$39 million Loan of
March 24, 1977; Effective Date: August 24, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Construction is progressing satisfactorily. The first unit of
the Kpong hydroplant is expected to be commissioned in July 1981 as envisaged
under the original schedule. Resettlement of population is well underway
in the new villages. Land ownership disputes have caused some delays in
the agricultural resettlement program. Heavy local cost overruns are being
experienced as a result of high inflation but the matter is being resolved.
The Government approved in April 1979 and in August 1980 tariff increases
which have substantially improved VRA's finances. VRA also raised in 1980
about 080 million through public bond issues.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6 pages
Loan No. 1381        Third Power Project:  US$9 million Loan and US$9 million
Credit No. 689       Credit, of March 24, 1977;  Effective Date:  June 10,
1977;  Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
Slippage has been experienced during thc past year because of
delays in civil works design and execution. Due to these delays and high
inflation, local cost overruns are rapidly building up; staffing of the
power company (ECG) and system maintenance have also suffered from the poor
financial situation. In March 1981 substantial increases in ECG tariffs
(over 200 percent to be implemented in three stages) were approved. The Bank
is considering additional financial assistance to ECG to help strengthen the
ECG's management and operations as well as to carry out urgent maintenance and
repair to the distribution system.
Loan No. 1122        Telecommunications Project:  US$23 million Loan of
June 10, 1975; Effective Date: January 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project completion is expected by December 1982 about two and
a half years behind schedule, mainly due to delays in procurement and con-
tracting and the delays in civil works due to an acute shortage of building
material. Government agreed in 1979 to provide US$7 million to meet the
estimated foreign exchange cost overrun on the project. Project civil
works are now progressing with Bank-financed direct imports of some critical
building materials. Approximately US$9.4 million has been disbursed and the
disbursement rate is expected to accelerate. Only about US$3.3 million remain
uncommitted. Due to the unfavorable inflationary economic situation in Ghana,
GPT-s financial performance has been unsatisfactory. New tariff proposals
have been prepared and their effects on the overall financial situation of GPT
are under review.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
GHANA
RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: Two years
(April 1976 - April 1978)
(b) Agency which prepared the project: GRC assisted
by Transmark (UK)/RITES (India) and Bank staff
(c) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission: July 1978
(e) Date of Completion of Negotiations: February 20, 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: August 31, 1981
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Action:
Retroactive financing of up to US$400,000 for employment of advance
management consultants to strengthen GRC and to expedite project
implementation
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) GRC to prepare and submit to IDA by December 31, 1981 a detailed
manpower and staff reduction plan and thereafter implement the plan
(para. 35);
(b) Government to define, by December 31, 1981, more precisely the
powers and responsibilities of GRC Board and General Manager as well
as GRC's financial objectives and policies (para. 35);
(c) GRC to revalue its assets by December 31, 1982 and thereafter
annually (para. 47);
(d) GRC to reduce outstanding freight earnings to less than 20 percent
of gross freight earnings by June 30, 1982 and thereafter not
exceed this level (para. 47);
(e) GRC to maintain its tariffs in real terms by increasing tariffs
in proportion to any general increases in salaries and wages
(para. 48);
(f) GRC to revise by December 31, 1982 its tariff structure and estab-
lish tariff revision procedures (para 48);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(g) GRC to reduce the working ratio gradually to achieve 100 by FY86 and
maintain the level thereafter (para. 48); -
(h) conclusion between Government and GRC of a subsidiary loan agreement
satisfactory to IDA (a credit effectiveness condition, para. 52);
and
(i) fulfillment of conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the AfDB
loan agreement (a credit effectiveness condition, para. 52).



[£l~~~~~/ t:  aWi                                       -                 5  :    RC       r/-t/r\X;
(I [~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I   '   I '0  '          t     , *     51t )    <   t  S      .    /f   A      X    -  X   <i      |
06 4                    / (  f01
&      OIS   -    *     t rs-    ;     r 32''   4Q§ 
C66EL G!2I






This map has bean prepared by the
L    I                                                                                                                          W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  ordank's staff esclushrely for
'***                                                                                                                         U*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sonv'enianca of the readers of
9A   A   A   1l   r^iO  ,  i  i  i  3 i , W oS \wt _ - i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0#Wot o  hih t s ttchd
w                                                                                                                        77pw*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h'dnominations used and the
~~'    G   ANA    ~ "Mbot#mcMies shown on this map
*~~ ~~I    ToACCRA3OZOI(nt            E  ~~~~~Ede not inmply. on the part of the
I                                                                                                                                                        a~~~~~~~~~S  ny wteitory or any endorsemntw,
>-.          <          o       ro r kord 265S2 Km;\)  ua                i          E    E               2E      r        S        LL                                                                   mert¢tr r lega sdtatus of
I                                                                                                                                                                  -,or <   ceapta    of such boundariaes
Area ShownOld                                                                                                                                                   L a k e
%                  X    ct~~~~~~Bekea         r                                                                    4= t t g q     
Awgo  g        g        /         Ak~~~~~~roker;5)                                                                                      4                                   tAKOSI TE
Al
&a    WAO oaOuaina
(% A     75287BRz          Eduaneyede                        i                  f                Kade        /Au                                     ao                   9 Vot^
AnkWaso    O                         Akrofoum/                                                              Si 5   arwsX /~;                                Kofovridua        
tAnanikroal  f                                X                        2             Soabt 1                                          c>) y Kentenkiren
na                                                  NosoNX W  40.0 KMu                                                          4 ,%    angoase
Measam  120/m    u                <~                     Achiasi                  04oCk                          1 Lawkrom
Buabin                                     ACHIASI Junction          I o                 a  +0 >< .,
\   Imbrair.n                tI                 re~~~~~~~~T HunKi V i>t:E2    "E         E |          i3o3              sawam
Opokobrai                                                                                                            KOTOKU Junction                     remA ZRANcH
Opo   Vaile 
*°(    Benso_                     CapvQ_ /FJRST RAILWAY PROJECT
Antgu V   V   $ S                                                            O ~~~~~~~~~~~ Towns  and  villages
;   5ekrwndi 4.4 KmK°Pkrom~~~~RAIWoaYio Gl)NS                                                       .            Villages withoust road access
~~~~~~\ ~   ~ ~ ) /        Efi  ka>?.EOD                                                                      enrlLn                                   ala  at
-t>D Axim -> -- ~~~~~~~~~~~Western Line                                                                  *               Diesel loeomotive dep~otsw
<                  <    ~~~~TAKORADI                                                       Easstern Line                  A        Diesel locomtotive and rolling stock workshops  
Pemeso                      1       0 20    30   4 AO *e
_u  .'
Kur.nti  DamaMETES                                                                                                                                                                   '



