1       CREDIT NUMBER 1170 GH
Development Credit Agreement
(Railway Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1981
r2


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1170 GH
DEVEL MENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  Cj :2:2 )                   1981, between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA (he   inaf tev called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT A SOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Ghana Railway
Corporation with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Ghana Railway
Corporation the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C) by a Loan Agreement, dated May 11, 1981 (hereinafter
called the African Development Bank Loan Agreement) between
the Borrower and the African Development Bank (hereinafter called
AfDB), AfDB agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount of 10,000,000
Units of Account of the AfDB to assist in the financing of the
same Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Ghana Railway Corporation;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the folloving
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "GRC" means the Ghana Railway Corporation, a body
corporate with perpetual succession and common seal, established
and operating under the* Ghana Railway Corporation Decree, 1977
(3M.C.D. 95) of the Borrower, as such decree may be amended from
time to time (hereinafter called the GRC Decree);
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and GRC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agre'ement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and GRC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(d) "CEDIS" and "4" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(e) "TPU" means the Transport Planning Unit of the Ministry
of Transport and Communications of the Borrower;
(f) "Fiscal Year" means a fiscal year, which begins on July
1 and ends on June 30 and is named after the year in which it
ends; and
(g) "Rationalization Program" means the program of action to
be carried out by GRC pursuant to Section 2.08 (b) of the Project
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement


﻿-3-
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty three million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 23,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions set forth or
referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15th and November 15th in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1991, and ending May 15,
2031, each installment to and including the installment payable on
May 15th, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. Except in respect of Part H of the Project, GRC
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes


﻿-4-
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause GRC to carry out
Parts A through G of the Project and shall carry out Part H of the
Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and transport
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall for the purpose of carrying out Parts
A to G of the Project relend to GRC out of the proceeds of the
Credit an amount in Cedis equivalent to twenty two million two
hundred and fifty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR22,250,000)
or such other amount as shall be allocated to Categorlzs 1 to 7 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement to GRC under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and GRC under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Asso-
ciation, providing inter alia, for relending for a term of twenty
years, including five years of grace on the principal amount, at a
rate of interest of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per
annum on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time and for the repayment thereof in the Cedis equivalent
determined as of the date of withdrawal.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause GRC to perform in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, including timber, cement and steel,
necessary or appropriate to enable GRC to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance. As part of the
foregoing, the Borrower specifically undertakes to make capital
contributions to GRC, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, whenever there is reasonable cause to believe
that the funds available to GRC will be inadequate to meet the
estimated expenditures required for the execution of the Project,


﻿-5-
such capital contributions to provide GRC with such funds as are
needed to meet fully such expenditures.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Part H of the Project, the Borrower shall, starting from a date
not later than December 31, 1981, employ consultants whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, reports,
contract documents and work schedules for Part H of the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (4) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part H of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and to disclose their use in the carrying out of Part H of
the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the execution of Part H of the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Credit and the services financed out
of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after the completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of Part
H of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be


﻿-6-
derived from it, the performance of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. Without any limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower specifically undertakes:
(a) to take all necessary measures to ensure that (i)
adequate funds are available to GRC, in the form of capital
contributions, to meet the full local costs of the Project and
(ii) GRC's requirements of foreign exchange for its normal main-
tenance program are promptly met; and
(b) to ensure that import licenses and letters of credit
for GRC's imports shall be issued promptly and remain valid until
the importation of the goods therein is completed.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) by June 30, 1982, establish a procedure for determining
and settling the payments due for Fiscal Year 1978 and subsequent
years between GRC and Ghana Ports Authority for services rendered
by one party to the other; and
(b) promptly thereafter, cause GRC and Ghana Ports Authority
to settle any outstanding payments.
Section 4.03. Not later than December 31, 1981, the Borrower
shall take all necessary steps in order to ensure that the respon-
sibility for the procurement of goods and contracts for civil
works required for Parts A through G of the Project shall be
entrusted entirely to GRC's Board of Directors and its General
Manager.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1981, submit to the Parliament for approval a bill, satisfactory
to the Association, introducing amendments to the GRC Decree in
order to take the necessary steps to determine in specific terms
the functions, powers and responsibilities of the Board and the
General Manager of GRC and to establish GRC's financial objectives


﻿-7-
and policies, which shall, inter alia, provide for the timely
preparation and submission by GRC to the Borrower of annual
accounts and budget.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all measures, including
the provision of funds, facilities and other assistance, necessary
to cause GRC and the Ghana Post and Telecommunications Corporation
carry out a program, satisfactory to the Association, based on
the recommendations of the study included under Part G (ii) (c)
of the Project.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall make capital contributions
to GRC in order to finance all its capital expenditures other
than those included under the Project, such contributions to be
made as required by GRC until the execution of the Project is
completed.
Section 4.07. (a) Until the studies included in Part G (ii)
(a) and (b) of the Project shall be com1 eted as required in
Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement and revised arrangements and
targets for GRC's financial performance and the Borrower's future
subsidies to GRC shall be agreed upon by the Borrower, the
Association and GRC, the Borrower shall compensate GRC, in a
manner satisfactory to the Association, for any net losses
incurred by it.
(b) For purposes of this Section, the term "net losses"
includes any net operating deficit, excluding depreciation, but
including any net finance and miscellaneous (i.e. non-operating)
losses.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) GRC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of GRC under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that GRC will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;


﻿-8-
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of GRC or for the suspension of its operations;
(d) the GRC Decree or any other legislation or regulation of
the Borrower governing the establishment, organization or powers
of GRC, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived in such a way that, in the judgment of the Association,
will matertally and adversely affect the conduct of GRC's business
or GRC's financial situation or the efficiency of GRC's management
and personnel or the carrying out of the Project;
(e) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor; or
(B) any such loan shall have become du.e and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof;
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and GRC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) or (e) (i)
(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower arid GRC; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
AfDB Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, except for the effec-
tiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Associa4ion:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by GRC, and is legally binding upon GRC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by the Borrower and GRC and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and GRC in accordanc with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date                  // is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01, 4.02 and 4.07 of this Agreement shall cease and terminate on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Principal Secretary of the Ministry of Finance and


﻿- 10 -
Economic Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Principal Secretary
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box M40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:
ECONOMICON
Accra
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 11 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Cateogry:
Amount of the
Credit allocated         % of
(expressed in       Expenditures
Category            SDR equivalent)   to be financed
(1) Materials and equip-       4,730,000       100% of foreign
ment for track re-                         expenditures
newal, sawmill and
quarry equipment
(2) Spare parts and sup-       1,380,000       100% of foreign
plies for locomotive                       expenditures
repairs and rehabili-
tation
(3) Machinery and equip-         980,000       100% of foreign
ment for freight car                       expenditures
modernization
(4) Machinery equipment          810,000       100% of foreign
and plant for workshop                     expenditures
and depot moderniza-
tion
(5) Telecommunication          5,380,000       100% of foreign
equipment and                              expenditures
installation
(6) Training                   1,920,000       100% of foreign
expenditures


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit allocated        % of
(expressed in      Expenditures
Category           SDR equivalent)    to be financed
(7) Technical Assistance       3,500,000      85% (repre-
and Studies under                          senting the
Parts A through G                          estimated
of the Project                             foreign ex-
penditure
component)
(8) Technical Assistance      1,050,000       85% (repre-
under Part H of the                        senting the
Project                                    estimated
foreign ex-
penditure
component)
(9) Unallocated               3,550,000
TOTAL               23,300,000
2.   For the purpose of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods and services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such item as required to be
consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to June 25, 1981 except that withdrawals,in an


﻿- 14 -
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $400,000, may
be made in respect of Category 7 on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which in
the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the GRC's 1980-84 investment plan
aimed at upgrading its managerial efficiency through technical
assistance and training and at improving its equipment and
facilities through repairs and rehabilitation and consists of the
following parts:
Part A:   Carrying out a program of spot track-renewil of
the Western Line including the replacement of
22 turnouts and about 85 km of fastenings; purchase
and utilization of equipment for the rehabilitation
of the sawmill for indigenous production of timber
sleepers and of quarry equipment for converting
waste stone from the gold mines into ballast and of
track maintenance tools and equipment.
Part B:   Rehabilitation and repair of GRC's fleet of about
36 diesel locomotives.
Part C:   Freight car modernization, involving replacement
of about 1600 plain journal bearings by roller
bearings and replacement of about 80 worn out
bogies.
Part D:   Modernization of workshop and diesel locomotive
depots involving acquisition and utilization of
additional machinery and tools and improvements to
layouts.
Part E:   Improvements to the Block and Telecommunications
systems on the Western Line, consisting in replace-
ment of bare overhead conductors by an insulated
all-weather cable, part replacement and part
repairs of the block instruments, and acquisition
and utilization of omnibus telephone equipment and
mobile wireless equipment.
Part F:   Establishment of a training school, including
the construction and equipment of classrooms and
laboratories.


﻿- 16 -
Part G:   A technical assistance program which includes:
(i) improvement of GRC's managerial and oper-
ational efficic, cy in several key sectors
including traffic, accounting, maintenance and
training; and
(ii) a program of studies covering:
(a) all traffic on Eastern and Central Lines
and passenger traffic on the Western
Line;
(b) GRC's accounting and costing methods and
tariff structure; and
(c) utilization of the public microwave
system for railway operations.
Part H:   A technical assistance program aimed at strength-
ening the transport planning capabilities of the
TPU.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the     1ZIL day of
198 -L.
FOR SECRETARY


