                    INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET
                            APPRAISAL STAGE

I. Basic Information
Date prepared/updated: 11/08/2011                                    Report No.: AC6475
1. Basic Project Data
Country: Rwanda                                Project ID: P124629
Project Name: Statistics for Result Facility
Task Team Leader: Peter Isabirye
Estimated Appraisal Date: November 2,          Estimated Board Date: December 1, 2011
2011
Managing Unit: AFTP2                          Lending Instrument: Specific Investment
                                              Loan
Sector: General public administration sector (100%)
Theme: Managing for development results (40%);Economic statistics, modeling and
forecasting (25%);Administrative and civil service reform (25%);Analysis of economic
growth (10%)
SPF Amount (US$m):                 0.00
GEF Amount (US$m.):                0.00
PCF Amount (US$m.):                0.00
Other financing amounts by source:
         Borrower                                                      0.00
         Statistics for Results Trust Fund                            10.00
                                                                      10.00
Environmental Category: C - Not Required
Repeater []
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery)
                                                                  Yes [ ]      No [ ]
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies)

2. Project Objectives
The development objective of the proposed program is to improve the quality and
timeliness of statistical information, as well as making it accessible to users.

3. Project Description
The SRF project will support implementation of the National Strategy for the
Development of Statistics (NSDS) and help address key weaknesses and challenges
identified, focusing#in particular#on institutional coordination and capacity building
within the National Institute of Statistics of Rwanda (NISR) and a few selected
Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs); data development; promoting statistical
information sharing among data users to strengthen the quality of decision making;
developing a data access and dissemination strategy in conformity with best international
standards;and investment in statistical infrastructure and equipment under the
components of: (i)Data Development and Management; (ii)Information Dissemination
and Services to Users; (iii)Coordination of National Statistical System (NSS); (iv)
Capacity Development (Human and Infrastructure);and (v)Financing and Corporate
Services.

4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis
The project location is Kigali and there are no salient physical characteristics relevant to
the safeguards analysis

5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists


6. Safeguard Policies Triggered                               Yes          No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                      X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                              X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                       X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                  X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                   X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                            X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                      X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                           X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                    X

II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:


2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area:


3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize
adverse impacts.


4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.


5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
  For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
  Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
* If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources,
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental
Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please
explain why:



C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)

The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's       N/A
Infoshop?
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a       N/A
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected
groups and local NGOs?
All Safeguard Policies
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities    N/A
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard
policies?
  Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project   N/A
  cost?
  Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the           N/A
  monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies?
  Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the             N/A
  borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal
  documents?


  D. Approvals

Signed and submitted by:                                Name                       Date
Task Team Leader:                   Mr Peter Isabirye                            10/31/2011
Environmental Specialist:
Social Development Specialist
Additional Environmental and/or
Social Development Specialist(s):

Approved by:
Sector Manager:                     Mr J. Humberto Lopez                         10/31/2011
  Comments: Category C.
  Transferred to SM
