       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       Rwanda SFR (P124629)



                                                                                                                Report Number : ICRR0020098


1. Project Data



  Project ID                                            Project Name
  P124629                                               Rwanda SFR

  Country                                               Practice Area(Lead)
  Rwanda                                                Poverty and Equity



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                     Closing Date (Original)                                      Total Project Cost (USD)
  TF-11927                                             30-Jun-2014                                                              10,000,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                   Closing Date (Actual)
  22-Dec-2011                                          30-Jun-2015

                                                             IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                   Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                                        0.00                                             10,000,000.00

  Revised Commitment                                                         0.00                                               9,984,327.69

  Actual                                                                     0.00                                               9,984,327.69




 Sector(s)
 General public administration sector(100%)

 Theme(s)
 Managing for development results(40%):Economic statistics, modeling and forecasting(25%):Administrative and civil service
 reform(25%):Analysis of economic growth(10%)

 Prepared by                        Reviewed by                         ICR Review Coordinator              Group
 Judyth L. Twigg                    Clay Wescott                        Lourdes N. Pagaran                  IEGEC (Unit 1)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    According to the Grant Agreement (p. 7) and Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. 16), the project's objective was "to improve the quality and
    timeliness of statistical information as well as making it accessible to users."




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          Rwanda SFR (P124629)



     No



c.   Components
     The project contained five components. The appraised total costs for components 1, 2 and 3 were deliberately under-budgeted, with
     increases anticipated during implementation. The ICR provides the actual Statistics for Results Facility (SRF) cost by component but not
     for the entire program.

     1. Data Development and Management (appraisal, US$ 34.6 million, of which US$ 6.0 million SRF; actual SRF, US$ 6.5 million). This
     component was to strengthen the quality of produced data through implementation of the 2009-2014 National Strategy for Development of
     Statistics (NSDS) priority surveys/censuses, in particular the 2012 Population and Housing Census; adaptation of internationally accepted
     standards and methodologies in data collection, compilation, and validation by the National Institute for Statistics of Rwanda (NISR) and
     key ministries, departments, and agencies (MDAs); development of economic and social statistics in various areas; and improvement of
     basic elements of the statistical infrastructure. Five MDAs were to be prioritized: agriculture, health, education, local government, and
     macroeconomics/finance. Specific activities were to be drawn from the NISR's integrated work plans.

     2. Information Dissemination and Services to Users (appraisal, US$ 0.5 million, of which US$ 1.0 million SRF; actual SRF: US$ 0.2
     million). This component was to support improvements in services for users, including production and dissemination of regular NISR
     publications, updating of its website, strengthening of meta-data, digitization of its library, and development of an information access
     framework, open data portal, and electronic data archive (NADA).

     3. Coordination of National Statistical System (NSS) (appraisal: US$ 0.2 million, of which US$ 1.0 million SRF; actual SRF: US$ 0.8
     million). This component was to support review and improvement of existing institutional frameworks to optimize interaction between
     NISR and statistical agencies in MDAs. It was also to support an NSS-wide Public Expenditure Review to estimate resources required to
     sustain statistical activities across the NSS.

     4. Capacity Development (appraisal, US$ 2.2 million, of which US$ 1.5 million SRF; actual SRF: US$ 1.3 million). This component was to
     address the shortage of professional staff in NISR and selected MDAs through training and linkage of NISR with local and international
     universities and through acquisition of computer hardware.

     5. Financing and Corporate Services (appraisal, US$ 8.3 million, of which US$ 0.5 million SRF; actual SRF: US$ 1.18 million). This
     component was to strengthen the NSDS Coordination Team's capacity to carry out program implementation and daily project
     administrative work, including reports and audits, financial management, and monitoring and evaluation.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     Project Cost: The cost of the five-year NSDS for 2009-2014 had been estimated at US$ 80.6 million. As the project was launched two
     years into that time frame, the project was designed to support the remaining three years, estimated at US$ 45.8 million. Actual cost was
     US$ 46.88 million, consisting of Borrower (US$ 15.1 million), SRF (US$ 9.98 million), and US$ 21.8 million from other donors in the
     basket fund.

     Financing: The project was to be financed by a Grant from the SRF in the amount of US$ 10 million. The SRF financing was to be pooled
     with a Basket Fund that had been established earlier by the UK Department for International Development (DfID) and the European
     Union (EU). DfID and the EU were to contribute US$ 13.9 million, bringing the total expected contribution from the Basket Fund to US$
     23.9 million. Parallel financing in the amount of US$ 3.8 million was anticipated from the African Development Bank (AfDB), the Belgian
     Development Agency, the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Children's Fund, and the United Nations
     Population Fund. Actual financing was US$ 9.98 million from the SRF, and US$ 21.8 million from the other contributors to the basket
     fund together with contributions from AfDB, Belgium, and oneUN. AfDB had a budget leftover of about US$ 1.2 million, which they used
     to finance a household survey in 2013/14. The United Nations Children's Fund, the United Nations Population Fund, and World Vision
     also contributed more than originally planned, especially for census activities.
     Overall, the SRF accounted for 21% of NSDS expenditures.

     Borrower Contribution: The Recipient made US$15.1 million of a planned US$ 18.1 million contribution. According to the project team,
     this contribution was reduced because other donors contributed more than was originally anticipated for census and survey activities.

     Dates:
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               Rwanda SFR (P124629)



         On August 20, 2013, the project underwent a Level-II restructuring to allow for completion of activities, as it was judged that the initial 26-
         month project timeline was overly optimistic. Some activities were added, most importantly support for the design of a follow-on NSDS-2
         and for setting up a statistics training center, and funds were reallocated across components. The closing date was extended from June
         30, 2014 to June 30, 2015.




   3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

   a. Relevance of Objectives

       At appraisal, Rwanda's NSS was inadequately structured and ill-equipped to serve the country's high rate of economic growth and consequent
       demand for data. The project responded to this country context and deliberately paralleled the government's NSDS that had been officially
       launched in 2010. The objectives remain highly relevant to the follow-on NSDS-2, which puts continued emphasis on improving the quality
       and timeliness of statistical and administrative data and on public accessibility. The most recent overall national development strategy, the
       Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy 2 (2013-2016), explicitly tasks the NISR with timely implementation of a high-quality
       program of surveys and censuses to meet its information needs. The objectives are also highly relevant to the Bank's CPS at closing (2014-
       2018). This CPS supports the development of strong statistical systems, and its Program for Results financing instruments rely heavily on
       strong statistical systems to track indicators and targets.




       Rating
       High


   b. Relevance of Design

       The clearly-stated objective was linked well to expected intermediate and final outcomes. A logical and plausible causal chain linked outputs
       and outcomes, as the project's components paralleled the five programs of the NSDS and responses to challenges identified during
       preparation: lack of sector-wide statistical quality frameworks, inadequate communication and dissemination of statistical data, weak
       coordination of the NSS, and low institutional and human capacity. Project design was closely coordinated with the government and other
       development partners to ensure that Bank-financed activities would be non-duplicative and that exogenous factors were taken into account.
       However, the two-year initial time frame was unrealistic, and the ICR does not provide information on specific activities in the NISR's integrated
       work plans that would allow an assessment of the early stages of the results chain (linking funded inputs to outputs).




       Rating
       Substantial




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     Improve the quality of statistical information.

    Rationale
    Outputs:
    Harmonized data collection tools were developed in close collaboration with five sectors (health, agriculture, education, population, and
    macroeconomics/finance), and local staff were trained on those tools. A five-year capacity-building plan (2013-2018) is currently in place,
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               Rwanda SFR (P124629)



    focusing on hands-on training and specific short courses, and the conceptual architectural model for a statistical training center was
    completed.

    Within the framework of NSDS, a Gender Statistics Framework was established.

    Additional information on outputs (training, purchase of hardware/software, etc.) is not provided in the ICR. The project team stated that, in
    accordance with ICR guidelines, the ICR aimed to be concise and focus on key issues that impacted project performance.

    Outcomes:

    Over 80% of MDAs have adopted International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities, Revision 4 (ISIC4) and
    International Standard Classification of Occupations 2008 (ISCO-08) manuals, meeting the target of 80% (ISIC3 was in use at appraisal).

    The completion rate of the Balance of Payments Manual (BPM) Version 6 road map stands at 85%, far surpassing the target of 40%
    (Version 5 was in use at appraisal).

    72% of Government Finance Statistics (GFS) 2011 manuals have been adopted, meeting the target of 70% (GFS 1986 was in use at
    appraisal).

    A national data quality assurance framework has been produced, meeting the target.

    As of 2014, the system of national accounts and the consumer price index have been re-based to the year 2011, meeting the target (both
    were at base year 2006 at appraisal).

    Rwanda's score on the Bank's Statistical Capacity Indicator, a composite index assessing statistical methodology, source data, periodicity,
    and timeliness, increased from 68 (out of 100) in 2011 to 79 in 2014. (As this was not a formal project indicator, there was no target.) The
    ICR (p. 13) indicates that scores in comparator countries in IDA and sub-Saharan Africa, by contrast, were stagnant; the World DataBank
    gives scores for South Africa of 72.2 for 2012, 76.7 for 2013, and 74.4 for 2014; for Kenya of 57.8 for 2012, 52.2 for 2013, and 54.4 for
    2014; and for Burundi of 52.2 for 2012, 57.8 for 2013, and 54.4 for 2014, confirming the ICR's statement.

    An independent evaluation of the SRF conducted in 2013/14 found that the project gave statistics "a more powerful and relevant role in the
    social and economic management of the country," particularly due to its impact on the production and dissemination of economic statistics.




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     Improve the timeliness of statistical information.

    Rationale
    Outputs:

    Listed above.

    Outcomes:

    The execution rate of the annual release calendar for key statistics increased from 70% in FY 2011 to 89% in FY 2015, meeting the target
    of 85%.

    Almost all surveys and census planned under the NSDS have been implemented on time, including the Integrated Household and Living
    Conditions Survey (EICV) 3 and 4, Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) 4 and 5, and Population and Housing Census (PHC). The
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               Rwanda SFR (P124629)



    Integrated Business Enterprise Survey (IBES) scheduled for FY 2013 was implemented in FY 2014 due to lack of financing.




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 3

    Objective
     Make statistical information more accessible to users.

    Rationale
    Outputs:

    A data access policy was formulated and validated, and is under implementation. The policy can be downloaded from the NISR website.
    Recommendations from an NSDS review conducted in 2013 concerning the user-friendliness of the website have been fully implemented.
    Website capacity was increased from 800 MB in 2011 to 40 GB in 2014. The website is currently being redesigned to accommodate an
    increasing volume of information and to make navigation more intuitive. Frequent workshops and outreach events were held during the
    project period to disseminate the results of major statistical undertakings.

    Outcomes:

    The electronic NADA is fully operational, meeting the target. Users can access micro survey and census data after they register and
    provide a short description of their research project.

    The composite user satisfaction survey index increased from 51% in 2012/13to 66% in 2014/15, meeting the target of some improvement.
    The share of users reporting that their priority data needs are well or very well met by available official statistics increased from 52% to 63%
    over this same time period, and the share of users reporting that statistical methodology is well or very explained increased from 35% to
    39%. Users reported that one of the three areas of greatest improvement since 2009 has been data accessibility (as well as methodological
    soundness and frequency of publication).

    Survey reports of EICV 3 and 4, DHS 4 and5, PHC, and agricultural surveys are available on NISR's website, meeting the target. The
    IBES report has not yet been disseminated due to lack of financing but is scheduled for publication in 2016.

    All statistical information produced by key NSS institutions is published in their statistical yearbooks according to NISR policy, far exceeding
    the target of 20% of statistical information.




    Rating
    Substantial



   5. Efficiency

    Neither the PAD nor the ICR perform a traditional economic analysis, noting that a convincing value-for-money analysis is challenging for this
    type of project. The ICR notes qualitatively that improved statistics are likely to produce tangible economic benefits: improved policy, better
    development outcomes, and reduced waste stemming from misallocated resources.

    Effective coordination among development partners, largely enabled by strong government ownership, and flexible financing through the
    implementing agency enhanced implementation efficiency. Nonetheless, there were shortcomings. Inadequate implementing agency capacity
    in procurement and financial management early in the project period produced delays, and the Bank team did not identify and rectify these
    issues until 2013.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       Rwanda SFR (P124629)




 On balance, however, the project implemented all planned outputs plus some additional important activities (such as completion of the
 conceptual architectural model for a statistics training center) that were not envisioned at appraisal, all within the original financing envelope.
 Efficiency is therefore rated Substantial.




Efficiency Rating
Substantial


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                               Rate Available?              Point value (%)                    *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                               0
 Appraisal                                                                  0
                                                                                                               Not Applicable

                                                                                                               0
 ICR Estimate                                                               0
                                                                                                               Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Relevance of design is rated High, as the project's objectives were and remain highly responsive to country context, government strategy, and
Bank strategy. Relevance of design is rated Substantial, as the results chain convincingly connected anticipated intermediate with final desired
outcomes and mirrored the country's strategic plan for development of statistical capacity; however, information on specific planned activities was
underspecified, and the two-year initial time frame was overly optimistic. The objectives to improve the quality, timeliness, and accessibility of
statistical information were all Substantially achieved, with outcome targets consistently met. Project efficiency is rated Substantial, as
anticipated outcomes, plus some additional activities, were achieved within the project's originally planned budget. Taken together, these ratings
are indicative of minor shortcomings in the project's preparation and implementation, and therefore an Outcome rating of Satisfactory.



a.    Outcome Rating
      Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

A National Partnership Group for statistics has been formed (an operationalization of the project's Steering Committee), contributing to ongoing
collaboration and consultation between relevant stakeholders. The Cabinet approved the follow-on NSDS-2 (2014-2019) in September of 2014.
The Bank is supporting NSDS-2 though a Public Sector Governance Program for Results Project, approved in October 2014 and scheduled to
cover FY 2015-2017. It focuses on economic statistics and public access to data. The European Union and DfID will continue support to a
basket fund for statistical development. Dependence on external financing remains a moderate risk, as does the strain on NISR staff caused by
rapidly increasing demand for statistical data.



a.   Risk to Development Outcome Rating
      Modest
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       Rwanda SFR (P124629)



8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
   The project's activities and structure responded to key challenges and constraints faced by the NISR and NSS, especially the need to improve
   the quality of economic statistics. Development partners were closely involved in preparation, resulting in an effectively pooled effort to
   support a nationally owned strategy. Risk assessment focused on low experience and capacity among project staff, weak coordination of the
   NSS, and procurement risk. Monitoring and evaluation preparation was adequate, and key outcome indicators corresponded appropriately to
   all three elements of the objectives (quality, timeliness, and access). However, the Bank team was overly optimistic with the project's original
   two-year time frame, and adequate procurement capacity at the implementing agency was not secured.



   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
   While risk mitigation measures were adequately identified at appraisal, some were not implemented in a timely manner; in particular, the hiring
   of a procurement assistant and training on Bank procurement guidelines did not take place until 2013. This led to eventual delays due to the
   implementing agency's insufficient understanding of procurement guidelines. Overall, early in the project period, there was insufficient Bank
   guidance, including inadequate attention to procurement challenges, insufficient financial management guidance, and ineffective
   communication due to frequent turnover of task team leadership. Over the first six months of implementation, the implementing agency
   reported that it was difficult to communicate with the Bank and therefore to solve problems they were facing. When a new Bank team was
   formed in 2013 and the project restructured, implementation moved forward rapidly and prior issues were resolved promptly.



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The government was fully involved in the design, preparation, and implementation of the project, with increased budget allocation to
   statistics (in absolute terms) over the course of the project. The government's Chief Economist chaired quarterly meetings of the NSDS
   Steering Committee with representatives from the NISR, other MDAs, and development partners. This Steering Committee was an
   important forum for dialogue, involvement, and ownership and was key to sustaining overall commitment to the statistical development
   agenda.



   Government Performance Rating
   Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   An NSDS coordination team within the NISR functioned as the implementation unit for the SRF. This team, as well as the entire NISR, had
   strong and motivated leadership, incentivized by staff performance contracts with clear targets and responsibilities. It implemented flexible
   financing, so that delays in disbursement from one funding partner were compensated with contributions from other partners. Low
   technical capacity, early turnover of procurement staff, and inexperience in Bank procurement guidelines led to shortcomings that were
   resolved with the hiring of a procurement specialist in 2013 (as well as more attentive supervision by the Bank team). Similarly, early
   challenges with financial management, due primarily to low skill levels, staff turnover, and insufficient Bank guidance, were largely resolved
   through improved training and supervision.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       Rwanda SFR (P124629)




   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The three PDO-level indicators focusing on quality, timeliness, and accessibility of data were well defined, as were associated intermediate
   outcome indicators. M&E was the responsibility of the NISR.




b. M&E Implementation
   The NISR reported quarterly on progress at Steering Committee meetings. The NISR uses an in-house M&E system based on flash reports,
   where each Friday all department heads submit briefs summarizing progress over the previous week and plans for the coming week. These
   reports are then immediately summarized for senior management and action plans are developed, if necessary. This system, while effective,
   is not yet digitized and therefore could be more effective and sustainable, although the arrangements are being continued into NSDS-2.




c. M&E Utilization
   The ICR (p. 10) reports that the extent to which the M&E data are actually used for decision making is "difficult to assess." However, it also
   notes (p. 15) that the rollout plan of Rwanda's flagship social protection program, the Vision Umerenge Program, was revised following the
   release of EICV 3 to achieve more rapid scale-up in the poorest districts.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was rated environmental category C. No safeguard policies were triggered.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   According to the ICR, financial management was a challenge throughout implementation. Unaudited Interim Financial Reports frequently
   contained inconsistencies, though these were rectified over time and the quality of reporting has improved considerably. The early issues
   stemmed primarily from low technical capacity, staff turnover in the financial directorate, and insufficient Bank guidance early in the project
   period. Audits were on time. The FY 2013 audit opinion was unqualified. The FY 2014 opinion was qualified, although, according to the project
   team, the Ministry of Labor and the Public Service Commission disagreed with the Office of the Auditor General (OAG). According to audit
   opinion, a staff was paid unwarranted suspension benefits. However, the Ministry of Labor and Public Service Commission had urged NISR to
   pay the suspension benefits to be in accordance with the law. The Ministry of Labor took note of OAG's finding, but agreed that NISR had taken
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             Rwanda SFR (P124629)



   the right action.

   The overall project risk for procurement was rated High at appraisal. At the beginning of the project period, the implementing agency continued
   to conduct procurement according to the national procurement law. This led to a number of ineligible expenses and the need for retroactive no-
   objections on some contracts. The implementing agency's inadequate knowledge of procurement guidelines, as well as turnover in NISR
   procurement staff, were compounded by the fact that there was no procurement specialist in the Bank's country office (ICR, p. 11). NISR's
   hiring of a procurement specialist in 2013 and his training on Bank procurement procedures resolved most issues.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   None reported.




d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                 Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                  IEG
                                                                                                                 Disagreements/Comment
                                                                                                                 The planned 2013 IBES was
                                                                                                                 implemented a year late.
                                                                                                                 Implementation efficiency was
                                                                                                                 impacted during the project's first
Outcome                                   Highly Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                       two years by inadequate
                                                                                                                 procurement and financial
                                                                                                                 management capacity at NISR and
                                                                                                                 inattentive Bank supervision,
                                                                                                                 resulting in delays.
Risk to Development Outcome               Modest                              Modest                             ---
Bank Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Borrower Performance                      Satisfactory                        Satisfactory                       ---
Quality of ICR                                                                Substantial                        ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

IEG concurs with several insightful lessons in the ICR, including:

Stability in task team leadership is a key ingredient for smooth project implementation. In this case, heavy turnover early in the project period left
the implementing agency without necessary guidance, stalling timely problem solving until a stable, committed task team was put in place.

In an environment with multiple donors and especially pooled funding arrangements, strong government ownership and management around a
well-defined national strategy is key to achievement of results. In this case, top government officials appeared at NISR outreach and
dissemination events, budget allocations to NISR were increased, and government representatives chaired Steering Committee meetings, all
contributing to coordinated delivery of outputs in a consistent and timely fashion.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       Rwanda SFR (P124629)



Clients may not always be fully aware that the Bank's presence can change the rules of a joint financing mechanism. In this case, the
implementing agency was not well briefed on the procurement and financial management implications of Bank requirements, resulting in early
miscommunications and delays.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR provides a concise and well-organized assessment of the project's achievements and challenges. Its lessons, particularly related to
financing flexibility in a pooled funding arrangement, are insightful and should prove useful to other work in the sector and region. However, its
discussion of project efficiency is cursory, and the analysis of the project's relevance of design does not assess the quality of the results chain
in sufficient detail. There is almost no discussion of the project's concrete outputs (training, acquisition of hardware/software, etc., and/or
activities drawn from the NISR's integrated work plans).




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
