                             The World Bank                                                                                                                                                Report No: ISR14199


                                                                                                     Implementation Status & Results
                                                                                                                    Rwanda
                                                                                                    Statistics for Result Facility (P124629)
Public Disclosure Copy




                         Operation Name: Statistics for Result Facility (P124629)                              Project Stage:   Implementation         Seq.No: 2      Status: ARCHIVED    Archive Date:    03-May-2014
                                                                                  Country: Rwanda                                       Approval FY:        2012
                         Product Line: Recipient Executed Activities              Region: AFRICA                                        Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan
                         Implementing Agency(ies):

                         Key Dates
                         Board Approval Date    06-Mar-2012                Original Closing Date 30-Jun-2014          Planned Mid Term Review Date 01-Sep-2013                Last Archived ISR Date 21-May-2013
                         Effectiveness Date     26-Mar-2012                Revised Closing Date 30-Jun-2015           Actual Mid Term Review Date

                         Project Development Objectives
                         Project Development Objective (from Project Appraisal Document)

                         The development objective of proposed program is to improve the quality and timeliness of statistical information, as well as making it accessible to users.

                         Has the Project Development Objective been changed since Board Approval of the Project?

                            Yes            No

                         Component(s)
                         Component Name                                                                                                             Component Cost
                         Component 1 - Data Development and Management                                                                                         6.00
                         Component 2 - Information Dissemination and Services to Users                                                                         1.00
                         Component 3 - Coordination of NSS                                                                                                     1.00
                         Component 4 - Capacity Development (Human and Infrastructure)                                                                         1.50
                         Component 5 – Financing and Corporate Services (Project Implementation)                                                               0.50
Public Disclosure Copy




                         Overall Ratings
                                                                       Previous Rating                   Current Rating
                         Progress towards achievement of PDO           Satisfactory                      Satisfactory
                         Overall Implementation Progress (IP)          Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory
                         Overall Risk Rating                           Moderate                          Moderate

                         Implementation Status Overview
                         Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily after overcoming some start up difficulties. In order to further improve performance project restructuring has been completed.

                         During the last few months, with guidance from Country Manager Carolyn Turk, and Sector Manager AFTP2, Pablo Fajnzylber, a series of audio and video meetings and field


                                                                                                                                                                                                             Page 1 of 10
                             The World Bank                                                                                                                                         Report No: ISR14199



                         missions were organized with the NISR project team in collaboration with CMU, LEGAM, AFTPR, AFTFM, CTR, AFRCE, DECDG, DIME, Africa Statistics Team, PARIS21 and
                         others, to provide just-in-time implementation and knowledge sharing support to advance the project.

                         As a result, the following main activities were accomplished:
Public Disclosure Copy




                         Project restructuring was completed on August 29, 2014, and the necessary documents were uploaded into the Bank portal. The goals of the restructuring were: (i) to add additional
                         activities to the project components in light of strong progress; (ii) to reallocate funds between components to support upcoming priority surveys (DHS-5 and EICV-4); and (iii) to
                         extend the project’s closing date by 12 months to enable the implementing agency (NISR) to overcome the project start-up delays, complete all activities and attain the project
                         development objectives by the new closing date of June 30, 2015.

                         The NISR continued to upgrade its procurement and FM capabilities in the project unit with the assistance and guidance of World Bank specialists. This is reflected in the timely
                         preparation of the IFR and other procurement documentation and reports. As a result, project disbursement of US$3.18 million was processed, thereby raising the disbursement level
                         to about 85 percent.

                         Statistical data production was also advanced through a series of activities which included: (i) 2012 Population and Housing Census: Data analysis started in May 2013 and has
                         progressed well. Final reports are expected to be made available in early 2014. (ii) National Agricultural Survey: Data collection and analysis for agricultural seasons A and B are
                         completed and data collection for season C has started. Final results of the survey will be available before the end June 2014. (iii) EICV-4: Data collection for the fourth Integrated
                         Household Living Conditions Survey (the main source of poverty data) started in October 2013. The first of ten cycles of data collection has been completed. The survey will run
                         through September 2014 and will also collect baseline data to evaluate the impact of Rwanda’s flagship social protection program – Vision Umurenge Program (VUP). (iv) Rebasing
                         of National Accounts: By the end of September 2013, 70% of the rebasing exercise was completed. The remaining work consists of balancing the supply and use table (SUT). The
                         rebasing exercise is expected to be completed by June 2014. (v) Classification of Government data according to the GFS 2001 Manual: all government institutions up to the district
                         level are recording their expenditures in one system (Smart IFMIS). 100% of Government data is classified according to the GFS 2001 manual. (vi) 40% completion rate of BPM 2006
                         roadmap: As of end-September 2013, the process of improving statistics related to trade of goods was ongoing.
                         The NISR also promoted increased access to statistical information via technology upgrades by deploying new means of pro-active data dissemination (e.g. SDMX, Rapid-SMS). The
                         established internet-based data dissemination channels (NADA, IMIS, DevInfo) were kept up to date and the Rwanda Statistical Data Portal is being upgraded to the most recent
                         version. Rapid SMS, through which subscribers can request any indicator of interest through their mobile phone, is working effectively. To strengthen the awareness of the existence
                         of open microdata, the NISR successfully conducted three outreach workshops in universities across the country.

                         The NISR also commenced NSDS2 elaboration. The NSDS2 will cover the period 2014-2018 and has three main objectives: (i) consolidate the progress made during NSDS1; (ii)
                         strengthen the national statistical system and administrative statistics so as to gradually reduce dependency on surveys; (iii) prepare the organization for different requirements in
                         terms of data as the economy moves towards middle-income.

                         African Statistics Day 2013 celebrated via a series of events and info graphics competition: African Statistics Day was celebrated on Monday November 18th. The Director General of
                         NISR and the Director of Research and Statistical Methods participated in the Africa-wide VC that was organized by the World Bank for this event. On Tuesday November 19th, the
                         NISR organized a press conference to inform the public about African Statistics Day and the importance of statistics for national development. This press conference was hosted by
Public Disclosure Copy




                         the Secretary of the Treasury (Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning) and w as attended by the deputy-Governor of the Central Bank, the
                         Government Chief Economist, the Director General of NISR, journalists and development partners. Also, an innovative inter-university info graphics competition was held.

                         The NISR continued to consult w ith development partners and government agencies through the quarterly meetings of the Steering Committee.

                         The NISR also encouraged knowledge sharing and received delegations from Burundi and Vietnam. The Director General of NISR served as one of the peer reviewers for the World
                         Bank’s proposed project for Ethiopia’s Central Statistical Agency. World Bank’s DIME team also shared its work in Rwanda and around the globe with senior NISR officials, to
                         potentially expand knowledge sharing activities related to best practices in agriculture surveys. AFTP2 also shared international experiences with P4R projects with NISR in
                         anticipation of a proposed project where NISR will participate with other MDAs under the leadership of Ministry of Finance.

                         The NISR participated in the DECDG review of the Pilot Phase of the Bank Wide Statistics for Results Facility Catalytic Fund (SRF-CF). The main purpose of the evaluation was to


                                                                                                                                                                                                       Page 2 of 10
                             The World Bank                                                                                                                                           Report No: ISR14199



                         assess the experience of the programs in pilot countries such as Rwanda, in order to identify the achievements to date, and recommend any changes to policies and practices that
                         may improve results. The evaluators conducted field visits to Rwanda and other countries. For Rwanda, stakeholders noted that the SFR was instrumental in helping give statistics a
                         more powerful and relevant role in economic and social management, both in terms of technical support and finance. Contrary to the scattered support statistics previously received,
                         the SFR project (which directly supports NSDS1 priorities) has had a direct impact on the production of data, and is considered to be a critical factor in raising the profile of statistics
Public Disclosure Copy




                         in Rwanda.

                         The Project team is also participating in the preparation of Rwanda - Public Sector Governance P4R operation and supported the February/March 2014 missions.

                         Progress compared against PDO indicators is as follows:

                         •        PDO Indicator 1: “adherence to standards on data quality set by NISR on agreed methods of compilation of statistics relating to Government Finance Statistics (GFS),
                         Balance of Payments (BoP) and National Accounts through adoption of International Standards for Industrial Classification (ISIC), Standards for International Trade Classification
                         (SITC) and International Standard Classification of Occupations (ISCO)”
                         Progress: Customized ISIC Rev. 4, ISCO 08 and ISCED 97 manuals have been drafted and disseminated on June 13, 2012. Granting of survey visas is now conditional on the usage
                         of these classification manuals, and NISR has started utilizing them in the compilation of statistics, where required. The NISR has completed a detailed assessment of the current
                         BoP status and has finished designing the roadmap for the implementation of BPM version 6. For GFS, the Bridge Table from GFS 1986 to GFS 2001 was developed and gradual
                         implementation is expected this fiscal year through 2014.

                         •          PDO Indicator 2:”Timeliness and frequency of publication for key statistics in line with national standards agreed with NISR and MDA”. These are CPI, PPI, GDP, trade
                         statistics, EICV3, DHS 4, Establishment Census, etc.
                         Progress: The NISR has made solid overall progress on the timeliness and frequency of publication of key statistics. For the 2011 calendar year, the execution rate for the annual
                         release calendar of 10 main tasks stood at 75%. All key economic statistics were produced and published on time. The publication of the Consumer Price Index (CPI) has been
                         moved forward from the 15th of each month to the 10th of each month to provide policy-makers and businesses with more timely information. This was a request from both the
                         National Bank of Rwanda and MINECOFIN. In addition, the NISR has contracted a company to facilitate the dissemination of key economic statistics by means of SMS to a broad
                         range of stakeholders. A ll three major data collection exercises for 2010-2012 (the 2010 Demographic and Health Survey (DHS-4), the 2010/11 Households Living Standards
                         Measurement Survey (EICV3) and the 2012 Population and Housing Census) have been completed in a timely and successful fashion. For the first time, the NISR managed to
                         coincide the launch of key statistics with the planning period. Statistics and findings from the DHS-4 and EICV3 were released on February 7, 2012 and used in the assessment of
                         Rwanda’s Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy 2008-2012, and provided invaluable information for the elaboration of Rwanda’s next Poverty Reduction Strategy
                         2013-2018. By October 2012, all ten thematic reports of the EICV3 had been published on the NISR website, together with the raw survey data. The published statistics are now
                         being used as baseline for different indicators in various sectors of the economy, and the users are now better equipped with the power to know where the gaps are and allocate
                         resources appropriately. It is important to note that the execution of the advance release calendar is rated 81%. To determine the level of satisfaction of our data users, a survey was
                         conducted to provide the baseline for a user satisfaction index, upon which improvements will be based. The final report has been shared with development partners and other
                         stakeholders.

                         •        PDO Indicator 3: “Data readily available to users through the open data portal”
Public Disclosure Copy




                         Progress: Remarkable progress has been achieved. Users can access raw survey data after they register and provide a short description of the research project they wish to
                         undertake. Data from Rwanda’s three main household standards living surveys (2001, 2006 and 2011) and many other surveys can be accessed and downloaded in a matter of
                         minutes through the National Data Archive (NADA) on NISR’s website. The Prognoz data portal has been developed by a company and integrated with NISR’s new website. This
                         data portal provides ready-made information on a series of indicators that may be requested by the user. In addition, the data portal facilitates visualization on maps of the requested
                         data. The data portal, however, needs to be further updated with data from more recent surveys to provide the most recent and accurate information to users. Strong benefits have
                         been realized through the developed data access policy framework. The users may easily access the published survey/census raw data online while adhering to agreed-upon
                         procedures, thus placing fewer burdens on the NISR. NISR recently organized Infrographics competition where NISR portal was also showcased.

                         Progress Compared Against Intermediate Results (IR) Indicators:

                         •        IR Indicator 1: “Developing and testing harmonized data collection tools”


                                                                                                                                                                                                          Page 3 of 10
                             The World Bank                                                                                                                                         Report No: ISR14199



                         Progress: The NISR developed harmonized data collection tools in close collaboration with key stakeholders in five sectors (Health, Education, Agriculture, Population, and
                         Macroeconomic/Finance), and trained local staff on the use of these tools. A three-month pilot phase was conducted and lessons learned formed the basis to review the tools. After
                         this assessment, trainings were provided to District Education and Health Officers countrywide. District Statisticians and Sector Education Officers were also trained. In addition, the
                         NISR managed to provide computers and application software to all sectors so that timely production of reliable data would be ensured. Further development of local government
Public Disclosure Copy




                         administrative statistics is the focus of NSDS2 which has been drafted and undergoing reviews.
                         •        IR Indicator 2: “Training Needs Assessment and Plan approved by Steering Committee”
                         Progress: A Five-year capacity building plan (July 2013 – June 2018) was prepared and presented to the SC for approval. It will focus on hands-on/on-the-job training, and specific
                         short courses as well as profile upgr ading/long-term programs. The NISR has also decided to rehabilitate space for the set up a training center and is currently preparing to
                         undertake pre-design work. The main focus of the training center will be to provide skills training to government officials in the NSS on data analysis and other offer practical courses

                         NEXT implementation support mission is planned for May/June 2014. Effort will be made to combine this with support for the preparation of the Rwanda Public Sector Governance
                         P4R operation.


                         Locations
                         No Location data has been entered

                         Results
                         Project Development Objective Indicators
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                                                                                                                                       Page 4 of 10
                             The World Bank                                                                                                                   Report No: ISR14199



                         Indicator Name                                        Core Unit of Measure              Baseline   Current                           End Target
                         •          PDO Indicator 2:”Timeliness and                  Text             Value
                         frequency of publication for key statistics in line                          Date
Public Disclosure Copy




                         with national standards agreed with NISR and
                                                                                                      Comments              Progress: The NISR has
                         MDA”. These are CPI, PPI, GDP, trade
                         statistics, EICV3, DHS 4, Establ                                                                   made solid overall progress
                                                                                                                            on the timeliness and
                                                                                                                            frequency of publication of
                                                                                                                            key statistics. For the 2011
                                                                                                                            calendar year, the execution
                                                                                                                            rate for the annual release
                                                                                                                            calendar of 10 main tasks
                                                                                                                            stood at 75%. All key
                                                                                                                            economic statistics were
                                                                                                                            produced and published on
                                                                                                                            time. The publication of the
                                                                                                                            Consumer Price Index (CPI)
                                                                                                                            has been moved forward from
                                                                                                                            the 15th of each month to the
                                                                                                                            10th of each month to provide
                                                                                                                            policy-makers and businesses
                                                                                                                            with more timely information.
                                                                                                                            This was a request from both
                                                                                                                            the National Bank of Rwanda
                                                                                                                            and MINECOFIN. In addition,
                                                                                                                            the NISR has contracted a
                                                                                                                            company to facilitate the
                                                                                                                            dissemination of key
                                                                                                                            economic statistics by means
                                                                                                                            of SMS to a broad range of
                                                                                                                            stakeholders. All three major
                                                                                                                            data collection exercises for
                                                                                                                            2010-2012 (the 2010
                                                                                                                            Demographic and Health
                                                                                                                            Survey (DHS-4), the 2010/11
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                                                            Households Living Standards
                                                                                                                            Measurement Survey (EICV3)
                                                                                                                            and the 2012 Population and
                                                                                                                            Housing Census) have been
                                                                                                                            completed in a timely and
                                                                                                                            successful fashion. For the
                                                                                                                            first time, the NISR managed
                                                                                                                            to coincide the launch of key
                                                                                                                            statistics with the planning
                                                                                                                            period. Statistics and findings
                                                                                                                            from the DHS-4 and EICV3
                                                                                                                            were released on February 7,
                                                                                                                            2012 and used in the
                                                                                                                            assessment of Rwanda’s                            Page 5 of 10
                                                                                                                            Economic Development and
                             The World Bank                                                                                    Report No: ISR14199



                         •        PDO Indicator 3: “Data readily            Text   Value
                         available to users through the open data portal”          Date
                                                                                   Comments   Progress: Remarkable
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                              progress has been achieved.
                                                                                              Users can access raw survey
                                                                                              data after they register and
                                                                                              provide a short description of
                                                                                              the research project they wish
                                                                                              to undertake. Data from
                                                                                              Rwanda’s three main
                                                                                              household standards living
                                                                                              surveys (2001, 2006 and
                                                                                              2011) and many other
                                                                                              surveys can be accessed and
                                                                                              downloaded in a matter of
                                                                                              minutes through the National
                                                                                              Data Archive (NADA) on
                                                                                              NISR’s website. The Prognoz
                                                                                              data portal has been
                                                                                              developed by a company and
                                                                                              integrated with NISR’s new
                                                                                              website. This data portal
                                                                                              providesready-made
                                                                                              information on a series of
                                                                                              indicators that may be
                                                                                              requested by the user. In
                                                                                              addition, the data portal
                                                                                              facilitates visualization on
                                                                                              maps of the requested data.
                                                                                              The data portal, however,
                                                                                              needs to be further updated
                                                                                              with data from more recent
                                                                                              surveys to provide the most
                                                                                              recent and accurate
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                              information to users. Strong
                                                                                              benefits have been realized
                                                                                              through the developed data
                                                                                              access policyframework. The
                                                                                              users may easily access the
                                                                                              published survey/census raw
                                                                                              data online while adhering to
                                                                                              agreed-upon procedures, thus
                                                                                              placing fewer burdens on the
                                                                                              NISR. NISR portal was also
                                                                                              recently showcased at the
                                                                                              infographics competition.

                                                                                                                                               Page 6 of 10
                             The World Bank                                                                              Report No: ISR14199



                         •         PDO Indicator 1: “adherence to      Text   Value
                         standards on data quality set by NISR on             Date
                         agreed methods of compilation of statistics
                                                                              Comments   Progress: Customized ISIC
                         relating to Government Finance Statistics
Public Disclosure Copy




                         (GFS), Balance of Payments (BoP) and Na                         Rev. 4, ISCO 08 and ISCED
                                                                                         97 manuals have been
                                                                                         drafted and disseminated on
                                                                                         June 13, 2012. Granting of
                                                                                         survey visas is now
                                                                                         conditional on the usage of
                                                                                         these classification manuals,
                                                                                         and NISR has started
                                                                                         utilizing them in the
                                                                                         compilation of statistics,
                                                                                         where required. The NISR
                                                                                         has completed a detailed
                                                                                         assessment of the current
                                                                                         BoP status and has finished
                                                                                         designing the roadmap for the
                                                                                         implementation of BPM
                                                                                         version 6. For GFS, the
                                                                                         Bridge Table from GFS 1986
                                                                                         to GFS 2001 was developed
                                                                                         and gradual implementation is
                                                                                         expected this fiscal year
                                                                                         through 2014. A consultant
                                                                                         started working in November
                                                                                         2012 to classify all GoR data
                                                                                         according to GFS 2001
                                                                                         manuals.

                         Intermediate Results Indicators
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                                                                         Page 7 of 10
                             The World Bank                                                                                                               Report No: ISR14199



                         Indicator Name                                    Core Unit of Measure              Baseline   Current                           End Target
                         •       IR Indicator 1: “Developing and testing         Text             Value
                         harmonized data collection tools”                                        Date
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                                  Comments              Progress: The NISR
                                                                                                                        developed harmonized data
                                                                                                                        collection tools in close
                                                                                                                        collaboration with key
                                                                                                                        stakeholders in five sectors
                                                                                                                        (Health,Education,
                                                                                                                        Agriculture, Population, and
                                                                                                                        Macroeconomic/Finance),
                                                                                                                        and trained local staff on the
                                                                                                                        use of these tools. A three-
                                                                                                                        month pilot phase was
                                                                                                                        conducted and lessons
                                                                                                                        learned formed the basis to
                                                                                                                        review the tools. After this
                                                                                                                        assessment, trainings were
                                                                                                                        provided to District Education
                                                                                                                        and Health Officers
                                                                                                                        countrywide. District
                                                                                                                        Statisticians and Sector
                                                                                                                        Education Officers were also
                                                                                                                        trained. In addition, the NISR
                                                                                                                        managed to provide
                                                                                                                        computers and application
                                                                                                                        software to all sectors so that
                                                                                                                        timely production of reliable
                                                                                                                        data would be ensured.
                                                                                                                        Further development of local
                                                                                                                        government administrative
                                                                                                                        statistics is the focus of the
                                                                                                                        newly drafted NSDS2.
Public Disclosure Copy




                         Indicator 2: “Training Needs Assessment and             Text             Value
                         Plan approved by Steering Committee”                                     Date
                                                                                                  Comments              Progress: A Five-year
                                                                                                                        capacity building plan (July
                                                                                                                        2013 – June 2018) was
                                                                                                                        prepared and presented to
                                                                                                                        the SC for approval. It will
                                                                                                                        focus on hands-on/on-the-job
                                                                                                                        training, and specific short
                                                                                                                        courses as well as profile



                                                                                                                                                                          Page 8 of 10
                             The World Bank                                                                                                                                              Report No: ISR14199



                                                                                                                                                      upgrading/long-term
                                                                                                                                                      programs. NISR has also
                                                                                                                                                      decided to set up a training
                                                                                                                                                      center and rehabilitate space
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                                                                                      for this purpose over the
                                                                                                                                                      medium term.


                         Data on Financial Performance (as of 16-Jan-2014)
                         Financial Agreement(s) Key Dates
                         Project               Ln/Cr/Tf                 Status              Approval Date              Signing Date           Effectiveness Date        Original Closing Date     Revised Closing Date
                         P124629               TF-11927                 Effective           26-Mar-2012                26-Mar-2012            26-Mar-2012               30-Jun-2014               30-Jun-2015

                         Disbursements (in Millions)
                         Project               Ln/Cr/Tf                 Status              Currency        Original             Revised           Cancelled          Disbursed           Undisbursed          % Disbursed
                         P124629               TF-11927                 Effective           USD                          10.00             10.00               0.00               8.82                  1.18         88.00


                         Disbursement Graph
Public Disclosure Copy




                         Key Decisions Regarding Implementation
                         Project restructuring has been successfully completed and documents have been duly countersigned by the Government authorities

                         The main project restructuring areas include: (i) Technical Assistance (TA) support for strategic planning and analysis support for the development of the NSDS2 program; (ii) on pilot


                                                                                                                                                                                                               Page 9 of 10
                             The World Bank                                                                                                                                               Report No: ISR14199



                         basis strengthening administrative statistics (Agriculture, Health, Education, Population, Macroeconomics, Justice. etc); (iii) Remodeling and refurbishing space at the NISR
                         headquarters for a conference/training room with modern audio visual, video conferencing and technological capabilities; (iv) knowledge sharing with good practice locations on
                         organizational structure for national statistical systems, and for positioning NISR as a model official statistics institution in the region, leading to certification through capacity building;
                         (v) establishing an automated M&E system; and (vi) enhancing the use of IT survey tools, e-learning, and infographics to promote open data and user outreach.
Public Disclosure Copy




                         Restructuring History
                         There has been no restructuring to date.

                         Related Projects
                         There are no related projects.
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                                                                                                                                              Page 10 of 10
