                             The World Bank                                                                                                                                                  Report No: ISR9644


                                                                                                     Implementation Status & Results
                                                                                                                    Rwanda
                                                                                                    Statistics for Result Facility (P124629)
Public Disclosure Copy




                         Operation Name: Statistics for Result Facility (P124629)                              Project Stage:   Implementation         Seq.No: 1      Status: ARCHIVED     Archive Date:    21-May-2013
                                                                                  Country: Rwanda                                       Approval FY:        2012
                         Product Line: Recipient Executed Activities              Region: AFRICA                                        Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan
                         Implementing Agency(ies):

                         Key Dates
                         Board Approval Date    06-Mar-2012                Original Closing Date 30-Jun-2014          Planned Mid Term Review Date 01-Sep-2013                Last Archived ISR Date
                         Effectiveness Date     26-Mar-2012                Revised Closing Date 30-Jun-2014           Actual Mid Term Review Date

                         Project Development Objectives
                         Project Development Objective (from Project Appraisal Document)

                         The development objective of proposed program is to improve the quality and timeliness of statistical information, as well as making it accessible to users.

                         Has the Project Development Objective been changed since Board Approval of the Project?

                            Yes            No

                         Component(s)
                         Component Name                                                                                                             Component Cost
                         Component 1 - Data Development and Management                                                                                         6.00
                         Component 2 - Information Dissemination and Services to Users                                                                         1.00
                         Component 3 - Coordination of NSS                                                                                                     1.00
                         Component 4 - Capacity Development (Human and Infrastructure)                                                                         1.50
                         Component 5 – Financing and Corporate Services (Project Implementation)                                                               0.50
Public Disclosure Copy




                         Overall Ratings
                                                                       Previous Rating                   Current Rating
                         Progress towards achievement of PDO                                             Satisfactory
                         Overall Implementation Progress (IP)                                            Moderately Satisfactory
                         Overall Risk Rating                                                             Moderate

                         Implementation Status Overview
                         Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily after overcoming some start up difficulties. In order to further improve performance project restructuring is also being considered.

                         The recent implementation support mission (see attached Aidememoiire to the ISR) observed however the robust progress already made on the project, despite challenges faced by


                                                                                                                                                                                                              Page 1 of 9
                             The World Bank                                                                                                                                        Report No: ISR9644



                         the NISR team at the beginning of the project and in the arrangements for operationalizing the pooled financing arrangement (Basket fund), according to the Memorandum of
                         Understanding (MoU) for the First National Strategy for the Development of Statistics (NSDS1). The mission also acknowledged the strong commitment of the authorities to achieving
                         success and making the project a true flagship for results in Rwanda.
Public Disclosure Copy




                         It was agreed that the Bank stands ready to help disseminate the good progress and share lessons from the experience with other SFR projects, as well as arrange cross-fertilization
                         with international good practices to enhance project outcomes. The Bank mission encouraged the NISR to participate in the Global Statistics Fora organized by UN and AU agencies
                         to raise awareness and the national profile. The MINCOFIN encouraged the NISR and the Bank mission to consider actions that would improve Rwanda’s standing in the region and
                         beyond.

                         Progress Compared Against PDO Indicators:

                         •        PDO Indicator 1: “adherence to standards on data quality set by NISR on agreed methods of compilation of statistics relating to Government Finance Statistics (GFS),
                         Balance of Payments (BoP) and National Accounts through adoption of International Standards for Industrial Classification (ISIC), Standards for International Trade Classification
                         (SITC) and International Standard Classification of Occupations (ISCO)?
                         Progress: Customized ISIC Rev. 4, ISCO 08 and ISCED 97 manuals have been drafted and disseminated on June 13, 2012. Granting of survey visas is now conditional on the usage
                         of these classification manuals, and NISR has started utilizing them in the compilation of statistics, where required. The NISR has completed a detailed assessment of the current
                         BoP status and has finished designing the roadmap for the implementation of BPM version 6. For GFS, the Bridge Table from GFS 1986 to GFS 2001 was developed and gradual
                         implementation is expected this fiscal year through 2014. A consultant started working in November 2012 to classify all GoR data according to GFS 2001 manuals. The process of
                         rebasing the national accounts (for base year 2011) is ongoing and will be completed by January 2014.

                         •          PDO Indicator 2:?Timeliness and frequency of publication for key statistics in line with national standards agreed with NISR and MDA?. These are CPI, PPI, GDP, trade
                         statistics, EICV3, DHS 4, Establishment Census, etc.
                         Progress: The NISR has made solid overall progress on the timeliness and frequency of publication of key statistics. For the 2011 calendar year, the execution rate for the annual
                         release calendar of 10 main tasks stood at 75%. All key economic statistics were produced and published on time. The publication of the Consumer Price Index (CPI) has been
                         moved forward from the 15th of each month to the 10th of each month to provide policy-makers and businesses with more timely information. This was a request from both the
                         National Bank of Rwanda and MINECOFIN. In addition, the NISR has contracted a company to facilitate the dissemination of key economic statistics by means of SMS to a broad
                         range of stakeholders. All three major data collection exercises for 2010-2012 (the 2010 Demographic and Health Survey (DHS-4), the 2010/11 Households Living Standards
                         Measurement Survey (EICV3) and the 2012 Population and Housing Census) have been completed in a timely and successful fashion. For the first time, the NISR managed to
                         coincide the launch of key statistics with the planning period. Statistics and findings from the DHS-4 and EICV3 were released on February 7, 2012 and used in the assessment of
                         Rwanda’s Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy 2008-2012, and provided invaluable information for the elaboration of Rwanda’s next Poverty Reduction Strategy
                         2013-2018. By October 2012, all ten thematic reports of the EICV3 had been published on the NISR website, together with the raw survey data. The published statistics are now
                         being used as baseline for different indicators in various sectors of the economy, and the users are now better equipped with the power to know where the gaps are and allocate
                         resources appropriately. It is important to note that the execution of the 2012 advance release calendar is rated 81%. To determine the level of satisfaction of our data users, a survey
                         was conducted to provide the baseline for a user satisfaction index, upon which improvements will be based. The final report is ready for wider sharing.
Public Disclosure Copy




                         •        PDO Indicator 3: “Data readily available to users through the open data portal?
                         Progress: Remarkable progress has been achieved. Users can access raw survey data after they register and provide a short description of the research project they wish to
                         undertake. Data from Rwanda’s three main household standards living surveys (2001, 2006 and 2011) and many other surveys can be accessed and downloaded in a matter of
                         minutes through the National Data Archive (NADA) on NISR’s website. The Prognoz data portal has been developed by a company and integrated with NISR’s new website. This
                         data portal provides ready-made information on a series of indicators that may be requested by the user. In addition, the data portal facilitates visualization on maps of the requested
                         data. The data portal, however, needs to be further updated with data from more recent surveys to provide the most recent and accurate information to users. Strong benefits have
                         been realized through the developed data access policy framework. The users may easily access the published survey/census raw data online while adhering to agreed-upon
                         procedures, thus placing fewer burdens on the NISR.

                         Progress Compared Against Intermediate Results (IR) Indicators:



                                                                                                                                                                                                      Page 2 of 9
                             The World Bank                                                                                                                                        Report No: ISR9644



                         •        IR Indicator 1: “Developing and testing harmonized data collection tools?
                         Progress: The NISR developed harmonized data collection tools in close collaboration with key stakeholders in five sectors (Health, Education, Agriculture, Population, and
                         Macroeconomic/Finance), and trained local staff on the use of these tools. A three-month pilot phase was conducted and lessons learned formed the basis to review the tools. After
                         this assessment, trainings were provided to District Education and Health Officers countrywide. District Statisticians and Sector Education Officers were also trained. In addition, the
Public Disclosure Copy




                         NISR managed to provide computers and application software to all sectors so that timely production of reliable data would be ensured. Further development of local government
                         administrative statistics will be a focus of NSDS2.
                         •        IR Indicator 2: “Training Needs Assessment and Plan approved by Steering Committee?
                         Progress: A Five-year capacity building plan (July 2013 – June 2018) was prepared and presented to the SC for approval. It will focus on hands-on/on-the-job training, and specific
                         short courses as well as profile upgr ading/long-term programs.


                         Locations
                         No Location data has been entered

                         Results
                         Project Development Objective Indicators
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                                                                                                                                       Page 3 of 9
                             The World Bank                                                                                                                   Report No: ISR9644



                         Indicator Name                                        Core Unit of Measure              Baseline   Current                           End Target
                         •          PDO Indicator 2:?Timeliness and                  Text             Value                 See comments sections
                         frequency of publication for key statistics in line                          Date
Public Disclosure Copy




                         with national standards agreed with NISR and
                                                                                                      Comments              Progress: The NISR has
                         MDA?. These are CPI, PPI, GDP, trade
                         statistics, EICV3, DHS 4, Establ                                                                   made solid overall progress
                                                                                                                            on the timeliness and
                                                                                                                            frequency of publication of
                                                                                                                            key statistics. For the 2011
                                                                                                                            calendar year, the execution
                                                                                                                            rate for the annual release
                                                                                                                            calendar of 10 main tasks
                                                                                                                            stood at 75%. All key
                                                                                                                            economic statistics were
                                                                                                                            produced and published on
                                                                                                                            time. The publication of the
                                                                                                                            Consumer Price Index (CPI)
                                                                                                                            has been moved forward from
                                                                                                                            the 15th of each month to the
                                                                                                                            10th of each month to provide
                                                                                                                            policy-makers and businesses
                                                                                                                            with more timely information.
                                                                                                                            This was a request from both
                                                                                                                            the National Bank of Rwanda
                                                                                                                            and MINECOFIN. In addition,
                                                                                                                            the NISR has contracted a
                                                                                                                            company to facilitate the
                                                                                                                            dissemination of key
                                                                                                                            economic statistics by means
                                                                                                                            of SMS to a broad range of
                                                                                                                            stakeholders. All three major
                                                                                                                            data collection exercises for
                                                                                                                            2010-2012 (the 2010
                                                                                                                            Demographic and Health
                                                                                                                            Survey (DHS-4), the 2010/11
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                                                            Households Living Standards
                                                                                                                            Measurement Survey (EICV3)
                                                                                                                            and the 2012 Population and
                                                                                                                            Housing Census) have been
                                                                                                                            completed in a timely and
                                                                                                                            successful fashion. For the
                                                                                                                            first time, the NISR managed
                                                                                                                            to coincide the launch of key
                                                                                                                            statistics with the planning
                                                                                                                            period. Statistics and findings
                                                                                                                            from the DHS-4 and EICV3
                                                                                                                            were released on February 7,
                                                                                                                            2012 and used in the
                                                                                                                            assessment of Rwanda’s                             Page 4 of 9
                                                                                                                            Economic Development and
                             The World Bank                                                                                    Report No: ISR9644



                         •        PDO Indicator 3: “Data readily            Text   Value      See comments section
                         available to users through the open data portal?          Date
                                                                                   Comments   Progress: Remarkable
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                              progress has been achieved.
                                                                                              Users can access raw survey
                                                                                              data after they register and
                                                                                              provide a short description of
                                                                                              the research project they wish
                                                                                              to undertake. Data from
                                                                                              Rwanda’s three main
                                                                                              household standards living
                                                                                              surveys (2001, 2006 and
                                                                                              2011) and many other
                                                                                              surveys can be accessed and
                                                                                              downloaded in a matter of
                                                                                              minutes through the National
                                                                                              Data Archive (NADA) on
                                                                                              NISR’s website. The Prognoz
                                                                                              data portal has been
                                                                                              developed by a company and
                                                                                              integrated with NISR’s new
                                                                                              website. This data portal
                                                                                              providesready-made
                                                                                              information on a series of
                                                                                              indicators that may be
                                                                                              requested by the user. In
                                                                                              addition, the data portal
                                                                                              facilitates visualization on
                                                                                              maps of the requested data.
                                                                                              The data portal, however,
                                                                                              needs to be further updated
                                                                                              with data from more recent
                                                                                              surveys to provide the most
                                                                                              recent and accurate
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                              information to users. Strong
                                                                                              benefits have been realized
                                                                                              through the developed data
                                                                                              access policyframework. The
                                                                                              users may easily access the
                                                                                              published survey/census raw
                                                                                              data online while adhering to
                                                                                              agreed-upon procedures, thus
                                                                                              placing fewer burdens on the
                                                                                              NISR.




                                                                                                                                                Page 5 of 9
                             The World Bank                                                                              Report No: ISR9644



                         •         PDO Indicator 1: “adherence to      Text   Value      See comments section
                         standards on data quality set by NISR on             Date
                         agreed methods of compilation of statistics
                                                                              Comments   Progress: Customized ISIC
                         relating to Government Finance Statistics
Public Disclosure Copy




                         (GFS), Balance of Payments (BoP) and Na                         Rev. 4, ISCO 08 and ISCED
                                                                                         97 manuals have been
                                                                                         drafted and disseminated on
                                                                                         June 13, 2012. Granting of
                                                                                         survey visas is now
                                                                                         conditional on the usage of
                                                                                         these classification manuals,
                                                                                         and NISR has started
                                                                                         utilizing them in the
                                                                                         compilation of statistics,
                                                                                         where required. The NISR
                                                                                         has completed a detailed
                                                                                         assessment of the current
                                                                                         BoP status and has finished
                                                                                         designing the roadmap for the
                                                                                         implementation of BPM
                                                                                         version 6. For GFS, the
                                                                                         Bridge Table from GFS 1986
                                                                                         to GFS 2001 was developed
                                                                                         and gradual implementation is
                                                                                         expected this fiscal year
                                                                                         through 2014. A consultant
                                                                                         started working in November
                                                                                         2012 to classify all GoR data
                                                                                         according to GFS 2001
                                                                                         manuals. The process of
                                                                                         rebasing the national
                                                                                         accounts (for base year 2011)
                                                                                         is ongoing and will be
                                                                                         completed by January 2014.
Public Disclosure Copy




                         Intermediate Results Indicators




                                                                                                                                          Page 6 of 9
                             The World Bank                                                                                                               Report No: ISR9644



                         Indicator Name                                    Core Unit of Measure              Baseline   Current                           End Target
                         •       IR Indicator 1: “Developing and testing         Text             Value                 See comments section
                         harmonized data collection tools?                                        Date
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                                  Comments              Progress: The NISR
                                                                                                                        developed harmonized data
                                                                                                                        collection tools in close
                                                                                                                        collaboration with key
                                                                                                                        stakeholders in five sectors
                                                                                                                        (Health,Education,
                                                                                                                        Agriculture, Population, and
                                                                                                                        Macroeconomic/Finance),
                                                                                                                        and trained local staff on the
                                                                                                                        use of these tools. A three-
                                                                                                                        month pilot phase was
                                                                                                                        conducted and lessons
                                                                                                                        learned formed the basis to
                                                                                                                        review the tools. After this
                                                                                                                        assessment, trainings were
                                                                                                                        provided to District Education
                                                                                                                        and Health Officers
                                                                                                                        countrywide. District
                                                                                                                        Statisticians and Sector
                                                                                                                        Education Officers were also
                                                                                                                        trained. In addition, the NISR
                                                                                                                        managed to provide
                                                                                                                        computers and application
                                                                                                                        software to all sectors so that
                                                                                                                        timely production of reliable
                                                                                                                        data would be ensured.
                                                                                                                        Further development of local
                                                                                                                        government administrative
                                                                                                                        statistics will be a focus of
                                                                                                                        NSDS2.
Public Disclosure Copy




                         Indicator 2: “Training Needs Assessment and             Text             Value                 See comments sections
                         Plan approved by Steering Committee?                                     Date
                                                                                                  Comments              Progress: A Five-year
                                                                                                                        capacity building plan (July
                                                                                                                        2013 – June 2018) was
                                                                                                                        prepared and presented to
                                                                                                                        the SC for approval. It will
                                                                                                                        focus on hands-on/on-the-job
                                                                                                                        training, and specific short




                                                                                                                                                                           Page 7 of 9
                             The World Bank                                                                                                                                                Report No: ISR9644



                                                                                                                                                       courses as well as profile
                                                                                                                                                       upgrading/long-term
                                                                                                                                                       programs.
Public Disclosure Copy




                         Data on Financial Performance (as of 28-Aug-2012)
                         Financial Agreement(s) Key Dates
                         Project              Ln/Cr/Tf                 Status                Approval Date              Signing Date           Effectiveness Date        Original Closing Date      Revised Closing Date
                         P124629              TF-11927                 Effective             26-Mar-2012                26-Mar-2012            26-Mar-2012               30-Jun-2014                30-Jun-2014

                         Disbursements (in Millions)
                         Project              Ln/Cr/Tf                 Status                Currency        Original             Revised           Cancelled          Disbursed            Undisbursed          % Disbursed
                         P124629              TF-11927                 Effective             USD                          10.00             10.00               0.00                5.63                  4.37         56.00


                         Disbursement Graph
Public Disclosure Copy




                         Key Decisions Regarding Implementation
                         Project restructuring is planned to be completed by mid July 2013

                         Restructuring History
                         There has been no restructuring to date.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Page 8 of 9
                             The World Bank               Report No: ISR9644



                         Related Projects
                         There are no related projects.
Public Disclosure Copy
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                           Page 9 of 9
