RE.5TRICTED
Report No.  PTR-93a
T1Ù report il for officiei use only by th.e BuD  Gtoup and aeificaly authboezed orpidzations
or pernon. I my not be publ*sed, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. Ibe
Bankc Group docs not acopt responribity for thoe CUScY oe onpletonesu of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CONGO
Novernber 30, 1971
Transportation Projects Department



Currency Euivalents.:
Currency Ihit      =  CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 1             = USOO.36
US$1                =  CFA? 277.71
CFAF 1 milion      =  tS$3,600
Fiscal lear:
January } - December 31
Weights snd Measures: Metric
Netrie: British/US Equivalent
1 kilometer (km)             =  0.62 miles (mui)
1 meter (m)                  =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 square kiomter (km2)    =  0.386  square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)               =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)                  =  0.22 British gallons (imp gal)
= 0.26 US gallomn (gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)         =  2,204 pounds (lbs)
.bbreviations - Acronyms:
ATC     - Agence Transcongolaise des Communications
ATEC    - Agence Transequatoriale des Commmications
BCEOM   -  Bureau Central d' Etudes pour les Equipements d'Outre-Mer
CAR     -  Central African Republic
CATP    -  Centre d'Application des Techniques des Travaux Publics
CFCO    -  Chemin de Fer Congo-Ocean
CPC     -  Compagnie des Potasses du Congo
FAC     -  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FBD     -  Fonds Buropeen de Developpement
RNTP    -  Regîe Nationale des Transports et des Travaux Publics
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Programme
GDP     - gross domestic product



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CONGO
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............ . . . . . . .  * * * * .  * * * *...........  i
1.    INTRODUCTION  * * * *      .................................... . .....           1
2.    BACKGROUND  .................... ......                                           2
A.    Economic Setting ..                            .............................  2
B.    The Transport Sector  ......           ......................               2
C.    Transport Policy and Coordination              . ..................         4
3.    THE HIGIIWAY SECTOR .          .....................................              4
A.   The Highway Network  ........ . .  ............................. ..          4
B.    Traffic Characteristics and Growth ..............            ...            S
C.    Administration  ......          .........................                   5
D.    Financing              ..........................................           7
E.    Engineering and Construction  .......................                       7
F.   Maintenance  ...... ....    .          ..............................        8
4.    THE PROJECT              .............................................            8
A.   Description .......           ..........................                     8
-Reorganization  ......... ...........................................    9
- Training of Personnel . ........... ............. *..                    10
- Procurement of Equipment .......................                         10
- Workshops and Buildings  .....            ...................            il
- Technical Assistance .....            .....................              il
B.    Cost Estimates  ............ .... .............. ....                      12
C.    Financing and Disbursements             ....................               13
D.   Execution .................. ,........                                      13
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .............  14
A.    General  .................  * ........... . .......   ..............       14
B.    Traffic Forecasts  ............... . .. ................                   15
C.    Maintenance Requirements  .....             ......................         15
D.    Economic Rate of Return ...........................                        16
E.    Sensitivity Analysis  ......             .........................         17
6.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...................                         18
This report was prepared by Messrs. J. Doyen (Engineer) and D. Jovanovic
(Economist), and by Miss J. Murphy (Editor).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
TABLES:   1 - Highway Network 1971
2 - Traffic Levels on Classified Highway Network 1969
3 - Highway Expenditures 1965-1971
4 - Highway Network to be Maintained by RNTP
5 - Procurement of Equipment and Spare Parts
6 - Extension and Renovation of Workshops and Buildings
7 - Technical Assistance to be provided by Consultants 1972-1975
8 - Project Cost Estimates
9 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10 - Road User Costs
11 - Cost-Benefit Analysis of Four-Year Highway Maintenance Progre
CHART:   Organization of RNTP
MAP:     People's Republic of Congo - Highway Maintenance Project



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CONGO
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SUMIARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The backbone of Congo's transportation network is its railway and
waterway system, which not only carries the bulk of its freight and passenger
traffic, but also serves large volumes of transit traffic for neighboring
countries. The highway network constitutes a feeder to this system and
plays a vital role in ensuring communication with sparsely populated regions
of the interior. Although the highway network is rather extensive, most of
the roads have low design standards and are in very poor condition. Traffic
volumes are light and major upgrading cannot be justified at present. Im-
proved maintenance is clearly the proper way to satisfy the need for road
transport.
ii.       Although it received sufficient funds, the highway maintenance or-
ganization has not been able over the last five years to improve the condi-
tion of the road network, largely because of inefficiency and lack of trained
personnel. Under a highway maintenance study financed by the Association
(Credit S6-COB), the French consultants, Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les
Equipements d'Outre-Mer (BCEOM) carried out a thorough review of the highway
maintenance requirements and recommended a comprehensive reorganization and
training program which is the basis for the present project.
iii.      Under the project, the Regie Nationale des Transports et des Tra-
vaux Publics (RNTP), which is in charge of highway administration and mainte-
nance, will concentrate its operations on about 4,600 km of roads warranting
regular maintenance, leaving the remaining 3,700 km of the classified network
to the regional authorities which will receive assistance from the RNTP. Field
operations of the RNTP will be regrouped and the management and maintenance of
its equipment fleet will be improved. A training center will be established
to undertake the systematic training of all RNTP personnel. The project will
be carried out by the RNTP with technical assistance from consultants.
iv.       Total project expenditures for equipment, tools, construction of
buildings and technical assistance are estimated at about US$4.25 million
equivalent with a foreign exchange component of US$3.4 million to be financed
by IDA. The proposed US$4.0 million IDA credit will also refund the out-
standing balance of the Highway Engineering Credit (S6-COB) which was re-
cently completed. The Government will meet the local component of the
project costs and will keep recurrent highway expenditures at a satisfactory
level. The Governmnent's net contribution to project costs, excluding taxes
and duties, is about US$0.5 million.
v.        The project's internal economic rate of return is estimated to be
about 20%. The return remains acceptable even when tested with low estimates
of future traffic growth and road user savings. The project provides a suit-
able basis for an IDA credit of US$4.0 million equivalent to the Government
of the People's Republic of Congo.






PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CONGO
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The present project will be the third Bank Group lending operation
in the highway sector of the People's Republic of Congo. In 1969, a highway
engineering credit (S6-COB) of US$630,000 provided for (i) feasibility study
and detailed engineering of the Pointe Noire-Bondi road (40 km), (ii) de-
tailed engineering of the Sibiti-Zanaga road (143 km), and (iii) a study of
highway maintenance. These studies, carried out by the French consultants,
Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les Equipements d'Outre-Mer (BCEOM), have all
been completed.
1.02      In 1970, IDA followed these studies with a credit (189-COB) of
US$1.5 million to help finance construction of the Pointe Noire-Makola road
(34 km), that section of the Pointe Noire-Bondi road which was found to be
justified. The contractor has been retained and construction of this road
was started in August 1971. Financing of the Sibiti-Zanaga forest access
road has had to be delayed pending resolution of problems relating to (i)
a delay in the start of construction of the 75 km road connection from
Sibiti to the railhead at Jacob, and (ii) a capacity shortage which developed
on a section of the railway between Jacob and the port of Pointe Noire, there-
by inhibiting the flow of timber to the export market. Engineering and con-
struction of the Sibiti-Jacob road is being financed by the Fonds Europeen
de Developpement (FED), but the engineering has progressed slowly and the
grant made by FED in 1968 for its construction will have to be substantially
increased. The railway's capacity problems are currently under study (para.
2.07).
1.03      The highway maintenance study, completed in March 1971, provides
the basis for the present project which comprises a four-year program for
the improvement of highway maintenance. The total cost of the project is
estimated at about US$4.25 million. The foreign exchange costs of the project,
estimated at US$3.4 million or about 80% of total costs, will be financed by
the Association. The IDA credit of US$4.0 million will also include US$600,000
to refund the outstanding balance of Credit S6-COB. The local cost of
the project is about US$850,000 out of which about US$500,000 represents
the Government's net contribution excluding taxes and duties.
1.04      This report is based on studies prepared by BCEOM and the findings
of a mission consisting of 2Iessrs. J. Doyen (Engineer) and D. Jovanovic
(Economist) which visited Congo in March/April 1971. The report was edited
by Miss J. Murphy.



2-
2. BACKGROUND
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      The People's Republic of Congo lies astride the equator on the
west coast of central Africa between Gabon and the Republic of Zaire. From
its short coastline, barely 150 km in length, Congo stretches eastward about
400 km to its capital, Brazzaville, on the Congo River and then northeastward
for more than 900 km to the border of the Centrai African Republic (CAR) near
Bangui. More than 60% of the Congo's 340,000 km is covered with tropical
forest. The small population, estimated at about one million, tends to be
concentrated in the major centers of Brazzaville (190,000 inhabitants) and
Pointe Noire (110,000 inhabitants) or along the main transport artery linking
the two. The overall popuiation density is one of the lowest in Africa with
about 3 inhabitants per km ,
2.02      Economic growth in recent years is estimated at about 4.5% per an-
num in real terms. In 1970 the gross domestic (GDP) per capita averaged
about US$250 eauivalent, but it is distributed unevenly, being estimated at
below US$100 equivalent in rural areas and at roughly US$400 equivalent in
urban areas. Timber extraction is the major productive activity accounting
for 60% of total export earnings. Forestry output is expected to expand
considerably, particularly in the North, in the next few years. Except in
the region of the Niari Valley, the development of agriculture has been lim-
ited; this is especially true in the vast northern region which presents
difficult problems in transport and communications. The service sector,
especially transport, has grown rapidly and in 1969 accounted for about 30%
of GDP. The manufacturing and mining sectors have grown in importance in
recent years, and in 1969, these sectors' share of GDP was estimnated at 14%.
Industrial growth has slowed over the past few years, however, due in part to
a lack of confidence of private investors, political uncertainty and ineffi-
cient management in some State enterprises. The main industrial venture is
the potash mine and refinery of the Compagnie des Potasses du Congo (CPC)
near Pointe Noire. The CPC, which received a Bank loan (480-COB) of US$30
million in 1967, started production in mid-1969. Output has been less than
expected and in 1970 was limited to about 25% of planned capacity as a conse-
quence of major mining difficulties. The prospects of future exploitation
are uncertain.
B.   The Transport Sector
2.03      Congo's transport system was developed as one of the major routes
of penetration into Equatorial Africa and serves also Gabon, CAR, Cameroon
and Chad. Most of the so-called transequatorial route (3,000 km) is located
in Congo. The route starts at the ocean port of Pointe Noire. From there,
the 500 km line of the CFCO railway (Chemin de Fer Congo Ocean) passes over
the difficult Mayumbe range, and runs through the fertile Niari Valley which
contains the bulk of Congo's population and economic activity. The line



- 3 -
ends at the Congo River port of Brazzaville, just upstream of the last of
a series of rapids and cataracts barring navigation on the lower part of
the Congo River. From Brazzaville, river transport on the Congo-Oubangui
system leads to Bangui (CAR) about 1,200 km into the central African equa-
torial basin through the lightly populated northern area of Congo. Beyond
Bangui the route extends for a further 1,200 km by road to Fort Lamy (Chad).
Gabon's southern region is connected with the CFCO at Dolisie, just beyond
the Mayumbe range, by a 230 km road to Ndende (Gabon) and by the 285 km
railway built by the Compagnie Miniere de l'Ogooue (COMILOG) for the export of
manganese from the company's mine at Moanda (Gabon).
2.04      Until 1969 the Agence Transequatoriale des Communications (ATEC),
a multi-national agency set up in 1958 jointly by Congo, the CAR and
Chad, managed the transequatorial transport route. In 1969, Congo withdrew
from the convention establishing ATEC, took over the transport facilities
located on its territory and set up the Agence Trans-congolaise des
Communications (ATC), a Government-owned but autonomous agency to run
railway, port and river transport. ATC is continuing transport services
to the former ATEC countries under a series of bilateral arrangements which
have led to a satisfactory cooperation.
2.05      Overall traffic volumes over the ATC system are substantial near
the port of entry and thin out toward the North. Over the last five years
traffic on the different components of the system has increased regularly
at annual rates between 8% and 11%. In 1970 the port of Pointe Noire handled
2.8 million tons. Traffic on the most active section of the CFCO railway
reached 3.1 million tons in 1970. In that year the river port of Brazzaville
handled about 440,000 tons, most of ït in transit.
2.06      International transit traffic accounts for a large portion of traf-
fic carried by the ATC system, representing in 1970 about 80% of river traf-
fic, 50% of railway traffic and 65% of movements through the port of Pointe
Noire. Transit traffic consists largely of manganese ore and timber from
Gabon, timber from southeastern Cameroon and most of the import-export traf-
fic of the CAR and southern Chad. In the short term one can expect that ATC
will retain its role as the major transit carrier for these countries. In
the longer term, however, the dependency of Chad and CAR on the ATC system
could decrease as a result of the completion of the Trans-Cameroon route and
of a possible road connection between the CAR and the Trans-Cameroon railway.
2.07      The section of the CFCO line between Dolisie and flolle (45 km east
of Poiute Noire), is operating close to capacity and now represents the major
bottleneck in the ATC system. The United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP), with the Bank as executing agency, is financing a feasibility study
for improving this heavily-trafficked section. The final report on this
study will be completed by March 1972. A Bank Group project, including
detailed engineering of a proposed new alignment as well as procurement of
rolling stock, is under consideration.



-4-
2.08      Congo's extensive but generally low standard road system plays a
vital role in ensuring local communications with the sparsely populated re-
gions of the interior, and acts as a feeder for the rail and river lines
which constitute the backbone of the transportation network. Except for
the transport of timber, roads play a secondary role in the modern sectors
of the economy since most of Congo's industries and large agricultural devel-
opments are located along the CFCO railway.
2.09      There are international airports at Brazzaville and Pointe Noire
and six main airstrips serving other population centers. A Government-owned
airline, Lina Congo, provides domestic service with a fleet of six aircraft.
Air transport, still in an early stage of development, could play an increas-
ingly important role in view of the size of the country and the great distances
between population centers. The Government has asked the UNDP to study air-
line development prospects with a view to expanding local air services.
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination
2.10      Coordination of the port, railway and river transport systems and
the planning of investments are largely the responsibility of ATC, as had
been the case with its predecessor ATEC. Transport coordination entails
no special problem since the role of each of the transport modes is properly
defined.
2.11      ATC investment plans are reviewed and coordinated with the coun-
try's overall investment policy by the central planning office attached to
the Presidency. This office is now completing the preparation of a three-
year intermediate development plan (1971-73) focusing on the development of
the transport infrastructure. This plan would cover the first phase of ATC's
investment program estimated at about US$115 million over the period 1971-75.
The proposed investment program is directed to the improvement of the CFCO
line, acquisition of railway rolling stock, expansion of the ports of
Pointe Noire and Brazzaville, and development of river transport. These
plans reflect the Government's policy of strengthening ATC's role as a
major transit carrier for neighboring countries as well as expanding its
capacity to handle the traffic requirements of the rapidly growing timber
production within the country itself.
2.12      Other investments proposed for the transport sector during the
1970-74 period include about US$27 million for highways (para. 3.13) and
about US$3 million for civil aviation.
3.  THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A.   The Highway Network
3.01      The highway network (Table 1), totalling about 10,770 km is rather
extensive, amounting to about 11 km per 1,000 inhabitants as compared with
15 km in the CAR, 9 km in Chad and 4 km in Cameroon. Most of the roads, how-



- 5 -
ever, have low design standards and are in poor condition. The classified
road network consists of 8,270 km of roads, but only about 1,500 km, including
312 km of paved roads, provide all-weather service.
B.   Traffic Characteristics and Growth
3.02      In general, traffic volumes are very light, especially on the
northern network which serves vast undeveloped areas north of Brazzaville.
Except for the Ndende-Dolisie road which carries timber from Gabon to the
CFCO railway, the only roads carrying substantial traffic are those serving
the cities of Brazzaville and Pointe Noire. The consultants for the highway
maintenance study have estimated that in 1969, only about 1,600 km of road,
representing about 19% of the classified network, carried an annual volume
of traffic greater than 10,000 tons (Table 2). The bulk of these roads (85%)
are in the southern region.
3.03      Traffic growth is difficult to estimate.  Scattered traffic counts
as well as motor vehicle registration statistics seem to indicate that over
the past few years the annual growth of traffic on the southern network has
averaged about 6%. Traffic in the isolated northern region appears to have
grown at a lesser pace due to slow agricultural development and population
migration to urban areas, as well as to the poor condition of the roads.
3.04      The motor vehicle fleet grew at about 7% annually from 1966 to 1969
at which time there were a total of about 9,000 motor vehicles or about one
motor vehicle per 100 inhabitants - slightly higher than the motor vehicle
density in neighboring CAR and Cameroon. Private cars and light vans, used
mostly in urban areas, account for more than 50% of the total fleet; pick-
up trucks and buses make up about 35%; and heavy trucks, including timber
trucks, the remaining 15%.
3.05      Traffic counts have been conducted at river crossings since 1966,
and, pursuant to the requirements of Credit S6-COB, the Government has at-
tempted to establish systematic counts on all important roads. The newly-
introduced system has not yet produced reliable results. It will be improved
with the assistance of consultants under the project.
C.   Administration
3.06      The Governnent has entrusted the Regie Nationale des Transports et
des Travaux Publics (RNTP) with responsibility for administration, mainte-
nance, and improvement of the classified highway network. On the basis of
existing traffie volumes, however, only about 4,600 km warrant regular main-
tenance, and under the present maintenance project, the roads will be re-
classified to limit the RNTP responsibility to these more important roads,
leaving the maintenance of the roads of lesser importance to the regional
authorities (see para. 4.02).



-6-
3.07      Although it is a legal entity, the RNTP operates strictly under
the supervision of the Minister of Transport and Public Works and functions,
in most respects, as a Government agency. It replaced the Department of
Public Works in 1965, and the administration and maintenance of the highway
network remains its chief activity. The only other activity of some impor-
tance has been the development of the Civil Engineering Task Force which,
since 1969, has carried out construction of highways, sewerage systems
and airfields. The RNTP (see Organization Chart) has a Board of Directors
presided over by the Minister of Transport and Public Works. The RNTP head-
quarters in Brazzaville includes six central divisions under the authority
of the Director General. These divisions have responsibility for: (i) ad-
ministration and budgeting; (ii) highway planning, engineering and construc-
tion supervision; (iii) equipment management; (iv) highway maintenance; (v)
construction (the Civil Engineering Task Force); and (vi) transport services.
The RNTP field organization presently comprises 13 subdivisions.
3.08      The present organizational framework of the RNTP, although some-
what of a hybrid nature, is well established and provides the Director Gen-
eral with some degree of freedom in planning and personnel management. While
some reorganization is necessary, the project will focus on improving the ef-
ficiency of the RNTP as it is presently established by introducing a clear
demarkation between the highway maintenance works and other activities. To
this effect the Governnent confirmed during negotiations that (i) the admin-
istration and maintenance of the highway network will remain RNTP's prime
responsibility; (ii) the provisions made in the RNTP budget for highway
maintenance will be used exclusively for that purpose; and (iii) other serv-
ices and works performed by RNTP on the account of the Government or for the
private sector will be accounted for separately and financed out of funds
specifically provided to the RNTP for this purpose.
3.09      RNTP personnel number about 1,450, including labor.  The consul-
tants for the maintenance study found that the lack of qualified foremen,
mechanics and equipment operators, together with the absence of well defined
lines of responsibility were among the primary causes for the inefficiency of
RNTP operations.  They pointed out that RNTP personnel, although lacking
adequate professional training, had a fair degree of general education and
could benefit from an intensive training program as will be initiated under
the project.
3.10      RNTP staff include nine Congolese engineers as well as thirteen
French engineers and technicians provided by the Fonds d'Aide et de Coopera-
tion (FAC). While pursuing a policy of Congolization, the Government recog-
nizes the need to use foreign technical assistance until sufficient qualified
Congolese staff are available, which will take some years. The Government
has taken measures to increase the number of students in technical fields.
Congolese students are presently receiving engineering training abroad and
about twenty of them are expected to graduate :Ln the next five years. FAC



- 7 -
has indicated its intention to maintain its long-standing assistance through-
out the four-year period of the maintenance program and to coordinate its
activities with the technical assistance to be provided under the project.
D.   Financing
3.11      The RNTP budget is established as a separate account within the
Treasury under the joint authority of the Director General of the RNTP and
of the Minister of Finance and Budget. RNTP revenues are derived from (i)
contributions from the Government's operating budget (about CFAF 500 million
in 1970); (ii) allocations from the Road Fund (about CFAF 455 million in
1970) which is fed by the proceeds of special taxes on fuel, lubricants and
timber production; (iii) occasional contributions from the National Invest-
ment Budget for betterment works and construction (about CFAF 240 million
in 1970); and (iv) small commercial ventures.
3.12      Total RNTP expenditures have increased steadily since 1965 and
totalled CFAF 1,271 million (about US$4.6 million) in 1970 (Table 3). Since
1969 an increasing proportion of this total has been for new road construc-
tion carried out by the Civil Engineering Task Force. The consultants have
estimated that over the period 1966-1970, net annual expenditures for highway
maintenance have increased from about CFAF 510 million (US$1.8 million) to
CFAF 700 million (US$2.5 million). This level of expenditure appears about
adequate. It will be slightly increased under the project to include the
necessary amounts for equipment renewal (para. 4.15).
3.13      External financing, mainly from FED and to a lesser extent from
FAC and IDA, has been largely utilized for the upgrading of roads around
Brazzaville and Pointe Noire and for equipment purchases. Over the period
1964-70, total investments averaged about US$1.6 million annually for road
studies and construction, and about US$600,000 annually for equipment. In
1969, the Government embarked upon an ambitious highway investment program
to upgrade the Brazzaville-Pointe Noire and Brazzaville-Ouesso routes -
both of which are served by rail or river transport. This program has since
been severely curtailed and is now limited to the improvement of particular
sections near Brazzaville and Pointe Noire and of the Obouya-Fort Rousset
road.
3.14      The present accounting system of the RNTP does not allow distinc-
tion between expenditures incurred for maintenance works and for construction
and other activities, nor does it provide any yardstick to evaluate the cost,
hence the efficiency, of any particular operation. The accounting system
will be reorganized under the project to correct these deficiencies (para.
4.03).
E.   Engineering and Construction
3.15      Highway engineering is usually carried out by consultants.  The
RNTP operates a well-equipped soil testing laboratory with the assistance
of the CEBTP (Centre Experimental de Recherches et d'Etudes du Batiment et



- 8 -
des Travaux Publics), a well-known French institute for civil engineering
research. liighway construction has been carried out by foreign contractors
and to a lesser extent bv the RNTP Civil Engineering Task Force.
F.  'laintenance
3.16      Although traffic volumes are light, the maintenance of earth and
gravel roads at a satisfactory level of serviceability is a demanding and
expensive task. In most areas, weather-resistant surfacing materials are
lacking and earth roads deteriorate rapidly under heavy rainfall. The organ-
ization of maintenance works in remote northern areas involves arduous prob-
lems of logistics. Certain operations, like reshaping and regravelling, call
for the use of equipment, while other operations such as ditch and culvert
cleaning, and minor repairs are by labor.
3.17      The RNTP maintenance operations are carried out by the field sub-
divisions which are equipped with mechanized squads. The equipment fleet
has been continuously strengthened since 1965 and now has an estimated re-
placement value of about US$6 million. While generally adequate in size,
the fleet is in need of some additions in order to balance its operations.
Also, its condition is deteriorating rapidly and it is used inefficiently,
largely because the equipment is scattered in numerous small squads attached
to field subdivisions which do not have the qualified personnel and the neces-
sary workshops to ensure logistic support and proper maintenance. Supervision
is lacking and delivery of spare parts is slow. There are no well defined
guidelines for the operation and the upkeep of the equipment.
3.18      Despite adequate funds, the RNTP has not been able to improve the
condition of the road network because of inefficient organization and lack
of trained personnel. Over the last five years, out of a total of 8,300 km
of classified roads, only about 3,000 km have been maintained regularly.
Under the Highway Engineering Project, the consultants conducted a thorough
review of highway maintenance requirements and recommended a comprehensive
program to reorganize maintenance operations and to train RNTP personnel.
This program will be undertaken under the project.
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The project consists of a four-year highway maintenance program
(1972-1975) to be implemented with the assistance of consultants, providing
for:
(i) reorganization and strengthening of the road maintenance
organization;
(ii) comprehensive training of personnel;



- 9 -
(iii) overhaul of the existing equipment fleet and procurement
of supplemental equipment; and
(iv) extension and renovation of workshops for the maintenance
of equipment.
The main objective of the program is to improve the condition of the roads
through more efficient use of resources devoted to maintenance.
Reorganization (see Chart)
4.02      The thrust of the proposed reorganization is to regroup RNTP op-
erations and concentrate them on the main highway network, comprising about
4,600 km of roads of such economic and administrative importance as to
warrant continuing maintenance (see Table 4). The remaining roads, which
constitute the secondary highway network, will be maintained on an ad hoc
basis by the regional authorities with RNTP technical assistance and with
equipment leased from its Equipment Division. The RNTP field subdivisions,
now numbering thirteen, will be regrouped into seven. The draft legisla-
tion defining the main highway network and regrouping the RNTP field sub-
divisions was agreed upon during negotiations; the enactment of such legis-
lation is a condition for the effectiveness of the credit.
4.03      The Road Maintenance Division of the RNTP, which was recentlv
created following BCEOM's recommendations, will be responsible for planning
and supervising highway maintenance works carried out by the field subdivi-
sions. This Division will have three inspectors who will visit the subdivi-
sions regularly to provide necessary guidance and to control their operations.
An adequate cost accounting system for maintenance works will be introduced
to provide a basis for relating expenditures to type and volume of work per-
formed and to evaluate the efficiency of operations. The improved costing
methods will also be used for budget preparation.
4.04      In order to improve the management and maintenance of highway main-
tenance equipment, the RNTP equipment fleet as well as the subdivision work-
shops will be placed under the responsibility of the Equipment Division.
Existing equipment inspection services will be strengthened to ensure proper
supervision of the workshops and equipment and to speed the delivery of spare
parts. Precise guidelines for the systematic maintenance of the equipment
will be defined and introduced. Under the new internal accounting system,
the subdivisions will lease the equipment from the Equipment Division and
the portion of each subdivision's budget covering equipment rental will be
allocated to the Equipment Division. Rental rates will be sufficient to
ensure that the expanded Equipment Division is provided with sufficient
funds to renew the equipment, to order spare parts and to carry out neces-
sary repairs.



- 10 -
4.05      An Office of Organization and Methods will be created and attached
to the Director General of the RNTP to plan, coordinate and supervise the
execution of the program. This office will also introduce adequate report-
ing methods, monitor the introduction of the new accounting system and re-
organize the RNTP budget. Maintenance works and other RNTP activities will
be budgeted and accounted for separately.
4.06      The reorganization plan detailed above is well suited to the RNTP
and should lead to improved supervision of its road maintenance operations as
well as to a more efficient use of its equipment. During negotiations, the
Government confirmed that it will implement the proposed reorganization and
that:
(i)  the field inspection services of the Road >Maintenance
and Equipment Divisions will be strengthened and provided
with adequate staff and equipment; and
(ii)  the RNTP budget will include specific provisions for
purchase of spare parts, equipment repair and renewal to
be administered by the Equipment Division.
Training of Personnel
4.07      BCEOM stressed the need for training of maintenance personnel and
defined a comprehensive program to retrain all RNTP personnel periodically
and to select and train field foremen and workshop supervisors. The program
will also be used to familiarize the personnel with the new organization and
to introduce proper guidelines for road maintenance works and for maintenance
of equipment. A training center (CATP - Centre d'Application des Techniques
des Travaux Publics) will be established on the premises of the central work-
shops in Brazzaville. Each category of personnel will undergo one- to three-
month sessions including formal instruction as well as on-the-job training.
4.08      The RNTP professional staff will be trained through close associa-
tion with the work of the consultants. Complementary practical training
abroad will be provided for those staff members to be assigned to responsi-
ble positions in the RNTP. The consultants will assist the Government in
finding suitable training opportunities and arranging for travel and sub-
sistence. The specific requirements with respect to the above will be
determined once the program is underway.
Procurement of Equipment
4.09      The project will provide the necessary spare parts to eliminate
a backlog of equipment repair, as well as a limited quantity of new equip-
ment designed to improve the efficiency of the mechanized units. This in-
cludes graders, fuel tankers to supply and service mechanized units, and
light trucks and general purpose vehicles for better communications between
the units and the subdivision and for inspection and spare parts delivery.
Table 5 gives a list of the items to be procured.



- 1i1 -
Workshops and Buildings
4.10      The workshops and buildings to be constructed under the project
(Table 6) have been limited to tlhose elements strictly required for the es-
tablishment of the new organization and thie execution of the program. The
workshops of the seven subdivisions will be renovated and equipped with ne-
cessary tools and equipment. Radio communication equipment will be provided
to extend the present RNTP radio communication system to the northern sub-
divisions.  Workshops will be constructed for the newly established subdi-
vision of Kinkala and for the subdivision of Pointe Noire which is being re-
located at the outskirts of the city. The central workshop in Brazzaville
will be expanded and a number of aging machine tools will be replaced. Of-
fices and sheds will be built for the Equipment Division and for the Training
Center.
Technical Assistance
4.11      Technical Assistance is required to initiate and supervise the
highway maintenance program. A team of nine experts (Table 7) will be pro-
vided under the project to assist the RC4TP in carrying out the program.
These experts will be required for varying periods up to 40 months, totaling
about 260 man-months. Seven of t:hem will work within the RNTP (see Chart);
their activities will be coordinated with thirteen engineers and technicians
provided by FAC.  Two experts provided under the project, one engineer and
one technician, will be responsible for setting up and operating the Training
Center.



- 12 -
B.   Cost Estimates
4.12      Cost estimates for the project are given in Table 8 and suîmnarizetw
below:
---- CFAF million           ------ US$ '000 -…-
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Forein   Tol'tal   Fur c ig
Procurement of
equipment, tools                                   /1
and spare parts  105.2-   421.7    526.9   378.8- 1,518.5  1,897.3   8<
Construction of
workshops and           /2                          /2
otixer buildings   60.4 -   90.6    151.0   217.5-    326.2    543.7
Technical assis-
tance and train-
ing                31.0    286.1    317.1   110.0   1,030.0  1,140.()    90
Contingencies:
(a) price escala-
tion          11.4     53.4      64.8    41.1       192.3    233.4
(b) physical       22.6      83.6    106.2    81.4       301.1    382.5
Total:       230.6    935.4  1,166.0   828.8   3,368.1  4,196.9    80
Say,                                    850     3,400    4,250
Refunding of Credit S6-COB                                600
Proposed Credit Amount:                                 4,000
/1  80% of which are taxes and duties.
/2  40% of which are taxes and duties.
4.13      The cost estimates for equipment and tools are based on suppliers'
quotations. The foreign exchange component is based on the c.i.f. cost port
of entry. The local component includes all taxes and local handling costs
and suppliers' markups. The cost of workshops and other buildings has been
estimated by comparison with recent construction in Congo.  The foreign ex-
change component of this item has been estimated at 60% of the total cost
assuming that local firms execute the works.  The cost of consultants has
been estimated on the basis of a draft proposal presented by BCEOM (para.
4.18). The foreign exchange component for consultants' services amounts
to about 90%.
4.14      A contingency allowance has been provided to cover a price escala-
tion of 5% per annum for the foreign exchange as well as for the local com-
ponents of the project, on the basis of recent trends in equipment prices,
consultants' services and domestic construction costs, The contingency for
possible physical overruns amounts to 10% for the equipment and tools, 15%
for construction, and 10% for consultants' services.



- 13 -
C.   Financing and Disbursemenits
4.15      IDA will finance the foreign exchange component of the project,
estimated at US$3.4 million equivalent. In addition to meeting the local
costs of the project, estimated at US$850,000, the Government will have to
keep annual budgetary allocations for highway maintenance at an adequate
level to meet recurrent maintenance costs. These are expected ta increase
from CFAF 800 million in 1972 to CFAF 950 million in 1976. Appropriate
shares of this budget will be allocated to the RNTP and to the local au-
thorities for their respective tasks. The minimum amount to be devoted to
equipment renewal would be CFAF 115 million in 1972 rising,to CFAF 130 mil-
lion in 1976. The proposed amounts are in line with the level of highway
maintenance expenditures over the last few years and are about equal to the
optimum requirements as defined by BCEOM in the highway maintenance study.
In a letter dated April 15, 1971, the Government stated its intention to
maintain highway maintenance expenditures at these levels. During negotia-
tions, the Government confirmed that it will meet the local costs of the
project and that annual budgetary allocations will be adequate to meet the
requirements of recurrent maintenance as outlined above.
4.16      Disbursement from the credit account will be made on the following
basis:
(i)  c.i.f. cost (port of entry) of equipment, tools and
spare parts;
(ii)  60% of the contractors' invoices for the construction
of workshops and buildings; and
(iii)  foreign exchange component of the cost of consultants'
services as identified in their contract.
Table 9 presents the forecast for disbursement assuning that the credit be-
comes effective by the beginning of 1972. Any surplus funds remaining in
the credit account upon completion of the project could be used in agreement
with the Association for additional equipment requirements or. for extra con-
sulting services.
D.   Execution
4.17      The Minister of Transport and Public Works will cause the project
to be carried out by the Director General of the RNTP. Procurement will be
in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Bidding documents for equipment,
tools and spare parts will be prepared by the equipment experts provided
by the consultants and will be submitted to IDA for review, to assure that
they conform with its requirements. The plans for construction of workshops
and buildings will be prepared by the RNTP Engineering Division with the as-
sistance of the equipment experts. These matters were confirmed during nego-
tiations.



- 14 -
4.18      The Government has selected the French consultants, BCEOM, to pro-
vide the technical assistance services under the project. BCEOM satisfactor-
ily carried out the highway maintenance study which served as a basis for the
project and their selection is appropriate. Terms of reference have been
agreed upon, and the Government is presently considering a draft proposal sub-
mitted by the consultants. Signature of the consultants' contract is a con-
dition for the effectiveness of the credit.
4.19      The maintenance program will be carried out over the period 1972-
75. The first year will be devoted to procurement, construction, headquarter
reorganization and installation of the training center. During the second
and third year the reorganization will be extended to the field subdivisions
and training will be started. The fourth year will be the first year of
normal operation during which it is expected that Congolese staff will grad-
ually take over the responsibilities assumed by the consultants. After the
third year the progress of the project will be reviewed with a view to
assessing the possible need for further technical assistance.
4.20      The project will improve the productivity of the RNTP labor force
through organizational reform.s and training. It will not entail significant
changes in the overall number of people employed in highway maintenance since
the improved methods to be introduced under the project will not alter the
labor content of highway maintenance operations. Highway maintenance is not
a suitable field in Congo for the development of employment opportunities
since there is no surplus labor in the rural areas where most of the addi-
tional manpower, required for more labor intensive maintenance methods, would
have to be recruited. The construction of the workshops and buildings will
provide employment for 150 to 200 workers for a period of about six months.
5. ECONOM-IC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The purpose of the four-year highway maintenance program is to re-
duce road user costs and provide reliable year-round access to agricultural
hinterlands. While road transport plays a secondary role in the transport
system as a whole, its importance in the economy is vital. Roads act as a
feeder to the railway system in the south and to the rivers in the north and
also provide the only means of communication for many of the remote population
centers of the interior. Since traffic volumes are generally light, major
road improvements cannot be justified at this time. Improved maintenance
appears as the proper way to provide more reliable road transport at reduced
costs.
5.02      The economic evaluation has been designed to (i) determine the
level of resources which would most suitably be allocated to highway mainte-



- 15 -
nance; and (ii) evaluate the economic returns of the proposed program by com-
paring it in terms of investment outlays, incremental maintenance expenditures
and road user savings to the alternative of perpetuating the present situation.
B.   Traffie Forecasts
5.03      The estimates of traffic volumes used in the analysis are based on
the few available counts and on existing data concerning agricultural and
timber production. The consultants estimate that, in 1969, total road traf-
fic volumes on the southern network amounted to about 85 million ton-km (in-
cluding about 60 million ton-km of timber traffic) and on the northern net-
work, to about 10 million ton-km. Passenger traffic has been estimated as a
small percentage of general freight (non-timber) traffic. The above esti-
mates are a rough but reasonable basis for drawing traffic forecasts.
5.04      On the basis of anticipated agricultural production as shown by
projections used for the preparation of the 1970-1979 development plan, the
consultants have estimated that general freight traffic will grow at a rate
of 8-12% per annum. Although these projections are not unreasonable, they
suggest substantial increase over past trends, and for the purpose of the
present evaluation more conservative projections were used. For the southern
network, it has been assumed that the average growth rate experienced over
the last few years, that is, a growth of 6% p.a., will continue. Timber
traffic is concentrated on a limited number of high standard roads in the
southern region. Although overall timber production is increasing, the
volume of timber being carried on existing roads is expected to level off
at about 500,000 tons annually in 1975 and would decrease thereafter as
timber reserves, now accessible in the southern region, become depleted.
5.05      Traffic on the northern network, which currently accounts for only
about 10% of total traffic volumes, appears to have been growing more slowly
over the past few years than that on the southern network. In the absence of
any specific basis to forecast future trends the same average rate of growth
as the southern network has been adopted, on the assumption that planned de-
velopment efforts as well as improvement of road communications will result
in moderate increases in agricultural output.
C.   Maintenance Requirements
5.06      For each category of roads and for different levels of traffic,
the consultants have defined an optimum program of maintenance operations
(see Table 4) to minimize total road transport cost taken as the sum of road
maintenance expenditures and road user costs. The consultants have estimated
that for traffic amounting to less than 2,500 tons p.a., i.e. three to five
vehicles for general freight, or less than 7 tons per day, the regular
maintenance of even a simple track cannot be justified solely on economic
grounds. Under the new classification most of the roads falling in this
category will be included in the network to be maintained by the regional
authorities on an ad hoc basis.



- 16 -
5.07      Total maintenance requirements are estimated at about CFAF 820 mil-
lion per annum (1971 value, including equipment renewal) assuming that the
proposed reorganization of road maintenance operations and the subsequent
improvement of efficiency effectively take place. These estimates are
based on analyses of the annual operating costs of field units taking into
account periods of immobilization, equipment repairs and renewal and adminis-
trative overheads. The above requirements are in line with the present level
of maintenance expenditures. Future maintenance expenditures will be kept
roughly at this level. The level of maintenance expenditures under the proj-
ect, when compared with the level anticipated without the project, involves
only a small increment of between CFAF 50 to 70 million per year.
D.   Economic Rate of Return
5.08      The estimated operating cost of an average vehicle on different
types of roads receiving adequate maintenance are shown in Table 10. User
costs per ton-km for general freight and passengers were estimated separately
for the southern and northern network taking into consideration the condition
and technical classification of the roads making up each network.
5.09      Tle consultants have estimated that as a consequence of the project,
average road user costs for general freight and passengers will be reduced
about 24% on the southern network and about 31% on the northern network (see
Table 10). This will result mainly from a 20% increase in vehicle load fac-
tors and from reductions in vehicle maintenance and repair costs. The higher
percentage of savings for the northern network reflects the fact that under
the project a number of these roads will be substantially improved from their
present condition of unmaintained tracks to regularly maintained earth roads.
There will be additional savings, not taken into account in the analysis,
since once the condition of the roads is improved, expensive four-wheel drive
vehicles, now necessary on many roads, will not be generally required.
5.10      Timber traffic is concentrated on roads which are presently in ac-
ceptable condition and it has been assumed that the project will not result
in a reduction of timber transport costs. Savings resulting from the post-
ponement of the need to reconstruct certain roads have also been neglected.
And, while there is no doubt that improved and more reliable roads will en-
hance the prospects for agricultural production, especially in the northern
region, no attempt has been made to estimate specific benefits to traffic
generated by economic activity induced by the project; this has been partly
taken into account in evaluating future traffic growth on the northern net-
work.
5.11      The project costs consist of outlays for investments and technical
assistance as well as incremental recurrent maintenance expenditures (see
para. 5.07). The stream of costs and benefits are summarized in Table 11.
The economic life of the project has been estimated at 10 years, reflecting
roughlv the weighted average of the economie lives of the inter-dependent



- 17 -
elements making up the program. Assuming an annual traffic growth of 6%,
the internal economic return of the project is about 20%, indicating a high
priority. 1/ The benefit/cost ratio computed with a 12% discount rate is
about 1.4:1.
E.   Sensitivity Analysis
5.12      The above estimate of the economic rate of return relies on a num-
ber of inputs which have been quantified with unequal degrees of certainty.
The estimates of the project costs appear well founded and conservative.
On the benefit side, however, the two most important factors, namely, future
traffic growth and road user savings, appear to include some elements of un-
certainty.
5.13      In estimating future traffic volumes, the assumed annual rate of
growth (6%) is substantially below the rates proposed by the consultants.
If, however, traffic were to grow at only 4% p.a., which appears to be very
conservative, the rate of return would be 14% which is still satisfactory.
The benefit/cost ratio, computed with a 12% discount rate would, in this
instance, be approximately 1.2:1.
5.14      The estimates of the project benefits include only readily quanti-
fiable elements consisting of reductions of road user costs. These estimates
are, however, affected by imprecision arising from the lack of an organized
road transport industry with established routes and rates and from the neces-
sity to classify vehicles, roads and the assessed maintenance level in a
small number of stereotyped categories. The anticipated reduction in road
user costs will depend on the increased efficiency of maintenance operations.
The proposed reorganization program has been studied carefully and the level
of efficiency which the RNTP could be expected to reach after project imple-
mentation has been estimated conservatively. It should be recognized, how-
ever, that forecasts concerning the future performance of the RNTP over a
ten-year period include a considerable uncertainty.
5.15      In order to test the compound effect of imprecision in estimates
of road user costs and uncertainty in evaluating their reduction, a 20% de-
crease in benefits has been assumed. Under these circumstances the internal
rate of return of the project, assuming a 6% annual traffic growth, is about
12%, which is still acceptable. The probability that the rate of return would
decrease below this value is very low, since this would involve a combination
of all unfavorable assumptions.
1/   As the flow of net benefits (Table 11) shows a well-defined investment
period of four years, the use of the internal rate of return as a yard-
stick to evaluate the economic viability of the project is appropriate.



- 18 -
5.16      The project will provide for all foreseeable technical assistance
needed for its execution in addition to that which will be supplied by
FAC. Supplemental technical assistance might, however, be required after
the initial four-year period to maintain the organizational reform intro-
duced under the project and to ensure the continuous application of improved
methods for highway maintenance works and equipment maintenance. Such supple-
mental services ought to be taken into account in the project cost. Assuming
that five experts will be required for another four-year period, 1976-1979, at
the annual cost of CFAF 56 million (US$200,000), the rate of return of the
project will be 17% for a traffic growth of 6%, and 11% for traffic growth
of 4%, versus 20% and 14% respectively, with the initial estimate of techni-
cal assistance requirements. Thus, the return of the project will be only
marginally reduced if additional technical assistance is required.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      The following are the major project matters on which agreement was
reached during credit negotiations:
(a) the major steps which will be taken to provide a clear
demarkation within the RNTP between highway maintenance
works and other activities (para. 3.08);
(b) the respective responsibilities of the RNTP and of the
local authorities with regard to maintenance of the
highway network (para. 4.02);
(c) the organizational and budgetary measures which will
be taken to assure increased efficiency of RNTP's road
maintenance operations (paras. 4.02 and 4.06); and
(d) the provision of adequate funds to cover the local costs
of the project as well as required recurrent maintenance
needs (para. 4.15).
6.02      Enactment of the legislation necessary to execute the RNTP reorgani-
zation (para. 4.02) and signature of the contract between the Government and
the consultants who will provide technical assistance under the project (para.
4.18) are conditions for effectiveness of the credit.
6.03      The project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$4.0
million equivalent to the People's Republic of Congo.
November 30, 1971



TABLE 1
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CONGO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Highway Network - 1971
(km)
Total         Surface Type
A.  Classified Roads                        Length  Paved Gravel Earth Track
Primary Roads
RN1 - Pointe Noire-Brazzaville          574    81    291    190    12
RN2 - Brazzaville-Ouesso                887    84      74    118   611
RN3 - Dolisie-Gabon border               237     2    235       -     -
RN4 - Pointe Noire-Cabinda                36    36      -       -     -
RN5 - Pointe Noire-Bas Kouilou-Gabon   161    35        -       -   126
RN6 - RN1 (PK40) - Sounda                 53     -     53       -     -
î,l  M   M  T  7m
Secondary Roadi                       3,568    74    h83  1,101 1,910
Local Roads                           2,754      -     87    257 2,410
Total Classified Roada           8ô270   312  1,223  1,666 5,069
B. Unclassified Tracks              about   2,500      -      -       - 2,500
TOTAL HIGHWAY NETWORK            10,770   312  1,223  1,666 7,569
Source: RNTP, March 1971
BCEOM, Highway Maintenance Study, March 1971
November 30, 1971



TABLE 2
PEOPLE'S REPUBIC 0F CONGO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Traf'fic Levels on Classif'ied Hlighway Network -1969
Southern Networki/ Northern Network- _  Total
% of         70 of               %O
Annual Traffic Level        Length    Total   Length    Total   Length    Total
(ka)    Network   (km)   Network   (km)   Network
More than 150,000 tons         109      1.3         -        -        109      1.3
50,000 to 150,000 tons         385      4.7         -        -       385       4.7
10,000 to 50,000 tons          842     10.2       247      3.0     1,089      13.2
2.,500 to 10,000 tons          928     11.2       752      9.1      1,680     20.3
Less than 2,500 tons         2,241     27.1     2,766     33.4     5,007      é0.5
Total                 4,505     54.5    3,765      45.5     8,270    100.0
i/ The southern network includes the roads in the coastal area, in the
Niari Valley and around Brazzaville.
2/ The northern network includes the roade in the Cuvette and Sangha regions.
Source: BCEOM, Highway Maintenance Study, March 1971
November 30, 1971



TABLE 3
PEOPLE'S REPTBLIC OF CONGO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Highway Expenditures - 1965-1971
(CFAF million)
A.  RNTP Budget Expenditures                1966   1967   1968   19691  1970/ 1971-/2-/
Salaries                                 267    279    342    412    414    434
Equipment operatiom, supplies
and repair                              328    362    320    363    455    484
Equipment purchase                       152    177    141    12 5    188-/  134h/
Administrative overhead                   12     10      30     36      49     48
Miscellaneous (debt service,
buildings, studies, etc.)                84    145    150    321    165    166
Total                  843    973    983  1,257  1,271  1,266
Average annual increase 1966-1971        -------          8.5% -
B.  Estinated Net Highway Maintenance
Expenditure
(excluding equipment depreciation)
Total (CFA! million)                     510    580    6oo    650    650    700
Average per km of classified road
(US$/km)                        220    250    260    280    280    305
Average annual increase 1966-1971                         7% -_      -
1/   Ineluding operating expenditures of Civil Engineering Task Force
7/ Budgeted
7/ Including equipment for Civil Engineering Task Force (CFA! 4 million
in 1969, CFAF 70 million in 1970 and CFAF h1 million in 1971)
Source: RNTP, March 1971
BCEOM, Highway Maintenance Study, March 1971
November 30, 1971



TABLE 4
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CONGO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Hlghuay Network to be Maintained by RNTP
A. Definition of the Network                                 Length
Roads vith average traffic volume greater than
2,500 tons per year (1971)                                3,704
Roads of administrative and social interest                 887
Total         >4,591
B. Maintenance Requirements
Category of Road        Level of Maintenance             Len th
Paved                      Regular                       312
Gravel                     Regular                     1,223
Earth                      Betterment                  1,640
Regular                     1,416
Total          4,591
C. level of Maintenance
(1) Paved road - Regular maintenance includes:
(a) patching and maintenance of shoulders, ditches and drainage
structures by RNTP routine maintenance units;
(b) periodic reshaping of shoulders by RNTP grader squads every
3 to 4 years; and
(c) periodie bituminous resurfacing (every 7 to 9 years) by
contractor.
(2) Gravel road - Regular maintenanme includes:
(a)  pot hole filling and maintenance of shoulders, ditches and
drainage structures by RNTP routine maintenance units;
(b) seasonal reshaping (1 to 3 times a year) of carriageway by
RNTP grader squads; anW
(c)  periodie regravelling (every 5 to 6 years)by RNTP mechanized
units.
(3) Earth road - Regular maintenance includes basically (a) and (b) of
(2) above; betterment includes, in addition, selected improvements
and gravelling by RNTP mechanized units.
Source: RNTP, March 1971
BCEOM, Highway Maintenance Study, March 1971
November 30, 1971



TABLE 5
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CONGO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Procurement of Equipment end Spare Parts
-------- CFAF million -----------
Unit Price
cif              1/
Equipment Type                      Nu=ber   Brazzavile   Local- Fore         Total
Graders (120 HP)                       8         9.0         18.0    72.0     90.0
Light tipper trucks (2.5 t)           30         2.6         19.5    78.0     97.5
Light vans and cars                    3         0.7          0.5     2.1       2.6
General purpose vehicles              18          1.13        5.1    20.3      25.4
Tanker and service trucks (6 t)       il         6.0         16.5    66.0     82.5
Mobile workshops                       2         10.0         5.0    20.0      25.0
Patching unit                          1         1.5          0.4     1.5      1.9
Vibrating rollers                      2         0.8          o.4     1.6       2.0
Mover attachments for tractor          2         0.25         0.1     0.5      o.6
Qutter attachments for tractor         5         1.5          1.9     7.5      9.4
Workshop crane                         1         5.0          1.2     5.0       6.2
Initial stock of spare parts (5%)                             3.4    14,4    17.8
7      2.       30.9
Spare parts for overhaul of existing equipment               10.0    40.0     50.0
Contingencies:  price escalation (5%)                         4.1    16.4     20.5
physical and bid overrun (10%)               8.2    32.9      41.1
12.3     9 i7     =1.6
Total:                               94.3   378.2    472.5
-   -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~-
1/ 80% of which are taxes and duttes
Source: RNTP, March 1971
Mission estimates, November 1971
November 30, 1971



TABLE 6
PEOPLE'S REPTBLIC OF CONGO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROWECT
Extension and Renovation of Workshops and Buildings
--- CFAF million -----
A. Construction                                   Local  Foreign   Totil
Central workshop                               28.4    42.6      71.0
Training center (CATP)                          8.0    12.0      20.0
Pointe Noire workshop                          16.0    24.0      40.0
Kinkala workshop                                8.0    12.0      20.0
604      0.     15
Contingencies:  price escalation (5%)           3.0     4.6       7.6
physical and bid overrun (15%) 9.0    13.6      22.6
i1. 0    1Ir. 3
Total construction cost:             72.4   108.8    181.2
B. Tools and Eguipment
Central workshop                                9.2    36.8      46.o
Training center (CATP)                          1.6     6.4       8.0
Subdivision workshops&                         12.4    49.6      62.0
T--      =      11
Contingencies:  price escalation (5%)           1.2     4.6       5.8
physical and bid overrun (LO%)  2.3     9.3     11.6
3.7   13.9      17.U
Total tools cost:                    26.7   106.7    133.4
1/ Including supplemental radio equipment
Source: RNTP, March 1971
Mission estimates, November 1971
November 30, 1971



TABLE 7
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CONGO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Technical Assistance to be provided by Consultants 1972-1975
Approximate duration
Number             Qualification               or stay in Congo
Attached to                                                         (man-months)
the RNTP
1        Civil engineer with expertise
in highway administration and
maintenance (Chief of Mission)            ho
1        Mechanical engineer with exper-
tise in equipment management
and large workshop operations             30
1        Equipment inspector                       30
2        Mechanics                               4o + 15
1        Highway maintenance inspector             35
1        Cost accounting and adminis-
tration expert                            15
Attached to the
training center
1        Engineer with expertise in
personnel management and training
(Director of the CATP)                    30
1        Instructor with expertise in
highway works and equipment
maintenance                               25
Total:     9 experts for                                      260 man-months
Assistance and supervision from consultants' headquarters                5 man-months
Source: RNTP, M4arch 1971
Mission estimates, November 1971
November 30, 1971



TABLE 8
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CCNGO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
---- CFAF million   ---       ---   $ thousand       -        %
Local   Foreign   Total       Local  E           Total    Foreign
(a)  Procurement
Highway maintenance
equipment                 72.0   288.9      360.9      259.3  1,040.3  1,299.6
Spare parts for over-
haul of existing road
maintenance equipment    10.0    40.0         50.0      36.0    144.o    180.0
Tools and equipment
for vorkshops             23.2    92.8      116.0       83.5    334.2    417.7
Subtotal (a)          105.2   421.7      526.9      378.8  1,518.5  1,897.3        80%
<b)  Construction of vork-
shope and buildings       60.4    90.6       151.0     217.5    326.2    543.7        60%
(c)  Technical assistance      31.0   277.8      308.8      110.0  1,000.0  1,110.0        90%
(d)  Training abroad of i
professional staff           0      8.3       8.3          0      30,0     30.0      100%
(e)  Contingencies
Price escalation on
(a) see Tables 5 & 6      5.3    21.0       26.3       19.1      75.6     94.7
(b) see Table 6           3.0     4.6        7.6       10.8      16.6     27.4
(c) 10%                   3.1    27.8       30.9       11.2    100.1    111.]
11.4    53.4       614.8     41.1    192.3    233.4
Physica1 and bid overrun
(a) see Tables 5 & 6    10.5    42.2        52 7       37.8    152.0    189.8
(b) see Table 6           9.0    13.6       22.6       32.4      49.0     81.4
(c) 10%                   3.1    27.8       30.        11.2    100.1    111-3
22.6   -o36  106.2   81.4    301.1    382.5
Subtotal (e)            34.0   137.0      171.0      122.5    493.4    615.9
Total                  230.6   935.4   le 166.o      828.8  3,368.1  h,196.9        80%
Say,                                                 850    3,h100    k.20
Refunding of Credit s6-C0B                                    600
Proposed Credit Amount
Source: RNTP, March 1971
Mission estimates, Novenber 1971
November 30, 1971



Table 9
POPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CONGO
HIGIlAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Es%imated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                             Cuiulat,îve Ditoursement
abd Quarter                                    at end of Quarter
(LTS$ '00) 
1971/1972
March 31, 1972                                                60OI/
June 30, 1972                                                 700
1972/1973
September 30, 1972                                            *C°O
December 31, 1972                                             950
March 31, 1973                                              1,250
June 30, 1973                                               1,750
1973/19714
;eptember 30, 1973                                          2,300
December 31, 1973                                           2,650
March 31, 1973                                              2,9O0
June 30, 1974                                               3,150
1974/1975
September 30, 1974                                          3,350
Decernber 31, 1974                                          3,550
March 31, 1975                                              3,600
june 30, 1975                                               3,700
1975)/1976
September 30, 1975                                          3,800
December 31, 1975                                           3,900
.March 31, 1976                                             3,950
June 30, 1976                                               4,000
Proposed closing date:  December 31, 1976
1/ Refunding of outstanding balance of Credit 36-;,OB.
Source:  Mission estirmates, November 1971
November 30, 1971



TABLE 10
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CONGO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road User Costs2/
A. Vehicle Operating Cos ts
(CFAF oer km)
For average vehicle for cn.-
Category of road                   freight and passener tr.m  ,rt-
Paved                                       39
Gravel                                      50
Earth                                       68
Track                                       91
B. Average Road User Costs
(CFAF per ton-km)
After implementation
off project                  For general freight
Southern network                        15-25
Northern network                        18.85
Without project
Southern network                       20.00
Northern network                       27.50
1/ At 1969 prices, net of all taxes
Î/ Combination o.f pick-up and 6-ton truck
Source: BCEOM, Highway Maintenance Study, March 1971.
November 30, 1971



TABLE 11
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CONGO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJEOT
Cost-Bonefit Ana)jsis of Four-Year Highway M¶aintenance Program
(CFAF million) 1/ 2/
Investment  Incremental            Best Estimate-/      Low Estimate-
and       Recurrent             Road                Road
Technical   Maintenance   Total   User        Net      User       Net
Year  Assistance  Expenditures  Costs  Savings  Benefits  Savings  Benefits
1972     1h0            50        190       0      -190          0      -190
1973     327           60         387       57     -330         53      -334
197h     280           70         350     152      -198       138       -212
1975     187            70        257     256        -1       229        -28
1976       -           70          70     339      +269       298       +228
1977       -            70         70      359     +289        310      +240
1978       -           70          70     380      +310       32L       +254
1979       -            70         70      h03     +333       337       +267
i 980      -           70          70     427      +357       350       +280
1981       -            70         70      452     +382       364       +294
Internal economic rate of return           20%                1ih
1/ All costs and benefits are expressed in 1971 value net of all taxes.
c/ Assuming 20% of benefits in second year, 50% in third year and 80% in fourth year.
7/  Traffie growth estimated at 6% p.a.
7/  Traffic growth estimated at 4% p.a.
Source: Mission estimate, November 1971
November 30, 1971






PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CONGO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF RNTP
(REGIE NATIONALE DES TRANSPORTS ET DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS)
MINISTER OF TRANSPORT AND    I
PUBLIC WORKS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
*1
DIRECTOR GENERAL                      ORGANIZATIO
AND METhIODSN
C E N T R A L   D I V I S I O  N S
.4                                            a, *3      .1  *1                                     ,2
TRANSPOT           | ENGINEERING                                           EQUIPMENT              ADMINISTRATION
DESIGN              _   _           1       CENTRAL WORKSHOP               FINANCE
SUPERVISION             INSPE CTION               OPERATION               ACCOUNTING
.l                      *2 *1                                  PERSONNEL
PUBLIC WORKS                                       INSPECTION                            *2
LABO RATORY                                  L________*
TRAINING CENTER
F I E L D   S U B D I V I S I1O  N S
WEST                   CENTER                     NORTH
POINTE NOIRE              KINKALA                    OUESSO
DOLISIE                   GAMBOMA                    MAKOUA
SIBITI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:
* ENGINEERS AND TECHNICIANS PROVIDED BY FAC
*  ENGINEERS AND TECHNICIANS TO BE PROVIDED UNDER IDA PROJECT                                                                         IBRD 5773






t4I
\  CENTRAL AFRICAN  REPUBLIC
PE0FLE'S RePU8LIC 0F CONGO
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT                                                                                                                                      e
Tî GOXWAY NET 0ffK & TRATS   ATfTOE SY57fNI        C A  M  E R O O N
-           eOAO 9EfNG C0ON$TRUCTED UC fR 91, CT. ta9.CO 
.-_ _  -   R0A->D SN0TAPRRE  2JNCEe ID- CE. 5-f C0_o
-           peiTmRAY lOAD5r RAPE                     .,)
" -                TRIRARSY RODS, ORAVE1. AT9T ER7 ATT  (Il
.   ____   ,R9dtoARY    R T10 gE cONglROCTeb 1Fte)      .                              e             OUESShpfooOo
" - ~~SECOTRSARY EOÀSS, RR.RT8                         'S                                                                              R X  E 
4+4.RAI twAXE
S A N G  H A
/  CATPEWAYS   E                                  t     -
=='----=  ,AV iGAei RUf/tS
tNTtRNATeOR2AL AIROORTS    -r4b 
*       allPCRTS, DC.4 NAXIMUTA CJ,PACIl                                                                     P,k-  d
S   MAtN ClIEfe                                                  é/~<Lbonog.v                                        1     9
O       RNTP FISLO SYE!1Vlsf\ 
I'RTTTERNATTOERAO ROul,ARtES                                                        ==
0  z                                           {;;s1<  \              ~~~~~~~    ~ ~~           ~      ~ ~~~~~~MAKOU     ,S   ( J
C      55              lo T>           50           -50
i0Rm~~~~TR\N                                                                                     MosR8g
&   0   \      "        ' t            /           <           g    éX                   ~~~~~~~~~~REPUBlIC
G A B O N                                                                                                  OF ZAIRE
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .   
2      k                       TRIR                   {  , h     t                                  N    e 
X              t    X   ungullo    É5}Éssex~~nio            g                   Etsul
~~4-                        <         3          j   e       6    X    j      5   t\      p         _ B
POMNTE NOIR                                   Key*                               NQf
NOVEhBER 1-71



