CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 274 COB
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Maintenance Project)
BETWEEN
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 22, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 274 COB
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Maintenance Project)
BETWEEN
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 22, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 1971, between THE PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   By a development credit agreement dated May 26, 1969, (hereinafter
called the Highway Engineering Credit Agreement) between the Borrower and the
Association, the Association granted to the Borrower a credit (hereinafter called
the Highway Engineering Credit) in various currencies equivalen,t to six hundred
thirty thousand dollars ($630,000) to assist in financing the engineering and related
studies of various highways and the preparation of a program for the reorganization
and strengthening of the maintenance of the highway system of the Borrower;
WHEREAS the Association has requested and the Borrower has agreed to
refund the Highway Engineering Credit out of the proceeds of the Credit provided
for herein;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "Regie " means the Regie Nationale des Transports et des Travaux
Publics, an agency established under Law No. 60/65 of the Borrower and placed
under the supervision ("tutelle ") of the Ministry of Transport and Public Works.
(b) "national highway system" means any highway and any road under
the responsibility of the Borrower.
(c)   "main highway system" means those parts of the national highway
system which warrant continuing maintenance on account of their economic,
administrative and social functions, and defined as such in the decree referred to
in Section 3.03 (a) (i) of this Agreement.
(d)   "secondary highway system" means those parts of the national highway
system which are not included in the main highway system.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million dollars ($4,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. The Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and
pay to itself, on behalf of the Borrower, the amount required to repay the principal
amount withdrawn and outstanding, together with the accrued service charge
thereon, of the Highway Engineering Credit on the Effective Date of this
Agreement. Any amount remaining unwithdrawn shall automatically be cancelled
on the same date.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be


﻿5
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, as revised in May 1971, and in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June I and
December I in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June I and December 1 commencing
June 1, 1982 and ending Decemoer 1, 2021, each installment to and including
the installment payable on December 1, 1991 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound technical, engineering,
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower and the Rdgie in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall enact: (i) a decree for the reclassification
of the roads included in the national highway system into the main highway system
and the secondary highway system; and (ii) a decree for the territorial reorganization
of the R6gie.


﻿6
(b)   The Borrower shall reorganize the administration and maintenance of
the national highway system as follows: (i) the Rdgie shall remain directly
responsible for the administration and maintenance of the main highway system;
(ii) the regional authorities of the Borrower shall be directly responsible for the
administration and maintenance of the secondary highway system with adequate
technical assistance and equipment to be provided by the Regie.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause the Rdgie: (i) to establish and
maintain an Equipment Division which shall have responsibility for the management,
maintenance, repair and renewal of highway maintenance equipment; (ii) to
establish and maintain adequate cost accounting systems for the highway
maintenance works and for the maintenance and repair of related equipment; (iii)
to establish and maintain satisfactory inventory control procedures for equipment
and spare parts; (iv) to establish and maintain sound and systematically organized
equipment maintenance practices; and (v) to strengthen the field inspections services
of the Highway Maintenance Division and of the Equipment Division of the Regie
and to provide such inspection services at all times with adequate and competent
staff and adequate equipment.
Section 3.05. Except for works to be carried out by the Rgie's own forces
with the prior concurrence of the Association, in carrying out Part (D) of the
Project the Borrower shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair
such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and work
schedules, for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and


﻿7
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures of the Rgie and, in respect
of the Project, of any department or agency of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out any part of the Project.
Section  4.02. The   Borrower undertakes that the administration and
maintenance of the main highway system     and the assistance to the regional
authorities for the administration and maintenance of the secondary highway system
will remain the prime responsibility of the R'gie and will receive priority over
the other activities of the RLgie.
Section 4.03. The Borrower undertakes that the services and works not
related to the administration and maintenance of the national highway system,
which will be performed by the R(gie on the account of the Borrower or for
other entities, will be accounted for separately and financed out of funds specifically
provided to the Regie therefor.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Regic, in accordance with
sound engineering practices and economic standards to: (i) adequately maintain
and repair the national highway system; (ii) adequately maintain its highway
maintenance equipment a-d make any necessary repairs and renewals thereof; and
(iii) establish and maintain adequate workshops in appropriate places; and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, staff, services and other resources
required therefor.
(b)   Without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower undertakes: (i)
that the budget of the Regie will include specific and adequate allocations to be
administered by said Equipment Division for the purchase of spare parts for the
repair of highway maintenance equipment and for the renewal of said equipment:


﻿8
and (ii) that the Rgie shall receive an adequate portion of the funds allocated
to the regional authorities for the maintenance of the secondary highway system
and that such portion shall be sufficient to cover the maintenance, repair and
renewal of the highway maintenance equipment which shall be put by the Re'gie
at the disposal of the regional authorities.
(c)   The Borrower undertakes that the funds and resources provided to
the Regie and to the regional authorities for the administration and maintenance
of the national highway system shall be utilized exclusively for the purposes set
forth in paragraph (a) hereof.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall establish and maintain facilities adequate
to collect and record, in accordance with adequate statistical methods and
procedures, such information concerning highway traffic, highway construction and
maintenance costs as shall be reasonably required for proper planning of
maintenance, improvements and extensions of its national highway system.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be required to
ensure:
(a)   that the dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles using the national
highway system are consistent with the structural and geometric design standards
of the highway used;
(b)   that the limits imposed by the laws of the Borrower on such dimensions
and axle-loads in accordance with such design standards are duly observed; and
(c)   that the movement of heavy vehicles is adequately restricted on
sections of highway where necessary during periods of rain and that the rain gates
provided for such purpose are adequately staffed, operated and maintained.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit


﻿9
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of the Rdgie and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of the R6gie and, in respect of the Project, of any department or
agency of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of


﻿10
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the peliod,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
The decrees referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement or any
provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended or abrogated without
the prior concurrence of the Association.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
The event specified in Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The decrees referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement have
been enacted.
(b)   The contract for the employment of the consultants referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement has been entered into by the Borrower and the
consultants.
9


﻿11
Section 8.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to b: itJuded in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the decrees
referred to in Section 8.01 (a) of this Agreement are valid and eftc'tive under
the laws of the Borrower.
Section  8.03.  The date March    31, 1972 is hereby     specified  for
the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.04 and Article
IV of this Agreement and the remedies of the Association under Section 7.03
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date fifteen years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance and Budget of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Le Ministre des Finances et
du Budget de la R6publique
Populaire du Congo
Brazzaville
R6publique Populaire du Congo
Cable address:
Minifinances
Brazzaville


﻿12
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
By /s / Nicolas Mondjo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.         Civil works for            330,000            60% of total ex-
construction and                             penditures
extension of
buildings, work-
shops and stores
II.        Highway maintenance       1,050,000           100% of foreign
equipment and re-                            expenditures
lated spare parts
III.       Spare parts for            150,000            100% of foreign
overhaul of exist-                           expenditures
ing highway mainten-
ance equipment
IV.        Tools, equipment           340,000            100% of foreign
and supplies for                             expenditures
workshops and for the
training center
V.         Consultants'              1,000,000
services
(a)   Salaries, reports,                           100% of foreign
equipment and                                expenditures
supplies
900,000


﻿14
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(b)   Subsistence                                   50% of local ex-
allowance                                     penditures (rep-
100,000                    resenting the
estimated for-
eign exchange
component)
VI.        Training abroad of           30,000            100% of foreign
professional staff                            expenditures
VII.        Refunding of the           600,000            100% of foreign
Highway Engineering                           expenditures
Credit
VIII.      Unallocated                 500,000
TOTAL         4,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories of which goods
are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures";
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.


﻿15
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement:
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I and
of local expenditures under Category V (b) shall increase and no proceeds of the
Credit are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of a Four-Year Program (1972-75) including the
following Parts:
(A)   The reorganization of the Rdgie in its capacity to ensure proper
administration and maintenance of the main highway system and to assist the
regional authorities in the administration and maintenance of the secondary highway
system.
(B)   A comprehensive program to train the personnel of the Regie at all
levels including, inter alia:
(1)  the establishment of a training center, the Centre d'Application
des Techniques des Travaux Publics, (CATP), on the premises
of the central workshops in Brazzaville;
(2)   retraining of all field personnel;
(3)   selection and training of field foremen and workshop supervisors;
and
(4)   on-the-job training and training abroad for professional staff.
(C)   The overhaul of the existing highway maintenance equipment and the
purchase of additional equipment.
(D)   The construction, extension and renovation of buildings, workshops
and stores for the administration and the maintenance of highway maintenance
equipment and related spare parts and for the training of personnel:
(1)   At Brazzaville: headquarters of the Equipment Division of the
Rdgie, central workshop and store, training center;
(2)   At Pointe Noire: field subdivision building, workshop and store;
and
(3)   At Kinkala: field subdivision building, workshop and store.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1976.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works, equipment, tools, spare parts
and supplies estimated to cost $10,000 equivalent or more:
(a)   if bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request;
(b)   before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedure
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification or addition to the bidding documents shall require the Association
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders;
(c)   after bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the Borrower's
consultants on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendations for award of said consultants, and the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it has any
objection to the intended award and shall state the reasons for any objection it
may have;
(d)   if the contract shall be awarded over the Association's objection or
if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditures thereunder shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(e)   two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.


﻿18
2.    With respect to any other contract for civil works or equipment, tools, spare
parts and supplies, the Borrower shall, promptly after the contract is awarded,
furnish to the Association copy of the contract as well as copy of the record
of consultations of suppliers, the report of evaluation of bids or quotations and
recommendations for award of the Borrower's consultants and a statement of the
reasons for any departure from such recommendations. The Association shall
promptly inform the Borrower if it finds that the award of the contract is not
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits and, in such event, no expenditures under such contract shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.


