Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12626
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SULTANATE OF OMAN
THIRD HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2631-OM)
DECEMBER 23, 1993
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of June 22 , 1993)
Currency Unit=Rial Omani (RO)
RO 1 = 1,000 Baizas=US$2.89519 (1985)
US$2.60 (1993)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric SystemBritish/US System
1 meter (m)=3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)=0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq. kilometer (km2)=0.386 sq miles (mi2)
1 metric ton (m ton) =0.984 long ton (Ig ton)
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
AC-Asphalt Concrete
BMS-Bridge Management System
CAS-Cost Accounting System
DBST-Double Bituminous Surface Treatment
DGR-Directorate General of Roads
EMS-Equipment Management System
ERR-Economic Rate of Return
GIS-Graphical Information System
HMMS-Highway Maintenance Management System
HMP-Highway Maintenance Project
HRID-Human Resources and Institutional Development
MENA-Middle East and North Africa Region
MFE-Ministry of Finance and Economy
MOC-Ministry of Communications
NDBMS-National Database Management System
PMS-Pavement Management System
POS-Purchase Order System
PCR-Project Completion Report
SAR-Staff Appraisal Report
SCTP-Supreme Committee for Town Planning
TA-Technical Assistance
TMS-Traffic Management System
VOC-Vehicle Operating Cost
SULTANATE OF OMAN
(FISCAL YEAR)
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Director-General                                      December 23, 1993
Operationas Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Oman
Third Hithway Maintenance Prolect (Loan 2631-OM)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Oman - Third Highway
Maintenance Project (Loan 2631-OM)", prepared by the Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office. The report includes a borrower contribution (Part II).
The overriding lending objective was to support development of a
sustainable highway maintenance system.   The project aimed specifically at:
strengthening procedures for works preparation, planning and implementation;
providing physical support infrastructure for maintenance; training local
personnel; and studying ways to control highway accidents. The project included
civil works, workshops and technical assistance.
Implementation was delayed by about two and one-half years due to the
oil crisis, which constrained public sector financing in the mid-1980s, bureau-
cratic inertia and institutional inexperience. The delays led to a redefinition
of civil works financed under the project.
The revised project achieved its objectives and made a significant
contribution towards establishing a sound maintenance management system and
creating strong maintenance capacities. The overall economic rate of return on
investments, estimated ex-post, is at least 25..  Thus, the project had a
satisfactory  outcome,   and  institutional  development  was   substantial.
Sustainability is likely because of strong government commitment to maintenance
and momentum in the roads sector.
The PCR is succinct and gives a good account of the project history. No
performance audit is planned.
Attachment 
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiaL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without WorLd Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
Sultanate of Oman
Third Highway Maintenance Project, Loan 2631-OM
Project Completion Report
CONTENTS
Preface ....................................................
Evaluation Summary ...........................................ii
PART ONE: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Basic Information   ........................................    1
Background   ............................................   1
Project Objectives and Description  ..............................   2
Project Design and Organization   ...............................   4
Project Implementation   .....................................   5
Project Results   ..........................................  6
Reevaluation of ERR, Impact and Sustainability   .....................   7
Bank-Borrower Performance and Relationship  .......................  11
Consulting Services   ......................................    11
Project Documentation and Data   ..............................    12
Status of Covenants  ......................................    12
Lessons Learned ...........................                                           ....... .  12
PART TWO: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Cooperation with the Bank  ...................................  13
Project Identification, Appraisal and Objectives  ......................  13
Implementation  ..........................................  14
Technical Assistance Services  .................................  15
Development of the Highway Maintenance Management System    ....                                   ....... 16
Training DGR  Personnel  .................................... 20
Summary  and Conclusions  ...................................  22
PART THREE: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Tables
1.     Related Bank Loans  .......................................  32
2.      Project Timetable   ........................................  33
3.      Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements  ..................... 33
4.      Project Appraisal, Loan Categories, Allocated Amounts and Actual Cost ...                               ... 34
5.      Project Results   .........................................    35
6.      Example of Threshold Calculations   ............................. 36
7.      Status of Covenants   ......................................    37
8.      Use of Bank Resources  ....................................   37
9.      Project Description    ......................................    38
10.  Road Network and Vehicle Fleet .......................... ..  39
MAP - IBRD 18682
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
Sultanate of Oman
Third Highway Maintenance Project, Loan 2631-OM
Project Completion Report
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for Oman Third Highway Maintenance Project
for which Loan 2631-OM, in the amount of US$30.0 million, was approved on October 29, 1985.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1992, two and a half years behind schedule after a cancellation
of US$7.985 million. The reduced loan was fully disbursed on April 30, 1993. The Borrower has
graduated from Bank borrowing.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Division of Country Department II,
Middle East and North Africa Region, and the Borrower (Part IT).* The preparation of this PCR was
started during a Bank mission to Oman in June 1992 and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, corresponden- between the Bank and the Borrower
and internal Bank documents.
*    Teje Wolden, Task Mfanager, Alastair J. NMcKechnie, Division Chief, Ram Chopra, Director Reviewers
were: Messrs. NMiguel Quintos (LOAEL), Hladi Abushakra (LEGMIN) and Brian S. Smith (MN2TC).






- ii -
Sultanate of Oman
Third Highway Maintenance Project, Loan 2631-OM
Project Completion Report
EVALUATION SUMMARY
OBJECTIVES
The project was designed as a follow-up to the previous two projects in the Sultanate, which in
turn stemmed from the Oman Technical Assistance Project, Loan 985-OM. The first project was
Oman First Highway Maintenance Project, Loan 1441-OM, on which a Project Completion Report
was prepared in August 1985. The overall objective was to ensure the adequate maintenance of the
Borrower's highway network, which at the time amounted to about 3,250 km of paved and 1,600 km
of gravel roads and 8,000 km of earth tracks. This was to be achieved through the financing of
priority road maintenance projects and technical assistance and training.
The second project was the Second Highway Maintenance Project, Loan 2084-OM with primary
objective of improving the maintenance of Oman's road system through institutional strengthening,
improved maintenance planning, training and both force account and contract maintenance. The Bank
loan of US$15 million was to finance about half of the foreign exchange content and was to be used
to support an asphalt overlay program, the procurement of road equipment, the construction of two
maintenance centers and technical assistance and training.
The Third Highway Maintenance Project, Loan 2631-OM had, as the overall objective, the
furtherance of highway maintenance in Oman through the strengthening of planning, including the
introduction of a pavement management system, improvements to force account capabilities, training,
the establishment of a highway accidents prevention program and selected support of periodic and
routine maintenance and pavement strengthening.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCES
The project, which was appraised in December, 1984, due to bureaucratic delays in Oman did
not become effective until July, 1986. Loan closing was planned for June 30, 1990 but was
postponed three times until final closing on December 31, 1992. Final disbursements, after US$8
million cancellation by the Government in 1991, took place in May, 1993. These delays were
primarily due to: (i) the delayed effectiveness; (ii) severe budget constraints imposed by the
Government following the mid-1980s collapse of oil prices which also led to loan restructuring;
(iii) the slow progress of the Second Highway Maintenance Project (Loan 2084-OM) which the
Government wished to complete before embarking on disbursement from Loan 2631-OM; (iv) slow



- iii -
recruitment of consultants; and (v) insufficient liaising in some cases among the Directorate General
of Roads (Ministry of Communications), Ministry of Finance and Economy and the Development
Council which caused procurement delays and led to some eligible contracts not being financed under
the loan.
RESULTS
Despite the implementation delays, reductions in emphasis on institution building and the US$8
million cancellation, the project largely achieved its objectives. Priority road maintenance activity
was undertaken. A direct labor force and Omani contractor capability to perform good quality surface
dressing were built up. Through the technical assistance component: (i) a highway maintenance
management system was developed and implemented, eventually with Omani engineering
counterparts; (ii) a highway sector cost accounting system was introduced; (iii) a highway safety study
was undertaken and a safety program prepare(l; and (iv) road and bridge design standards were
updated. The ERR was satisfactory at an overall level of >22 percent compared with 37 percent
estimated at appraisal; however, due to radical project restructuring that included new components no
true comparison can be made.
SUSTAINABILITY
Since O&M funding is adequate and maintenance works are carried out at a reasonable
standard, the only factor posing a threat to sustainability of project achievements is the shortage of
Omani professional staff (engineers, accountants etc.) in line positions in DGR. Continuation of the
consulting services for another 2-3 years will be important in providing operational support for
planning maintenance activities, while the training of newly recruited Omani engineers in the use of
the highway maintenance planning and budgeting system is continuing. This policy is supported by
the Government and the consultants emplo)ed under the project have already been extended by DGR
beyond the loan closing date. Should the Government supported policy of omanization go slower than
expected, the DGR will have to continue using the private sector as has been the case in the past.
FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
There are three main lessons to be learned from this project: (i) without close professional
involvement of the borrower's personnel, especially at a high level, the borrower's commitment to
project objectives and implementation, is constrained; (ii) greater attention needs to be paid during
preparation to establishing an authoritative unit with a clear understanding of procurement and
disbursement procedures within the executing agency and with ready access to the highest levels of
concerned ministries; and (iii) the time required to address institutional issues satisfactorily, especially
in traditional societies, is easily underestimated.



Sultanate of Oman
Third Highway Mlaintenance Project, Loan 2631-OM
Project Completion Report
PART ONE
PROJECT REVIEW FRONI BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Basic Information
Title           Third Highway Maintenance Project
Loan No         263 1-OM
RVP Unit         MENA
Country   :     Sultanate of Oman
Sector          Transport and Tourism
Subsector:      Highways
Background
2.1    The national highway network is under the jurisdiction of the Directorate General of Roads
(DGR) within the Ministry of Communications (MOC). During the 15-year period between 1975 and
1990 the road network was expanding rapidly, and the length of paved roads increased from about
700 to 4,500 km. This represents an annual increase of about 13.2 percent of paved roads per year.
During the same period, the unpaved network also expanded from 3,300 to more than 12,000 km, an
annual increase of 9.3 percent. The Government has adopted a policy that emphasizes the importance
of effective and timely maintenance. By developing the institutional capacity to carry out the needed
maintenance, the Government is helping to preserve its already considerable investment in
infrastructure and the World Bank has played an important part in this.
2.2    The Bank has been associated with the road sector in Ornan since 1977 through four
highway-related operations:
(i)    The first was a technical assistance (TA) project, Loan 985-OM, focussing upon
national economic planning and the transport and agriculture sectors, granted to
the Government of Oman. Under this, consultants were employed to prepare a
development program to form the institutions needed to protect past investments.
(ii)    The second was the First Highway Maintenance Project (HMP), Loan 1441-OM,
which was satisfactorily completed in May 1985. Institution building and resource
development were provided in the form of assistance for starting up a training
program and support for a three-year tranche (1979-81) of the multi-year road
maintenance program. However, much remained to be done at the time of project
completion.



- 2 -
(iii)   The third operation was the Second Highway Maintenance Project Loan 2084-
OM, which closed on December 31, 1988 and had as a priority continued resource
transfer in road maintenance by providing maintenance facilities, financing
important maintenance and building up skills in the road sector. The project was
designed as a follow-up of the first HMP.
(iv)   The last of these highway-related operations was the Third Highway Maintenance
Project, Loan 2631-OM, which was designed to be a follow-up to the previous
projects. It was approved on October 29, 1985 and closed on December 31,
1992.
2.3    The Second HMP was extended for three years. By the time the PCR for that project was
issued in October 1989, the Third HMP was three years old and had recently been restructured. The
original loan closing date of June 30, 1990 was postponed to June 30, 1992. Many of the findings in
the PCR of the second project are also applicable for this project.
Project Objectives and Description
3.1    Sector Development Objectives. Until 1970 there was no modern transport system in Oman.
The highway network consisted of only 10 km of paved highway and an unknown length of earth
tracks. Today the network consists of an extensive, and still growing, highway network of 4,700 km
of paved roads and more than 13,000 km of gravel roads and tracks. The land transport services
currently constitute about 4 percent of the non-oil gross domestic product. During the last 20 years,
the objective has been to establish an economically efficient transport system that also meets social
needs; this has largely been achieved. In the urban regions, in particular the Muscat capital area, the
growth of traffic has been such that, despite a large highway development program, there is still need
for major investments in highway facilities. In the rural areas, more and more communities are being
connected to the main highway network by roads with bituminous surfacing with consequent
reductions in operating and maintenance costs. The Government's objective in the last completed
five-year plan (1986-90) was to continue to improve the highway system and to develop the Omani
human resources needed to operate the system without the assistance of expatriates. At the same
time, the Government has given priority to protecting existing investments by establishing a road
pavement management system. In the future, more and more attention will have to be given to the
preservation of road system assets at the expense of a further expansion of the network.
3.2    Project Objectives. The overall objective is the support of a sustainable system of highway
maintenance in Oman by:
(a) Strengthening project preparation, planning and implementation procedures, including the
development of guidelines for project and program economic evaluation, the introduction
of a pavement management system and the design and implementation of a highway
maintenance cost accounting system.
(b) Promoting and sustaining effective routine and periodic highway maintenance through the
development of support infrastructure (highway workshops, work centers, pavement and



traffic data equipment) and economically viable work programs initially aided by Bank
participation in the selection of priority works.
(c) Training local personnel in skills to undertake planning, implementation and monitoring
tasks to achieve Oman's highway maintenance, investment and highway safety programs.
(d) Developing an effective program for the control and limitation of highway accidents.
3.3    Project Description. The project was designed to assist in the implementation of the first
three years of the Government's five-year highway program (1986-90). Specifically, the project was
designed to assist in the following activities to promote institution building and manpower
development:
(a) The construction of workshops, highway maintenance centers and training center
extensions.
(b) Equipment and spare parts for highway maintenance, workshops, pavement data collection
and processing, and highway safety.
(c) Technical assistance to MOC and DGR, including the training of staff.
(d) The paving of unpaved roads (bituminous surface treatment).
3.4    The support for paving of unpaved roads was included after negotiation upon request by the
Borrower to assist them in introducing bituminous surface treatment, which was not being used at the
time. The project was restructured in 1989 to: (i) allow for more Bank support to works, in
particular asphalt pavement strengthening, which was also a part of previous highway maintenance
projects; and (ii) to delete the financing of training center extensions, as future training was to be
carried out by existing vocational training establishments. The loan, therefore, financed all, or part,
of the foreign exchange content of:
(a) Equipment, spare parts and materials for highway data collection and processing and
highway safety.
(b) Construction for workshops and highway maintenance work centers, including necessary
equipment.
(c) Bituminous surface treatment for unpaved roads and asphalt overlays for pavements in
need of strengthening.
(d) Consulting services and individual specialists for highway maintenance, pavement
management, cost accounting, training, highway safety and general technical assistance.



-4-
Project Design and Organization
4.1    The project was designed within the framework of the Government's Five-Year Highway
Program, which was developed by DGR with assistance from the technical assistance consultants
employed under the previous project (Loan 2084-OM). The project was also prepared with the
assistance of the same consultants and was appraised by the Bank, in December 1984.
4.2    The project was originally designed and appraised as a US$15 million project supporting the
strengthening of existing asphalt concrete surfaced roads and for human resources and institutional
development (HRID)(see Table 4). The design was almost identical to that of the Second HMP. The
loan amount was increased to US$20 million before negotiations upon request by the Government
during appraisal. To be consistent with the Bank's strategy for Oman, as spelled out in the Oman
Graduation Paper, the Bank financing for civil works was shifted from the financing of pavements, as
had been the case on previous projects, to the financing of work centers, workshops and training
center extensions to facilitate and develop institutional capacity to carry out maintenance operations.
The focus was on supporting critical aspects of manpower development, institution building and
technical assistance consistent with the strategy. Between negotiations and Board Presentation, the
project design was modified. Road works to upgrade unpaved roads to paved standards were included
and the loan amount was increased to US$30 million.
4.3   In 1989, the project was restructured, and the loan agreement was amended to accommodate
more road strengthening and upgrading and technical assistance was reduced. It was also agreed to
remove the training center extensions from the project and for training to be undertaken in vocational
training schools; and Bank financing of improvements to work centers was reduced. More emphasis
was put on training DGR counterparts, especially as civil engineering graduates would become
available in the early 1990s, reflecting the need to focus on manpower development. These changes
were partly occasioned by the impact of large falls in oil revenues on the Government budget leading
to reduction in road maintenance resource availability and resulting in a backlog of maintenance
related activity, especially surface dressing highly trafficked gravel roads and tracks.
4.4    The technical assistance component of the project included: (i) providing policy support to
set up new policies, guidelines and procedures for the implementation of the Borrower's Fourth and
Fifth Five-Year Highway Programs; (ii) proposing a highway safety program; and (iii) establishing a
pavement management system, including a cost accounting system. A comprehensive, multi-year
organizational and manpower development plan for DGR, based on the rolling plan concept, could
have been a useful tool in better defining the role of technical assistance and the need for training in
DGR. The organizational unit within DGR responsible for all activities related to the management of
externally financed projects did not liaise sufticiently, especially at the working level, with
counterparts in the MFE and Development Council. This was to some extent corrected towards the
end of implementation but was still hindered by the strong, traditional hierarchical system of
administration.
4.5    Limited Omani involvement in project preparation may have been efficient but did not foster
the ownership needed to facilitate implementation. The absence of potential Omani counterparts at



- 5 -
this stage made greater participation impossible and the technical assistance personnel had to function
to a great extent as line management. This is no longer the case (see para. 5.5).
4.6    Approximately 93 percent of the original project (excluding routine maintenance) consisted of
civil works and supporting activity whilst about 80 percent of the loan was originally allocated to
these categories. In the event about 96 percent of the restructured project was earmarked for these
purposes and, allowing for the US$8 million cancellation about 85 percent of the loan was disbursed
on these activities (Table 4).
Project Implementation.
5.1    There were no special effectiveness conditions, but it took almost nine months before the loan
could be declared effective mainly due to bureaucratic delays in Omani processing of the agreement.
The delay had no practical consequence for the Borrower since the Second HMP had funds left and
could disburse for basically the same project components. The loan became effective on July 3, 1986.
5.2    The original loan closing date was June 30, 1990; the actual loan closing took place on
December 31, 1992. Nearly US$8 million were cancelled by the Government in 1992. Causes of
slow project implementation were:
(a) the sharp drop in Government revenues following the 1980s fall in oil prices led to a
retrenchment in expenditure across the board and this also impacted upon disbursements
under the Second HMP (Loan 2084-OM): consequently, a decision was taken to
complete disbursements under Loan 2084-OM before drawing on Loan 2631-OM, the start
of disbursements was postponed until the beginning of 1988;
(b) despite frequent Bank supervision mission efforts, communications between DGR (MOC)
and the MFE and Development Council were not always satisfactory, thus, certain
expenditures appropriate for financing from the loan were either not financed from loan
proceeds or financed at a very late stage;
(c) procurement procedures were sometimes not adhered to, or, if they were, documentation
provided to the Bank was incomplete; this led to significant processing delays; and
(d) the Government decision to "re-tender" the technical assistance component of the project
led to a delay of over one year - not just in the technical assistance component pr _ but
in the many projected related line management jobs that the consultant was required to
perform.
5.3    Disbursements against surface treatment (Category IA) and asphalt overlay (Category IB)
were largely completed and comprised 53% of the original loan amount. Similarly, Category 3
(Consultants' Services) were fully disbursed. The areas where disbursements were well below project
estimates were categories l(C) (workshops), I(D) (work centers) and 2(A) (equipment for
workshops). Thus, project physical objectives were largely achieved and the technical assistance



- 6 -
targets were met. However, some institutional objectives in the sense of traditional strengthening of
the highway maintenance infrastructure, manpower training and putting in place an effective Omani
operated highway planning system, including road safety, were only partially met. Efforts are,
however, continuing.
5.4   In the PCR of the Second HMP, the establishment of a project management unit (MOF, DGR,
Development Council) fully versed in administrating Bank-financed projects was suggested to facilitate
project implementation. Such a unit was established towards the end of the Third HMP but did not
have much impact on implementation progress. Again, one of the main reasons for this is the strong
hierarchial decision-taking process: in this, although discussions can take place at working level,
decision-taking involving several ministries can only take place at ministerial level. This is a
characteristic of the administration system that would need to be tackled at the country level.
5.5    The implementation problems demonstrate the difficulties in managing projects with dual
objectives: institution building/manpower development and the constructing/upgrading of roads.
Road construction and upgrading by contractors are normally faster disbursing activities, with less
Bank staff input, and tend to get more attention than components that involve building lasting
organizations. Lower salaries in the public sector and a lack of qualified engineers has also made it
difficult to find Omani counterpart personnel with technical backgrounds, which has adversely affected
implementation. However, with the first engineering graduates coming out of Sultan Qaboos
University in 1992, and the Government embarking on an Omanization program, the situation had
begun to improve at the time of loan closing. Several local counterpart staff were appointed and
underwent training by consultants during the last six months of the project in order to take over the
day-to-day operation of the highway maintenance management system and other supporting systems.
The DGR would need to follow up on this.
5.6    Despite supervision mission efforts, DGR frequently carried out tendering, awarded contracts
and started construction work without following agreed procedures for prior review of tender
documents required under Bank loan financing. Many contracts were, therefore, approved ex-post for
financing by the Bank -- after careful review that the process actually followed Bank procurement
guidelines (except for the prior review and no objection by the Bank before award of contract).
Project Results
6.1    Surface Treatment. Because of delays and restructuring, the projects that were financed
were not the ones that were appraised. The projects are listed in Table S. In all, 106 km of gravel
roads or earth tracks were upgraded with a 30 cm combined sub-base/base layer and a double
bituminous surface treatment (DBST) on top as wearing course. The roads were nearly all built in
1989 and 1990, and were generally in good condition when last inspected with no visible signs of
distress. This is encouraging considering that DGR and local contractors had previously little
experience with low cost surface treatment.
6.2    Asphalt Concrete (AC). The works are located within or adjacent to the towns of Ibra, Al
Qabil and Bidya in the interior of the northeastern region of Sharqiyah. Included are:



(a) The rehabilitation of 9 km of National Highway No. 15 at major intersection.
(b) The construction of 55.9 km of roads, of which 16.3 km are in Ibra, 16.7 km in Al
Qabil, and 22.9 km in Bidya.
(c) The construction of Irish crossings, flood protection works and culverts associated with
the above.
The total value of the works is approximately 4 million Omani rials for about 65 km of AC
surfaced roads, most of which received new pavement construction. The general standard of
construction is considered acceptable, although the AC mix design in places appears to have resulted
in a bitumen-rich surfacing that could be prone to rutting under heavy loads and could give low skid
resistance during rains.
6.3    Other Maintenance Related Civil Works. The loan also financed bridge repairs on the
Bidbid-Sur Road, the repair of drainage structures on the Seeb-Malahah Road and bridge and road
repairs on the Sohar-Buraimi Road and minor repair works on some other roads. In addition, the
loan financed civil engineering works on the Ibra Maintenance Center, mainly an office block and a
workshop building with equipment. Recent visual inspection of the civil works that were completed
in 1989 showed only minor defects, and these works appeared to be in good condition.
6.4    Through technical assistance, the project has been successful in achieving the following results
related to institutional development objectives:
(a) Developing a pavement management system that places maintenance programming and
budgeting on a sound technical basis.
(b) Introducing a road maintenance cost accounting system, which provides important input
for cost estimates, budgeting and control.
(c) Establishing road traffic data collection systems.
(d) Training Omani nationals in the use of the above systems.
(e) Preparing of Highway Safety Program.
(f) Developing an information recording and retrieval system.
(g) Revising road and bridge standards.
Reevaluation of the ERR, Impact and Sustainability
7.1    The beneficiaries of the project fall into three main categories: (i) government agencies
responsible for building, maintaining and financing the road system; (ii) road users; and (iii) social



- 8 -
and economic centers served by improved road transport.
7.2    The original project cost was anticipated to cover the 1986-88 period of the 1986-90 Highway
Maintenance Program. The project cost was estimated at US$192.54 million (including contingencies)
comprising US$137.02 million for capital cost and technical assistance and US$55.52 million for
routine maintenance. Of this, the Bank loan was to finance US$30 million (22 percent) of the capital
cost and technical assistance. The overall ERR, including routine maintenance with an assumed ERR
of 100 percent, was estimated at 47 percent. For the overlay program the ERR was calculated at 31
percent, and for the surface treatment program it was estimated at a minimum of 12 percent. In the
event, as described in the preceding paragraphs, due to delays in implementation and changes in
project content, the basic highway maintenance program straddled the 1986-90 and 1991-95 programs
and approximately US$8 million of the loan was cancelled. Consequently, it is not possible to
undertake an exact reevaluation of the appraisal report's ERR. Furthermore, the borrower has not
provided the Bank with either the finished Highway Maintenance Plans or the results and thus, the
assessment of the overall achievement of objectives is not strictly possible. However, an attempt has
been made to evaluate the economic results of these components financed from the Bank loan and to
indicate the likelihood of the appraisal evaluation being achieved.
7.3    Total Project Assessment. During supervision missions the opportunity has been taken to
review standards of maintenance in the field. These are good, and with the generally strict budgetary
control it is probable that these standards are being achieved in a cost effective way: this applies to
both contract and force account operation. Nonetheless, it is expected that if the Highway
Maintenance Management System (HMMS) developed under the technical assistance component is
properly applied savings, especially in periodic maintenance, will he possible without sacrificing
standards. The extent to which the HMMS will be applied will depend on continued use of consulting
services and a growing participation by trained Omani staff.
7.4    Surface Dressing Program. Selection of unpaved roads for surface dressing, either by
contract or force account, was made using a traffic threshold as the criterion. This, in turn, had been
established by consultants, taking into account vehicle operating cost (voc) and maintenance savings,
during the preparation phase. The three critical factors were cost per kilometer, level of traffic and
savings: in some cases maintenance savings, especially in distant areas were also important.
(i)   Cost per Kilometer. At appraisal, the contract cost per kilometer of upgrading from
unpaved to surface dressed standard, was estimated at US$75,000. Actual contracts
financed under the loan have ranged between US$60-85,000 km. Thus, we are confident
that the cost side has remained reasonably constant.
(ii) Level of Traffic. Although under the Project the technical assistance team has restarted a
comprehensive traffic census program, sufficient results are not yet available to establish
trends. However, vehicle statistics (the reliability of which has been significantly
improved) indicate a growth rate of between 8 percent and 9 percent compared with a 10
percent estimate at appraisal. All contracts financed from the loan were preceded by
feasibility studies agreed by the Bank: the studies stated that the traffic thresholds had
been reached and these were:



-9-
Flat terrain      >      400 vpd
Hilly terrain     >      350 vpd
Mountainous       >      425 vpd
Consequently, if the threshold figures are accepted and with a growth rate of between
8 percent and 9 percent applied, the traffic component of the evaluation would still be
valid. The threshold for "Hilly" terrain is lower due to the voc savings being greater than
in "Flat" terrain while construction costs do not counter balance the difference. In the
case of "Mountainous" terrain increased construction costs more than counter balance the
higher voc savings and the threshold, therefore, increases.
(iii) Vehicle Operating Costs (voc). Since the beginning of the project, the consultants have
carried out intensive work to establish voc under different road conditions. Use has also
been made of several cost estimating models including those of the World Bank and the
Transport and Road Research Laboratory. At the time of appraisal voc estimates under
different sorts of operating conditions (typified by road surface roughness in mm/km)
were estimated, and these are compared with the 1992 researched figures in the following
table in US cents per kilometer.
Vehicle Operating Costs (US cents/km)
Vehicle Type                                  Operating Conditions
Surface       Asphalt
Tracks       Gravel          Dressed        Concrete
Appraisal Estimate
Cars                          19.0          15.5            12.1          11.1
4-wheel drive                 46.5          40.6            33.8          32.5
Trucks (medium)               74.0          61.1            45.6          43.0
Researched Figures
Cars                          44.8          32.2            24.4          20.9
4-wheel drive                 74.1          51.4            37.5          32.0
Truck *)                     109.0          86.8            79.1          70.3
*) average of medium and heavy trucks
It can be seen that the recently researched operating costs are appreciably higher than
those estimated at the time of appraisal and, with the exception of trucks, the cost
differential affected by operating conditions is also greater. Consequently, taking into
account the three reassessments of road cost, traffic levels and voc, the return will be
higher than estimated at appraisal. Analyzed over a 10-year period, the minimum case of



- 10 -
400 vpd gravel road upgraded to surface dressed standard, and an "average vehicle" voc
saving of 10 cents/km yields an ERR of 16.5 percent. Thus, this component will have an
ERR in excess of the 12 percent threshold established at appraisal. Furthermore, this
does not take into account savings in the very high maintenance cost of a gravel road
carrying levels of traffic in excess of 400 vpd. Table 6 is setting out the basis for the
calculations.
7.5     Overlay Program. The program set out in the SAR was not undertaken. Overlay work,
apart from some Irish crossing, was limited to 57 km of roads in the relatively heavily populated
Ibra, Al Qabil and Bidiya areas with 1992 surveyed traffic flows of 3000 vpd. The contract cost
averaged US$199,000 km. Using the above data on vocs - moving from surface dressed to asphalt
concrete roads - the "average vehicle" generated a saving of 6 US cents/km. Assuming a 9 percent
traffic growth rate the component yields an ERR of 39 percent over a 10-year period.
7.6     No ERR was calculated for the technical assistance component. However, the total
components financed under the loan are estimated to have yielded a minimum ERR of 27 percent. Of
course, should routine maintenance be included the ERR for the project as a whole would be very
much higher.
7.7    Impact. It is probably too early to assess the impact of this project Mr se but, looking at it
as an extension of the First and Second Highway Maintenance Projects, there is no doubt that the
maintenance authorities are much better equipped to protect the highway system. This applies to
planning and supervision capability as well as work execution. Particular points to highlight are:
(i) the development of the pavement management system and cost accounting in the DGR which
should lead to greater cost effectiveness; (ii) the preparation of a highway safety program;
(iii) development of Omani road and bridge standards; and (iv) establishment of effective surface
dressing units within the DGR. Progress has yet to be made, however, on the full acceptance of
economic evaluation for road improvement and construction programs. The projects have also
assisted in major improvements to communications with rural centers permitting improved economic
activity and the effective delivery of social services.
7.8     Sustainability. The Second and Third HMPs were instrumental in building up of a
capability within the DGR and among local contractors to carry out periodic maintenance and
upgrading of gravel roads by the use of double bituminous surface treatment (DBST), a durable and
inexpensive surface treatment for low trafficked roads. This has been successful, and DGR's
balanced approach to road maintenance by the use of private sector contractors and consultants while
maintaining force account capability, documents an institutional strength that is a good basis for
sustainable operations, in contrast to many developing countries, where the private sector is only used
in road maintenance if there is no alternative.
7.9     The only factor posing a threat to continuity and thus sustainability of project achievements
is the shortage of Omani engineers in line positions in DGR. Presently the consultants employed to
introduce the new Highway Maintenance Management System is assisting in carrying out work in line
positions in the Directorate. Continuation of the consulting services for another 2-3 years will be
important in providing operational support for planning maintenance activities, while the training of



- 11 -
newly recruited Omani professionals (engineers, accountants etc.) in the use of the highway
maintenance planning, accounting and budgeting system is continuing. This policy is supported by
the Government and the consultants employed under the project have already been extended by DGR
beyond the loan closing date. Should the omanization go slower than expected, the DGR will have to
continue using the private sector as has been the case in the past.
Bank-Borrower Performance and Relationship
8.1     The project entity (DGR) performed well and carried out routine and periodic maintenance
and road improvement projects within its budget. However, considering that this was the third Bank-
financed project, it was disappointing that due to poor communications with the MOC procurement
unit, on occasion, the Bank's procurement guidelines as agreed during negotiations and required by
the loan agreement were not followed.
8.2      The Borrower and the Bank should have identified and agreed on specific maintenance
projects for financing when the project was restructured.  In this way, more appropriate projects
could have been identified (in relation to the objectives) and the Bank's procurement guidelines could
have been applied early in the process. It was inadequate, at Oman's level of technical development,
to adopt what was basically a sector approach. The delays and the budget reductions after the project
was restructured made the subsequent identification of suitable projects for financing more difficult.
Consulting Services
9.1     The technical assistance component of the project comprised 20 percent of the loan at
appraisal, which was in line with the Bank's country strategy. This amount, however, was reduced
to US$3 million (10 percent) after restructuring in 1989. The reduction can partly be explained by
the fact that the consultant recruited in 1987 for the Third HMP was partly charged to the
undisbursed funds in the Second HMP.
9.2    This consultant: (i) provided day-to-day assistance to DGR for the review of documents, the
completion of design work and the preparation and review of tender documents; (ii) conducted special
studies, such as of highway design manuals, highway inventory reports, annual road maintenance
reports, five-year highway programs, vehicle operating costs updates, the cost accounting system, the
pavement management system, the highway safety program, traffic data reports and quarterly
progress reports; and (iii) trained of DGR counterpart staff. The design and supervision of road
contracts by international consulting firms were also charged to this category.
9.3    The new consulting firm that was recruited under the project came in at a very late stage due
to bureaucratic delays, but the general performance of the firm was good. Reports were produced as
programmed in the initial action plan, and systems have been put in place in the DGR offices as
scheduled. However, due to the lack of local engineers, the systems and reports could not have been
developed with counterpart staff, and the late arrival of newly graduated Omani engineers as
counterpart staff raises a question of the sustainability of the systems introduced.



- 12 -
Project Documentation and Data
10.1    The Staff Appraisal Report and Legal Documents generally provided a satisfactory
framework for project implementation. The Bank's procurement guidelines may possibly have
contributed to the Borrower's choosing to finance some civil works contracts from its own budgets
rather than waiting for the Bank's review process and approval of contract awards. Price variation on
civil works contracts is not common in Oman. The Government prefers fixed price contracts. This
has been a difficult issue, and the loan has mostly financed small contracts of relative short duration
to avoid the use of price adjustment clauses in the contracts. Late preparation of withdrawal
applications has slowed down disbursements. In particular, the Borrower believes that payments
made in local currency should be accepted for reimbursement of the foreign currency component, at
the appropriate percentage given in the Loan Agreement, and not be considered as local expenditures.
10.2    The availability of data for the preparation of the PCR has been acceptable. One back-to-
office report was missing in the information center files, and it would simplify the review of the
project if all Bank supervision reports were filed in a separate folder, not together with other
documents and general correspondence.
Status of Covenants
11.1    The Borrower complied with all of the covenants although there were delays in
implementation. The status of compliance with covenants is shown in Table 7, Part III.
Lessons Learned
12.1    The project was the fourth Bank-assisted project in the transport sector. The project design
continued building on the achievements of the earlier projects, namely: focusing on a continuation of
financing civil works (road improvements), manpower development and institution development. The
project provided a number of useful lessons.
(a)     Counterpart Organization. All the maintenance projects could have benefited from a higher
degree of Omani involvement in project preparation, in particular from the highway agency
to facilitate ownership and commitment during implementation. By integrating the project
better in the organization of the main beneficiary, it is likely that also the processing of with-
drawal applications and accounting and auditing of the project account would have improved.
(b)     Slow Disbursement was largely a function of: (i) the over-reaction of the Government to the
decline in oil revenues, which led to a hiatus of over a year in most sectors; and (ii) the lack
of timeliness in processing payment certificates and reimbursement applications: this is partly
a function of hierarchical administration and should have been addressed during preparation.
(c)     Underestimating Difficulties. The difficulty and time required in building lasting institutions
is easily underestimated, in particular when the human resources and institutional
development component is an add-on to a larger civil works project that is not disbursing
and requires a lot of attention from both Borrower and the Bank.



- 13 -
Sultanate of Oman
Third Highway Maintenance Project, Loan 2631-OM
Project Completion Report
PART TWO
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Cooperation with the World Bank
1. 1         This project falls within the context of active cooperation between the Government of
the Sultanate of Oman and the World Bank aiming at assisting institution building efforts in the MOC
and DGR on highway maintenance, training of DGR staff, highway safety, pavement management
and cost accounting.
Project Identification, Appraisal and Objectives
2.1    Project Identification. The need for, and the objectives and components of this Third
Highway Maintenance Project were identified by both the Ministry of Communications (MOC), and
the World Bank as being a necessary continuation of the Second highway Maintenance Project.
2.2    This Project is related to the road network in the Sultanate of Oman under the responsibility
of the MOC for which a short description follows:
2.3    Road transport in Oman is the major mode of transport linking the capital Muscat and the
other major cities and areas in the country with each other and linking the Sultanate with the
neighboring countries.
2.4    The road network and vehicle fleet have grown quite extensively since 1970. By the end of
1992, the road network comprised 5,200 kms of paved roads, out of which 4,984 kms were
constructed by the MOC (4,286 kms are now under the responsibility of the MOC), and 21,000 kms
of unpaved roads (gravel and track roads), out of which 4,984 kms were constructed by the MOC
(4,286 kms are now under the responsibility of the MOC), and 21,000 kms of unpaved roads (gravel
and track roads), out of which 14,873 kms were built and are maintained by the MOC. Agencies
other than the MOC responsible for their own roads are Muscat Municipality, Ministry of Defense,
Ministry of Regional Municipalities and Petroleum Development Oman (P.D.O.).



- 14 -
2.5    Table 10 presents comparison between the growth of the network and vehicle fleet for
selected years between 1970 and 1992.
2.6    Project Appraisal. The Project was appraised by the World Bank following its mission visit
to Oman in December 1984. A Staff Appraisal Report of a Third Highway Maintenance Project
(Loan 2631-OM) dated February 20, 1985 was issued as a World Bank document under Report No.
5493-OM. Following the World Bank appraisal and negotiations between the Government of the
Sultanate of Oman and the World Bank, the Third Highway Maintenance Project (Loan 2631-OM),
Agreement was signed on February 12, 1986.
2.7    Project Objectives. As for the previous World Bank Loan Highway Maintenance Projects,
the overall objectives of this Project were to protect the large investment in recent highway
improvements and sustain an efficient highway transport network to serve present and future demand,
including institution building within the MOC while providing necessary assistance in expertise
manpower resources and training of Omani personnel. In particular, the objectives of the Project
were:
(a)    strengthening of project preparation, planning and implementation of
procedures including the development of guidelines for project and program
economic evaluation and the introduction of a pavement management system;
(b)    promoting and sustaining effective routine and periodic highway maintenance
through the development of support infrastructure (highway workshops, work
centers, pavement and traffic data equipment) and sound work programs aided
by Bank participation in selection of priority works;
(c)   training local personnel in necessary skills to undertake planning,
implementation and monitoring tasks to achieve Oman's highway
maintenance, investment and highway safety programs; and
(d)   the development of an effective program for the control and limitation of
highway accidents.
Implementation
2.8           Project Implementation. The Project was implemented through the MOC - the
Executing Agency - with cooperation of the World Bank. The implementation of the Project was
slower than anticipated and had overrun its original closing date by 2.5 years (from June 30, 1990 to
December 31, 1992). Compared to the original project period of 4.0 years - from the effectiveness
date (July 1, 1986) to the original plan closing date (June 30, 1990) - the overrun period is 62.5%.
2.9           The main reasons for this delay were the continued economic stringency which
followed the drop in oil prices at the beginning of 1986, and which in turn affected the government
financial resources and, consequently, available funds to some project components and the schedule of



- 15 -
disbursements. In some cases, it has been found out that the time envisaged for a project from
inception, design, tendering to letting was shorter than what it actually took.
2.10          It was found that an amount equivalent to US$7,985,000 could not be disbursed by
December 1992 and was, consequently, cancelled from the Loan. This is mainly due to the dropping
of the rehabilitation of Ibri-Dank Project from the list of projects eligible for reimbursement from the
Loan, as it could not have been completed by the Loan closing date.
2.11          Table 4 presents a comparison of actual disbursements with original estimated
allocations by loan category. Table 4 presents summary of estimated and actual disbursements from
the loan by year.
2.12          The project was supervised by the World Bank through its several mission visits to
Oman, averaging about two visits per year. Table 8B presents a summary of the World Bank mission
visits since July 1985.
2.13          Implementation Details. Table 5 presents a list of projects reimbursable from the
World Bank Loan 2631-OM.
2.14          Category l(a), Project No. 12/90, Ibra, Al Qabil, Bidiya Internal Roads. This project
is virtually completed with variation orders for some additional works.
2.15          Category l(e), Project 1/88, Ibra Workshop is virtually completed.
2.16          Category l(d), Construction of new DGR workcenters: tenders for administration
block and basic facilities for five workcenters have been opened and evaluated. But tenders had been
withheld by the MOC until the picture of entrusting track and other light maintenance works to
contractors in each area in lieu of direct DGR forces had become clear.
2.17          Category 2(b), Project 1/89, equipment for workshops: tendering was stopped by
MOC due to non-availability of funds.
2.18          Category 3(a), Project No. 3/89, Technical Assistance: for budget allocation
shortage, the fees for the technical assistance consultants were paid only up to November 1992.
Thus, although this item is eligible for reimbursement up to December 1992, reimbursement was only
possible till November 1992. The MOC had already taken steps with the Development Council to
resolve this matter. Otherwise, all other projects eligible for reimbursement from the World Bank
Loan 263 1-OM were completed.
Technical Assistance Services
2.19          General. During the period of the Third Highway Maintenance project (July 1986-
December 1992), the consultant's agreements and staffing passed through the following stages:



- 16 -
July 1986-December 1988:     Agreement with Dar Al Handash consultants with
only four (4) permanent staff due to budget
constraints.
January 1988-June 1990:      Agreement with SICO, comprising same four
permanent safe.
July 1990-June 1992:         Agreement with Misr Consulting Engineers and
CTL, comprising full staff including the four
permanent staff as required to fulfill the agreement
tasks.
July 1992-June 1993:         One year extension of previous agreement with Misr
Consulting Engineers and CTL comprising relatively
reduced staff.
2.20         Major Tasks Achieved. The Consultant has fully fulfilled his tasks including, inter
alia, the following:
(a)    One of the major tasks accomplished was the development of a computerized
Highway Maintenance Management System (HMMS), custom made to the
local conditions, general procedures and requirements of the MOC/DGR, and
incorporating recent development in technology. A description of the
developed (HMMS) and its subsystems is presented in para. 2.21 below.
(b)    Highway Safety Study (see para. 2.33 below).
(c)    Updated Highway User Costs (see para. 2.34 below).
(d)    Cost Accounting computerized system.
(e)    The 1991-95 Road Maintenance Plan.
(f)    A Feasibility Study of Road Projects candidate for the Fourth 5-Year Plan
(1991-95) was carried out separately by Gibb Petermuller & Partners
consultants based on Terms of Reference prepared by the Technical
Assistance Consultant, who also monitored the study.
(g)    Training of DGR personnel (see para. 2.40 below).
Development of the Highway Maintenance Management System (HMMS)
2.21         Development of the HMMS was done through the Technical Assistance Consultant
and took about two years beside other activities of the project. The foundation on which the HMMS
was developed started with previous Technical Assistance services and continued throughout.



- 17 -
2.22          The Maintenance Management System (MMS) Report 1990 describing the
maintenance management evolution in Oman, was considered vital in providing supporting
information and data on the current practice utilized by the DGR/MOC on various activities
including: traffic and accident data, specification, monitoring, training, cost accounting and
implementation of maintenance works as well as suggestions for future development. The MMS
Report was used as an essential reference and was the base for current HNIMS development and its
relevant subsystems.
2.23          The developed HMMS is modular in design and installed in a micro computer
environment equipped with user friendly menus and networking facility. The HMMS includes five
main subsystem. There are Pavement Management System (PMS), Bridge and Structures
Management System (BMS), Equipment Management System (EMS), Traffic Management System
(TMS) and Cost Accounting System (CAS).
2.24          In addition to the development of the HMMS and its related subsystems, and as part
of the DGR automation, the consultant developed customized purchasing and stores systems, which
are under implementation.
2.25          Efforts are continuing to fine tune and fully implement the HMMS developed.
Currently, the MOC is engaged in building a Geographic Information System (GIS) that will be
supported by the HMMS database. It is expected that the implementation phase and GIS interface
will continue for another three years, during which all new technological development suitable for
incorporation into the HMMS/GIS models will be made, and the Omani engineers and technical staff
will be trained to operate the system. A brief description of each subsystem is given below.
2.26          The HIMMS subsystems. Figure 6 presents the developed HMMS and its related
subsystems. The whole system resides in a large 486 IBM compatible microcomputer dedicated as a
server for a Local Area Network (LAN). The system use FoxPro 2.0 as the database management
system and Novell 3.11 on a thin Ethernet network. All subsystems are incorporated in a main menu
designed to account for the user "choice to access".
2.27          The Pavement Management System (PMS) is designed to account for paved roads
under the jurisdiction of MOC/DGR, as well as accessing a track and gravel road database. The
basic PMS program includes six interrelated components, namely: (i) comprehensive inventory of all
pavement network, (ii) condition assessment, (iii) maintenance and rehabilitation (M&R) assignment,
(iv) prioritization of M&R needs, (v) cost of M&R strategies, and (vi) long range programming and
budgeting for each year in a planning horizon up to 10 years. A customized program was developed
to analyze the data collected from the field and produce multiple reports to suit the MOC/DGR needs.
Similarly, to the other subsystems, the program is menu driven, user friendly, and ample of on-screen
documentation. A User Manual and a Pavement Condition Distress Identification manual have been
exclusively written for the customized system in Oman.
2.28          The Bridge and Structures Management System (BMS) includes five interrelated
components, namely: (i) comprehensive inventory of bridges and structures network, (ii) detailed
condition evaluation of each element, (iii) Maintenance and Rehabilitation (M&R) assignment,



- 18 -
(iv) priority and/or urgency of needed repairs, and (v) reporting capabilities. The BMS program is
customized to suit the local conditions and other administrative needs of the MOC/DGR. This
program is menu driven, user friendly, and supported by on-screen documentation. In addition, a
condition survey manual with pictures of typical field problems was made and each distress/problem
was coded to match the computer program identification codes.
2.29          The Traffic Management System (TMS) feeds the PMS and BMS with current and
historical traffic data and traffic summary indices such as Average Daily Traffic (ADT), percentage
trucks, etc. This information is needed for maintenance and rehabilitation (M&R) design as well as
in the priority setting for funds allocation.
2.30          The Equipment Management System (EMS) accounts for three elements, namely:
(i) inventory of all equipments, (ii) maintenance service records, and (iii) operation service records.
The program produce several reports to suit the users needs such as the maintenance service cycle
with predicted time schedule, depreciation and operation/production cycle of equipment and predicted
service life, i.e., whether or not to repair or discard the equipment, etc.
2.31          The Cost Accounting System (CAS) is supplied with achievement data from activities
of the MOC/DGR workcenters and workshops, and other inventory data such as labor and material
costs. It then processes this information to produce unit costs of Maintenance and Rehabilitation
(M&R) strategies among other production/budget control reports.
2.32          Geographic Information System (GIS). The MOC/DGR have solicited tenders for
the installation of a GIS hardware and software. The installation is scheduled to end in June 1993,
and the implementation is to start thereafter. MOC/DGR goal of these GIS activities are:
(1)    To support inter-ministry applications. The GIS will be linked to the National
Database Management System (NDBMS) main computer resident at the
Supreme Committee for Town Planning (SCTP) to enable sharing and
accessing information provided by all other ministries through a Wide Area
Network (WAN).
(2)    To provide MOC/DGR with more effective, automated method of
representing and managing maps and drawings and their related information
as well as analyzing HMMS data.
2.33          Highway Safety. The Consultant carried out a highway safety study for Oman and
presented his findings in his Highway Safety Final Report dated May 1992. The study included, inter
alia, the following:
One of the findings of the analysis of traffic accidents carried out by the
Consultant was that the number of traffic accident deaths in Oman per
100,000 vehicles on the road is very high as compared to other countries
worldwide. The study gives death rates and vehicle population for selected
countries. A table is presenting registered vehicles versus number of traffic



- 19 -
accidents, shows that the ratio of traffic accidents to registered vehicles is
about 5%.
The major cause of traffic accidents is the driver. He is accountable for about
0.5%. The vehicle is accountable for about 1%, while the road is accountable
for about 0.5%. A table int the same Report gives number of traffic accidents
by factor for the years 1986-90.
Black spots along the road network were studied and remedial actions
recommended in said report as well as in a special report on black spots.
The Consultant has designed a proposed Accident Investigation Form that
combines the merits of the Form designed by TRRL and that currently used
by the ROP. It has been put under their disposal for consideration.
-      The Consultant has submitted detailed recommendations and program of work
for Traffic Safety Education including education for children, various age
groups, adults and traffic violators.
2.34          Highway User Costs. The Consultant submitted the Highway User Cost Update -
1992. The software utilized in the preparation thereof is based on the original RTlM2 program,
which the consultant obtained under license from TRRL.
2.35          Cost Accounting. Earlier studies and reports prepared by the Technical Assistance
for the Maintenance Management System, showed the need to establish a Cost Accounting System for
DGR to assist in budgeting and control of financial affairs of various road maintenance activities. In
January 1985, a manual Cost Accounting System, developed by the Consultant, was put into
implementation. In 1986, and due to budget constraints, the Cost Accounting Section was closed,
and the implementation of said system stopped.
2.36          During this latest technical assistance consultancy agreement, a computerized Cost
Accounting System was developed with emphasis to improve upon the previous manual Highway
Maintenance Cost Accounting System.
2.37          In particular, the objectives of the Cost Accounting System were to obtain on a
continuous basis, up-to-date unit costs of each of the DGR activities.
2.38          Forms suitable for the function of the workcenters and workshops along with user
manuals have been prepared and distributed. These forms cover detailed monthly records of labor,
materials and equipment used for each activity, as well as the productivity during the month.
2.39         The implementation of the Cost Accounting System has been slower than the other
subsystems of the Highway Maintenance management System, basically because of the unavailability
of staff dedicated for the system. One Omani clerk has been appointed to organize and follow-up on



- 20 -
the input forms to be collected. The implementation of the system is expected to accelerate upon
hiring more accounting staff toward the second half of this year (1993).
Training DGR Personnel
2.40          Omani Engineers. The MOC/DGR have recently employed five (5) Omani new
graduate engineers mainly during 1992 and are in the process of employing more. Each of the five
engineers have been assigned as a counterpart to one of the Technical Assistance experts in order to
get on-the-job training and guidance, so as to take over such responsibilities in the future.
2.41          The posts that the new DGR engineers were assigned to, and areas of training
received so far, are as follows:
-      Highway Design Engineer: He is being trained by the Technical Assistance
Highway Design Engineer on aspects and principles of highway design. He
participates in the review of road designs and tender documents prepared by
other consultants as a member of the Technical Review Committee. Since his
joining the DGR, he has already attended two training seminars in Jordan on
highway design.
- Highway Pavement Engineer: He is being trained by the Technical Assistance
Highway Pavement Engineer on aspects of the Pavement Management
System. He participates in the follow-up of other consultants' current studies
for the rehabilitation of Nizwa-Thumrait and Batinah (Old Carriageway)
roads, including participation with the Technical Review Committee in
reviewing related designs and tender documents. Since his joining the DRG,
he attended a training seminar in Jordan on highway safety.
*     Bridge Engineer: He is being trained by the Technical Assistance Bridge
engineer on aspects and principles of bridge design. He participates in the
review of bridge designs and tender documents prepared by other consultants,
such as those for the two bridges in Sur-Al Ayjah Road project.
He is also being trained on and already participated in the implementation of
Bridge Management System, including the preparation of bridge inventory,
bridge condition inspection, and inputting of data. Since his joining the DRG,
he attended a training seminar in Jordan on bridge design.
-      Mechanical Engineer: He is being trained by the Technical Assistance
Mechanical Engineer on aspects of mechanical engineering related to the DGR
equipment and workshops. In particular, the Equipment Management System
where he has participated in collecting the technical data needed for the
equipment inventory as well as in inputting the data.



- 21 -
Computer Engineer: He is being trained by the Technical Assistance computer
experts, as detailed in "Omani Computer Staff" below.
2.42          In general, the MOC gives training utmost importance in order to properly equip the
Omani personnel and facilitate their taking over responsibilities of running the work in the future. To
achieve this goal, the MOC envisages great stress on on-the-job training, organizing in-house training
seminars, participation in in-country relevant seminars, and sending DGR staff to attend different
training programs abroad.
2.43          Omani Computer Staff. The computer/GIS Section of DGR currently comprises
five Omani personnel, under the supervision of one full time Technical Assistance member and one
part time Technical Assistance member. The Omani staff include one Computer Engineer, two
graduates with computer programming diplomas, one person with commercial secondary school
diploma specializing in computers, and one computer technician. All the Omani staff joined DGR
during 1992 with little or no previous experience.
2.44          The computer staff is considered as the driving support staff for the Highway
Maintenance Management System data management and implementation. The staff is also considered
as the support staff to other DGR Departments for desk top application software, word processing,
spreadsheet applications and computer graphics.
2.45          Training of the computer staff is a major ongoing task undertaken by the consultant.
Current training areas are:
-      A comprehensive orientation to computer hardware and software and day-to-
day training in the use of specific and desk top publishing software
applications.
-      A presentation of the computer as a tool in DGR operations.
-      A detailed actual implementation and data input of the HMMS and its
subsystems.
-      Attending seminars provided by local vendors.
-      Computer tenders evaluation.
-      GIS activities.
2.46          The training program consists of lectures and workshops sessions, lectures serve as
the framework of the training subject, whereas workshops deal with the exercises, project
assignments, queries and specific subject discussions.
2.47          Examples of elemental topics covered are: Foxpro DBMS, HMMS, Networking,
DOS, Windows, Formtool, Harvard Graphics, Quatro Pro and Lotus 123, Wordperfect, Arabword,



- 22 -
and Omnipage software applications using the scanners.
2.48         Example of advanced topics covered are: Sun Operating System (UNIX), Oracle
database, Arclnfo, Autocad, Roadcalc, Map Scanning and Vectorization (raster to vector conversion),
and HMMS < - > GIS interface.
2.49         As a result of this training to date, the DGR Omani staff in the Purchasing and Stores
Sections, who have received training are now fully operating them, and the previous manual
procedures are being phased out.
Summary and Conclusions
2.50          General Performance. In general, the project was being implemented quite
satisfactorily, although budget constraints caused a slower performance and an overrun in the closing
date of 2.5 years (62.5%).
2.51          A complete customized and computerized Highway Maintenance Management System,
as well as Purchasing and Stores Systems, were developed and are under implementation.
2.52         A Follow-up Committee - comprising representatives from the Development Council,
the Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Ministry of Communications and the Directorate General
of Roads - was formed to follow-up matters related to the Third Highway Maintenance Project (Loan
2631-OM) Agreement.
2.53         Towards the end of the project, US$7,985,000 had to be cancelled from the original
loan amount of US$30,000,000 mainly due to the fact that rehabilitation of Ibri-Dank Road could not
have been finished by the loan closing date (December 31, 1993).
2.54         The World Bank Role. As for previous loans, the World Bank has, in providing
this loan and its disbursements, provided financial assistance. The main and more effective role,
however, was the World Bank's guidance and supervision - through its mission visits to Oman or its
headquarters contacts - towards developing and implementing the objectives of this project, especially
in the technical aspects.
2.55         Special thanks and appreciation go to the World Bank mission members, who have
been constantly visiting the Sultanate of Oman for many years to supervise this project as well as the
previous World Bank loan financed projects. Their guidance, especially in enhancing the technical
and institutional development was most valuable.
2.56         Future Needs. As the DGR has recently employed Omani graduate engineers and
will be employing more on the near future, and as implementation of the developed Highway
Maintenance Management System is starting, the following needs are envisaged as vital to prevent
any retreat in the steps already achieved. These needs, inter alia, are:



- 23 -
1.    Continue implementation of the developed systems. Pavement Management
System (PMS), Bridge Management System (BMS), Cost Accounting System
(CAS), Equipment Management System (EMS), Traffic Management System
(TMS), and Purchase Order System (POS).
2.    Arabize systems where needed.
3.    Link and automate other DGR Departments such as Technical Affairs,
Achieves, ongoing project management and scheduling, etc.
4.    Implement the GIS system installed. Develop an interface with the Highway
Maintenance Management System (HMMS); coordinate efforts/interface with
Supreme Committee for Town Planning (SCTP) and other Ministries; and
develop databases needed for the National Database Management System
(NDBMS).
5.     Link MOC and Southern Region Road Department with the computer and GIS
network at DGR.
6.     Continue in-house training for all departments as more Omani engineers and
staff become available.
7.     Continue conducting Sultanate-wide conferences (twice a year) for
workcenters, other ministries and public awareness of the MCO achievements
and new development.
8.    Training abroad should be encouraged at all times for reasons of polishing the
engineers' experience and incentive to efficient implementation. Also,
inviting experts from abroad as lecturers for conducting workshops on specific
topics (not contradicting local experience) should be encouraged.
Alternatively, a technology transfer program could be established as a way to
achieve training and technology transfer.
9.    Build the MOC/DGR engineering library with frequent updates to facilitate
easy references and obtaining technical data. Organize all reports previously
submitted to DGR (Technical Development Reports) in one section in the
library.



- 24 -
FIGURE 1. THE MAIN ROAD NETWORK
.NS  OR    01
EDITION 4                       SULTANATE OF OMAN
FEB5      1993
1  51                     54-\,         _> f~5       56'             \            W                           0
SU 4tQ4--rJ5Vri.    t ISLAiC REP>UUC OF0
,  at Kylh  |(5(hu1bnce ol   wRAN
jUmm AI QSyWaSY7 0   ^
IV |               am fd Sbo (SuIrant d Oma")
i                ~      ~     ~~~~G                    Al F. 4, f^nO 
'A   R  ~                        b  hmW
CZ                             A: ,%rsyn
U IN  I T ED                                       J        Dk        AlT RM  A                               N
A  !            I                  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A AY*ab    a  X8SvQ              yw
- Kr:::::Chwwnyr jj:: I2;jn  Hamra
/ Al                 '*Di4 Al
Mwa   f
\      ^-  ~Fs,n,ud.,   ...4Sn*(AL Q  Iut
: ~~KTNr;nOM  OF _ ,-'.. !. , ..07
Z2'-- Ij-- -                                                            .                    -      ! A4~ -.  H   i
A  f                 ~~SAUDI|                                           ,  w.                  K    r
I                           e                  , au as  |               .1           1   .       7     u^ O
l  l                 i                 i  t~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~Tbul ;_*                   ,y> 
I                     ARABIA                 I r         *             J'1
kbI.~Mu~~v            J.JJOF' _-' ADAI          I O
199           ------ -                                     e,
!   8   _  ~~~~~~~~~~~ush 1str  
I   \  /  . ' rxilh <es rA
] \       .a Dawih                    *, hImr     */                 s ts       .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ki'A
\~~~~~a    16 i                          N Sda 
V _
t~~~~~~~A AS R0      r  y                            AS cow                      ---G M                        $<^
I~~~~~~~~ ~  ED O       T,     4    rhrryo                                                g Ro  
I FEX  _993  |                                                                __   ,,_$  &_y                s VAY



FIGURE 2
GROWTH OF THE ROAD NETWORK
I3 HT1X  [11I 1j 000 But *VU L L IC                                                                                      :11:-- 
140TE rEA  nc  owemo  o
|Road lerngIhs showa Oc Vol Ihose edei the                                         D
rsea psasIity of SM MOC o  end DO NOT  _
Include foods sIder the tAOD ot PO                                 K - ADDED tO IOrM. RPREI\ T 1        -
.J AWI, AAODAN R MUANGAU AGADs   S
_D10 TO mOC hISPNisl i II    A
I                                   aM~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 To OEDUCIEP FRah 100AL
APRIEsNTIUQ 500o0 IRA.SEtYR& D
-                      --                  |                                      1! MUICAI hiub'tALTly        I
-  |  l1  1   I A  lzfI    I  0               IITACK R|ADI Now WO|ER
8000   __                                        I                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~moc tsoso ITT_
E        _   ___ |  __  __                            . _         | _1
I  RC   ID S                                             _                         I             _A_               __eV
lOtALP-VED WADS fLSL_    1                                                      1!
ao ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"OIMFRE T U
1 LLlXhl PAVKO ROADS R a CI
0                                                                  AND ,N ..    , . EtaPME
O~~ ~~;TLPVDRAS180*  d
ut __                                           U    __                                            
w                                          /                     60 1. DWUC$K 0000 fCAl h     to  SLNTUC
low~____                                                                                 _. 
MOo                      jt                                                                                          Si                             
We                                         __  __           a



- 26 -
FIGURE   3
TOTAL NUMBER OF REGISTERED VEHICLES
NUMBER OF VEHICLES (Thousands)
300
250 
200                                          /
150 -
100
50 1-
80  81  82  83  84  85  86  87  88  89  90
YEAR
- VEHICLES
--BACK TRACK EXTRAPOLATED LINE



- 27 -
Figury    4
COMPARISON BETWEEN
THE GROWTH OF THE ROAD NETWORK AND VEHICLE FLEET
Paved           Unpaved Roads            Registered "
Year           Roads                 (DGR)                Vehicles
(Km)                  (Km)                     Nr.
1970               10              1,817                     N.A.
1975             708               3,300                   31,468
1980           2,107               6,300                  107,627
1985           3,565              10,724                  247,075
(150,100)
1986           3,982              11,015                  264,560  2'
(169,300)
1987           4,106              11,191                  178,638
1990           4,591              13,048                  228,988
1991           4,722              13,314                  267,039
1992           4,948              14,873                     N.A.
From General  Traffic Statistics Publications - Royal oman PolLce.
Incluoes Government vehicles.
2'    The drop in the figure shown for registered vehicles between 2986 and
1987 iB due to the fact that the R.O.P. have shown in 1987 the accurate
figure for vehicles on the road (vehicles with renewed registration
plus the balance of the new and cancelled registration during 1987).
Previously, registered, although non-renewed , vehicles were shown.
Hence  the  figures  shown  for  1985  &  1986  are  considered  not
representative of the true fiqure for Vehicles On The Road.
More realistic back track extrapolated values for 1985 and 1986 are
shown between brackets based on Fiqure (3).



- WJI
SHRJAJ -A H                                                         Figure 5
OU8AIW a                                                               \,Road Projects disbursed  '- 4,
/iom W B. 3 rd Loon
/                            +                             C-ta 
Shnas
0 1) 20 30 40 5Gm go 40 0 K)OKM
( .'~~~~~~~~~~~Lw
4t~~~~~~~~~~I
Y,
***    1 Hafilo A Khibourah                                                               H n
<)                                                                      Als tA  Masno ahl
g  \N  S   t        *               f  X    ,z   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II 
t  t                           nA      H rrulJ                       i
+             \  ~~~~~~~~~~%        o   MI~~~~~~~~zki      -        - 
i'    t                                                                                          Ls   boa  51 ^ ;
Al          J                hud1tud y g ~,?ey 
N~ Ylbcl-                                                        bo                     Boni  sol
1     *      _ _        \   V           \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ao 8,1i Bu Jo 8lzA       ,j



- 29 -
Figure 6.
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (HMMS) SUBSYSTEMS
L     MINIsJSTRY OF
COMMUNICATIONS
I~' i
DIRECTORATE
GENERAL OF
ROADS
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ m',;-.1
P IURCHIASING                                                STORE_______   _____________~SU
SYSTN,                       SYSTEMS
,-. COST--fffi/;g-=<;f                                  EQUlPMEAA
EsSrEM \Mikj,gXF.... wS:      ........                      SYSTl%s 
\ ~MAINTENANCE + 
MANAGEMENT  
/ ~~~SYSTEM ^ .  . -r-st .-,-Y
BRIDCESt/                                                  TRFI F
t'SlTRUCTIURS   <S                                               m
PAVW ,NTk
KIANAGENfET [
SYSIUIr 



Figure 7.
Pavement Management System
FEASIBLE       CONDITION
N              ! STRATEGIES
N
P
U                                INVENTORY      TRAFFIC
T    DATA          C                              DATA
I   ~BSEDESIGN                                   BASE
i_                      __ _ _ _ __ _ __I_ _ _ _
R M&R SELECTION                        PRIORITIZATION
R
0                                         MODULE
E
S                       |
s      ~~NE TWORlI       _           PC RORMA.iNCE
S       _______NEEDS                  _   c _PREDICTION
s         MODULE                           MODULE
I
0
T                           t
P     NETWORK                    5-YEAR       SPECIAL
T   NEEDS  a   GET   L  PLANNING      REPORTS
T                   Br    UDGET             --.



- 31 -
Figure 8.
BRIDGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
N
| INVENTORY        CONDITION            DESIGNJ       |CONSTRAINT|
I                 .                  I
T
p                           DATA  BASE
R
C           ANALYSIS        UNIT        POLICY       PRIORI TV
E                          COST
0JI~
U    INSPECTION
T    INVENTORY           POSTING&
Ll    CONDITION          PROGRAM           PROGRAM            BUDGET
U'
T      REPORTS
Figure 9.
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
COUNT
SHEETS
I IIE
DATA ENTRY IREPORT I GRAPH
REVISION     -*RPR   GAH
GENERATION
DATA           TMS
MANAGEMENT                               ROAD
-. STRUCTURE
SITE           SITE           COUNT           COUNT
REPORTS         GRAPHS         REPORTS          GRAPHS
D Locations     o Per zone     o Classification  o Counts per site
o Per road       count summ orles a Vehicle
o Individual Count   composition
o Daily 2-Way
o Automatic count



- 32 -
Sultanate of Oman
Third Highway Maintenance Project, Loan 2631-OM
Project Completion Report
PART THREE
STATISTICAL INFORMIATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Loan/Credit  Purpose                Year of   Status       Comments
Title                           Approval                                              l
985-OM     Technical Assistance    1974      Completed   Econ. Planning, Agric. &
PCR #6629  Fisheries & Transport
144 1-OM    Highway Maint. I        1977     Completed   Hwy Maintenance, Operations,
PCR #6210  Equipment and Training
2084-OM    Highway Maint. II        1982      Completed   Continuation of Objectives of
PCR #81 10  Highway Maintenance I
2631-OM    Highway Maint. III       1986      Completed   Continuation of Objectives of
Highway Maintenance II



- 33 -
Table 2: Project Timetable
Date                 Date                     Date
Item                             Planned               Revised                 Actual
- Identification (Executive    March 1984                                  March 1984
Project Summary)
- Preparation                  August 1984                                 August 1984
- Appraisal Mission            December 1984                               December 1984
- Loan Negotiations            April 1985                                  August 21, 1985
- Board Approval               June 11, 1985                               October 29, 1985
- Loan Signature               November 1985                               February 12, 1986
- Loan Effectiveness           January 1986                                July 3, 1986
- Project Restructured                                                     July 21, 1989
- Loan Closing                 June 30, 1990        July 89/June 92        December 31, 1992
- Loan Completion              June 30, 1989                               April 30, 1993
Table 3: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements
FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91   FY92  FY93
(i) Planned (SAR)                    0.1   7.5      15.5   23.5   30.0  30.0   30.0   30.0
(ii) Actual                                                  2.84    5.28   6.52  14.32  22.0 *
(iii) Actual as % of planned         0       0       0      12       17.6  21.7   47.7    73.4
* US$7,985,000 was cancelled by the Govemment in 1992.
Original        Disbursed      Cancelled      Repaid      Outstanding
Loan 2631-OM                   30.0             22.015         7.985         9.09          12.925



Table 4: Project Appraisal, Loan Categories, Allocated Amounts and Actual Costs
Board       At restruct.
Appraisal Estirrate (1986-88)                           At Nego.      Presentation  Proposed   Disbursed
Local Foreign   Total       Prop.   %Exp.                Proposed     Proposed     Amount    Amounts
Costs  Exchange  Costs       Bank   to be   Loan         Amount of    Amount of   of the      of the       Percentage
Item       Description           -      USS Million     --   Partic.  Fined.  Category    Loan         the Loan     Loan        Loan        of planned
Capital Costs
1. Road Works
(a)  Strengthening by AC      12.85    29.96   42.81                      1(b)                                      6.0       6.9         115
(b)  Paving of gravel roads   11.46    17.22   28.68      8.43     60    I(a)                          9.6         10.0       10.6        106
(c)  Re-graveling              1.35     1.35    2.70
25.66    48.53   74.19
2. Equip. and Spares for:
(a)  Highway rmaint.           0.50     9.54   10.04
(b)  Workshops                 0.02     0.43    0.45      0.43            2(b)           0.5           0.5          0.17                   34
(c)  Pavement/traffic data     0.01     0.28    0.29      0.28      95    2(a)           0.3           0.3          0.5       0.16         32
0.53    10.25   10.78
3. Constiruction
(a)  Workshops                 0.74     2.96    3.70      2.96      80    1 (b)          3.4           3.4          3.5        1.1         31
(b)  Maint. centers            6.70     6.70   13.40      6.70      50    1(d)           7.6           7.6          3.5       0             0
(c)  Training c. extens.       0.53     0.52    1.05      0.52      50                   0.7           0.6
7.97    10.18   18.15
4. Technical Assistance
(a)  Maint. mgmt., train.
and planning              1.41     4.59    6.00       4.59     75       3           6.0           5.0           3.0       3.1         103
Subtotal                 35.57    73.55  109.12      23.91
5. Contingencies
(a)  Physical cont.           3.56      7.36   10.92      2.39
(b)  Cost escalation          6.01    10.97   16.98       3.70
Total Capital Costs           45.14    91.88  137.02     30.00
NOTES:
1. June 1985 base date.
2. Price escalation for local costs estimated at 7% for 1985 and 8% for 1986-90; foreign escalation
estimated at 5% for 1985, 7.5% for 1986, and 8% for 1987-90, for items 1, 2 and 3.



- 35 -
Table 5: Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal       Estimated at
Indicators                                                         Estimate        Closing Date
Asphalt overlay:                                                                     65 km
(a)  The widening and surfacing of approximately
9 kms of national Highway No. 15 at major junctions
(b)  The construction of 55.9 kms of roads, of which
16.3 kms are in Ibra, 16.7 kms in Al Qabil and
22.9 kms in Bidya
(c)  The construction of culverts, Irish crossings,
flood protection and other works associated
with the above
Surface treatment:                                                112 km*
Jabrin to Bisya                                                                     22.0 km
Al Hamra to Wali Office                                                             2.3 km
Dariz to Bat                                                                        15.0 km
Access to Muqniyat                                                                  14.0 km
lbra to An'Niba                                                                     17.0 km
An'Niba to Butin                                                                    9.0 km
Batinah DC to Mashayiq                                                              14.0 km
Mashayiq to Sana Bani Ghafir                                                         3.0 km
Sohar to Wadi Hibi                                                                  10.0 km
Total Length/Surface Treatment                                                     106.3 km
*) Does not include force account works which totalled about 200 km.



- 36 -
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal
Estimate                   Actual *
Economic Rate of Return
- Surface treatment                         37%                         >22.3%
- Asphalt overlay                           31%                         39.0%
Underlying Assumptions
Traffic growth p.a.                         12%                         8-9%
Highway maintenance Costs*)                 $20.3 million/5 yrs         N.A.
I)   A breakdown of the actual direct costs of highway maintenance is not possible since a cost accounting
system was introduced too late during the project.
Table 6: Example of Threshold Calculation (US$s)
Year        Construction Cost/Km         VOC Savings/Km       Net Benefit/Km
0                75,000                        -                (75,000)
1                                            14,600              14,600
2                                            15,768              15,768
3                                            17,029              17,029
4                                            18,391              18,391
5                                            19,863              19,863
6                25,000                      21,452              (3,548)
7                                            23,168             23,168
8                                            25,021             25,021
9                                            27,023             27,023
10                                           29,185             29,185
Assumptions:                                         ERR 16.46 percent
(1) 400 vehicles per day with 8% p.a. growth rate.
(2) Average VOC savings per km $0.10.
(3) Maintenance savings 0.
(4) Resealing in year six US$25,000 p. km.



- 37 -
Table 7: Status of Covenants
Loan Agreement                                                Deadline for
Reference                  Subject of Condition               Compliance         Status
Sec. 4.01         Borrower to furnish audited accounts            6/92           Complied with
Sec. 5.01(a)      Carry out routine and periodic
maintenance                                    7/86           Complied with
Sec. Sch. 3(c)    Furnish pavement management report              4/90           Complied with
Sec. Sch. 3(d)    Furnish cost accounting report                 10/90           Complied with
Sec. Sch. 5.3(e)    Furnish annual hwy maintenance               12/89           Complied with
training programs                                      and the training of counterpart
staff started before loan closing
Sec. Sch. 5.3(b)    Furnish hwy safety programs report            9/89           Complied with
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
A. Stafring Inputs
FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  Total
Preparation    1.4   26.3  11.0                                                         38.7
Supervision                  5.4     7.8   8.2    8.9   14.6   18.7   16.0    2.9    82.5
B. Mission Data
No. of       No. of      Staff        Date of
Month/ Year       Weeks         Persons     Weeks        Report
Preparation                    5/84               2            2           4            7/13/84
Appraisal I                    12/84             2             2           4              12/84
Supervision I                  4/86              2.8           2           5.6          5/15/86
Supervision II                 3/87              2             2           4            4/17/87
Supervision III                10/87             2             2           4            11/9/87
Supervision IV                 3/88              2             2           4             4/4/88
Supervision V                  10/88              1.6          2           3.2           11/4/88
Supervision VI                 5/89              2             2           4            7/21/89
Supervision VII                10/89              1.4           1           1.4         11/17/89
Supervision VIII               2/90              2             2           4            3/26/90
Supervision IX                 5/90              2.6           2           5.2           7/2/90
Supervision X                  3/91              2.6           1           2.6           4/2/91
Supervision XI                 5/91              2             2           4            6/10/91
Supervision XII                9/91              2             3           6           10/30/91
Supervision XIII               7/92              2             1           1            8/28/92



- 38 -
Table 9: Project Description
The objectives of the project were to assist the Borrower in carrying out its road program for 1986
through 1989 by improving and maintaining its highway network, improving highway safety and
strengthening the highway planning and management capabilities of MOC. The project consists of the
following parts;
Part A: Road Maintenance and Improvements
Carrying out of a three-year phase of the Borrower's program of routine and periodic maintenance and
minor improvements to priority sections of the Borrower's highway network, including: asphaltic
overlays, bituminous surface treatment and gravel replenishment.
Part B: Workshops, Work Centers and Equipment
Carrying out of a program to upgrade highway mechanical services, consisting of:
(a)   the construction and equipment for two workshops for repairs of highway
maintenance equipment and the construction or extension of aboLut seveni highway
maintenance work centers; and
(b)   the provision of:
(i)  equipment and spare parts required for highway maintenance;
(ii)  data collection equipment to be utilized for highway construction planning,
highway maintenance, pavement management and axle load control;
(iii) equipment and materials required for highway safety; and
(iv)  equipment for existing workshops.
Part C: Institutional Development
Strengthening the planning, administrative and operational capabilities of MOC through, inter alia, the
development and implementation of appropriate:
(a)  guidelines setting forth policies, criteria and procedures to be utilized by
MOC in planning, evaluating and implementing the Borrower's Four and
Five-year Highway Improvement and Maintenance Plans;
(b)  highway safety programs;



- 39 -
(c)  pavement management and traffic data collection systems; and
(d)  highway maintenance cost accounting systems.
Implement a three-year training program through vocational training centers to upgrade the training,
mechanical and highway maintenance skills of the staff of MOC and DG.
Table 10: The Road Network and Vehicle Fleet
End        Paved            Annual'         Tracks       Annual'          Regis.       Annual'
of         Roads            Incr.          (DGR)        Incr.            Vehicles     Incr.
Year       (Krn)              %             Km             %                Nr.          %
1970         10                 -           1,700          -               NA
1975        708             1396            3,300         18.8           31,468          -
1980      2,107               40            6,300         18.2         107,627         48
1985      3,565                14          10,724         12.5         247,075
1986      3,982                12          11,015         2.8          264,560
1987      4,106                 3          11,191          1.7         178,638  ***) NA
1988      4,247                 3          12,161         13.7          185,967         4.1
1989      4,722  *)            11             NA  **)    3.1            196,623         5.7
1990                                       13,048                      228,985          16.4
1992      5,200                 3          14,873          3.1         267,039
*)   The length of dual carriageway is 401 km.
**) Includes 1650 km of gravel roads.
***) The drop in 1987 is due to the fact that the Royal Omani Police, who are responsible for the
statistics, have revised recording procedures to take account of vehicles taken out of circulation.
1/        Percent of increase shown is the average annual increase for each the period ending with year
shown.






I8tLu 18682
IS LAM IC  REPUBLIC  OF                         ISAN
tOMAN , ~~~~~~~~~I R A N 4PKSA
IRAN~~~~~ISA
Q A TA R D                                                               AN
\hw AREA 3
ISA TINAH-fB')
Al KPhbt     ARH  ARjBATINAH A')
U N I T E D   A R A B   E M I R A T E           S        k                                 U 'CAT 
Let  LI     >V~~~~~~E~  (CAPI TA L)
REA e /SHAROQYA 'BJ)
S A  U  D  I        A  R A  8IS A                                                                             L
/                                     OOMAN
/         S        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~ C(OWO,,ASIRA ISILAND)
/   <                      '                        ~~~~~~~~~~OMAN
THIRD HIGHWAY MAINTENANCEr
PROJ ECT
PROPOSED   EXISTINo
/  -i V  /IAlu                                         C n.trtetlon, p ModIfIcatIons
M."..[  Sh.11,h                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R..  ornorS
X ~ ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - - =worOnt.r *otJfdarI.
PEOPL E'S                                                          Sha \ tat                        ;>                 E m    R.lon Bolma o .rI l
DEMOCRATIC                                                                                                                  cMain Ro (G -OtWo. and Tr.-k)
REPUBLIC                                    T &  i_t;    <;w   t.UR,A aUS:A SLA,VDS                                   t    Dorn
OF  YEMEN         9        ;n     q          O      st                                                                       Int-rnatlonal ABDoA t
Ma    nayI r   ^ t                                 ___x __  __ ___  __ __ ___  __ __                  Int4.ndtIOodo Baundart..
.  ,y t c   7 c7 r        S eA                                                                                              1985
W                           ~~~~~~~~AP RI L 1985



