Document of                            com
The World Bank                              U
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3116-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED FOURTEENTH LOAN
TO THE
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT
CORPORATION OF INDIA
WITH THE GAURANTEE
OF INDIA
September 8, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of August 28, 1981)
US$1.00         =    Rs 9.036473
Rs 1.00               US$0.110663
Rs 1 million    =    US$110,663
(The US$/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in this Report were made at US$1.00 to Rs 8.00,
which represents the projected average exchange rate over
the disbursement period.)
FISCAL YEAR
GOI       -       April 1 - March 31
ICICI     -       January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
DFC              -        Development Finance Company
DIC               -       District Industries Center
FRN              -        Floating Rate Note
GOI               -       Government of India
ICICI            -        Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation of India Limited
IDBI             -        Industrial Development Bank of India
IFCI             -        Industrial Finance Corporation of
India
IIM              -        Inter-Institutional Meeting
KfW              -        Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LIBOR             -       London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
LIC              -        Life Insurance Corporation of India
RBI               -       Reserve Bank of India
SFC              -        State Financing Corporation
SIDC             -        State Industrial Development
Corporation
UTI              -        Unit Trust of India



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
FOURTEENTH LOAN TO THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA
Loan and Project Summary
A
Borrower:                 Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India, Limited (ICICI).
Guarantor:               India, acting by its President.
Amount:                  US$150 million.
Terms:                   Repayable in accordance with the amortization
schedule for sub-loans for which withdrawals from
the loan account are approved or requested. The
interest rate would be 10.6% per annum.
Relending Terms to        Interest of 14% per annum for ordinary loans and
ICICI's Borrowers:    12.5% per annum for loans in backward areas.
Surcharge of 1% per annum for companies not listed
on a stock exchange. Commitment charge of 1% per
annum. ICICI's standard lending terms provide for
loan maturities of up to 15 years, including up to
three years of grace. Exchange risk to be borne by
ICICI sub-borrowers.
Project Description:    The project would finance the foreign exchange cost
of industrial projects carried out by productive
enterprises in India. It would assist ICICI in
diversifying its sources of foreign exchange by
facilitating blending of Bank and commercial funds,
and in promoting developmental activities. The
project would also contribute to investment in the
modernization and expansion of productive industrial
capacity in India. The risks associated wit~h the
project are minimal due to the strong management and
experience of ICICI.
Estimated Commitments
and Disbursement:                                 US$ Millions
FY82     FY83      FY84      FY85     FY86      FY87
Commitments:         45        60        45       -         -         -
Disbursements:
(a)  Annual:        2.1       9.9     41.3      71.2      17.6       7.9
(b)  Cumulative:   2.1       12.0     53.3    124.5    142.1    150.0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Appraisal Report:         No separate Appraisal Report has been prepared this
time. The financial data on ICICI presented in
Report No. 2890-IN of April 18, 1980 for Loan 1843-IN
of May 16, 1980 have been updated in Annex IV. Other
results of the appraisal have been incorporated in
expanded Parts III and IV.
Total Expected            1981:
Financing during
the Commitment          (a)  US$150 million IBRD loan;
Period by source:
(b) US$30 million floating rate note, with guarantee
by GOI;
(c) US$35 million equivalent syndicated mixed
currency loan, without Government guarantee;
(d) US$10 million equivalent in UK export credits;
(e) US$20 million equivalent in KfW capital aid;
1982/83:
(f) Total of US$95 million, for commitment parallel
to commitments under the proposed Bank loan.
Funds are expected to be raised from KfW capital
aid (US$20 million equivalent), further Euro-
market borrowings, further UK and other export
credits and, possibly, direct borrowings from
Japanese commercial sources and/or Middle East
oil exporting countries.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED FOURTEENTH LOAN TO THE
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF INDIA
4
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed four-
teenth loan to the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
(ICICI) with the guarantee of India for the equivalent of US$150 million to
help finance ICICI's foreign exchange requirements through December 1983.
The interest on the loan will be 10.6% per annum. Amortization of the loan
will conform substantially to the aggregate of the amortization applicable to
sub-loans financed out of the loan, subject to a maximum of 15 years, includ-
ing up to three years of grace. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by
ICICI's borrowers.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(3401-IN, dated April 15, 1981), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 16, 1981. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 688
million (in mid-1981) and an annual per capita income of US$190. Agriculture
continues to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor
force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate
livelihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, especially the
landless or nearly landless who have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. Over the past 30 years, the share of agriculture in GDP at factor
cost (measured in 1970/71 prices) has declined from 60% to about 40%, while
the share of industry has increased from 15% to about 24%. But
industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, nor to bring about the economic transformation that has led to sig-
nificantly higher productivity in some other developing countries.
4.       Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.5% per
annum over the past 30 years. Slow growth of value-added in agriculture --
2.1% per annum over the three decades -- has constrained overall growth, not
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and II
of the President's Reports for the Tamil Nadu Newsprint Project (No.
P-3114-IN), dated August 25, 1981 and the Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation
Project (No. P-3115-IN), dated August 26, 1981.



-2-
only because of the high share of agriculture in GDP but also because scarce
foreign exchange has often been required to import food. Industrial
value-added has grown more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between 1950/51 and
1979/80. Over the same period, gross domestic savings more than doubled from
10% of GDP to 21.2%, while gross domestic investment rose from 10% of GDP to
just over 21.8%. Foreign savings have never financed a large portion of
domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s;
by the end of the 1970s, the proportion had returned to below 3%. External
assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita terms.
Net external assistance has never risen above 3% of GDP, and was less than 1%
at the end of the 1970s.
5.      Over the past 30 years as a whole, India has placed relatively little
emphasis on exports and has tended to pursue a strategy of import substitu-
tion. The volume growth of exports between 1950/51 and 1979/80 averaged only
3.6% per annum, about the same as the volume growth of imports over the same
period. Between 1970 and 1977, however, India's terms of trade, which had
remained roughly constant during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In
response, the Government introduced various policy measures designed to
stimulate exports. The volume of India's exports grew on average about 9%
per annum between 1971/72 and 1976/77. Although export growth has slowed in
recent years, due in large part to domestic supply constraints, this
experience demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible. While
expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, contributed
to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effective
export incentives played a major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at factor
cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged 5.4%,
3.1% and 7.9% per annum, respectively.  These trends represent a substan-
tially better growth performance than the historical 30-year trends
(paragraph 4). However, GDP declined by about 4.5% in 1979/80 due both to
the severe drought which reduced agricultural production and to input con-
straints in other sectors. Agricultural output fell by about 16% in 1979/80.
Industrial production stagnated, largely due to shortfalls in the production
of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement, as well as infrastructural
constraints, notably in power and transportation. As a consequence of these
developments, the remarkable price stability that India had enjoyed after
1975 came to an abrupt end at the close of fiscal year 1978/79, with prices
increasing 21% during 1979/80.
7.         In 1980/81, the economy recovered substantially, so that real GDP
growth for the year was about 6%-7%.  During the summer and fall of 1980
foodgrain prices rose, but more slowly than other prices and more slowly than
the drop in production in 1979/80 would have suggested. This was made pos-
sible through the drawdown of substantial buffer stocks built up by the
Government in years of good harvests. These stocks ensured adequate supplies
of grain to low-income groups in urban areas through the public distribution
system and also provided resources for a large-scale drought relief employ-
ment program for low-income groups in rural areas. Aided by a normal monsoon
in the summer of 1980, agricultural production rose by about 17%-19%. The
industrial sector recovered more slowly, with production in 1980/81 rising



-3-
only about 4% above the average for 1979/80, but output increased substan-
tially during the year so that production in April 1981 was about 9% higher
than in April 1980. The rise in prices slowed during the second half of
1980/81 so that by March 1981 the wholesale price index was 15.7% above its
level a year earlier.
8.        In agriculture the positive results of large investments and
appropriate policies in the past years are becoming increasingly apparent.
The rate of expansion of irrigation has increased significantly from 1.3 mil-
lion ha per year in the early 1970s to about 2.3 million ha in 1980/81.
Fertilizer use reached about 5.6 million tons of nutrients in 1980/81, more
than double 1974/75 levels. Over the decade before 1979/80, foodgrain
production grew at about 2.75% per annum -- sufficient to meet consumer
demand, to eliminate imports (which had averaged nearly 5 million tons per
year for the 15 years preceding 1976), and to reduce real foodgrain prices
for consumers. At the same time, India was able to build up substantial
foodgrain buffer stocks which made it possible to limit the effects of the
1979/80 drought, and to export a modest amount of grain in 1980.  While the
management of the foodgrain economy after the drought was a significant
achievement, the effect of the drought on production re-emphasized the con-
tinued importance of the monsoon in India's agriculture. The normal monsoon
of 1980/81 brought foodgrain production back to around the previous record
level of 132 million tons. While the performance of the recent past and the
probable future trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will exceed
demand, the balance remains delicate and the need for foodgrain imports to
maintain consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to
time. For example, some wheat imports are likely in 1981/82 to ensure ade-
quate build up of stocks. Programs to expand irrigation, strengthen exten-
sion and encourage the efficient use of other agricultural inputs continue to
receive high priority.
9.        The Indian economy has shifted back from a situation of resource
surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of
resource scarcity. Investment has again overtaken domestic savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. Marginal savings
rates have recently been well above 30% in the household sector. Future
increases in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of
public sector enterprises. Impending resource scarcity is even more apparent
in the foreign sector. Between 1975/76 and 1978/79, India's current account
deficit had remained comfortably small in relation both to GDP and to a
growing pipeline of aid commitments. This was due to favorable terms of
trade movements after 1977 and to rapidly growing workers' remittances as
well as to the growth of exports. In 1980/81, however, the balance of pay-
ments deteriorated sharply, with the current account deficit rising from
US$850 million in 1979/80 to nearly US$3.4 billion in 1980/81. In part this
was due to unique events during the year, such as the disruption of oil
production in the Northeast, which, though the flows resumed again in
February 1981, alone added over US$1 billion to the oil import bill. Com-
bined with unprecedented oil price increases, this caused the oil import bill
to rise by over 75%, to a level equivalent to three-fourths of India's mer-
chandise export earnings. The deficit on current account rose to 2% of GDP.
India was able to finance this gap through a substantial drawing on IMF
resources (the Trust Fund and the Compensatory Financing Facility), and



-4-
through an increase in aid disbursements and a modest drawdown in foreign
exchange reserves.
10.       The trends in the volume and terms of India's trade indicate that
significant adjustments will need to be made in the economy to bring India's
external accounts into reasonable balance at a high level of growth. In
particular, there is a need to increase the growth of exports, to increase
production of commodities such as fertilizer, cement and steel which India
can produce efficiently in order to reduce imports of these items, to
moderate the rise in oil imports through greater domestic production and
slower demand growth, and to reduce the constraints in transportation and
other infrastructural facilities which are retarding growth in a wide range
of activities, including exports. It is encouraging that, in response to the
present balance of payments difficulties, the Government has not reacted by
placing more stringent controls on imports, but rather has left in place the
more liberal policies evolved in the past several years. Recent improvements
in the availability of power, a major constraint facing exporters, and the
adoption of several new export policy measures have improved the prospects
for accelerating export growth.
Development Prospects
11.       The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufac-
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure --
irrigation, railways, telecommunications, the power grid, roads and ports -
is extensive compared to many countries, although there is considerable need
for additional capacity as well as improvement in the utilization of existing
capacity. India is also well-endowed with human resources and with institu-
tional infrastructure for development. Finally, India has an extensive
natural resource base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal
and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and
sufficient access to foreign savings, India has the capability for managing
these considerable resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
12.       A new Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980-85) was approved in February 1981.
The new Plan continues to assign priority to agriculture and power. Further-
more, the Plan reflects the Government's efforts to bring about the necessary
adjustments in the economy by emphasizing several priority areas.  These
include: (i) expansion of exports and an investment program to support
increased production to replace imports of goods such as fertilizer, cement
and steel which India produces competitively; (ii) an investment program
and policy framework for more efficient development and use of energy resour-
ces; (iii) removal of bottlenecks in infrastructure and related constraints
on production of basic industrial inputs; and (iv) continuing emphasis on the
development of agriculture.
13.       The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, there are signs that the past programs
and policies have led to relatively low growth in certain crucial sectors,
namely power, coal, transport services, steel and cement. Potential output
growth in sectors which have benefitted from large investments in the recent



-5-
past may not materialize unless these input bottlenecks are alleviated. In
the case of coal, steel and cement, domestic production appears to be clearly
justified on grounds of comparative advantage, indicating an a priori case
for policies to promote further investment. In 1980/81 these commodities
were not imported in sufficient amounts to eliminate the shortages; increased
short-term reliance on imports may be necessary to alleviate slowdowns and
dislocation in user industries. In the case of sectors in which there is
little scope to import the final product -- power and transportation -- the
planning of capacity expansion becomes even more crucial. Although there is
scope for improvement in the short-run performance of these sectors, major
investments in balancing and modernization programs as well as in new
capacity are essential for adequate growth in the medium term.
14.       Despite the relatively large investment programs for the develop-
ment of domestic energy resources such as coal and hydroelectricity, and the
recent development of offshore petroleum resources, India has not been able
to eliminate the gap between its total energy demand and domestic production.
During the past year, India continued to face power and coal shortages, but
the situation improved substantially during the year so that power generation
in June 1981 was around 20% higher than a year earlier. India is entering
the Sixth Plan period with an ambitious energy production program backed by
substantial financial commitment. In the oil sector, GOI is now accelerating
its oil exploration capabilities and is opening up prospective areas for
exploration by foreign firms. Prices of petroleum products were raised
substantially in 1980 and again in July 1981 to bring domestic prices into
line with world market prices, to raise resources for further oil and gas
development and to encourage efficient use of energy. India is now committed
to an expanded power program that emphasizes exploitation of its large hydro
potential and development of its transmission and distribution system. In
the coal sector, a policy decision in favor of mechanization has been made in
order to achieve more rapid growth of coal production.
15.       Agricultural policies, development programs and secular trends all
seem favorable for sustaining the past agricultural growth during the 1980s.
India ended 1980 with grain stocks of about 12 million tons, without having
imported foodgrains during the year. This reflects the trends of the last
decade which point to an improvement in foodgrain availability in the
economy. Growing output, combined with the projected fall in the population
growth rate, suggest favorable long-run prospects for foodgrain supply and
demand balances. An occasional need to import grains, particularly wheat,
could arise, but if the efforts to develop agriculture over the past decade
are sustained and intensified, as suggested in the new Plan, persistent
shortage seems unlikely. This development could give rise to a range of
policy options including a slowly falling real price of foodgrains to
increase the affordability of foodgrains to low-income families, foodgrain
exports, and diversification to the production of other, higher-value crops.
16.       Foreign exchange reserves are providing a cushion that helps the
Government of India in short-term supply management. In March 1981, however,
gross reserves were $320 million lower than the level of a year earlier and,
in terms of import coverage, fell below the six-month level for the first
time since 1977. A much larger decline in the reserve level would have been
necessary in 1980/81 had IMF Trust Fund and Compensatory Financing
Facilities, amounting to over US$1 billion, not been available. India's



-6-
reserves provide some limited scope for narrowing the financing gap over the
next few years, but successful management of the balance of payments will
depend mainly on improved export performance, on import replacement, on the
maintenance of aid flows and workers' remittances, and on a moderation in
price increases for oil imports. While India's current account balance of
payments deficits are not expected to be large relative to the size of the
economy (e.g., on the order of two percent of GDP), the absolute amounts are
large and will necessitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be
available from normal concessional sources. Accordingly, India has recently
begun to undertake substantial borrowings in the financial markets to help
finance selected major investment projects.
17.       India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Considerable
progress continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the economy
faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years. Investments
required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete with
longer-term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's considerable
physical and human resources. The balancing of these objectives will place a
difficult burden on those implementing India's Sixth Five-Year Plan. The
primary focus must be on the implementation of appropriate domestic adjust-
ment policies, although the aid community can and should play an important
role in ensuring that India's efforts do not fail due to inadequate foreign
resources.
18.       Preliminary results from the March 1, 1981 Census, combined with
1971 Census figures adjusted for under-enumeration, suggest that the popula-
tion growth rate declined from 2.3% p.a. in the late 1960s to about 2% at
present. The rate of increase of population is expected to continue falling
to around 1.8% by the first half of the 1990s. While the growth rate appears
to be declining slowly, the 1981 Census population estimate was substantially
higher than previous Government projections. The 1981 Census data are still
incomplete but preliminary reports indicate that the rise in life expectancy
was more than anticipated, suggesting that, on average, Indians can expect to
live five years longer than they did a decade ago. This no doubt reflects
improved availability of food and health services. This implies, however, an
even greater need to reduce the birth rate to bring about the needed reduc-
tion in the rate of growth of population. The Census results, therefore,
re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen a broad range of
family planning activities to develop a wider clientele and to provide that
clientele with a professional, technically competent advisory service which
can provide the full variety of available birth prevention methods. The new
Plan continues the high priority given to these efforts in earlier Plans.
The ambition of its targets - implying a rise in the proportion of protected
couples in the reproductive age group from its present estimated level of
about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85 - seems fully justified. Such targets imply
a serious long term commitment to moderating the population growth rate
through an improved family planning program.
19.       Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 38% of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line (estimated at about US$114 and
US$132 per capita per year for rural and urban areas, respectively).



-7-
Improvements in the living standards of the poor will depend to a large
extent on the overall growth of the economy; the circumstances require
increases in agricultural production and employment, in non-farm rural
employment, and also in employment opportunities in urban areas. These
developments will have to stem in large part from market forces which,
however, must be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate Government policies
and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure. The declining
trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1979 reflects such develop-
ments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster implemen-
tation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in poverty
through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing the
supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Innovations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encourag-
ing evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to
enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
20.      Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 61 loans and 141 development
credits to India totalling US$2,833 million and US$9,323 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,168 million had been
repaid, and US$4,494 million was still undisbursed as of June 30, 1981. Bank
Group disbursements to India in fiscal year 1981 totalled US$962 million,
representing an increase of about 32% over the previous year. Annex II
contains a summary statement of disbursements as of June 30, 1981, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.     Since 1959, IFC has made 24 commitments in India totalling US$148.7
million, of which US$22.2 million has been repaid, US$27.7 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$91.3 million, US$82.3 million
represents loans and US$9.0 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of June 30, 1981, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
22.      In recent years, Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture.  The
Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor irrigation and
other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations and in
providing direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing, seed
development, agricultural extension, dairying, and forestry are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastruc-
ture development for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family plan-
ning, water supply development, urban investments and the development of oil
and natural gas have also received Bank Group support in recent years.



-8-
23.        The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis.   Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program
for the next several years.  Special emphasis will be given to projects
benefitting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fer-
tilizer sector assists India in the more efficient provision of another key
input in the agricultural growth process.  Projects supporting water supply,
sewerage, urban development and investments in the petroleum sector also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on those subsectors which have recently emerged as key constraints on
India's overall growth, primarily power and transportation.
24.        The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s by
augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financ-
ing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small
in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sec-
tors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
25.        India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can
reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Therefore, India should be eligible and regarded as
creditworthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt
service to the level of exports was about 10% in 1980/81 and is projected to
remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of June 30, 1981, outstanding loans to
India held by the Bank totalled US$1,742 million, of which US$874 million
remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$868 million.
26.        Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and
12% of net disbursements as compared with 49%, 36% and 44%, respectively, in
1980/81. On March 31,; 1981, India's outstanding and disbursed external
public debt was about US$17 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was
US$6.2 billion or 36% (IDA's US$5.3 billion and IBRD's US$0.9 billion).
Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1980/81, about
18.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-9-
PART III - ThE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Industrial Structure
27.       India has a diversified and fairly advanced industrial sector that
produces most of the country's needs for manufactured products. Imports con-
sist mainly of industrial raw materials, intermediates and some sophisticated
machinery and equipment. The industrial sector, broadly defined to include
manufacturing, mining, construction and utilities, contributed about 26% of
GDP in 1980; manufacturing accounted for about 18%. In 1950, when the first
Five-Year Plan was initiated, industry was heavily oriented toward the produc-
tion of consumer goods, with traditional light industries, such as textiles
and food processing, responsible for about half of manufacturing output.
Over the next 15 years, industrial production expanded by 6.25% annually, with
emphasis on the expansion of capital goods production and of "basic" indus-
trial inputs such as iron and steel, cement and fertilizers. Substantial
structural transformation took place over this period, with basic and capital
goods industries representing about 60% of the manufacturing sector's output
by 1965. Since then, the rate of industrial expansion has slowed down to an
average of about 4% per annum. Structural change has continued, with produc-
tion of basic industrial inputs and heavy machinery and equipment growing at
a significantly higher rate than industry as a whole. Basic and capital goods
industries together increased their shares in total value-added from 60% in
1965 to 69% in 1979. Because of GOI's basic industrial strategy, exports did
not receive much attention until the early 1970s. Since then, exports have
expanded quite rapidly (19% per year in current US dollars between 1970 and
1978, slowing to 6% in 1979 and rising to 12% in 1980), but still contribute
only some 8% to GDP, with manufactured exports accounting for only 3%.
Exports of engineering goods rose particularly rapidly and amounted to US$904
million in 1979. GOI has recently taken a number of steps to stimulate
manufactured exports (para. 32).
.2.       About two-thirds of manufacturing output comes from firms registered
under the 1948 Factories Act. The other third comes from non-registered small-
scale units, which together employ about 70% of the industrial labor force.
Almost 80% of the registered units are relatively small, having less than 50
workers, and the rest are medium- and large-scale production units which produce
about 88% of the total value-added by the registered units. Taken as a whole,
factories of all sizes are labor intensive. 1/ About b8% of industrial value-
added by registered units originates in the private sector. The proportion
of output coming from the public sector units has increased from 20% in 1970
to 28% in 1978, as the result of the increased Government investment in
certain subsectors, including steel, cement, and paper and of the nationaliza-
tion of part of the textile industry. Over two-thirds of gross fixed invest-
ment in industry took place in the public sector units. The joint sector,
comprising mainly new large units established with public and private parti-
cipation, has also expanded and by 1978 contributed about 5% of industrial
1/ The average fixed capital per employee in 1978, based on depreciated
book values of fixed assets, was about US$3,400. It would rise to
about US$8-11,000 on the basis of replacement values and 1980 prices.



- 10 -
value added. Some 94% of registered factories are in the private sector,
employing about 70% of the workers in registered firms by using only about 29%
of total fixed assets. By contrast, the public sector firms are much larger,
with over 440 workers on average, and with six times as much capital invested
per employee as the private firms. Productivity in the use of capital, as
measured by the ratio of fixed capital to value-added, appears substantially
higher in the private sector units. While the differences between public and
private sector productivity are partly attributable to the differences in  .
subsector mix, with public sector investment concentrated in the more capital-
intensive subsectors, more efficient management in the private sector is also
an important factor. The performance of joint sector firms, which generally
have private sector management, is closer to that of the private sector.
Industrial Policies and Priorities
29.       The basic strategy for industrial development in India has focused
on achieving a high degree of self-sufficiency in manufacturing through import
substitution and curbs on foreign ownership. In addition, a program of ex-
panded state ownership has been pursued, particularly in heavy industries
supplying basic inputs to the other industrial and agricultural sectors.
Successive governments have also sought to restrict the concentration of
economic power of large private undertakings through constraints on their
expansion and special support programs for small-scale industries and backward
regions. The principal instruments of industrial policy have been central
licensing of investment, controls on imports and exports, allocation of scarce
raw materials, price controls and reservation of production of certain items
for small-scale firms and the public sector. While such industrial strategy
was successful in promoting rapid industrialization up to 1965 and in enabling
India to develop a broad-based industrial structure, certain shortcomings
have become apparent in later years. In the protective environment in which
industry developed, adequate attention was not always paid to product quality,
economies of scale and technological development, with the result that many
industrial firms were not well placed to compete in export markets as oppor-
tunities for further import substitution declined and their organization may
not have been suitable for rapid growth of output, productivity, and innova-
tion. Domestic demand for consumer goods was constrained by the relatively
slow growth of per capita incomes and labor productivity, and demand for
investment goods was highly dependent on the level of public investment which
tended to fall after 1965. tioreover, inefficiencies in management and capacity
constraints in public sector enterprises supplying key inputs to the rest of
the industrial sector often held back industrial production, even when demand
was buoyant. Therefore, the Indian industrial sector has not been the engine
for growth as has industry in countries with less government intervention.
30.       Over the past five years there have been a number of developments
in industrial policy. Modifications have been made with the intention of
boosting the industrial growth rate, encouraging greater efficiency in capacity
utilization and stimulating industrial exports. The industrial policy state-
ment issued in 1977 reduced somewhat the emphasis on heavy industrialization
as the key to industrial growth, and gave greater weight to employment creation
and decentralization of industrial activity by increasing support to small-scale



- 11 -
activities in small towns and rural areas. While the 1977 policy statement
did not signal any major change in the character of the regulatory system, the
process of liberalization and streamlining of procedures initiated earlier has
continued. Similarly, the latest industrial policy statement of July 1980 has
made no major changes but seeks to remove some constraints through further
streamlining of the regulatory mechanism.
31.       Industrial Licensing and Imports.  Most industrial investment
in India continues to be subject to Government control. However, several
changes have been made to liberalize licensing requirements. Diversification
of production by a number of engineering industries is now permitted, within
the limits of overall licensed capacity, to facilitate better utilization of
installed capacity in the face of varying market conditions. In addition to
the 25% expansion in installed capacity available under normal licensing,
certain export-oriented engineering industries are permitted to grow over a
five-year period by 25% over their licensed capacity. The upper limit for
the size of investment that would be exempt from licensing was raised for
certain firms. Overall, these changes have reduced the procedural delays and
constraints of the licensing system for most industrial firms. The "large
houses" (as defined in the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act) and
foreign companies (as defined in the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act) remain
fairly tightly restricted but they are now permitted to expand in certain
specified industries. Since 1977, with the build up of foreign exchange
reserves, a more liberal import policy has been followed aimed at relieving
domestic supply constraints and production bottlenecks, encouraging industrial
investment and facilitating exports. The import licensing system has been
rationalized, procedures simplified and controls eased. The present system
is still highly protective, although a gradual transition has been taking
place toward the development of a protection system based more on tariffs than
on quantitative restrictions.
32.       Export Promotion and Incentives.  The principal instruments of
export promotion are cash compensatory support (part compensation for indirect
taxes), duty-free imports of inputs or duty drawback arrangements, and con-
cessional interest rates on export credits, have continued to be in force.
Important improvements initiated during the last few years include rational-
ization of the export licensing system, decentralization of administrative
functions and strengthening of the promotional systems. Export licensing is
now required only for a limited number of essential items in short supply
in the domestic economy such as sugar. The range of export items that are
required to be channeled through designated agencies has been severely reduced.
However, export quotas and minimum export prices remain in force for some
commodities. Some steps have been taken to strengthen the role of trade
houses in promoting exports, particularly those serving small and cottage
industries. The State Trading Corporation and the Trade Development Authority
have also increased their technical assistance and promotional support to
small exporters. During 1980, further steps were taken to promote exports of
manufactured goods. These steps, based on the recommendations of the Advisory
Committee on Export Strategy for the 1980s 1/, include: exclusion of export
1/   "Committee on Export Strategy in the 1980s', December 19b0.



- 12 -
production from the calculation of licensed capacity and the determination
of dominance under the honopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act; more
liberal treatment of royalty and technical know-how payments; relaxation on
curbs on the growth of export industries in metropolitan areas; and exemption
from import duties on capital goods and raw materials for firms exporting 100%
of their production. however, although these steps are a positive development,
GOI has not yet acted on other key recommendations of the Committee, including
those for further improvements in tax and other incentives and for a more
liberal policy on technological imports. E'urther action on these recommenda-
tions and on other supportive measures is required to improve the industrial
efficiency and competitive ability of Indian exporters, and to provide them
adequate incentives to export. 1/
33.       Statutory Price and Distribution Controls have been in force for
several years in respect of "essential" products such as iron and steel,
cement, sugar, paper, and fertilizers. The effect of these controls has
been to hold down profitability in the affected industries and to discourage
investment with the result that periodic or chronic shortages have emerged.
These effects have had to be mitigated at times by the introduction of special
incentives to encourage investment. Over the last few years, some price con-
trols have been eased and improvements in price control mechanisms have been
made, particularly in respect of more frequent price reviews, setting con-
trolled prices so that the industries concerned can achieve an acceptable
return on investment, and increased recourse to imports in order to moderate
price rises of items in short supply. The Bank is currently discussing with
GOI its price control pol'icy in connection with a proposed cement project.
34.       Support for Small-Scale and Cottage Industries. 2/  In view of the
predominant role played by small-scale and cottage industries in industrial
employment, various support measures have been introduced by the Government--
e.g. exemptions from licensing requirements, reservation of production of
certain items exclusively for small units, and a host of special programs
(concessionary credit through commercial banks and development banks, tech-
nical assistance, raw material supplies, etc.). The Government's 1977 and
1980 industrial policy statements seek to strengthen support for the small-
scale sector by additional production reservations and increases in funding
for the special programs. To improve the institutional and organizational
framework for small industry, GOI launched the District Industries Center
(DIC) Program in 1978. The objective was to set up a DIC in each of India's
400 districts to coordinate all types of assistance to small-scale units at
the local level.  The DIC program has encountered difficulties in recruiting
personnel and gaining acceptance from the local government departments and
has yet to achieve its goal.
1/   See Chapter III, "Export Prospects and Policies" of IBRD Report No.
3401-IN, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India", April 15, 1981,
for detailed discussions.
2/   Defined as units employing less than 10 workers.



- 13 -
35.       These various changes mark a cumulative improvement in the adminis-
tration of GOI's industrial policy. However, the overall policy framework
has changed little and the industrial sector remains over-protected and over-
regulated. Under these circumstances, it is unlikely that Indian industry
will achieve its full potential, particularly in the area of manufactured
exports where it is ill-equipped to compete in international markets. Never-
theless, there are indications that overall economic growth will be sustained
through 1982, following the improved production prospects of the agricultural
sector. Given the favorable economic circumstances and the somewhat more
liberal regulatory environment, there is potential for growth in industrial
investment. However, if this growth is to be sustained, an adequate level
of investment in modernization and capacity expansion needs to be maintained
and power and other infrastructural constraints need to be overcome. ICICI
plays an important role in providing the required funds for industrial invest-
ment and, through its project appraisal and promotional activities, is helping
to ensure that available resources are used for efficient high-priority invest-
ments in the private sector.
The Financial System and Industrial Finance
36.       General.  In recent years, over two-thirds of gross fixed investment
in industry has taken place in the public sector units, financed largely out
of Central and State budgets. In the private sector, internally generated
funds, including depreciation reserves and retained profits, have tradition-
ally been the most important source of investment finance. However, the
combined effects of inflation and relatively low profitability have led to
an increasing reliance on external financing, which contributed 567. of total
sources of funds of large and medium sized industries in 1980, compared to
45% in 1962.
37.       Financial Institutions.  India has an extensive and well-established
framework of financial institutions serving the industrial sector. The prin-
cipal all-India industrial finance institutions are: the Industrial Develop-
ment Bank of India (IDBI), ICICI, the Industrial Finance Corporation of India
(IFCI), the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), and the Unit Trust of
India (UTI). These institutions mainly provide term financing for large and
medium sized public limited companies in the private and joint sectors and
also for some public sector firms. At the State level, the major institutions
are the State Financial Corporations (SFCs), which finance small and medium
scale industries and the State Industrial Development Corporations (SIDCs),
which mainly promote and help finance larger industries which have direct
State shareholdings. While these term lending institutions finance only
about 7% of total fixed investment in industry, their importance in financing
private industrial investment has been increasing. Their total disbursements
were equivalent to about 45% of private fixed investment in industry in 1980,
compared to only 18% in 1971. In 1980, the three all-India development
finance companies accounted for about 24% of private fixed investment, as
follows:  IDBI, 12%; ICICI, 7%; and IFCI, 5%.  Commercial banks are also an
important source of finance for industry, principally as providers of working



- 14 -
capital finance. However, they also provide term-finance, 1/ particularly to
the small-scale sector, in which they play a dominant role. Although they
also extend term-financing to medium- and large-size private borrowers, their
terms are usually significantly shorter than those granted by the specialized
institutions, and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has discouraged expansion
of this lending.
38.       IDBI coordinates the activities of the other all-India and State
level institutions and provides financing (through refinance facilities and
equity participation) to SFCs and SIDCs and refinance to commercial banks
for industrial loans. The direct financing operations of IDBI, ICICI and
IFCI, comprising term-lending, equity investments and underwriting of share
and debenture issues, are similar in character. In the past, IDBI and IF'CI
have tended to concentrate rather more on the more established subsectors
involving raw material processing (e.g., textiles, sugar, food products,
cement and electrical generation) and on joint/public sector projects. ICICI
is more heavily represented in subsectors such as chemicals and petrochemicals,
electrical equipment and electronics, and mechanical engineering. ICICI is
also the most important institutional source of foreign exchange financing for
private industry, accounting for about 80% of foreign exchange financing by
all of the institutions. Joint financing of larger projects, which accounts
for a major part of the assistance by the all-India financial institutions,
is now well established 2/ and, as a result, there is now substantial overlap
in their clientele.
Credit Policy and Interest Rates
39.       Total credit extended by the commercial banking system grew by 21%
in 1980, continuing a trend of rapid credit expansion evidenced in each of
the previous three years. Disbursements of the industrial term-financing
institutions have also increased sharply: 32% in 1979 and 29% in 1980. With
inflation 3/ averaging about 7% p.a. since 1976, credit expansion has been
quite rapid in real terms. Since the inflation rate began to rise in late
1978, RBI has taken steps to curb expansion, including higher statutory liquid-
ity ratios for the banks, credit ceilings for industrial borrowers and increases
1/   Total term-financing (defined as loans with maturities over three
years) outstanding from commercial banks to the industrial sector, at
December 31, 1980, amounted to Rs 25.2 billion, or 17.8% of total bank
credit.
2/   ICICI, IDBI and IFCI, together with LIC and UTI, are members of the
Inter-Institutional Meeting (IIM), which routinely decides on joint
financing for projects and assigns "lead" responsibility to either
ICICI, IDBI or IFCI, for appraisal and follow-up. A system of par-
ticipation certificates and standardized legal agreements, initiated
by ICICI, is in force. Some 60% (by amount) of ICICI's financial
assistance is jointly financed through the IIM.
3/   Measured by the consumer price index.



- 15 -
in lending rates. The interest rate structure in India is established adminis-
tratively; RBI and GOI set rates from time to time to reflect their priorities.
Consequently, there are numerous interest rates by purpose and types of bor-
rowers. In the past, GOI has not used the interest rate as a major monetary
policy instrument in mobilizing and allocating resources. Deposit mobilization
was achieved by rapid expansion of branch network and allocations were carried
out by administrative decisions and through specialized financial institutions.
However, savings mobilization has recently become more difficult and interest
rates on savings deposits were raised in March 1981 by 0.5-1.5% resulting in
rates ranging from 7.5% to 10%. Also, rates offered corporations accepting
deposits were allowed to increase to 13.5%.  To allow commercial banks to
maintain a margin, lending rates for short-term loans were raised to a minimum
of 12.5% and the ceiling was raised to 19.5%. The basic rates charged by
all-India term-lending institutions on long-term loans were also raised by 2%
to 14%.
40.       The Capital Markets.  Direct issuance of shares and debentures for
subscription by the public and by institutions has been a comparatively minor
source of investment financing for private industry. Total capital issues
by non-government firms have generally accounted for only about 5% of private
industrial investment and are equivalent in size to only about one-fifth of
the disbursements by the term-financing institutions. Because of the thin-
ness of the market for equity shares, almost all issues are underwritten and
frequently the underwriters have to take up part of the issue. In 1978 and
1979, the capital market was somewhat more active partly because a number of
companies needed to dilute foreign shareholdings to comply with new foreign
investment regulations. With worsening economic conditions and rising interest
rates, capital issue activity declined substantially in 1980. Total capital
issues fell by 32% in 1980 to Rs 779 million. Of this total, Rs 513 million
were new ordinary and preference shares, Rs 196 million in rights issues and
Rs 70 million in debentures. During the first 10 months of 1980, total
capital raised was Rs 842 million, compared to Rs 703 million raised in 1980.
The index of ordinary share prices (1971 = 100) rose by 12.8 points in 1980
to reach 143.2. During the ten months to December 1980, ordinary share prices
rose by 9.8%. With public demand for share and debenture issues having
improved, private industry is expected to raise a larger part of its financial
requirements from the capital markets in the coming years.
The Bank Group's Sectoral Involvement
41.       Sector Work and Lending Strategy.  Over the last two decades, GOI
has pursued an industrial strategy which focused on achieving a high degree
of self-sufficiency in manufacturing through import substitution, expansion
to a great extent through public enterprises, and some curbs on both foreign
ownership and large private sector firms (para. 29). During this period, the
Bank Group's activities in the industrial sector were somewhat limited and
consisted largely of import program credits, general DFC lines of credit for
financing mainly private industry and a number of fertilizer projects. More
recently, given the size and complexity of the industrial sector and with
the objective of having a greater impact on the policy framework affecting
industry, the Bank has diversified its sector work and lending program.
Specifically, the Bank has adopted a sector work program with the focus on
major industrial subsectors, both to illuminate conditions within specific



- 16 -
industries as well as draw more general conclusions across the industrial
sector as a whole, where appropriate and to provide a basis for lending
operations in these industries. The objectives are: to understand better
what constrains industrial growth; identify what policy adjustments are
desirable and possible to improve performance; and to strengthen Bank Group
lending strategy toward the industrial sector. In this connection, the Bank
has completed two studies of the cement and coal subsectors and is now dis-
cussing the recommendations of the coal study with the GOI. Similar studies
are now underway on parts of the capital goods industry and on textiles;
others are planned for the fertilizer and paper subsectors. Related to this
is the substantial lending program underway for the power and transport sec-
tors which until now have acted as serious constraints to industrial growth.
ICICI has a large portfolio investment 1/ and pipeline in the subsectors which
are under review by the Bank, and would continue to play an important role in
providing finance for the modernization and expansion of these industries.
In addition to the subsector-specific studies and lending operations, the Bank
plans further detailed sector work in the export field: a review of export
policies, followed by a study of the determinants of export supply; and in the
field of energy usage and efficiency in the transportation sector. In con-
nection with the proposed loan, ICICI would undertake a study of the relative
profitability of Indian manufactured exports based largely on a survey of its
own clients who are already substantial exporters (para 61). ICICI has also
made substantial progress on a study of energy utilization and efficiency in
industries, especially the cement and pulp and paper industries. Furthermore,
ICICI's ongoing study of electrical equipment for power transmission and dis-
tribution is complementary to the Bank's overall efforts in the power sector.
As in the past, ICICI would be expected to play an important role in the Bank's
overall dialogue with GOI on financial policy. In this area, ICICI played a
major part in promoting the recent upward revision in long-term interest rates
in India.
42.       Operational Experience with ICICI.  The Bank has been closely asso-
ciated with ICICI since its foundation in 1955. This long association has
resulted in substantial Bank Group resources being channelled through ICICI
to high priority investments in India's private industry. Since 1955, the
Bank has made thirteen loans to ICICI totalling US$590 million (net of can-
cellations). The relationship with ICICI has also been valuable to the Bank
and has helped shape the Bank Group's approach to other DFCs. In 1973, a major
study, undertaken jointly by the Bank and ICICI, concluded that ICICI's devel-
opmental impact had been substantial, particularly through helping to ensure
that scarce foreign resources were allocated to priority industries mount-
ing financially and economically sound projects. This finding has also been
supported by Operations Evaluation Department performance audits for the sixth,
seventh and eighth loans, issued in December 1975. In line with the recommen-
dations made in these reports, the eleventh and twelfth loans were designed
to encourage and assist ICICI to diversify its sources of local and foreign
currency and broaden the scope of its activities so as to enhance further its
1/   As of December 31, 1980, the composition of ICICI's portfolio by subsector
was as follows: machinery (12.6%); textiles (12%); basic metal industries
(10.8%); cement (5%);paper (6.3%); and fertilizer (3.8%).



- 17 -
developmental impact. Progress has been satisfactory. ICICI raised its first
syndicated Euro-dollar loan in 1978, followed by a second in 1980, and there
has been a significant increase in rupee resources through bond issues and
joint financing operations with other institutions. The proposed fourteenth
loan would encourage further progress in this area.
43.       The performance audit report for the ninth and tenth loans was
issued in May, 1981, and concluded that ICICI's operational and financial
performance remained very satisfactory. However, the report was critical of
ICICI's overall promotion effort, suggesting that more progress could have
been made in diversifying ICICI's portfolio out of the more developed states
and out of its traditional areas of operations. While the suggestion is a
worthwhile one, ICICI is constrained by its designated role in the Indian
financial system of financing medium to large private sector projects. Over
the years, ICICI has made satisfactory progress in diversifying its portfolio
(para 54): about 40% of ICICI's assistance is to projects in designated
backward areas and ICICI continues to give institutional and training support
to those institutions whose designated role is the promotion of industry at
the State level. Nevertheless, in connection with the proposed loan, ICICI
would review and restat.e its industrial promotion strategy (para 61). The
audit report also suggested that ICICI should structure its lending operations
by programming and that the Bank should consider adopting a "target approach" 1/
in its lending. While targeting may be desirable in some cases, it does not
seem appropriate for ICICI, which is a mature institution with an established
ability to allocate resources efficiently to economically and financially
viable private sector projects. Mlore emphasis on appropriate promotion stra-
tegy and continued dialogue with GOI through a well-focused sector work pro-
gram, supported by ICICI, would have more impact on industrial development
than targeting. Other areas, such as concerns expressed over the high level
of cost overruns, are being addressed by ICICI. ICICI is carrying out a
detailed study of all projects which experienced cost overruns and is analyzing
the impact of cost overruns on project viability.
44.       The previous thirteenth Bank loan of US$100 million was made in
May 1980, and by June 30, 1981, US$70.0 million was committed and US$20.6
million disbursed. This represents a utilization of funds about one year
ahead of schedule. ICICI expects to have fully committed the thirteenth
loan by September 30, 1981, and has therefore requested the Bank, with the
endorsement of GOI, to support its operations with a further loan.
PART IV - THLE PROJECT
45.       The project was appraised by a mission which visited India in April
1981. A full staff appraisal report recommending the last loan, entitled
"India - Staff Appraisal Report of the Thirteenth Loan to the Industrial
Credit and Investment Corporation of India" (No. 2890-IN), which showed ICICI
1/   This suggests "targetting" Bank lending to specific sub-sectors or cate-
gories of sub-borrower.



- 18 -
to be a financially sound, well-managed and creditworthy institution, was
distributed to the Executive Directors on April 18, 1980. The financial
data on ICICI in that report have been updated in Annex IV. Other results
of the appraisal have been incorporated in expanded Parts III and IV of this
President's Report. Therefore, a separate appraisal report is not being
distributed. Negotiations for the proposed loan took place in Washington,
D.C., in August 1981; GOI and ICICI were represented by a delegation coor-
dinated by Mr. Sanat Kaul, Department of Economic Affairs, Government of
India. A supplementary project data sheet has been attached as Annex III.
The Proposed Loan
46.       The proposed loan of US L50 million would be made to ICICI, at an
interest rate of 10.6% p.a. with the guarantee of GOI, under standard Bank
terms for loans to development finance companies (DFCs). The proceeds of the
loan, together with other foreign loans, would be relent by ICICI to cover the
foreign exchange costs of high-priority industrial projects mounted largely by
private sector undertakings. 1/ The loan, which is expected to be committed
by March 1984 and disbursed by March 1987, would provide some 44% of ICICI's
total foreign exchange requirements through December 1983. Subloans would
have a maximum maturity of 15 years and would normally have a grace period of
up to three years. However, in subprojects where parallel foreign exchange
subloans are made out of Bank and commercial or export credit funds, the Bank
would assist ICICI in meeting the relatively shorter commercial and export
credit drawdown and maturity periods by permitting the allocation of the
earlier disbursements and repayments to these subloans. Subborrowers would
bear the full foreign exchange risk on all foreign currencies disbursed.
Subprojects for which the cumulative Bank financing under this and previous
Bank loans does not exceed US$6 million equivalent would not require the
Bank's prior approval (Section 2.02(b) of the Loan Agreement). The loan
would be repaid on the basis of a flexible amortization schedule that would
be adjusted to conform to the aggregate of the amortization schedules of the
subloans. Procurement for projects financed would be in accordance with
ICICI's standard procedures, which conform to the Bank's recommended practice
for DFCs. In addition, for individual procurement contracts of US$5 million
or more financed by the Bank loan, ICICI has indicated that it would make
special efforts to ensure that subborrowers have obtained the widest possible
range of quotations, including, where applicable, quotations from new sources
of supply. Disbursement would be for 100% of foreign exchange expenditures
for directly imported goods and services or 100% of the estimated c.i.f.
costs for imported goods purchased through local suppliers.  In accordance
with standard DFC practice, project expenditures incurred up to 90 days prior
to the Bank's receipt of a subloan application would be eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the loan.
1/   Although public, cooperative and joint sector projects are eligible for
ICICI financing, only 14% of ICICI's assistance has been to undertakings
in these sectors.



- 19 -
Objectives of the Loan
47.       The overall objective of the proposed loan would be to build on
the progress achieved in past operations. Apart from using ICICI as an effi-
cient and effective channel for Bank funds to finance priority private sector
industrial investments, the loan would pursue efforts to enhance ICICI's
developmental impact through its program of industrial studies and other
related activities, which are complementary to its mainstream financing
operations and to the Bank's own industrial sector work program in India.
In particular, the proposed loan would encourage ICICI to expand its existing
program of studies, addressing industrial efficiency problems and energy
utilization in industry, culminating in energy-saving investment operations
and including a study of the constraints on exports of Indian manufactured
goods. In addition, the loan would mark a further step towards the goal of
reducing ICICI's reliance on Bank funds and assist ICICI further in progres-
sively diversifying its sources of foreign exchange by facilitating blending
of Bank and commercial funds in its operations (paras 65 and 66).
Institutional Aspects of the Borrower
48.       Ownership and Resources.  Ownership of ICICI is dominated by public
sector corporations, including LIC, UTI and a number of nationalized commercial
banks. Of ICICI's issued share capital of Rs 248 million, public institutions
hold 80%, foreign shareholders (mainly commercial banks) hold 13% and the
remaining 7% is held by some 2,700 private Indian investors. As the public
sector holds more than 50% of its shares, ICICI is classified as a government
company in terms of the Companies Act. However, this classification does not
affect ICICI's operational autonomy, except in respect of the procedures for
appointing auditors. Relations between GOI and ICICI are good and, through
its close relations with the business community, ICICI continues to be an
important link between the private sector and the Government. At December 31,
1980, ICICI's resources totalled Rs 8.3 billion (US$1.04 billion). Foreign
exchange equivalent to Rs 3.7 billion (US$462.5 million) accounted for 44%
of the total, while domestic resources provided the balance of Rs 4.6 billion,
or 56%. Most of ICICI's foreign currency resources have come from the Bank:
of the total foreign exchange raised by ICICI up to December 31, 1980, the
thirteen Bank loans accounted for US$590 million, net of cancellations, or
77%. Seventeen lines of credit from Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW),
totalling US$78 million equivalent, accounted for 10% and eight United Kingdom
tied lines of credit for 5% of total foreign exchange resources. The remain-
ing 8% was made up of one USAID loan and three commercial borrowings: one
Swiss Franc bond issue and two Eurocurrency syndicated loans. In connection
with the proposed Bank loan, ICICI has confirmed that it would diversify its
resources further (paras 64 and 65).
49.       Management and Staffing.  ICICI is well managed and operates effec-
tively under a competent and experienced Board. Mr. S.S. Mehta remains
Chairman of the Board and Managing Director with overall responsibility for
all operational aspects of ICICI. The fifteen members of the Board represent
GOI (2 members), public financial institutions (2), foreign shareholders (2),
the professions and business (7), and include two full-time executives of
ICICI: the Joint and Deputy Managing Directors. The Board meets regularly;



- 20 -
it sets ICICI's overall financial and operational policies and decides on
individual project proposals involving an exposure above Rs 1U million.
ICICI's organizational structure is sound and it continues to have a strong
and capable middle management. At December 31, 1980, ICICI's total staff
numbered 645, including 254 professionals. The overall quality of ICICI's
staff remains high and turnover remains relatively low.
Operating Policies, Procedures and Standards
50.       Operating Policies.  ICICI has no formal policy statement, but has
relied on its Memorandum of Association, together with government guidelines
and the periodic resolutions of its Board, to provide a satisfactory operat-
ing policy framework. however, in 1977, ICICI's Board adopted a Statement
of Financial and Operational Strategy, which set out, in general terms, its
intentions in lending. Six broad areas were specified for priority attention:
(a) export industries; (b) power and transport; (c) agricultural inputs and
outputs; (d) industries basic to industrial expansion; (e) mass consumption
goods; and (f) balancing and modernization projects. The statement also noted
ICICI's commitment to backward area financing and to the encouragement of new
entrepreneurs. Since 1977, more than 90% of ICICI's financing has fallen
within these areas. In connection with the thirteenth loan, ICICI updated
this statement to reflect certain aspects that warranted more emphasis, and
to include a detailed description of its policies and strategy in mobilizing
and utilizing commercial foreign exchange borrowings, and a statement giving
focus to its developmental activities.
51.       ICICI has updated and amended this statement still further, with the
overall objective of making it more specific in its statement of priorities
for lending and more explicit in the areas of its operations to which consider-
able attention is already devoted. The revised statement restates ICICI's
strategy and the goals of its developmental activities program, incorporating
the changes and additions proposed under this loan (para 61). It also reflects
ICICI's policy on blending (para 66) and clarifies its intention in future to
diversify still further its sources of foreign exchange funds. The statement
explains ICICI's industrial promotion strategy, both in direct project promo-
tion and its role in strengthening other institutions directly involved in
industrial promotion. This reflect ICICI's intention to devote more atten-
tion to promotional activities, particularly in promotion of opportunities
identified in its industrial studies (para 61). ICICI's already substantial
involvement in the modernization of industry clearly stated, as is its role
in backward area development and the encouragement of new entrepreneurs (para
54). This revised statement, which is in a form satisfactory to the Bank has
been approved by ICICI's Board.
52.       Onlending Terms.  For both domestic and foreign currency loans,
ICICI's standard rate of interest was set at 11% p.a. in 1975 and, prior to
March 1981, was subject to only two minor adjustments: funds deriving from
Eurocurrency borrowings were relent at a floating interest rate of 1.5% above
LIBOR and, effective August 1980, a 7% tax on interest was introduced by GOI
and passed on to subborrowers (except on Eurocurrency subloans), raising the
effective rate to 11.84%. however, in March 1981, following appeals by finan-
cial institutions initiated by ICICI, GOI granted an upward revision of 2%



- 21 -
in the standard rate. As a result, ICICI's new standard rate is 14% p.a.,
inclusive of interest rate tax, 1/ except for subloans from Eurocurrency
sources which now will bear a floating rate of 2% over LIBOR plus the 7%
interest tax, subject to a minimum rate of 13.5%. Loans to new projects in
designated backward areas receive a concession on the first Rs 20 million of
institutional assistance of 1.5% p.a. on the standard rate. 2/ In addition,
a further 1% p.a. surcharge on interest is levied on companies whose shares
are not listed on a stock exchange. In the period 1976-1980, when inflation
averaged 7% p.a., ICICI's interest rates were significantly positive in real
terms and are expected to remain so, based on the Bank's present inflation
projection for India. 3/ Furthermore, ICICI's foreign exchange subborrowers
bear the exchange risk which, in the past, has resulted in higher effective
rates. ICICI also participates in the equity of its clients and reserves the
right to convert up to 20% of its domestic currency loan amount to ordinary
shares. ICICI continues to charge a 1% p.a. commitment fee on foreign currency
loans and a commitment fee, ranging between 0.25% and 1% p.a., on domestic
currency loans. ICICI's standard terms provide for maximum loan maturities
of up to 15 years including up to 3 years grace. These lending terms conform
with those offered by the other all-India term-lending institutions which are
members of the Inter-Institutional Meeting for joint financing (para 38).
53.       Appraisal and Follow-up Standards.  ICICI's appraisals continue
to be of a high standard and incorporate a thorough treatment of technical,
financial, market and economic aspects. Follow-up procedures and project
supervision standards are also satisfactory: clients submit detailed quar-
terly progress reports to'ICICI for review and follow-up personnel conduct
about 300 visits a year to the 650 projects for which ICICI has primary super-
vision responsibility. Problem projects are visited at least once a year and
a satisfactory system of reporting and management review exists. ICICI also
reserves the right to appoint a director on its clients' boards and has done
so in 125 cases.
Operating Performance and Developmental Impact
54.       Characteristics and Impact of Past'Assistance.  At December 31,
1980, ICICI had approved assistance totalling Rs 14.7 billion (US$1.84 billion)
for some 2,900 projects. The sectoral distribution of assistance reflects
ICICI's concentration on non-traditional and technologically more advanced
industries: more than half the total was to the engineering sector, including
metal and metal products, mechanical and electrical machinery and transport
equipment (38% of the total), and to the chemical and petrochemical industries
(20%). Other subsectors receiving a significant proportion of ICICI financing
were textiles (12%), pulp and paper (6Z) and cement (5%). ICICI's clients
1/   Equivalent to 13.02% p.a. net to ICICI.
2/   Except on funds from Eurocurrency sources.
3/   Which is:  11% in 1981/82; 8.5% in 1982/83; 7.5% in 1983-86; and 6%
thereafter.



- 22 -
are predominantly medium to large sized private sector companies, 1/ and
during the last two years, ICICI's average assistance per project amounted
to Rs 9 million, corresponding to about 20% of total project costs. In 1979,
the average gross fixed assets of ICICI-financed companies were Rs 149.7
million. However, 46% of the firms had net fixed assets of less than Rs 50
million. The average fixed assets in major subsectors were as follows:
machinery manufacturing (Rs 56 million); chemicals (Rs 154 million); textiles
(Rs 121 million); pulp and paper (Rs 190 million); and cement (Rs 313 million).
In 1980, ICICI financed 305 projects of which 73, or 26%, were new projects.
The rest of the projects were expansion/modernization/ balancing projects.
This reflects ICICI's strong emphasis on encouraging the modernization and
upgrading of clients' plant and equipment to improve overall industrial
efficiency. These efforts extend also to advice to clients at the appraisal
stage on technology choice and engineering design: of the modifications
made to projects on ICICI's advice in 1980, some 45% involved technology
and equipment choice. ICICI also provides technical assistance, through its
merchant banking division, to industries that need financial restructuring.
The geographic distribution of assisted projects is somewhat skewed towards
the more industrialized states in Western India. However, ICICI has made
progress in diversifying its portfolio, and its pattern of assistance now
matches more closely that of other lenders and private investors in states
with the level of infrastructure and other support necessary to attract medium
and large private industrial projects. In addition, a substantial portion
(30%) of ICICI's financing has gone to projects in the designated backward
areas. 2/
55.       Performance data of ICICI-assisted projects indicate that they are
reasonably successful. Of a sample of 400 projects, analyzed in 1978 and
1979, only the sugar manufacturers, who were affected by distribution and
price controls, and two shipping companies, did not record pre-tax profits.
For the firms in the sample, the post-tax return on net worth was 12%. The
economic impact of ICICI's projects has also been satisfactory. The weighted
average ex-ante economic rate of return for 114 projects approved in 1980 was
36%. These investments are expected to create about 38,000 new jobs at an
average investment cost per job of about US$19,400; this is reasonable in view
of the concentration on medium to large sized projects in technologically more
advanced subsectors. Furthermore, a significant proportion of ICICI's clients
are exporters and are estimated to contribute between 15% and 20% of India's
total export of manufactures.
1/   Small industries are supported by a network of specialized institutions
at the national and state levels, and by the commercial banks, whose
procedures and coverage are better suited to small industry financing.
In the past, the Bank has made one credit and one loan to IDBI in support
of small industry lending by the State Financial Corporations.
2/   Approximately 40-45% of annual approvals over the last few years have
gone to projects in these areas.



- 23 -
5b.       Lending Operations.  ICICI's total net approvals reached Rs 2.6
billion (US$325 million) in 1980, an increase of 28% over the figure for
1979. At the same time, total disbursements increased by 39% to Rs 1.7
billion (US$213 million), equivalent to about l6% of those of all development
financial institutions and about 7% of total private industrial investment
in India. Of these totals, lending operations accounted for about 95%, with
domestic currency loans making up about 60% in 1980. During the period 1976
to 1978, domestic currency loan approvals more than doubled, from Rs 390
million to Rs 1.04 billion (US$49 million to US$130 million), while foreign
currency loan approvals declined slightly from US$44 million to US$38 million.
The trend towards increased domestic currency lending reflects improved
availability of domestic resources, while the decline in foreign exchange
approvals was due to the increased availability of free foreign exchange and
reluctance on the part of subborrowers to assume the relatively high level
of foreign exchange risk inherent in borrowing Bank funds in 1977 and 1978.
However, in 1979, ICICI's foreign exchange loan approvals increased to US$85
million, partly because of the introduction of the Bank's special currency
disbursement scheme for DFCs, which reduced the perceived exchange risk and
enabled ICICI to place Bank funds more easily. In 1980, foreign exchange
approvals increased by a further 45% to US$124 million, reflecting both the
improved investment climate and the curtailment of access to free foreign
exchange following the deterioration in India's overall foreign exchange
position. This sharp increase in foreign exchange business resulted in a
commitment of the US$100 million thirteenth Bank loan one year ahead of
schedule. Domestic currency loans remained at a high level in 1979 of
Rs 1,230 million (US$154 million) and increased by 25% to Rs 1,535 million
(US$192 million) in 1980.
57.       Investments and Other Operations.  ICICI's direct subscriptions
and underwriting of share and debenture issues accounted for 10% of its total
approvals since inception and 4% of the total in 1980. Investment approvals
doubled from Rs 83 million (US$10.4 million) in 1976 to Rs 160 million (US$20
million) in 1979, but declined to Rs 114 million (US$14.3 million) in 1980.
About 72% of ICICI's total investment approvals derive from underwriting of
issues and, of the total of Rs 1.1 billion (US$137.5 million) underwritten
since inception, ICICI had taken up only Rs 525 million (US$65.6 million) at
December 31, 1980. ICICI's guarantees, which are issued largely to foreign
suppliers, constitute a very small part of its operations (about 1.3% since
inception), on which only Rs 0.5 million has been disbursed.  dowever, this
activity is likely to increase in future with the proposal to provide guar-
antees under bilateral lines of export credits (para 65). In addition, ICICI
has broadened the range of financial services it offers clients by expanding
its merchant banking activities. Since 1973, ICICI has successfully managed
57 share and debenture issues and private placements totalling Rs 2.7 billion
(US$337.5 million), on which it earned fees of Rs 16 million (USA2 million); a
further 45 proposals, involving Rs 400 million (US$50.0 million) are on hand.
ICICI, through its Merchant Banking activities, has been closely involved in
the issue of new instruments on the Indian capital markets; particularly
convertible and rights debentures, 1/ which have proved popular.
1/   Debenture bonds issued on the basis of a rights issue to existing
shareholders.



- 24 -
Other Developmental Activities
58.       Objectives.  In addition to its mainstream lending and investment
operations and its merchant banking activities, ICICI undertakes a broad range
of complementary activities and services aimed at enhancing its overall deve-
lopmental impact. These activities include: undertaking industrial subsector
and policy studies; identification and promotion of new projects; backward
area development programs; and training and advisory support for other domestic
and foreign financial institutions.  Most of these activities were initiated
following the joint Bank/ICICI study of ICICI's developmental impact in 1973.
Since then, the Bank has been actively involved in planning some activities,
particularly the industrial studies, and has encouraged a selective expansion
of ICICI's program in the context of recent loans. At the time of the thir-
teenth loan, the Bank and ICICI reviewed the overall objectives and concluded
that the developmental activities should be planned carefully to ensure that:
(i) they are well integrated with ICICI's mainstream financing activities;
(ii) limited staff resources are used as effectively as possible; and (iii)
efforts are focused on areas likely to have a significant impact on industrial
development or make an important contribution to the future development of
ICICI's operations. ICICI selected the following areas as a primary focus
of its activities: addressing major industrial bottlenecks; and encouraging
improvements in industrial efficiency and export performance. The development
of its capacity to provide training and consultancy services to DFCs in other
countries was selected as a subsidiary focus. This overall focus is appro-
priate as it capitalizes on ICICI's principal advantage of having extensive
and close contact with major undertakings in most subsectors, and it is
complementary to the bank's own program of sector work (para 41).
59.       Past Activities.  ICICI's program of industrial subsector and policy
studies was initiated under the eleventh Bank loan, with a study on the pro-
blems and prospects of manufactured exports. This was followed by a study of
the automotive products subsector, carried out in conjunction with the twelfth
loan. In addition to these major studies, ICICI has completed a number of
shorter papers on, for example, price and distribution controls in the sugar
and cement industries, the impact of industrial licensing, and the economics
of small cement, steel and paper plants, and has participated in the Bank's
study of the cement subsector. These papers have been used by various govern-
ment committees in their review of policy. Under the thirteenth loan, ICICI
agreed to carry out two major studies, both aimed at addressing the problems
faced by industry as a result of chronic and severe power shortages. The
first study, on which substantial progress has been made, is of energy utiliza-
tion in industry and covers energy conservation, the use of alternative fuels,
the economics of back-up generating capacity, and examines other measures that
might be adopted to lessen the impact of power shortages. The second, on
which data are now being collected, would identify constraints caused by
shortages of suitable equipment and components needed for power generation,
transmission and distribution. The studies, originally designed to be com-
pleted by September 1982, are both on schedule.



- 25 -
60.       In addition to work on industrial studies, ICICI established a small
promotion unit in 1974 to identify project opportunities and to promote them.
While this unit has performed reasonably well, progress has been considerably
slower and more manpower intensive than originally anticipated. Financial
assistance has been approvec for only five new projects promoted by this unit;
a further 10 are at an advanced stage of preparation. As explained in para
61, ICICI intends to place more emphasis on aspects of promotion in future.
Other development activities have focused mainly on assistance in the estab-
lishment of training and other institutes and on providing support for other
financial institutions. ICICI participated actively in the establishment of a
Foreman Training Institute, a private company offering pilot plant facilities
on a commercial basis to test new industrial processes and a Financial Manage-
ment and Research Institute. In collaboration with the other financial
institutions, ICICI has set up several state technical consultancy institutions
to assist new entrepreneurs. In addition, apart from its regular activity in
training staff from other Indian and foreign development banks, ICICI has
seconded staff to DFCs in other countries and is presently involved in consul-
tancy assignments in support of other Bank lending operations in Sri Lanka and
Ghana. More informally, ICICI's participation in lending consortia with other
financial institutions has contributed to an improvement in their standards
and procedures. Overall, ICICI has achieved significant progress in this
field using the relatively small manpower resources available.
61.       Future Activities.  While no changes will be made in the overall
focus of the developmental activities, ICICI plans to focus its promotional
activities, increase its involvement in modernizing industry, and carry out
further industrial studies which would result in financing possibilities.
A further major study on exports will be added to the two studies presently
underway. This study is aimed at identifying constraints facing Indian
manufactured exports and at recommending suitable ways of alleviating them.
However, because extensive macro-analysis has been done on the broader problems
of India's ability to export manufactured goods, ICICI's study is more speci-
fically focused to take advantage of the work already done in its 1977 export
study and of the extensive information base of its large number of clients who
are substantial exporters. Consequently, the study consists of two parts:
first, an update of the previous analysis on relative profitability and incen-
tives; and, second, a survey of clients to determine constraints in either
expanding or starting exports of manufactured goods. ICICI also plans to
expand the focus of the ongoing electrical equipment study to include coverage
of the potential for energy conservation equipment; a direct link with the
nearly completed study on energy usage in industry. In addition, ICICI
intends to pursue its work on subcontracting relationships between small and
large firms. ICICI has also restated its overall role in industrial promotion,
placing particular emphasis on developing specific investment opportunities
identified by the industrial studies. This emphasis is appropriate in view of
the relatively small manpower resources available to ICICI for this activity,
and in view of the existence in India of specialized institutions for indus-
trial promotion, which presently receive institutional assistance from ICICI.
While ICICI intends to continue to promote other projects, the emphasis on
promoting projects emanating from the studies is aimed at increasing further
ICICI's direct impact on improving industrial efficiency and exports. ICICI



- 26 -
has outlined a timetable for completion of the studies, as well as detailed
terms of reference for the export study. The final reports of ICICI's indus-
trial studies would be submitted to GOI and the Bank, and their conclusions
and possible policy implications would be taken up with GOI as part of the
Bank's on-going dialogue on industrial policy issues.
Portfolio and Financial Performance
62.       Quality of Portfolio.  Arrears over the period 1973 to 1980 have
shown a significant increase: at December 31, 1980, total principal and
interest in arrears amounted to Rs 219 million, compared to Rs 41 million
in 1973; principal in arrears as a percentage of the loan portfolio was 1.8%,
compared to 1.6%; and the percentage of the portfolio affected by arrears was
20%, compared to 7%. However, the bulk of the increase took place before 1976
and the ratios, since then, have shown comparatively little change. The con-
tinuing relatively high level of arrears is due, in part, to the effects on
ICICI's clients of continuing power shortages, other infrastructural problems
and poor industrial relations. At the same time, the effect of price increases
on working capital requirements, combined with credit restrictions imposed by
RBI and commercial banks, has had an adverse effect on clients' liquidity and
has hampered ICICI's efforts to reduce arrears. ICICI expects, however, to
maintain its collection ratio of about 90% of amounts falling due, which is
acceptable. Six industries (spun pipes, paper and paper products, sugar,
plastics, mini-steel plants and tires) account for the major portion of arrears.
In the case of spun pipes and sugar, ICICI's arrears reflect industry-wide
problems, but in the other subsectors they reflect specific problems faced by
ICICI clients. ICICI's follow-up and supervision standards are satisfactory
and clients in arrears are closely supervised and monitored by management. In
addition, ICICI offers financial advice on restructuring or merging of client
companies and, in some cases, has been successful in restructuring companies
under new management. Following a case-by-case review of clients in arrears,
ICICI's auditors have agreed to the adequacy of the reserves and provisions
against bad debts. ICICI's equity portfolio at December 31, 1980, comprised
ordinary share investments of Rs 265.1 million in 375 companies and preference
share investments of Rs 94.4 million in 143 companies. Some 47% of the invest-
ment portfolio was in companies operating profitably and paying dividends, 13%
was in companies under construction and 40% in companies experiencing difficul-
ties. Nevertheless, the estimated value of the ordinary shares was 128% of
book value, an improvement on the 1979 figure of 120%. The average return,
including capital gains, on the share portfolio was 8.5%. At December 31,
1980, ICICI also held Rs 211 million in debentures, which yielded 9.5%. In
1980, ICICI disposed of shares and debentures costing Rs 37.9 million, on
which it realized a capital gain of Rs 10.9 million. ICICI's overall invest-
ment portfolio continues to be reasonably sound and well managed.
63.       Financial Performance.  ICICI's net profits before taxation and
provisions increased in line with the growth in total assets between 1976 and
1980. However, net after tax profits increased more sharply, from Rs 28 million
in 1976 to Rs 89 million in 1980, reflecting both the higher interest spread
and ICICI's reduced taxation liabilities. Increased allowances, notably the
tax-free ploughback of a portion of pre-tax profits (now 40%), reduced ICICI's



- 27 -
effective rate of taxation from 44% in 1976 to 29% in 1980. As a result,
ICICI's return on equity increased from 12% in 1976 to 16% in 1980. The rate
of dividend on paid in capital, raised from 11% to 12% in 1976, was again
raised in 1979 to 13%. However, the improved post-tax profitability allowed
a satisfactory retention of profits of 67% in 1980, compared to 53% in 1976.
Administrative expenses were held at 0.6% of average total assets throughout
the 1976-1980 period. Although margins were squeezed by increased costs of
borrowing and a growth in lending on concessional terms, this was offset by
the relatively larger volume of domestic currency lending, carrying a larger
spread than foreign currency loans. As a result, the nominal spread on
lending operations increased from 2.4% in 1976 to 2.8% in 1980, which is
satisfactory. Total assets increased from Rs 3 billion in 1975 to Rs 7
billion in 1980. The debt:equity ratio at December 31, 1980, was 10.2:1,
within the contractual limit of 11:1. ICICI's debt service coverage per-
formance has been satisfactory: the debt service coverage ratio increased
from 1.08:1 in 1976 to 1.15:1 in 1980, which is acceptable, but somewhat less
than the 1979 ratio of 1.25:1 due to the redemption of a Rs 50 million bond
issue in 1980.
Operations Forecast and Resource Requirements
64.       Operations Forecast.  In view of the infrastructural and other dif-
ficulties facing the industrial sector, ICICI's operations forecast is based
on relatively conservative assumptions. Total net approvals are projected to
grow by 13% to Rs 3 billion (US$375 million) in 1981, (compared to 28% in
1980), with foreign exchange loan approvals increasing by about 11%. After
1981, approvals are expected to grow by about 10% p.a., compared to a com-
pound growth rate of more than 30% in the period 1976 to 1980. With the
access to free foreign exchange for capital goods expected to remain limited,
ICICI believes that demand for foreign exchange loans will stabilize at about
37% of total approvals. As a result, foreign exchange commitments are ex-
pected to increase from the 1980 level of US$105 million to US$125 million
in 1981, US$140 million in 1982 and US$153 million in 1983. For the period
April 1981 to December 1983, ICICI's foreign exchange commitments are ex-
pected to total US$396 million. Against this, at March 31, 1981, ICICI had
uncommitted foreign exchange of US$57 million, 1/ leaving US$339 million to
be funded. KfW is expected to provide some US$39 million equivalent over the
period, reducing the unfunded amount to US$300 million. The proposed Bank
loan would cover part of this requirement for the period up to December 1983
(i.e., about 2 years after loan effectiveness); the remainder is expected to
be sought from commercial Eurocurrency sources supplemented by other borrow-
ings. 2/ Bearing in mind the Bank's objective of progressively reducing
ICICI's dependence on Bank funds, the proposed loan would be limited to US$150
million, resulting in a ratio of Bank to commercial and other borrowings of
1/   Including US$44.1 million in Bank funds.  ICICI anticipates committing
all its foreign exchange resources by September 30, 1981.
2/   In this context, "other borrowings" means borrowings from any other
commercial source, bilateral export credit arrangements and guarantees
issued by ICICI under these arrangements. Not included are borrowings
under KfW's Capital Aid program.



- 28 -
50:50, compared to the ratio of 70:30 agreed to for the thirteenth loan.
GOI has granted permission for ICICI to borrow US$150 million equivalent in
parallel with the proposed loan. As explained in para 66, ICICI probably
would need to blend commercial funds and export credits with other foreign
exchange resources to accommodate their restricted drawdown periods and
relatively shorter maturities. ICICI does not require any specific assistance
from the Bank in arranging commercial borrowings. Past Bank assistance at the
time of ICICI's previous Eurocurrency borrowings was effective in establishing
ICICI's name in the market. Furthermore, Indian issues continue to enjoy
high acceptance on the Euromarkets. 1/ As a result, ICICI has developed
close relationships with foreign commercial banks and, based on the response
to ICICI's initial enquiries (para 66), ICICI should have no difficulty in
arranging commercial and other borrowings up to the US$150 million indicated.
65.       Commercial and Other Borrowings.  The appropriate mix of the funds
making up the required US$150 million between commercial funds and export
credits would depend on market conditions and their terms and availability.
However, ICICI foresees operational difficulties in utilizing export credits
effectively in the major part of its normal lending operations. 2/ Conse-
quently, it is unlikely that such credits would account for a large proportion
of the total, leaving the bulk of the funds to be sought from commercial
sources, either on fixed rate or floating rate terms. As in the past, ICICI's
access to fixed rate funds is limited and it probably would rely on the Euro-
market for its commercial borrowings. Market conditions and the operational
difficulties associated with utilizing commercial funds with restricted
drawdown periods make it impractical to raise the full amount at one time.
Instead, ICICI has approached the market for an initial borrowing of US$65
million equivalent in 1981, and probably will raise further market borrowings
in late 1982. The initial market borrowing, on which discussions are at an
advanced stage, will consist of ICICI's first floating rate note (FRN) issue
for US$30 million, and a syndicated mixed currency loan in Deutsche Marks,
Swiss Francs and Yen, totalling about US$35 million equivalent. Terms and
conditions have not been finalized, but indications are that both will have
ten-year maturities with 30-month draw-downs; the FRN issue will probably
carry a coupon 1/4% above LIBOR and the loan a rate of 3/8-1/2% above LIBOR.
While the FRN issue will require a GOI guarantee, for the first time, ICICI's
syndicated loan will not. This, together with the loan's fine spread above
LIBOR 3/, indicates a significant improvement in ICICI's credit standing in
the market. In addition to market borrowing, ICICI has reached an advanced
stage in arranging US$10 million equivalent in United Kingdom export credits,
1/   In the past, ICICI's commercial issues have carried GOI guarantees.
However, there are now indications that ICICI's planned Eurocurrency
syndicated borrowing will be arranged without a GOI guarantee (para 65).
2/   The credits are normally only for 3-5 years with a limited drawdown
period. ICICI anticipates that such credits could only be used in
relatively few expansion/modernization projects.
3/   ICICI's last Eurocurrency borrowing carried a spread of 1/2-5/8% over
LIBOR.



- 29 -
which will carry a net fee to ICICI of 2% and a cost to sub-borrowers of
9.5% p.a. ICICI is presently exploring the possibility of further UK export
credits and similar credits from other countries. ICICI expects arrangements
for the initial US$75 million equivalent in borrowings to be completed by
December 31, 1981. ICICI has confirmed its intention to raise a further US$75
million equivalent thereafter in such a way as to commit the full amount of
commercial and other borrowings in parallel with the proposed Bank loan.
66.       Blending Arrangements.  In connection with the last loan to ICICI,
it was recognized that, depending on the terms negotiated, commercial funds
might have limited use on their own in ICICI's normal lending operations,
because of their fixed amortization schedules, relatively short maturities
and restricted draw-down periods. It was anticipated that ICICI would need to
make parallel commercial and Bank financed subloans to accommodate commercial
funds without having to reduce significantly its clients' repayment terms.
Therefore, ICICI was allowed to blend Bank and commercial funds by tailoring
the amortization schedules of Bank subloans so as to allocate relatively more
of the early maturities for repayments to commercial lenders. ICICI was also
permitted to allocate early disbursements for individual subprojects prefer-
entially to commercial subloans so as to draw-down its commercial borrowings
within the required 30-month period, and avoid the foreign exchange risks
involved in drawing down these borrowings in advance of when they are required
for subloan disbursements. The effect of this arrangement on the Bank is
that, since repayments on Bank loans are based on the composite amortization
schedules of subborrowers, repayments would be slower than normal in the
initial years. Also, it slows down disbursements initially. However, neither
the overall repayment period, nor the disbursement period are affected. ICICI
expects that these arrangements will continue to be necessary to enable it
to absorb commercial and shorter term export credit funds. To ensure that
acceptable proportions of Bank funds are disbursed and repayed in the initial
periods of the loan, ICICI has confirmed that at least 10% of the loan would
be disbursed in the first two years and 25% repaid in the first seven years. 1/
In addition, ICICI has presented the Bank with a satisfactory statement of the
procedures it intends to use in blending Bank with other foreign exchange funds.
67.       Financial Projections.  ICICI's financial projections are provided
in Annex IV. ICICI's profits before taxation are projected to increase from
Rs 122 million (US $5.3 million) in 1980 to Rs 310 million (US$38.8 million)
in 1985, an annual increase of 16.8% which is roughly in line with the pro-
jected growth in total assets. Profits after tax are expected to grow from
Rs 89 million (US$11.1 million) in 1980 to Rs 214 million (US$26.8 million)
in 1985, an average return on equity of about 18%, which is satifactory. The
nominal interest spread on lending operations is expected to be around 2.4%
p.a., which is satisfactory; although it is expected to decline to about 2.0%
as lower spread commercial funds become a larger proportion of financing and
as domestic currency borrowing cost increases. Dividends are expected to
be maintained at 13%, allowing an adequate ploughback of net earnings. Total
assets are expected to grow from Rs 7 billion (US$875 million) in 1980 to
1/   Compared to an average under previous Bank loans (up to the 12th loan)
of 27% disbursement and 40% repayment in the respective periods.



- 30 -
Rs 17.8 billion (US$2.2 billion) in 1985, an annual growth rate of about 17%.
The loan and investment portfolio is expected to increase at about the same
rate from Rs 6.1 billion (US$762 million) in 1980 to Rs 15.6 billion (US$1.9
billion) in 1985. ICICI expects to maintain its average debt collection ratio
of 90%, which is attainable in the light of past performance. On this assump-
tion, the debt service coverage ratio would remain above 1.5:1 throughout the
period, which is satisfactory. In late 1981, ICICI plans to issue Rs 135
million (USq$6.9 million) in subordinated debentures, which will be converted
into share capital in three equal amounts in 1983, 1985 and 1987. As these
debentures will be subordinated to all debt and will be non-redeemable, the
Bank would treat them as "equity" for the purpose of calculating ICICI's
debt:equity limit. Taking this into account, the ratio is expected to increase
from 10.2 in 1980 to a high of 10.8:1 in 1983, which is within the 11:1 con-
tractual limit.
Project Benefits and Risks
68.       By continuing to support ICICI's operations, the proposed loan
would contribute to sustaining the rate of investment in the modernization
and expansion of industrial capacity in India. Subloan beneficiaries would
be mainly medium and large sized private sector firms mounting high priority
industrial projects, many of which would be export oriented. About one third
of loan proceeds are likely to be used in support of projects in designated
backward areas, including projects sponsored by new entrepreneurs. Based on
previous experience, it is expected that jobs created by sub-projects would
have an average investment cost of some US.25,000 each, and would have eco-
nomic rates of return of about 20% on average. Furthermore, the loan would
encourage ICICI to diversify its sources of foreign exchange still further by
raising additional commercial borrowings, and would contain features designed
to enable such funds to be used effectively in normal lending operations. The
principal institution building effects of the loan would be to continue to
assist ICICI to focus better and selectively expand its program of development
activities, including studies designed to address the industrial efficiency
and energy utilization problems facing Indian industry, and to examine the
constraints on expanding the export of manufactured goods; activities and
studies complementary to the Bank's own program of industrial sector work in
India. Since ICICI is a mature and capable institution with a sound record
in industrial financing, the proposed loan does not involve significant risks.
ICICI's financial projections and resource requirements have been based on
reasonably conservative assumptions. Consequently, delays in loan commitment
and disbursement are not anticipated.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and ICICI, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between India and the Bank, and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 31 -
70.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMNENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
September 8, 1981






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                           Page  1  of  5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV_ RAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                       MOST RECENT ESTIMATE-
TOTAL           3287.6                                 MOST RECENT       LOW INCONE             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    1809.5               1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   ASIA 6 PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   60.0       100.0     190.0              232.3                 1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     111.1        152.5    241.8              499.4                  1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUS.)  434850.0    547569.0  659217.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9         19.7      22.0               17.3                   40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      974.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       1621.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2115
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                      132.3        166.6    200.5              153.6                   373.1
PER SQ. KH. AGRICULTURAL LAND    246.7        308.0     355.8             360.3                  2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.1         42.4      41.1              37.4                    39.8
15-64 YRS.                         56.8         54.7      56.0              59.2                    56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.1          2.9       2.9               3.5                     3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8          2.3       2.1               2.1                     2.3
URBAN                              2.5          3.3       3.3               3.4                     3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    44.2          40.3      34.0              27.7                    29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     22.7         17.4      13.5              10.2                     7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.1          2.8       2.3               2.5                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     64.0      3782.0    5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         12.0      22.6              20.4                    44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0        102.0      93.0             107.1                   123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   93.0        92.0       91.0              98.6                   112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          52.0        51.0       30.0              56.9                    62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0         15.0      13.0              14.2                    19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     27.1         20.4      14.8              14.6                     4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   42.2         47.5       51.9              57.7                    64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..       134.0     125.0              89.1                    50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        17.0      33.0              30.1                    45.9
URBAN                               ..         60.0      83.0              65.8                    68.0
RURAL                               ..          6.0      20.0              20.1                    34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         18.0      20.0              17.6                    53.4
URBAN                               ..        85.0       87.0              71.0                    71.0
RURAL                               ..          1.0       2.0               4.8                    42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          4850.4/c    4889.0    3617.4             3857.7                  4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     9630.07.   8296.5    6429.4              6411.8                  2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPIrAL BED
TOTAL                           2149.0/d    1612.9    1311.1             1132.8                   588.5
URBAN                               ..           ..     363.5             322.3                   579.6
RURAL                                ..         ..   10429.1             5600.5                  1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.2          5.6       5.2
URBAN                              5.2          5.6       4.8
RURAL                              5.2          5.6       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.6          2.8
URBAN                              2.6          2.8
RURAL                              2.6          2.8
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..           ..        ..
URBAN
RURAL



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT      LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 61.0        73.0      79.0              85.9                  99.8
MALE                 80.0        90.0      94.0              94.4                 100.6
FEMALE               40.0        56.0      63.0              64.5                  98.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 20.0        26.0      28.0              38.0/ta               53.5
MALE                 30.0        36.0      37.0              34.6/aii              58.4
FEMALE               10.0        15.0      18.0              18.0/aa               48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   8.0         1.0       1.0               3.8                  21.1
PUPIL-TEAChER RATIO
PRIMARY                           29.0        41.0      41.0              32.8                  34.2
SECONDARY                         16.0        21.0        ..              19.9                  31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       28.0        33.4      36.0              52.8                  86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER ThOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.7         1.1       1.3               1.7                  12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         4.9        21.5      32.5              35.3                 174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.0         0.0       1.0               3.7                  50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 11.0        16.0      16.9              14.6                 106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0         6.3       3.8               3.4                   4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)  189761.4   220670.5  256699.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  31.2        32.4      31.9              29.3                  37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             74.0        74.0      71.0              69.8                  50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                11.0        11.0      11.0              14.1                  21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               43.6        40.3      38.9              39.7                  40.2
MALE                                58.0        52.6      51.3              51.5                  49.8
FEMALE                              28.2        27.1      25.7              23.3                  31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1.1       1.1               1.1                   1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HlGhEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7        26.3/e    22.2
HICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7        48.9/e    49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1         6.77e     7.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6        17.27e    16.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..      132.0             134.1                 248.6
RURAL                               ..          ..    114.0              111.6                 193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..         ..                ..                 249.8
RURAL                               ..         ..         ..                ..                 234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..         ..       40.3              41.7                  21.2
RURAL                               ..         ..       50.7              51.7                  32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962; /d 1958;  /e 1964-65.
May, 1981



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEINIiTIMtt   iF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Noses:  Although tha data are draw   f ro..     rosgneal   udged the etuhoiatv   and reliable, it sha.d  ale  ha notd that they may not he Inter-
natioally   otyaahia  acauc  of,he lacko. tnededdfniin    n   ocp.ne  bylf                          I            L.goterseI  roln gtha data.  Tha data are,...
Tha refornnoe gYoupaura. (1) the eu       ... tocy group of the esbiect, ratr   ad(2) . ronetry gr..st with eeahthighar arrg. Ane. that the coantry groep
of the tub] ct coucry Concept fo  'Cpla   syleOi  oorne  grou  yhr  "tIdaleIam  Broth Melon end MOLddl  tEat' 1a  hoh..e  becaoea of etr..nS.r
soclo-osiunel of  tottlac . In  he ref. ' ao cars Idoon thlnae   r  popaltlo  iahted artnhatio  -en  far ea.h ledlator and shownonly abet
eJorclr  Of the rooriwaIr   group hasdate for that andlotor .  leotthe coeaeof roenr1- amongthe tedtcerorsdefnd  or th   r i'eiyctda
sod ha not u-fr.cuioos  be norrol-d Inc.1 ratit   nraa   f                       ioeldletoo  to stothar.  These        X! aseare  er   otl   unful in  omprin  the vele of
000 indicator at a cite ....ng the rourtop and referroce groups.
LANDO AREA (cho....nd tq.ka.)                                                                      yopslotlor perfopio  No_ otl   thr .rd intel1   Pcpc.latl   (total.
Tcl-Tocol ourfoor  -ct  conyl.ctrg lard acao .td ictend outr.                                    ha. end rurl) diIded by tbter  eepe-tie number aL h.npitl.  beds
Agcicultu...  - Eolist  of                   , agluluaerand taoporarlpo  PernetIp                  acailahia in pttlio and private generel an.pcoled h.ne  and
for cops,poacren,markt an   itohen gdet  or to lie  alw   197  dtahhiteln etr.                                     Inytl   reetbileeepraetly't.fe
by a:  nat ore phyat.ien.  Etetblieheonte  proeidine principally os--
GNP PER CAPITA (U0)) - GNP pot cap ire retisae    t..cu.rreoc        - eao  pic-. -1l-               dialcrsae1      c  lele . tota  hoepiltala,h-tener.   I,oud  hath-
c,Iocd bp .-0  corerslos wrhod ae Word   uc.Alo  (17-9bee; 1960,                                  an   aia   eter  no  persene...tly etffdbyapeto(hot by
1970, end 1979 dato.                                                                                wdice. eetrat,eue. midwife, err.) which ofertopti ieteo                      -
dntioe and provIde e lisinad .-eg. of medioel Ia oe     ,rrre
EtECY01  COrNSUtPTION PER CAPITA - Aoosa  c.....eptior of  --rmrcla  enegy (coal                     tinlpsroa  ahwhepil  islde BVW   prinonpal(ge..r..  bohepitaIe.
-od ligtita, Pe toem    n .cra  ga. and hydro-.  -1la   n   eottelat-                              and- 11 rua   opttl   laa   r  ua  beial   n  mdcl and materi.ty
tcriciy) in Ailogras  ofcoaeuialn  par capita; 1960, 1970, cd 1979                                 owner.iponialle-d bh-pinola gre inoded only aIe  tn
dsra.                                                                                            Aueln   r  gorite  td - Totl.n1             ero  edeislerato    dehre
from heepitale divided by the -ster of bde.
POPULATION 000 VITAL STATISITCS
Totl1 Poruletion, Mid-Yeor Icho ...ndal - Ae of July 1; 1960. 1970, usd 1979                    2
d-tu.                                                                                         ArarceeIL     Site of tHoe.d..w.ertboshl)- oa.ubn,edrtl
Irhan  _ouoto   crc,t of total) -  tott  of urbae to total Pu_toea_;                               A b-eahld oneaiat  nf a grs  o f indlidel   h   hr   lii  qoetera.
diffwrrtt dnfinitione of urban srr         y map ffect  yoprhir  rf detaen. thei  mait -.eIa.  A hoar.der or lodger may ormy one he JeO)sded J.
amongvourilet;  960.1970, and 1979 dot.-eshsahl   o  eteiafa Iprpe
oaa iot inYear 2000 - Currnvt population Ptotectinn  are,, had o,1900                     her of par-s  par worn Lt all nha, and rurl  arspied ceva-ninma)
to.tal lpolpulotot by age and am, and ihair1 motaiyanfrtilprtaa                               deellinge. reepertively.  Irr1a1irge onl. on-pdtt  etrntso... ..d
Poerit.porencer  for mareliyre  necmrs   f threeI.I  .....aes.                                s-o-pld parts
log life onpetcya  birpt~htin           ng itcotr  'a  e  ..Pita icoaa                      Aet. no t -etririy (rammer ef dnallina) -tal,beher  end totalI -
lrvrl  end  emalelIfe  n pecesoy Ia!bilialog at77.5 peere.  Thr Pars-                 Ownomtiwea drelliega nitb .1..c.rlnty in un~Its q-et-r  asP-cl6
noonri fo  ferrilli  rate eln  bane three leel- esnigdesiwO                            of teel, arer  ed totaI deralinge repenti-aly.
Efoo... cntep  te hernI..sgond ore of theaeninro-ahi-etiora  of nota1lty,                IDCATIOI
_vd forrility Irnd  for 1    c,      yrj oi  psrpoee.                                       Add]-twd frro11le.nt tatina
Sc.,loosr. youalnInetoayrua Ior  her  ia no g-onbthno                                            ?rmaeenel   tnl,mle and feMEl  - Cre.. tate1, "It end femal
rho hitch r-r  to oqoet  r,ho doath rotte, ad.,al,r rhoageut.r..-..w.or   f  l  te  af. rho prmay Ioel aT. pe..e.ttgee of ..ey.   i IVa
vracovnn...I This is  ohierdreyoirfrrYliyYratedeltr  to                                      pimary tihoo1-age Popnlstsor..; cormell  terlsda  ch!Ild re  ae,6
nlceer ..     vr.   of. unt re   eprodeotisrne,oye ac   enrtinrer  but nd)eted for doff.r.rI lwngthe cI primay  dsa rfr
of nopm or eow   Itewo'f enenctly.The atatory popslrion ele  wee. cstiwenitch ucicea e. uctio Ierl-or  nay orored ill percrvt
estimrod on bEnheia of lhr promo.ted oencri eo f the poPoI:igoi                                  a rraonpp                  . oehb   or eho   the ofCicie  echool 0gw.
Onthe  rr0000, ard the rate of decline if fertility rIr- to relae-Inrdr  sool    otl  mae  rdfeal  -  opysd s  albov; s....odary
mar  level.                                                                                      educatiorra.quirs atyerfotper  ofpprne  pr ,aY i--orctinn;
Ins  st-icvary rorsletion  ia moo. hod - The pear  h..r e.tatlnar  population                      yrrvidea greewl  voa-lre, ortearher  ral g  ira truci... for pepib.
tire hoe  .. heat rehod.                                                                        u....l. of 12 to 17 _a.E ofegr    ornpoldeo   ooure                ore ..nnclip
forulatie D...aity                                                                                   nooleded_.l
Per eq. kr. -Mid-pee  ycpuletinr per equate kilse-t  (100 hnrtar..e) of                         co...tinna  ano.e.tlor tn of  .e..rdtrrl -  naio... Irs-tit-tiov.
tota  cone  I1961, 191  erA 1976 data.                                                          inld   ehie,iduera,orohrpogeewih operate indaperd-
Pe s.cI.oniulualln   - Computed as  bhont fnragrios1tsra1 lnrd                                     niyo   sdprntso   andr   etrtn
ovly;, 1960, 1970 ard 1978 dera.                                                              Pspil-tea...    ra ltio p- reeao  end Ieto.da.e.  Tota  stud eri  enrolled it
PpulationAge Strutur  Ina-on)_-Children (I-Is Y-er-.)  ecrlkrg-ege 115-                              pri.yep. er ....oodaoy lecel  div ided by esthet  of  ..eoher  it the
64 yearal. and esnired (65 yeara and -ner) as   - . p toetgaerf sid-yase psp.-                     o.r..eponding lana..
Ia.o,  1961, 1970, end 1979 data.                                                               Adslt lIrereorean  IrE. nene..l - Li irte at delta  (ehie to reed end -it.)
Poultin  roth into  r"rretl - total - Anosel& goth rates of total nid-                         eap..rr.tegs  of  ntel. adult prpslatine aged 15 yrere endovr
y..nr. pultilona for 1950-hI, 19hi-70, and 1977179.
_ocaio   reh Rtot  (rp c ..t  -srbhan- Aesl  gr1re: h ra1te  onI  -b-a pups-            EOIISUtiTIONI
letloo   for 1950-cs, 1960.f7I, tsd 1970-79.                                                  Pasanst. :late lr brtoueed eeltn)-P...e.. gcare. co.yrte. ..st
Crude tirih tre. (ret thous.An) - Annual hoe birth   pe .toad of  id-,ear                          raeesnngls  ther eight p..r...a; anludee nebsiar , haereee ted
popula.tion;t1960.190an  1979 dota.eltryetl
Crude Inchtae  re  chond   -             _eno  doethe Pot thrsn..nd  of aid-potyd.tr.nr.ortonwdnrlrie       l  yeo   oenr  fur radio
populotion; 1960, 1970, end 1979 data.                                                           braoet   ogeee  peh1ll  Per th..s..d of populetior; eno ludee or-
Crvee tRrpoduotto  OR.,.-A_eree    sahe Yof dasghterse onan ll hear in                             lieedrotvr   ntostlaed it years wher rgietrtino  ofrdio
011ci   ote;ceslpCitprr  nrsaaeding in '1960,1 1971,sod 1979.                                   mont  -utrirn obliabhd lI .r..eit.g
familyPa    Aio -Aocetore. Annual  (thr.....del        A - Anneal  uber of ...rePore            TV ironinre~ .re ptho...andrrston -TIreneefrbroadoent to
of hirnh-o...o  denfosec,  order aepucoa nf nat .Ioa  fomily pla..ring p.rgeo.                   geerlp... ertosad popslein;eoutnc1lne  T   aenr
faeilr  J. Pri.ro- r   loorn.nt of on tiadeoe    -Pretgof maried                                   Incuttsadi   er   hcrgerno    f TI  es  a  inl efor.
coe  o   hild-hbsr.. ao  Il-Al yraral who se  hiroh-c-t-rI doneto                             ppnrr- Cicl-tion  (re  thon...d narolnoo    -ihn  the scetagI cir-
almrod ueri  te   o  group.                                                                rlinof "dolly geoe.ral interest            . spop-r"  dofmed aa ier dion
pobltiaton denotrd primarily tr rnoptding garero  cone..  It ia connidro
POOl AND NUlTRITION                                                                                  to be "daily" if irepp.ae..         ou.   fo  nieea kob
Ind- of rood Pooduolon prr Corlto 11969-711-001 - Indo  of per capita enn-o                      Cirem  Aonsl sntredance rep     ait   ela-asdo  the  ehe   f
produoclr of nOl food votesidico.  Prod-cise etoludre teed ecd feed and                         tickete aod derteg the year. I-idludigadnneal.ctcdrirr-loitea
in or cledc de  parhec.  Cowndit i.ncoo  primary god    at    uaraed mobile saint.
icatrod of s        hio aoch ant ndblh  and co -cisotr, trn(e..rfe   n
e   r  olcldrd).  Agg-egoco production of each c...ntry ie b..nd nIdtfeEr
ceolcoolaroragoproduce  Prccr nwlobtn;fl190-5 1971  ard 1979 deta.                      Total Labor Focc  (rhoussanda  -  cnoioeilyactinr  pert-n.Including
Per canto avorlo of oslorir  lrno,.  ofrecir_mtre.    Coeperod fl. roe                           r,e  forcee and unemployedbi nt-clodig bseie,eu o,eo
...,Yp rquivslwc of ne  food -upitanObl  in stry peIeiorntigpplta    f el  Oe.  Ifinitine  lIne -i.  c.....nre  tot
ia op rllabl  aury  Pecnrt  donetlo prdcto,itot  le                                     r  comparable; 1961. 1970 aed 1979 deco.
roporot  ard coogra  v atok.  Nec aupplicir  tooled  annul fwad, ewdn,               Femal  Irerent  - Fmallbor force an percoesgo of total labor forrr
lunltaotdl  food plowc ..i., and l.n... in dcntrlbotiou. Requte.nrclur crce -                                Laborfre5   amng,orto  bontn  and
maconr   aimtar  by Fun heard on  hyinl.gi.l  ... cods for normal sore-                flie  a  eteren   nf  totl labor forc;0960f             90ed17           s
city so  hoo1th c--idnrlogrnirtrntl  eperasu-, body ooightn, wge                            Ind-aty (rerrern)t   Laborfoc  Ontiig,cosrurr  manfactuing
ho..erhol.d local; 1961-hI5  1970, sod 71977 done'."                                           1  97,1 ardt 197c9 dat.--
Per c-pi, -urly of pronofo (tra     rot deY  - Proei  tnno   fprcpng                          Priioirnr                 een l,-tonl,_ mle. endf ieni  - Partiolpoticr or
ret eupply of fond per dsy.  fin turply of food isidefteed a  shonsp,.cO-srot   ae  are nonrored  ate,ml,nd resale labor forceo
qurnnc  frnI cunr    enra1bt1ihed.hydoSiA pronide far airinr                          perceotegee oftotl *mle an .d femal  popsl.intiof n  al  agorrapcnioe,lr;
nllonocor of 60 iron nf nonel protein  ot dap erA 20 gras  of eina   n         19f60, 1970, an 979  oa   These se ba..ed on ILOt.j pnlotipetloroo
pule potrn,  f stch10  ran  thuldhe  elml  rotin.Thee sand                    reler ne  ag-sa  stoht.eof the popuInton. ord long tine treed.  A
rn00Iorthenroro  75 ge.e  of intl prnein end 23 gras  of                              fee- nnteeaefrtntinnlivrit
nnlnol ""i ppolenorrge  for th   ord -%prpoy..od by PAO in the Third                        -aomleed-cry not   -tan   of ropoa.tior under 15 erd hi ond noor
Oc-ld-Pood cs.-oy;-1961-65, 1970 aod 1977 dots,. to ho totu1 1bcr force.
For cerito crri    ,nol  foo anImal end oulne - Prtrin auPp'  of fnrd de-
rIved finn a-cal  ord pulnan I  grn   o   e; 61-65, 1970 sod 1977 dora.                   lNCOyt DISTtRtIT00N
Child borg 0-Al c  loraty Sr   lrthuad) - Anns1 drethe Per thou-ed it                    _PorTco-t-o   If Priv-c  bro-   (both I cuh u-d kirdl - r-coi-d ho rooro
orgopcCYcor,  rn obildc. in thie og. group; fur mos  der-lopingco.r-                     3 prno  richoe  20 porort  P.....  70 p-rrat, end P.or_a  40 prtIcr
cIllt dole d-i-vd fron lift~ inhlw; 0960, 1970 and 1970 data,                                    of phoe    d.
HEALTH                                                                                           POVERTY TARCET CROUPS
Lifo Ecrpcuoco nC   rici(pero)h   Acerogo runbhe  of y..r. of loft remining                      The.rlwn    siar   r   opoynemt   neren   oet   roe
cc   itch; 090   90ad 0970 dera.                                                               an   bnl   o  nenred   lb  oadorale c-tio.
Orfoct co-oslcy deco  .cn  tho..e.d) - An..uI d-etb  of iofents under one  -ro                   InEmted Ahnndb.lorrpoeticonLrl10rrvsie)-hnadrul-
ofeoporfch.codErbrb.                                                                         Abeistr1 pr..elp ieconr 1o-1 in thchar                 ...e lnI heln ohich 0  i.i
ouro  toI  anP1   et Irro proroc,      horlceccrr .o               . an .snOnrneIn  at           Ocrire. lyrv   poqry dilcoo pi.e.   e ..    e-thIrd.. fofd cerqgi ... --  porn
root. oohi   - och-t fcl  Ipy  la   b b-     osal cl ., c erebore ofl the hanehldan  ro -i - Perctyo popuLacio- (Abo  an-hid rr   oho- g ore "                         -heluc
f.c pot boo  no-pod-  .cdlt-ryto-c   parr o00 r lat           i frrrbir      cP-yur...      -
Accootoocrto  uspool   urueI  Ei torulacPoc-tosai._urhun..end..srolL
Oumbr cIyocpc (ccal,urbr, ad ruul Iesrod b  ecroradiaohs  an d                         .dlc1 PY.,f  ..c-(b                             dc.)
cle,  h..e.lo  ro pd   dis  p,poe.-nn  or. opltfcu   h  dret yr ,c of-human enei                                                      onnihn.oil  aeOno
ovdoetenotr h  oaarbrotsysemsnr  he  se  f pt prvie  so  nii-                                             consirArecai  er  Prjrrtov
OAr ..  nltoa                                    -a.16
Pouein   a  Pyiinf-_oltc    ivddhynne  uf                          . pratiin   -hpi
clr(uliidPn  amdia -bchole  university, le-n tdil.              1
yP...i.  rt..  .uanePaet-Pou.t    dirda   by nibr of                    Y prcicing
tale and... femal  grdune nurase,"t pro 'isa- nurses,              - end                                                                                Il  D         I



Allae. I
Pass 4 f 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA INI 1979   US5190
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979180                                                                    ANNUAL RATE OF GRMH  (%. constant Drpice)
USS BInD          1            1955/56-1959/60    1960/61-1964/65       1965/66-1969/70    1970/71-1974/75        1975/76-1978/79
GNP at Market Prices                     134.16         100.0                3.7                 3.6                  3.6                  2.8                  4.5
Gross Domestic Investmnt                  29.24          21.8
Gross National Saving                     28.55          21.3
Current Account Balance   d/              -0.85         - 0.6
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added (at factor cost)            Labor Force               V.A. Per Worker
USS Bln.                             M11.      7                 MLS        7. of Netional Averace
Agriculture                           39.8                39.6           181.3      71                220                 56
Industry                             25.5                25.3             28.1      l                906                230
Services                              35.3               35.1             46.0      18                767               195
Totl/avera.e                       100.6               100.0            255.4    100                 394               100
GOVERINENT FINANICE
General Government                                               Central Government
Rs. Bi.% of GDP                                                  Rs. Bin.             7. of GDP
1979/80       1979/80   1975/76-1979/80                          1979/80       1979/80    1975/76-1979180
Current Receipts                     208.18          19.2           18.9                              108.96          10.0           10.6
Current Expenditures                 206.44          19.0           17.7                              117.67          10.8           10.6
Current SurpluslDeficit                1.74          0.2             1.2                              - 8.71         - 0.8             -
Capital Expenditures   f/             81.81           7.5            7.4                               56.93           5.2            5.1
External Assistance (net)  4/          7.97           0.7            0.9                                7.97           0.7            0.9
MONEY  CREDIT AND PRICES             1970171       1973/74      1974/75      1975/76      1976/77       1977/78      1978/79      1979/80       December 1979       December 1980
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money end Quasi Money                 109.6         175.7        194.6        222.9         272.8         329.1        398.9        48. 2             448.3             521.7
Bank Credit to Government (net)        52.6         87.3          95.3        101.1         110.2         134.7        153.9        192.2             176.4            231.4
Bank Credit to Comercial Sector    64.6             107.0        126.7        153.9         185.0        212.2         253.5        306.5             294.7            335.9
(Percentage er Index Numbers)                                                               Asril-Dec 1979    April-Dec 1980
Money end Quasi Money as 7 of GDP   27.2             29.8         27.9         30.2          34.0          36.5         40.8         43.1
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 * 100)                     100.0        139.7        174.9         173.0         176.6        185.8        185.8         217.6            212.2             253.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholes.le Price Index                    7.7         20.2         25.2        - 1.1            2.1          5.7           -          17.1              14.6              19.5
Bank Credit to Government (net)        10.8          12.3          9.2          6.1           9.0         22.2          14.3         24.9              24.9  B/          31.2  h/
Bank Credit to Comercial Sector    19.4             22.6          18.4         21.5          20.2          14.7         19.5         20.9              17.5  Jl          14.0  h/
aJ The per capita GNB setimete is at mnrket prices, calculated by the conversion technique used In the World Bank Atlas, 1979.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
J Quick Estimates.
c/ Computed frm trend line of GNP at factor cost seriese Including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
4/ World Bank estimates1 not necessarily consistent with official figures.
J  Transfers between Centre and States hkv  been netted ot.
V   All loan  and edwancee to third parties have been netted out.
I/ Percentage change from end-December 1978 to and-December 1979.
tL/  Percentage change fro  end-Decmbr 1979 to end-Dec_mber 1980.



Annex I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PA_ _ NTS                    1977/78      1978179    1979/80    1980/81 B           MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976/77 - 1979/80)
Exports of Goods                        6,315        6,978       7,958       8,998              Engineering Goods             768 /       11
Imports of Goods                       -7,188       -8,519    -11,249    -15,624               Tsa                            462           7
Trade Balance                           - 873       -1,541    - 3,291    - 6,626               G,s                            605           9
NFS (net)                                  691          773         633        463              Clothing                      460           7
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                         - 182       - 768    - 2.658    - 6.163                      Products                425           6
Jute Hansfacture.             284           4
Interest Payments (net)                  - 89         - 35         350         303              Iron Ore                      298           5
Other Factor Payments (net)                 -            -           -           -              Cotton Textiles               289           4
Net Transfers 1/                         1,077        1,216       1,458      2,462              Sugar                         132           2
Others                      3,028          45
Balance on Current Account                 806         413       - 850      -3.398
Tot-l                       6.751         100
Official Aid
Disbursements                        1,628        1,695       1,891       2,389             ElKERNAL DEBT. MARCH 31. 1980
Amortization                         - 645        - 702       - 676       - 707                                                   USS billion
Transactions with IMF                    - 330        - 158         -        1,035              Outstanding and Disbureed                  15.6
All Other Items                            617          286      - 143          133             Undisbursed                                 5.7
Outstanding, including                     21.3
lncrease in Reserves (-)                -2,076      -1,534       - 222         548                  Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)                5,823       7,357       7,579       7,031
Net Reserves   (end year)  Id            5,668        7,357       7,579      6,691              DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979/80  _/!/  10.4 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                     IBRD/IDA LWIJING. DECEER 31. 1980
I-ports                                  1,811       2,043       3,977       7,012                                                   us$ million
of which:  Petroleum                 1,811        2,043       3,977      71012                                                IBRD        IDA
Exports                                     32           24         26         n.a.             Outstanding and Disbursed         806         4,895
Undiabursed                       572         3,547
Outstanding, including          1,378         8,442
Undisbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971           US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972       US$1.00 - Re 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                    : Floating Rate
Spot Rate and-December 1979              US$1.00 * Rs 7.907
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
Spot Rate end-December 1980              US$1.00 * Re 7.930
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
l  Estimsted.
i/ Figuree given cover all investment income (net). Major paymnts are inter4st on foreign loans
and charges paid to WflU and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
J/  Figures given include workets' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, Which is
included within official aid disbursements.
/ Excludes net use of IVW credit.
j   Figure for 1979/80 is eatiated.
!/ Amortization and interest pacmente On foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.
Aprit 1981



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 18
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of June 30, 1981)
US$ million
Loan or                                                               (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower       Purpose                        Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
44 Loans/                                                         1,422.2         -           -
71 Credits fully disbursed                                             -    4,023.4           -
342-IN    1972  India   Education                                     -        12.0         3.23
378-IN    1973  India   Karnataka Agricultural Markets                -         8.0         0.06
456-IN    1974  India   HP Apple Processing & Marketing               -        13.0         5.24
1011-IN    1974  India   Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                     52.0         -         10.51
482-IN    1974  India   Karnataka Dairy                               -        30.0        15.86
502-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Canal CAD                           -        83.0        28.53
521-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Dairy                               -        27.7        12.37
522-IN    1974  India   Madhya Pradesh Dairy                          -        16.4         4.82
1097-IN    1975  ICICI   Industry DFC XI                             94.6         -          0.79
541-IN    1975  India   West Bengal Agric. Development                -        34.0         1.29
585-IN    1975  India   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                    -        40.0        13.73
598-IN    1975  India   Fertilizer Industry                           -       105.0        21.37
604-IN    1976  India   Power Transmission IV                         -       150.0        43.24
609-IN    1976  India   Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                  -         4.0         1.51
610-IN    1976  India   Integrated Cotton Development                 -        18.0        10.23
1251-IN    1976  India   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                  145.0         -         77.09
1260-IN    1976  India   IDBI II                                     40.0         -         10.94
1273-IN    1976  India   National Seeds I                            25.0         -         21.86
1313-IN    1976  India   Telecommunications VI                       80.0         -         18.25
1335-IN    1976  India   Bombay Urban Transport                      25.0         -          7.72
680-IN    1977  India   Kerala Agric. Development                     -        30.0        22.98
682-IN    1977  India   Orissa Agric. Development                     -        20.0         7.93
685-IN    1977  India   Singrauli Thermal Power                       -       150.0        37.72
687-IN    1977  India   Madras Urban Development                      -        24.0         4.57
690-IN    1977  India   WB Agric. Extension & Research                -        12.0        12.00
1394-IN    1977  India   Gujarat Fisheries                           14.0         -          7.75
712-IN    1977  India   Madhya Pradesh Agric. Development             -        10.0         5.35
720-IN    1977  India   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                     -        23.0        13.68
728-IN    1977  India   Assam Agricultural Development                -         8.0         5.64
736-IN    1977  India   Maharashtra Irrigation                        -        70.0        30.33
737-IN    1977  India   Rajasthan Agric. Extension                    -        13.0         7.29
740-IN    1977  India   Orissa Irrigation                             -        58.0        29.65
1475-IN    1977  ICICI   Industry DFC XII                            80.0         -         10.36



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                               (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower       Purpose                        Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
747-IN    1978  India   Second Foodgrain Storage                      -       107.0        79.00
756-IN    1978  India   Calcutta Urban Development II                 -        87.0        19.11
761-IN    1978  India   Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                                 -         8.0         7.11
1511-IN    1978  India   IDBI Joint/Public Sector                    25.0         -         17.49
1549-IN    1978  TEC       Third Trombay Thermal Power              105.0         -         62.96
788-IN    1978  India   Karnataka Irrigation                          -       117.6        77.28
793-IN    1978  India   Korba Thermal Power                           -       200.0       128.89
806-IN    1978  India   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture                    -        14.0        13.75
808-IN    1978  India   Gujarat Irrigation                            -        85.0        63.60
815-IN    1978  India   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries                      -        17.5        14.52
816-IN    1978  India   National Seeds II                             -        16.0        15.21
1592-IN    1978  India   Telecommunications VII                     120.0         -         53.14
824-IN    1978  India   National Dairy                                -       150.0       130.60
842-IN    1979  India   Bombay Water Supply II                        -       196.0       183.12
843-IN    1979  India   Haryana Irrigation                            -       111.0        43.66
844-IN    1979  India   Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                             -       190.0       148.97
848-IN    1979  India   Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage                -        38.0        21.46
855-IN    1979  India   National Agricultural Research                -        27.0        25.41
862-IN    1979  India   Composite Agricultural Extension              -        25.0        16.54
871-IN    1979  India   NCDC                                          -        30.0        15.55
1648-IN    1979  India   Ramagundam Thermal Power                    50.0         -         50.00
874-IN    1979  India   Ramagundam Thermal Power                      -       200.0       171.17
889-IN    1979  India   Punjab Irrigation                             -       129.0       100.81
899-IN    1979  India   Maharashtra Water Supply                      -        48.0        44.85
911-IN    1979  India   Rural Electrification Corp. II                -       175.0       108.09
925-IN    1979  India   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry                 -        23.0        18.47
947-IN    1979  India   ARDC III                                      -       250.0        64.73
963-IN    1979  India   Inland Fisheries                              -        20.0        19.64
954-IN    1979  India   Maharashtra Irrigation II                     -       210.0       174.13
961-IN    1979  India   Gujarat Community Forestry                    -        37.0        30.31
981-IN    1980  India   Population II                                 -        46.0        45.44
1003-IN    1980  India   Tamil Nadu Nutrition                          -        32.0        30.87
1004-IN    1980  India   U.P. Tubewells                                -        18.0        16.95
1011-IN    1980  India   Gujarat Irrigation II                         -       175.0       165.00
1027-IN    1980  India   Singrauli Thermal II                          -       300.0       279.15
1012-IN    1980  India   Cashewnut                                     -        22.0        21.75
1028-IN    1980  India   Kerala Agricultural Extension                 -        10.0        10.00
1033-IN    1980  India   Calcutta Urban Transport                      -        56.0        56.00
1034-IN    1980  India   Karnataka Sericulture                         -        54.0        52.85
1046-IN    1980  India   Rajasthan Water Supply



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                               (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower       Purpose                        Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
and Sewerage                              -        80.0        77.22
1843-IN    1980  ICICI   Industry DFC XIII                          100.0         -         77.97
1887-IN    1980  India   Farakka Thermal Power                       25.0         -         25.00
1053-IN    1980  India   Farakka Thermal Power                         -       225.0       201.16
1897-IN    1980  India   Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                        30.0         -         29.01
1072-IN    1980  India   Bihar Rural Roads                             -        30.7        30.30
1078-IN    1980  India   Mahanadi Barrages                             -        72.8        72.80
1925-IN    1980  India   Bombay High Offshore
Development                           400.0         -       393.42
1082-IN    1981  India   Madras Urban Dev. II                          -        37.5        37.50
1108-IN    1981  India   M.P. Medium Irrigation                        -       129.6       129.60
1112-IN    1981  India   Telecommunications VIII                       -       290.4       268.70
1116-IN    1981  India   Karnataka Tank Irrigation                     -        50.1        50.10
1135-IN*   1981  India   Maharashtra Agr. Extension                    -        21.7        21.70
1137-IN*   1981  India   Tamil Nadu Agr. Extension                     -        26.3        26.30
1138-IN*   1981  India   Madhya Pradesh Agr. Extension II              -        34.9        34.90
1146-IN*   1981  India   NCDC II                                       -       117.1       117.10
Total                                               2,832.8   9,322.7
of which has been repaid                          1,090.2       77.7
Total now outstanding                              T1,/74.    9,245.0
Amount Sold                        133.8
of which has been repaid        133.3                 0.5         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                   1,742.1   9,245.0
Total undisbursed (excluding*)                        874.3   3,620.0
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
t'age '4 of 18
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of June 30, 1981)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5         -       1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.9         -       0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -       1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -       0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4      1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4      1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3     13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3      1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1        0.1      1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8     18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6         -       6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2      5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        1.0      8.6
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -      38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -      15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9        0.3      3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3         -       2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5        0.3      1.8
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         136.7       12.0    148.7
Less:   Sold                          26.0        1.7      27.7
Repaid                        22.2         -      22.2
Cancelled                      6.2        1.3       7.5
Now Held                      82.3        9.0     91.3
Undisbursed                   79.3        1.5     80.8



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$962 million in FY81, compared to
US$729 million in the previous year, representing an increase of about 32%.
The undisbursed pipeline of US$4,494 million as of June 30, 1981, reflects
the lead time which would be expected given the mix of fast- and
slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097 Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975; Effective
Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented.
Disbursements under both loans 1475 and 1843 are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 947   Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been progressing very well.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Satisfactory progress is being made in the construction of bag
storage warehouses, despite problems of land acquisition at some sites.
However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and port silos is not expected
to be completed until 1984, as a result of delays in the employment of con-
sultants and the longer time required for the preparation of technical
specifications and tenders and the construction itself. In view of the high
increases in bulk storage construction costs, the Government is proposing to
reduce the bulk storage component of the project in favor of additional bag
storage capacity; this proposal is currently under consideration by the
Association.
Cr. No. 456   Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but
construction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe
winter conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the
last two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is
scheduled for completion by December 1981.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.
Ln. No. 1313  Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1592  Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Cr. No. 1112  Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loans 1313 and 1592 are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
June 1981, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment for the projects were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced
growth rate for the installation of direct exchange lines. Institutional
improvements envisaged under the projects have been achieved, and the finan-
cial situation of the Posts and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Credit 1112, which became effective in June 1981, provides for the continued
expansion, over a three-year period, of the Indian telecommunications net-
work, particularly in rural areas. It also provides for the modernization
and upgrading of three existing telecommunications equipment factories, and
the establishment of three additional ones. Initial implementation and
procurement actions are proceeding on schedule.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit of Decem-
ber 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing Date: June
30, 1982
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fer-
tilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further,
some of the sub-projects identified earlier have not materialized because of
reconsideration by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a
list of sub-projects to replace the ones that have been dropped. Because of
the above, the project completion date has been delayed.
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural universities
in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve the
quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of their
employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to enable
it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Considerable
progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project Direc-
tor and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are supporting
efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046  Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: September 31, 1985
Implementation of Credit 842, a second stage of the recently com-
pleted first Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 390), is
proceeding to schedule. Preliminary work in connection with implementation
of Credit 848 has been completed but subsequent procurement delays and slow
release of construction funds are likely to delay the project by about 12
months and result in cost increases. Physical progress under Credit 899 is
satisfactory. Initial delays in implemention of institutional arrangements
and tariff measures proposed for the project are now being overcome. Project
progress in this area is being closely monitored. Implementation of Credit
1046 is proceeding satisfactorily. Detailed construction programs have been
prepared for rural schemes, and preparation of tender documents for urban
schemes have been completed.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation of
technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the engage-
ment of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been made
to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
country-wide materials shortages and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consult-
ants' services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts.
Staff shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more
extensive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit of
April T1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
With respect to the first Madras project, physical progress is
generally satisfactory and costs are within appraisal estimates on most
components. However, land acquisition problems and consequent delays in
construction on one of the three sites and service areas will result in about
15 months delay in the completion of the final sections of these areas.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
Increased attention should be turned to the financial analysis and marketing
strategies required to ensure that anticipated cost recovery in the sites and
services and slum upgrading components and thus replicability is actually
achieved. Technical assistance is being sought to strengthen financial
management and analysis.
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42.0 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effectiveness Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
With respect to the second project, only recently signed and
declared effective, early project implementation is proceeding satisfac-
torily, with evidence that the lessons learned under the first project are
being heeded.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative
societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Kar-
nataka-923, Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response has been
excellent and project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to
speed up the establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS
is good and construction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a
satisfactory pace.  Limited milk processing capacity has been the major
constraint to DCS formation in all three projects. Under the National Dairy
Project, three subprojects with an estimated total cost of approximately
Rs 1,000 million have been appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a
further eight subprojects are in various stages of preparation and appraisal.
Advance procurement of dairy equipment is well underway though disbursements
have been slow, mainly as a result in the start of project operations.
Ln. No. 1011 Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251  Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)        Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011  Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078  Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 1108  Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects is
generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028  Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137  Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135  Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
Cr. No. 1138 Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million
credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
These eleven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in twelve States in India. In areas where the reformed exten-
sion system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in
terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop
yields. In Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa, in particular,
significant gains have been made under the projects. In West Bengal, where a
change in government brought a review of the organizational principles under-
lying the new extension system and an accompanying hiatus in project
implementation, a Cabinet decision has reaffirmed the State Government's
commitment to the project, revised implementation plans have been prepared,
and project activities are resuming. In Bihar, staff shortages, particularly
in supervisory and managerial posts, have hampered project implementation,
although progress in areas where regular extension visits are being made
attests to the efficacy of the system itself. In Gujarat, Haryana and Kar-
nataka, all covered under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project,
important early administrative and financial steps have been taken to pave
the way for effective operation of the reorganized extension system and field
work is off to a good start. In Kerala, project implementation has begun in
three of eleven districts after some initial start-up delays. Early progress
on civil works and initiation of the program in the remaining eight districts
will be required to regain the initial implementation schedule. In Tamil
Nadu and Maharashtra, project implementation has just begun, as these credits
became effective only recently. Early project review missions are scheduled
to assist in project initiation.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily, although
corresponding disbursements may lag somewhat behind the original estimates.
Additions to the staff of the Project Unit have been made to expedite further
progress under the project.
Cr. No. 526   Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.                                                                   i
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1146 Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date (expected): October 21, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
As of October 1980, when Credit 871 was last reviewed, and according
to quarterly reports through March 1981, construction of godowns was
progressing well in the States of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, although some
delays had occurred in the State of Orissa. Consultants had been recruited
to assist NCDC and State Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institu-
tions, although some consultants were yet to be recruited in Haryana. Dis-
bursements have been progressing well and are ahead of the appraisal targets.
Credit 1146, which was signed in July 1981, provides credit for the construc-
tion of cooperative godowns and cold-storage and marketing facilities to
support the pre- and post-harvest supply and markting requirements in nine
States; promote the development of cooperative institutions in these States;
and expand cooperative subproject preparation and appraisal activities within
the cooperative sector. Preparatory implementation work is well advanced in
most of the participating States.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manufac-
turing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to improve
their performance and availability. Project implementation is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for
sawnwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and
to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well. The
projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands, primarily
along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas until
the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273  National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing_Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the second
project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being
reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335  Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033  Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The bus procurement program supported by the Bombay project
(Ln. 1335) has proceeded on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies
having been ordered and 672 already in service. Total fleet strength has
increased from 1,530 buses at the inception of the project to 1,935 buses in
September 1980, in accordance with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity
expansion has lagged somewhat behind fleet expansion, but caught up in Novem-
ber 1980. However, delays in construction of new workshop facilities have
been more substantial and will not be fully recoverable. As a result, the



ANNEX II
Page 5of 18
loan closing date has been extended by three years. Traffic management civil
works are also somewhat behind schedule, although now proceeding satisfac-
torily. Implementation of works under Cr. 1033 is proceeding satisfactorily,
a good start having been made on the important early procurement steps.
However, fnancial and managerial performance is lagging somewhat behing
expectations and must now receive project authorities' full attention if
physical and financial performance targets are to be achieved.
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35.0 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Bids have been invited for the first year program of rural road
construction to allow work to start following the monsoon. The whole project
aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads and to improve main-
tenance of the rural road network in Bihar as part of the State's overall
rural development efforts. Equipment has been ordered and is starting to
arrive.
Ln. No. 1394  Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and        million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
As of October 1980 when the first of these projects was last
reviewed, the harbor construction works at Mangrol and Veraval in Gujarat had
encountered delays, although the problem with shortages of cement supplies
had been overcome. In Andhra Pradesh, the harbor works at Visakhapatnam,
Kakinada and Nizampatnam are progressing satisfactorily following the resolu-
tion of design problems. The road component is also progressing satisfac-
torily.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September JO,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the
establishment of training centers. The project became effective in May 1980.
The initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the establishment of
State Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and State project
monitoring units, are progressing satisfactorily. However, hatchery planning
has been delayed as a result of a delay in the establishment of the engineer-
ing cell within the Central Project Unit.
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of May 12,
19/8; EfFective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 supports the construction of
the first three 200 MW generating units at the second such station, at Korba,
together with related facilities and associated transmission. Loan 1648/
Credit 874 support similar investments at Ramagundam, and Loan 1887/
Credit 1053, at Farakka. The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has
been carrying out construction and operation of these power stations.
Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW extension of the Tata
Electric Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help meet the forecast
load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale thermal power projects
are progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and Korba, construction works
are on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage has occurred in the
implementation schedule for the Ramagundam project.
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400.0 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation works
have started in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Implementation has started on this project which is designed to
expand cashewnut production in the States of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra
Pradesh and Orissa.
Cr. No. 1003  Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block is proceeding according
to schedule.
Cr. No. 1004  Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Initial procurement delays having now been overcome, implementation
is proceeding satisfactorily on this project. However, project completion
will likely be delayed by approximately six months due to the initial delays.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Contract for the construction of Dholbaha dam has been awarded.
Progress in other components are satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overall progress in project implementation is satisfactory. Minor
start up delays in staffing are being corrected.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26,191; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
The project is designed to finance the construction, over a four-year
period, of about 160 tank irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka.
Start-up activities have commenced.



ANNEX III
INDIA
FOURTEENTH LOAN TO ThE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT
AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA
Section I:           Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
This loan is the fourteenth in a series of lending
operations to ICICI and, consequently, preparation
for each loan is a continuing process.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
ICICI.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
April 1981.
(d) 'Date of departure of appraisal mission
April 1981.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
August 1981.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
November 1981.
Section II:          Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:         Special Conditions
Every subproject involving Bank subloans of more
than US$6 million would require prior Bank approval
(paragraph 45).



ANNEX IV
INDIA                                 Page lof 5
FOURTEENTH LOAN TO THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT
AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA
Financial Projections
1981-1985
1.        Approvals.  Total approvals are assumed to increase at an annual rate
of 10%. Foreign currency approvals would form about 37% of the total.
(Rs Million)
1980       1981       1982      1983       1984        1985
(Actual)
Rupee Loans             1,534       1,750     1,880      2,065      2,260      2,490
Rupee Debentures           24          35         35        40         50         50
Guarantees                 10          10        10         10         10         10
Total                   1,568       1,795     1,925      2,115      2,320      2,550
Foreign Currency Loans   991        1,100     1,185      1,305      1,440      1,590
Total Loans             2,559       2,895     3.110      3,420      3,760      4,140
Equity Investments         90         105       120        130        140        160
2.        Commitments.  For 1981, commitments are based on company-wise approvals
awaiting commitments. Commitments beyond 1981 are based on patterns observed in
recent years.
1980       1981       1982       1983      1984        1985
(Actual)
Rupee Loans            .1,323       1,500     1,700      1,850      2,068      2,269
Rupee Debentures           28          30         30        30         40         45
Guarantees                -            10        10         10         10         10
Total                   1,351       1,540     1,740      1,890      2,118      2,324
Foreign Currency Loans   843        1,000     1,120      1,220      1,325      1,457
Total Loans             2,194       2,540     2,860      3,110      3,443      3,781
Equity Investments         59         100       125        100        115        120
3.        Disbursements.  Disbursements for 1981 are based on best estimates.
For the remaining period, historical patterns are used.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 5
1980       1981      1982      1983      1984      1985
Disbursements               (Actual)
Rupee Loans                   1,130       1,440    1,696    1,773    1,935    2,028
Rupee Debentures                 20          30        25        25       29        35
Total                         1,150       1,470    1,721    1,798    1,964    2,063
Foreign Currency Loans          514         830    1,026    1,110    1,221    1,294
Total                         1,664       2,300    2,747    2,980    3,185    3,357
Equity Investments               28          30        75        95       93       100



ANNEX IV
Table 1                               Page 3 of 5
I C I C I
Projected Income Statements 1981-85
(Rs Million)
1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985
(Actual)
Revenues
-  Short-term Investments           24        30        39        44        50        55
-  Interest Income                 514       709       913    1,147    1,380    1,613
-  Commitment Fees                  16        35        39        38        40        44
-  Dividend                         16        15        18        23        27        31
-  Other Income                     19         7        10        12        12        12
Total Revenues                     589       796    1,017    1,264    1,509    1,755
Expenses
-  Interest on Borrowings          414       540       718       926    1,120    1,317
-  Commitment Fee                    6         9        13        10        11        12
Total Financial Expenses        420       549       731       936    1,131    1,329
-  Administrative Expenses          40        45        54        64        77        93
-  Depreciation                      1         6         6         6         6         7
-  Provisions for Losses             7        12        13        14        15        16
Total Expenses                  467       612       804    1,020    1,229    1,445
Gross Income                       122       184       212       244       280       310
Less:  Income Tax                   34        57        66        76        87        96
Net Income                          88       127       147       169       193       214
Dividend                            30        33        35        37        41        43
PAYOUT RATIO (%)                    34        26        24        22        21        20



ANNEX IV
Table 2                               Page 4 of 5
I C I C I
Projected Balance Sheets (1981-85)
(Rs Million)
December 31,                    1980    1981       1982     1983      1984       1985
(Actual)
Assets
Cash and Short-term              323       492       585      663       727        812
Investments
Receivables and Accrued          518       657       814       978    1,133      1,284
Interest                        _
Total Current Assets             841    1,149    1,399    1,641    1,860         2,096
Loans                          5,797    7,458    9,405   11,311   13,039    14,919
Less:  Provisions                (43)      (55)      (68)      (82)     (97)      (113)
Loans (Net)                    5,754    7,403    9,337   11,229   12,942    14,806
Equity Investments               359       409       509      634       734        834
Fixed Assets                      22        24        25       25        26         27
Total Assets                   6,976    8,984   11,271   13,530   15,562    17,763
Liabilities and Networth
Current Liabilities              339       405       480      560       650        750
Long-term Borrowings           6,089    7,914   10,014   12,016   13,806    15,691
Total Liabilities              6,428    8,319   10,494   12,576   14,456    16,441
Paid-up Capital                  247       270       270      315       315        360
Reserves and Retained            301       395       507      639       791        962
Earnings                        -
Networth                         548       665       777       954    1,106      1,322
Total Liabilities and          6,976    8,984   11,271   13,530   15,562    17,763
Networth



ANNEX IV
Table 3                         Page 5 of 5
I C I C I
Projected Cash Flows (1981-85)
(Rs Million)
1981      1982       1983       1984       1985
Cash and Securities (Beginning)         323        492       585        663        727
Sources
Cash from Operations
Net Income                            127        147       169        193        214
Loss Reserves                          12         13         14        15         16
Depreciation                            6          6         6          6          7
145        165       189        214        237
Loan Collections                        639        800     1,003      1,458      1,478
Long-term Borrowings                  2,205     2,475      2,427      2,435      2,730
Paid-in Capital                          23          0         45         0         45
Other Liabilities                        66         75         80        90        100
Total Sources                         3,077     3,515      3,743      4,197      4,589
Uses
Loan Disbursements                    2,300     2,747      2,908      3,185      3,357
Equity Investments                       50        100       125        100        100
Accounts Receivables and Accrued        139        157        164       155        151
Interest
Debt Repayments                         380        375       425        645        845
Fixed Assets                              7          7          7         7          7
Dividend                                 33        .35         37        41         43
Total Uses                            2,909     3,422      3,666      4,133      4,504
Cash and Securities (Ending)            492        585       663        727        812
=               



