Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15762
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 3098-IND)
June 13, 1996
Industry and Energy Operations Division
East Asia and Pacific Region, Country Department II'
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES AND ABBREVIATIONS
Currencyv Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp.)
RUPIAH (Rpj/US $ EXCHANGE RATFES AND CPI (Yearly Averages)
Exchanige Rate
Fiscal Year                   Rupiah/US$
Jarmary 19X9 (SAR)             1,700
FY X9/90)                     1,77()
FY 90/91                       1,860
FY 91/92                       1992
FY 92/93                      205(0
FY 93/94                      2105
FY 94/95                      2,246 (6195)
Average Rate during project implementation period: US$ I = Rp 20(X)
Government of Indonesia and PLN Fiscal Year: April I - March 31
Measures and Equivalents
I Ton (t)                          = I metric tonne = 1,000 Kg = 2,204 lbs.
I Kilovolt                         = I (000( volts (V)
I Kilowatt-hour (kWh)                 1,000 watt-hours
I Megawatt-hour (MWh)              = 1,000 kilowatt-hours
I Megavolt-ampere (MVA)            = 1.(00() kilovolt-amperes (VA)
I Gigawatt-hour (GWh)                   000(.(X)0 kilowatt-hours
I Terawatt-hour (TWh)              = 1,000.000,000 kilowatt-hours
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMDAI,               GOI's Environimenta] Commission
BAPPENAS            National Development Planning Agency
DGEED               Directorate-General of Electricity and New Energy Development
EA                  Environmental Assessment
GOI          :      Government of Indonesia
IBRD         :      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IDC                 Interest During Construction
KRW                 Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaulbau, Germany
MME                 Ministry of Mines and Energy
NERC                North American Energy Reliability Council
PPE                 PLN's Engineering Services Center
PUSDIKLAT           PLN's Center for Education and Training
REPELITA            Five-Year Development Plan
ROR                 Rate of Return
TA                  Technical Assistance



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
iil
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 3098-IND)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
PREFACE                                                                         v
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                              xi
Introduction
Project Objectives                                                       Vi
Implementation Experience and Results                                     vi
Project Costs                                                             vii
Implementation Schedule                                                   0ii
Performance of the Bank and Borrower                                      vii
Project Outcome                                                           xii
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Leamed           Xiii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                        I
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives                              1
B. Achievement of Objectives                                       1
Overall Results                                             I
Rate of Retum                                               I
Objective-Specific Results                                  2
- Paiton Power Plant                                        2
- Transmission and Associated Substations                   3
- Developing PLN's Project Implementation Capability        3
- Strengthening GOI's Environmental Management Capability   3
- Developing an Efficient Coal Industry                     4
- Training PLN's Engineers                                  4
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project                             4
Implementation Experience                                   4
Export Credits                                              4
Procurement                                                 5
Local Capability                                            5
D. Project Sustainability                                          6
Institutional Sustainability                                6
Financial Sustainabilitv                                    6
Environment                                                 6
E. Bank Performance                                                7
F. Borrower Performance                                            7
G. Cofinancier Performance                                         8
H. Summnary Assessment of Outcome                                  8
I. Future Operation                                                9
J. Key Lessons Learned                                             10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



iv
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES                                                        12
Table I  - Summary of Assessments                                 12
Table 2  - Related Bank Loans/Credits                             13
Table 3  - Project Timetable                                      15
Table 4  - Loan Disbursements                                     15
Table 5  - Key Indicators for Project Implementation              16
Table 6  - Key Indicators for Project Operation                   16
Table 7A - Project Costs                                          17
Table 7B - Project Financing                                      17
Table 8  - Economic Costs and Benefits                            18
Table 9  - Status of Legal Covenants                              19
Table 10 - Bank Resources  Staff Inputs                           20
Table 11 - Bank Resources  Missions                               20
ANNEX-A           Aide-Memoire of the ICR Mission                                  21
ANNEX-B           Project Review from Borrower's Perspective                       26
ANNEX-C           Calculation of Economic Rate of Return                           3 1
ANNEX-D           Map (IBRD 21408)                                                 32



v
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 3098-IND)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Paiton Thermal Power
Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 3098-IND in the amount of US$ 354.0 million equivalent was
signed on 21 July 1989, and made effective 6 October 1989. US$ 8.0 million equivalent from the loan
was canceled in April 1994. Another US$ 8.8 million equivalent remained undisbursed after all eligible
expenditures were met and was canceled. The loan closed on 30 September 1995 on schedule. The
revised loan amount of $337.2 million equivalent was fully disbursed by 16 February 1996.
Cofinancing was provided by the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) and other export credit
agencies. The balance amount was met by GOI/PLN from their own internal resources.
The physical components of the project comprised the installation of two coal-fired
generating units, each of 400 MW capacity, and associated 500 kV and 150 kV transmission lines.
The Paiton Thermal Power Project was inaugurated by the President of Indonesia on 23 March 1994.
The plant went on commercial operation in February 1995. The main objectives of the project have
been met, notwithstanding delays in project implementation
The ICR was prepared by Mihir Mitra (Consultant, Task Manager), with the assistance of
Stephen Howes, Financial Economist, and reviewed by Peter R. Scherer, Division Chief, EA3IE, and
Richard A. Calkins, Operations Adviser, EA3DR.
Preparation of this ICR started during the Bank's final supervision mission of the project
in September 1995, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 7718-IND), the Loan
and Project Agreements, supervision reports, correspondences between the Bank and the Borrower,
internal Bank memoranda and the Project Completion Report prepared by PLN for its own internal
evaluation and archives. The Borrower's contribution is attached as Annex-B.






vi
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 3098-IND)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
A.   Introduction
1.    The Paiton Thermnal Power Project was the eighteenth Bank-financed power project in
Indonesia, and the second coal-fired power project in support of the diversification of domestic energy
away from oil towards alternative fuels, such as coal and natural gas. The total amount of the loan was
US$ 354.0 million equivalent. The loan was signed on 21 July 1989, and became effective on 6
October 1989. US$ 8.0 million equivalent from the loan was canceled at the GOI's request in April
1994, because of savings. Another US$ 8.8 million equivalent remained undisbursed after meeting all
eligible expenditures under the project. This amount has also been canceled. The loan closed as
originally envisaged on 30 September 1995.
B.   Project Objectives
2.   The objectives of the project were to: (a) expand PLN's generating capacity in Java to meet the
expected demand growth; (b) promote the use of coal for economic electricity generation; (c) develop
PLN's project implementation capability by fully involving its newly-established Engineering Services
Center in engineering, design and project management aspects; (d) strengthen the Government's
environmental monitoring capability as well as its ability to formnulate and enforce environmental
standards in the energy sector; (e) help develop an efficient domestic coal industry; and (f) provide
training for PLN's staff. These objectives, except for (e), were in general well-defined and realistic.
C.   Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The overall project implementation results have been satisfactory for both physical and
institutional objectives. On the physical side, PLN's generating capacity was significantly expanded
by the construction of the coal-fired 800 MW Paiton power plant, albeit with some delay. On the
institutional side, PLN's engineering capabilities were improved by appropriate training technical
assistance (TA), as was the Government's environmental management capabilities. Policy
dialogue associated with the project convinced the Government of the need to allow PLN to
procure its coal competitively, rather than from the state-owned coal company at administered
prices. TA provided PLN with the instruments to engage in competitive coal procurement, and
Paiton became PLN's first plant to use competitively procured coal.
4.    The achievements of the project are likely to be sustainable. The Paiton power plant has
been well-built and will be able to generate electricity at competitive prices. The project's TA has
been successfully internalized by PLN and GOI. PLN's efficiency and financial profitability,
though still not adequate, have improved during the project period, and PLN has gone from being
a loss-maker to being significantly profitable without a real increase in electricity tariffs. The main



vii
threat to sustainability is that Paiton may not be fully utilized in the future. PLN may not be able
to operate the plant at its fullest capacity for some time to come because of the prevailing excess
generating capacity in the system and the impending entry of private power in the Java-Bali
network. The plant's present capacity factor of 60% in the current year compares with the
appraisal target of 63% for the first two years of its operation. Reaching a capacity factor of 75%
from the third year, and continuing for several years thereafter at the same level, is likely to be
difficult because of the ample reserve margin that has been built into the system (see para.25 for
details). PLN has developed plans to increase the utilization of Paiton, which are summarized in
para. 9 below.
5.    Project Costs.   At appraisal, the project was estimated to cost US$ 1,027 million
equivalent, without IDC. The project was completed, net of IDC, at a cost of US$ 1,053.8
million equivalent, signifying a cost overrun by about 2.6%. The cost overrun was due mainly to
the fact that the contracts awarded through direct negotiations under bilateral cofinancing or
export credits, cost significantly more than their corresponding appraisal estimates. There were
cost overruns in the 500 kV and 150 kV transmission lines and substations, as well as in
engineering and construction management and the owner's overhead and administration. The
project was cofinanced by Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau (KfW) for the 500 kV transmission
component, and a host of other financing institutions for the boilers and associated components.
6.    Implementation Schedule.   The target end milestones of the project were placing the
2 x 400 MW generating units in commercial operation in September 1993 and January 1994, as
established at appraisal. These dates slipped by about 4 months due to delays in finalizing export
credit arrangements for the steam generators and their auxiliaries. But even the revised dates
could not be met owing to procurement delays, late finalization of export credits for the coal and
ash handling plants, and equipment problems during commissioning. The two units were finally
placed in commercial operation in February 1995.
7.    Performance of the Bank and the Borrower.  The performance of the Bank was
satisfactory. The Bank maintained a good working relationship with PLN and GOI throughout
the implementation of the project and helped PLN overcome a number of shortcomings of
broader sectoral concerns in their management and operations. The overall performance of PLN
and GOI was also satisfactory. Commitments made during loan negotiations and covenants under
the loan were generally fulfilled though, in the case of the financial covenants, this required a roll-
over and eventually a re-setting of PLN's profitability targets.
8. Project Outcome. Overall, the project outcome is judged to be satisfactory. This conclusion
is based on the successful achievement of project objectives, the likely sustainability, and the
satisfactory EIRR (16%).



viii
D.   Future Operations, Summary of Findings and Lessons Learned
9.    Future Operations. PLN has demonstrated it has the technical capacity to operate Paiton
efficiently. To ensure that the plant does not fall short of the appraisal target for capacity
utilization of 75% from 1997 for the next several years, PLN is now engaged in load-promoting
activities in East Java, the region in which Paiton is located. It is also strengthening its
transmission network so that power can be transferred from Paiton to major load centers in West
Java. To ensure efficient utilization of all its generating capacity, not just Paiton, PLN has recently
entered into a legal covenant with the Bank to reduce excess capacity (which is already trending
downwards). The utilization of the Paiton power plant will be closely monitored in the context of
the overall system development as part of the Bank's annual investment review.
10.   Summary of Findings and Lessons Learned. The most important findings of the project
implementation experience and major lessons for future projects are as follows:
(a)    International Competitive Bidding (ICB) is the best means to ensure low prices. Contract
costs awarded through ICB were lower than their estimated costs, while costs of contracts
awarded through direct negotiations under cofinancing were significantly higher than estimated.
(b)    Cofinancing  arrangements should be firmed  up  during  project preparation. The
Government should finalize the sources of export credit while making sure that the total cost of
procurement plus export credit financing is competitive with other options.
(c)    The goal of enhancing local capability to undertake major construction works should be
balanced against the risks of increasing project cost and delaying project completion. Prequalification of
local contractors should ensure they can perform satisfactorily and on time. Until such time as the
required capabilities are developed, local contractors should be required to obtain more experienced
partners from abroad.
(d)    The practice of conducting long and protracted negotiations with the winning bidder to drive
down quoted prices, or increase the local content, may be counter-productive. Project experience
suggests it may lead to the contractor running short of the resources required to sustain its operations
and deliver in accordance with the agreed schedule.
(e)    Quality assurance requirements should be enforced without exception, and certification of
equipment must be contingent upon strict compliance with the specifications including type tests
for transformers. Failure of three out of four station auxiliary transformers because type test
certificates were accepted for a different type of transformer is a case in point.
(f)    Bank policy dialogue should be linked to individual projects. While the Bank raised the
problem of excess capacity as early as in 1994, a stronger case could have been made if the
implication of this excess capacity for Bank-financed plants such as Paiton had been highlighted.






1
I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The Bank has supported the rapid expansion of Indonesia's power sector through
the financing of 25 projects since 1969, of which 19 have been completed. These projects
have assisted PLN to expand at least-cost and diversify its sources of fuel by introducing
coal-fired power plants as well as geothermal and hydroelectric power plants.  The
projects have also helped create an integrated 500 kV grid on Java, extend distribution
facilities, reduce transmission and distribution losses, and enhance PLN's and GOI's
institutional capacities.
2.   In this context, the objectives of the Paiton project were  to: (a) expand PLN's
generating capacity in Java to meet the expected demand growth, (b) promote the use of coal
for economic electricity generation; (c) develop PLN's project implementation capability by
fully involving its newly-established Engineering Services Center in engineering, design and
project management aspects; (d) strengthen the Govemment's environmental monitoring
capability as well as its ability to formulate and enforce environmental standards in the energy
sector; (e) help develop an efficient domestic coal industry; and (f) provide training for PLN's
staff These objectives were consistent with sector strategy and were, in general, well-defined
and realistic, with the exception of (e).
B.    Achievement of Objectives
Overall Results
3.    The physical objectives of the project were satisfactorily realized as PLN's
generating capacity was expanded to meet demand growth. Although, in fact, generating
capacity expansion proceeded at a rate (above that forecast in the SAR) that turned out to
be too high relative to demand growth, PLN's development program overall was
economically justified, as indicated by an economic rate of return of 16% (see para. 5).
The Paiton Power plant and the associated transmission facilities were satisfactorily
constructed, albeit with delays in implementation.
4.    The institutional objectives were also achieved. PLN's in-house engineering
design and supervision skills were significantly improved by training and collaboration
with consultants provided through the project. DGEED's environmental management
capabilities were significantly improved through project technical assistance (TA). The
project also promoted the development of a competitive coal market in Indonesia. Paiton
was PLN's first power plant for which coal was competitively procured. This was
achieved through policy dialogue associated with the project, as well as the coal
procurement TA provided under the project.
5.    Rate of Return.  For practical purposes, it is impossible to separate out the
benefits attributable to the individual power projects that form a part of a least-cost



2
development plan.  Project justification was therefore based on PLN's development
program for Java for the time period, 1989/90-1994/95, of which the project was
envisaged to be a part. This delivered a forecast economic internal rate of return (EIRR)
of 21.8%. This EIRR has been recalculated using updated data for the period 1989/90-
1995/96 which, due to implementation delays, is the period the project ended up covering.
The re-estimated EIRR is 15.7% (see Part II, Table 8 and the supporting tables in Annex
C). The reason for the reduction is the over-expansion in generating capacity, which is
discussed in para 8 below.
Objective-specific Results
6.    The overall physical objective of expanding PLN' s generating capacity in Java was
pursued by the construction of 2 x 400 MW coal-fired units in East Java (the Paiton
power plant) and of associated 500 kV and 150 kV transmission lines and substations. The
institutional objectives were pursued through technical assistance (TA) and policy
dialogue.
Paiton power plant
7.    The Paiton power plant was placed in commercial operation in February 1995.
This completion date signifies a 17 months delay for unit I and 13 month delay for unit 2.
Reasons for the delay are discussed in Section C. Since commissioning, the two units
have been operating successfully. However, their achieved capacity factor, initially of
50%, and in early 1996, of 60% is below the target capacity factor established at appraisal
for the first two years of operation of 63%. Moreover, it may be difficult for PLN to
move up to the 75% capacity factor target from 1997 onwards. This below-target
performance has come about for the following reasons.
8.    First, starting in 1991, PLN began accelerating its system expansion based on a
perception at that time that demand growth would outstrip earlier forecasts. This turned
out to be over-optimistic. The increase in peak load between 1989/90 and 1994/95 was
forecast at appraisal to be 3,227 MW and turned out to be 3,379 MW, almost exactly on
target. However, due to the accelerated expansion, the increment in generating capacity,
forecast during appraisal at 2,600 MW, turned out to be 4,600 MW. The result was a
reserve margin in the Java system at the time of the completion of Paiton of the order of
50% as against an appraisal estimate of 25%.
9.    One of the key "expansion acceleration" decisions made in 1991 was to expand the
combined-cycle power plant in Gresik, which neighbors Paiton in East Java, from 900
MW to 1,500 MW. Given their proximity, and the situation of excess capacity described
above, Paiton and Gresik are currently competing generating sources. Due to a take-or-
pay gas contract which PLN has entered into for Gresik, it makes commercial sense for
PLN to dispatch Gresik ahead of Paiton, even though, on an operating cost basis, Paiton is
the cheaper plant.



3
10.   These difficulties notwithstanding, Paiton is now being operated at close to the
target level (60 compared to 63%). Moreover, PLN is taking various measures to
augment electriciiy sales in East Java with a view to increasing Paiton's capacity factor in
the coming years. This is discussed further in Section I "Future Operations".
11.   Transmission and Associated Substations. The 500 kV transmission lines from
Paiton to Krian and the associated substations were financed by Kreditanstalt fir
Wiederaufbau (KfW). The double-circuit, 123 km long, lines run overhead on lattice steel
towers, and connect the power station to the 500 kV backbone in Java. The 500 kV lines
and the associated substations were constructed by and large on schedule and were
energized in June, 1993. The 150 kV transmnission lines from Paiton to Probolinggo (about
50 km) and from Paiton to Situbondo (about 54 km), running overhead and on lattice steel
towers, as well as the associated substations to serve the local load centers, were financed
under the Bank loan. The first 150 kV line from Probolinggo was energized on schedule
in June 1992 to facilitate supply of construction power through a mobile 20 kV substation
installed for that purpose. The rest of the 150 kV lines were also energized generally on
schedule in August 1993.
12.   The specific institutional objectives were achieved, as detailed below:
(a)   Developing PLN's project implementation capability - The engineers attached
to PLN's Engineering Services Center (PPE) received intensive training in the engineering
and design of large, modern coal-fired power plants. PPE, as well as PLN's construction
and operation divisions, were fully involved in the engineering, design, project
management, construction management and commissioning aspects of the project. The
training facilitated the development of generic designs by PPE, with the help of
consultants, of 400 MW and 600 MW coal-fired power stations that would serve as
reference plants for future expansion of generating capacity. These reference designs are
specifically used for the purpose of evaluating private power proposals and their cost
estimates.
(b)   Strengthening the Government's environmental management capability  -
This TA program, completed over a period of 18 months, enabled six staff in the
Directorate General of Energy and Electricity Development (DGEED) within the Ministry
of Mines and Energy (NIME) to receive training in environmental management in the
energy sector. The program of training helped the DGEED develop: (i) environmental
assessment and management capabilities related to electricity services needs; (ii) an
organizational framework and structure to serve the above needs; (iii) the ability to
provide EA guidelines and standards to consultants, evaluate EA documents, monitor and
control environmental impacts; and (iv) capability to enforce approved procedures. These
objectives have been accomplished.  The trained staff are now active members of
environmental management sections within the MME and dealing with environmental
issues in the private power directorate, including matters related to renewable energy.
They comprise the core technical team to support the AMDAL Commission in the



4
evaluation of EA reports as well as RPL (environmental management) and RKL
(environmental monitoring) formulations.
(c)   Developing an efficient domestic coal industry - PLN is only a small buyer of
Indonesian coal, so the degree to which this objective could be pursued under the project
was limited. Nevertheless, it can be said that, as a result of policy dialogue associated
with the project, it was agreed that PLN would procure coal for Paiton competitively
rather than be forced to buy from the state-owned coal company as was the case for
PLN's first coal-fired plant at Suralaya. While it was agreed that Paiton would be
supplied by domestic coal, this was on condition that the delivered price of their coal
would be no higher than the world price. This agreement was then followed up by TA
under the project which provided PLN with model coal procurement bidding documents.
These bidding documents were successfully used by PLN for Paiton to procure coal on a
competitive basis.
(d)   Training PLN's Engineers - Several PPE engineers were trained in engineering,
design and project management aspects of large, modern thermal power stations by the
Consultants, which included training in foreign utilities as well.
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
13.   Implementation Experience. Project implementation suffered delays because of
the following factors: (i) late finalization of export-credit arrangements for the steam
generators and the coal and ash handling plants; (ii) a protracted procurement cycle; and
(iii) an over-emphasis on developing local capability that inhibited project implementation.
Although the cost of these delays was reduced by the excess generating capacity in the
Java-Bali power system, they were still indicative of inefficient planning and costly in
terms of unserved power (indicated by the 50% capacity factor Paiton was immediately
able to achieve).
14.   Export Credits. At appraisal, it was estimated that contract award for the boilers
would be completed by August 1989. Even though the bidding documents were issued
about two weeks ahead of the schedule, in June 1987, the contract award was not made
before January 1990. Due to protracted negotiations with the prospective contractors,
the elapsed time was almost 30 months, as opposed to an average industry standard of 9-
12 months. The immediate result of the delay in contracting for boilers was that the
implementation schedule had to be slipped by about 4 months, even before the project got
started, and the commercial operation dates for the two units were revised from
September 1993 to January 1994 for the first unit (Unit No.2), and from March 1994 to
July 1994 for the second (Unit No.1). Later, further delays took place due to late
finalization of export credits for the coal handling and ash handling plants, by 9 months
and 7 months respectively as compared to the original schedule. The revised commercial
operation dates also could not be met because of late completion of the coal and ash
handling plants, and equipment problems during commissioning.



5
15.   Procurement. All Bank-financed contracts for goods and works were procured
following ICB procedures. Consultant services, procured through competitive bidding,
were also funded by the Bank loan. The procurement cycle, starting from bid opening to
contract award, and opening of the relevant Letters of Credit (L/C), experienced long
delays. Bid opening to contract award took as long as 270-300 days on an average. Final
approval by the Government and opening of the L/C took another 65-25 days. PLN
performed bid evaluations with the help of Consultants, and PLN Board of Directors
overseeing and approving the recommendations for contract award. Yet other layers of
review and approval were introduced to no particular advantage. The overemphasis on
clearances and approvals (by EKUWASBANG and BAPPENAS) hindered procurement
and cause unnecessary delays. PLN has long graduated into a mature organization, with
adequate in-house expertise to make judgment while following Bank procedures for
procurement. Specifically, now that PLN is a Persero, there is a strong reason for the
Government to let PLN run its own business with full accountability for its actions.
Government control could be exercised through ex-post audits only, if necessary.
16.   It is interesting to note that, for contracts awarded through competitive bidding,
the actual costs were slightly less than the estimated costs for all contracts, whereas for
co nracts awarded through direct negotiation, such as in the case of bilateral cofinancing,
the actual costs came out to be significantly higher than the estimated costs.
17.  Local Capability.  Performance of some local contractors was less than
satisfactory because of lack of mobilization capability, technical expertise and financial
strength to sustain an operation of such complex and large magnitude. While the Bank
supports the development of local capability in Indonesia, it has to be ensured that this
does not result in implementation delays which jeopardize realizing the benefits of the
project. Indonesian contractors should be encouraged to enter into joint collaboration with
more experienced foreign firms until such time as they acquire adequate expertise to
independently execute works.
18.  Equipment problems during commissioning also delayed completion of the project.
The most serious equipment problem that was experienced during commissioning was the
failure of three out of four unit auxiliary transformers (7,500 kVA; lOkV/3kV). The
failure was attributed to over voltage resulting from switching surges and/or inherent
weaknesses in the transformers themselves. (Type test certificates had been accepted for a
different type of transformer).  The manufacturer replaced the coils in the affected
transformers under warranty and reinforced the coils in the transformer that had not failed.
19.  Engineering, and construction supervision were commendable.  In spite of the
difficulties with late deliveries of equipment and problems relating to unsatisfactory
performance by some contractors, construction management was done with constant
improvisations to help expedite project completion.



6
D.   Project Sustainability
20. Institutional Sustainability. The achievements of the project are likely to be sustainable.
From an institutional point of view, PLN is a much better trained and organized corporation
than before the project. From an engineering perspective, PLN can now operate and maintain
power stations to world standard as evidenced by the record of performance of the Suralaya
plant. For the benefits of Paiton to be maximized over time, its utilization will have to be
increased, in particular to meet the 75% capacity factor target set out at appraisal for the third
year of operations and onwards. PLN's plan to increase the capacity factor from its current
level of 60% are set out in Section I below ('Future Operations').
2l.   Financial Sustainability.  The overall sustainability of the power sector in
Indonesia, and thus of the Paiton power plant, hinges crucially on the financial
performance of PLN. PLN's financial position improved over the period of the project. It
went from being a loss maker in the early eighties to the moderately profitable company it
is now, without an increase in the electricity tariff beyond the rate of inflation. While
PLN's profitability has improved, it still has some way to go. It has had difficulty meeting
its covenanted financial targets (see para 27), and its sources of financing are currently
constrained, which has led to chronic liquidity problems over the last two years (1995 and
1996). This issue is currently being addressed by PLN, the Government and the Bank.
22.  One important positive development over the project period was the introduction of
a Periodic Tariff Adjustment Mechanism to limit PLN's financial exposure to price
changes, such as currency depreciation, over which it has no control. However, additional
tariff increases, over and above those which will be effected automatically through the
adjustment mechanism, are now required to ensure a sound financial position for PLN.
23   Environment. An environmental impact assessment (EA) of the project was made
at appraisal. The plant was designed to ensure that it would meet the environmental
guidelines of the GOI and the Bank in respect of air quality, solid and liquid wastes. This
objective has been achieved. Indonesian coal is characterized by a very low sulfur content.
SO,, production is therefore limited during the combustion process. Mitigating measures
comprised orientation of the power plant, as well as the height of the chimneys, to be such
as to limit the ground level concentrations of SO,, and NO. within bounds prescribed by
the GOI and the Bank environmental regulations. Satisfying the SO,x limitation would
require the coal not to have sulfur in excess of 0.67%. The coal being procured for the
Paiton plant has an average sulfur content of 0.3%-0.4% only. Low NO, burners have
been installed in the boilers to limit NO, production. Electrostatic Precipitators with more
than 99.5% collection efficiency are installed on both boilers to limit particulate discharge.
Fugitive dust mitigation measures have been undertaken. Toxic wastes from the boilers
and the water treatment facilities are neutralized and made harmless before being allowed
to be used for other purposes, such as wetting the coal and ash handling areas to contain
fugitive dust. The 500 kV and 150 kV transmission rights-of-way as well as their design
parameters have been chosen to contain the environmental impacts of the high voltage



7
transmission lines to a minimum. There was no resettlement component under this
project.
E.   Bank Performance
24.  The performance of the Bank, from project preparation through project completion has
been satisfactory.  In particular, the Bank has successfully maintained a good working
relationship with PLN, as well as with the GOI, in identifying and appraising the project and
assisting in its implementation. The Bank's supervision over the five year period helped
enhance PLN's project management, planning and implementation capability, including the
development of human resources. A total of 14 supervision missions were fielded during the
project implementation period and the Bank was instrumental in helping PLN correct a number
of shortcomings of broader sectoral concerns in their operations, such as the introduction of a
more comprehensive approach towards environmental protection and mitigation of impacts.
25.  The Bank first alerted PLN/GOI in 1994 to the looming problem of excess capacity.
Since then it has raised this issue repeatedly at high levels of authority in its continuing policy
dialogue with GOI.  It has not been possible to achieve quick results in reducing excess
capacity because of the Government's very strong emphasis on a risk-averse policy to ensure
adequate supply of power; however, the reserve margin has recently been falling (down to 43%
in 1995 from 51% in 1994). Under a new project (Second Power Transmission and
Distribution Project), the Bank entered into a covenant with PLN under which the latter party
agreed to reducing the generating capacity reserve margin for Java-Bali to 30% by the end of
1999. In retrospect, however, the Bank (i) could have raised the issue earlier, and (ii), in
particular, could have strengthened its case by pointing to the specific implications of excess
capacity on the utilization of Bank-financed power plants such as, Paiton and Suralaya at the
time when the capacity of Gresik Combined Cycle Plant was raised from 900 MW to 1.500
MW.
26.  There were a few weaknesses in the project design. In retrospect, it is now open to
question whether Paiton in East Java should have been the preferred choice as the site for the
800 MW power plant over a site in Central Java. The system operating experience suggests
that a generating plant in Central Java would probably have been a better choice, since
provision had already been made -.o build the Gresik combined cycle plant in East Java. The
slippage of the project schedule due to delays in finalizing the export-credit for the boilers and
later, for the coal and ash handling plants, was avoidable with adequate forward planning.
Also, criteria for the selection of local contractors, as well as prequalification procedures,
should have been made more stringent to eliminate possible failures due to non-performance
during actual project implementation.
F.    Borrower Performance
27.   The overall assessment of PLN's and the GOI's performance is satisfactory.
Commitments made during the negotiations and covenants under the loan were generally
fulfilled, but with the following exceptions:



8
(a) Submission of audited accozunts PLN's audits were submitted on time. However, MME's
audited (unqualified) accounts for its TA was late by more than two years.
(b) Utilization by PLN of some of the captive generating capacity. This has not materialized
for various reasons, among them a lack of an action plan for implementing the in-principle
agreement reflected in the legal covenant, and the Java-Bali system's excess capacity.
However, the goal has not been abandoned. PLN has recently, as an action of Bank dialogue,
established a Small Power Purchase Tariff This provides the contractual instruments through
which small power projects developed by the power sector, including excess captive generating
capacity, can be progressively integrated into PLN's grid.
(c) Establishment of an inter-departmental task force to review and advise on energy prices.
This covenanted objective turned out to be inappropriate for Indonesia's institutional
environment, which requires Presidential approval for energy price changes.  Progress,
however, was made on the underlying goal of improving energy pricing. In 1993, GOI aligned
domestic petroleum fuel prices to international prices (except for kerosene), and in 1994, an
automatic price adjustment mechanism was implemented for the electricity tariff
(d) PLN Profitability covenants. During the project period, PLN was subject to an 8% rate-
of-retum covenant for its more profitable Java operations and a break-even covenant for its
outside-Java operations starting in 1992/93. PLN exceeded the former target, but had great
difficulty with the latter, in particular due to oil-price increases. In fact, the outside-Java
covenant could only be met by successive roll-overs by subsequent projects up to 1994/95. In
the end, it became evident that having two regional targets when tariffs were uniform across
the country was not realistic, and the two profitability targets were replaced by one for all of
Indonesia. 1995 was the first year for this covenant. When PLN changed its stakes to that of a
commercial govemrnment-owned corporate entity (Persero), its fiscal year became the calendar
year. The most recent estimate for this year is 6.7%, close to but below the 8% ROR target
for all-Indonesia. A tariff increase is expected in 1996 to enable PLN to meet this covenant in
1997.
28.   The Borrower's evaluation of the project performance is appended at Annex-B.
G.   Cofinancier Performance
29.  The Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) cofinanced the project to the tune of US$ 195
million equivalent for the 500 kV transmission lines and associated substations. Based on the
Bank's Staff Appraisal Report, KfW performed their own appraisal of the project relative to
the transmission lines and supervised construction from time to time. This component was
completed on schedule. Cofinancing was also provided by the US Exim Bank, the Canadian
Export Development Corporation, the Japanese Export Credit Agency , and Nissei Leasing
Co. for the boilers, the completion of which was late.



9
H.   Summary Assessment of Outcome
30.   The project outcome is judged to be satisfactory. This conclusion is based on the
successful achievement of physical and institutional project objectives, the likely sustainability
and the satisfactory EIRR (16%).
L     Future Operation
31.  PLN has demonstrated that it has the technical capacity to operate Paiton efficiently. To
ensure Paiton is utilized to a satisfactory degree, it will be necessary to increase its capacity
factor. As noted earlier, in the early months of 1996, Paiton was operating at a capacity factor
of 60%. This compares to North American Reliability Council (NERC) standards, used as
appraisal targets, which indicate that in the first two years of operation -- a breaking-in period -
-a coal-fired power plant would be expected to operate at about 63% capacity factor, and that
this figure should reach 75% for years 3 to 10. Although Paiton has now come close to the
63% appraisal target, reaching 75% from 1997 for the next several years will be more difficult.
Starting in 1998-99, 600 MW will be added annually for four years at the two nearby Paiton
sites to be developed by two private consortia (both of which have now reached financial
closure). These will compete with the newly-constructed Paiton power plant, and will probably
be favoured in dispatch on account of the nature of their 'take-or-pay" contracts. To ensure
that, in this context, the existing Paiton plant does achieve and maintain the NERC standards in
the coming years will require a substantial growth in load. PLN has developed a strategy to
this end. This includes a dialogue with local government in order to improve conditions for
business development and to apply the street lighting levy to captive as well as PLN-supplied
power, which would reduce the bias in favor of captive power. PLN is also acting to
strengthen its transmission system. In particular, it is expediting the project to complete the
second transmission circuit between Krian and Urgaran. Although there is no need currently
to transfer power from East to West Java, the second circuit will facilitate the transfer of
greater volumes of power as demand grows in West Java so that the system becomes more
secure. Completion of the second circuit, accompanied by the general program of transmission
reinforcement currently underway, will enable Paiton to cater to load growth throughout Java.
32.  More important than meeting particular targets for individual power plants is the
efficient utilization by PLN of its entire stock of generating capacity. Under the recently
negotiated Second Power Transmission and Distribution Project (Loan 3948-IND), a clause in
the Project Agreement commits PLN to reducing the reserve margin in the Java-Bali power
system to 30% by the end of 1999. Achieving this target would go along way to ensuring
efficient utilization of generating capacity and PLN is taking several measures to promote load
throughout Java to ensure the target is met. It has proposed to the Government a significant
restructuring of tariffs which would reduce the cross-subsidies between different classes of end-
users. And it is implementing a plan to allow the payment of connection charges in
installments. Expected improvements in power supply quality and reliability will also improve
the attractiveness of PLN to consumers.



10
33. The Bank will monitor closely PLN's load-promotion, load forecasts, generation
expansion plan and transmission investments, since it is ultimately these systemic factors which
will deterrnine the level at which Paiton is utilized in the years to come.
J.    Key Lessons Learned
34.   Several key lessons can be drawn from this project, which have both strategic and
operational implications. These are discussed below:
(a)   International Competitive Bidding (ICB) is the best means to ensure low
prices. Contract costs awarded through ICB have been lower than their estimated
costs, while costs of contracts awarded through direct negotiations under
cofinancing have been significantly higher than their estimated costs.
(b)   Delays in finalizing export-credit financing arrangements resulted in
slippage of the project implementation schedule while direct negotiations resulted
in higher project cost. Cofinancing arrangements should be firmed up during
project preparation to match the overall project implementation schedule. The
Government should finalize the sources of export credit while making sure that
the total cost of procurement plus export credit financing is competitive with
other options.
(c)    As a development institution, the Bank encourages suppliers and contractors in
the Borrower's country to participate in the procurement process to help develop
domestic industry. However, the goal of enhancing local capability to undertake major
construction works should be balanced against the risks of increasing project cost and
delaying project completion. To this end, prequalification of local contractors should
be made more objectively to ensure they can perform satisfactorily and on time, taking
into account their capabilities with respect to personnel, equipment, and construction
facilities, as well as financial position. Until such time as these capabilities are
developed, local contractors should be required to obtain more experienced partners
from abroad.
(d)    The practice of conducting long and protracted negotiations with the winning
bidder to drive down quoted prices, or increase the local content, may appear to be an
accomplishment in the short-term. However, it may not be in the best interests of PLN
as the contractor could run short of resources to sustain its operations and deliver in
accordance with the agreed schedule, as is clearly borne out by the experience gained
on this project.
(e)    Quality assurance requirements should be enforced without exception, and
certification of equipment must be contingent upon strict compliance with the
specifications including type tests for transformers. Failure of three out of four
station auxiliary transformers because type test certificates were accepted for a
different type of transformer is a case in point. The market reputation of a



I1
contractor should be no proxy for qualifying tests and all must be subject to the
same rules of qualifying procedure.
(f)    Bank policy dialogue should be linked to individual projects. In this case,
while the Bank raised the problem of excess capacity as early as 1994, a stronger
case could have been made if the implication of this excess capacity for Bank-
financed plants such as Paiton had been highlighted at an earlier stage.



12
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(Loan 3098-IND)
Part n : Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substantial   Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies             I          O           n              A
Sector policies                   O           *           O               O
Financial objectives              O           *           O               
Institutional development         *           O           O        
Physical objectives                           El         El O
Poverty reduction                 li         [O          Oj
Gender concems                    El          OI                        U
Other social objectives           O           [O          O              U
Environmental objectives          *           O                          
Public sector management          *           O           O               O
Private sector development        OI          O           O              a
B.  Project Sustainabilitv                      Likely          Unlikely     Uncertain
a                 OI          O
C.  Bank Performance                    Hiehly satisfactory   Satisfactorv    Deficient
Identification                                *                 O            O
Preparation assistance                        *                 O            O
Appraisal                                     *                 O            O
Supervision                                   o                 U            L
D. Borrower Performance                   ighlysatisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                                  *                 O            El
Implementation                               El                *            
Covenant compliance                          OI                *            El
Operation                                    U                  El          LI
E.  Assessment of Outcome               Highlv satisfactory  Satisfactory     Deficient
LI               *            O



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                         Purpose                           Year of          Status
approval
Loan 1708-IND        To help finance the first 400 MW dual-fired (coal and oil)  1979    Completed in
Eighth Power Project  unit at Suralaya and to provide training for PLN staff in the      1985
operation of large thermal generating units, including the
necessary training equipment.
Loan 1872-IND        To install the second 400 MW thermal generating unit at   1980      Completed in
Ninth Power Project   Suralaya; transmission lines of 500 kV from Suralaya to            1986
Semarang with 500 MVA substations at Suralaya, Jakarta,
Bandung and Semarang; system control center for Java at
Jakarta.
Loan 1950-lND and    To construct a 4 x 175 MW hydro-electric power station    1981      Completed in
1950-1-lND Tenth    including a 97.5 meter high rockfill dam and associated civil        1986
Power Project        works at Saguling on the Citarum River, and to provide
consulting services to assist PLN in civil works contract
management, power market surveys, and power system
planning, as well as a Special Board of Consultants, and
detailed engineering of the Cirata Hydroelectric Project.
Loan 2506-lND        Comprising: (a) a distribution system for Jakarta and the  1981       Completed in
Eleventh Power       regencies of Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi (Jabotabek) in                   1988.
Project              West Java, involving about 450 km of 150 kV cables, 760
km of 20 kV overhead lines; (b) a 150 kV transmission
system, involving 5 new substations in Jakarta, 46 km of
underground double-circuit 150 kV cables and 980 MVA of
transformers; (c) engineering of the next base-load thermal
power unit (at Paiton) in Java; (d) engineering of the Extra
High Voltage (EHV) Central-East Java transmission line;
and (e) management consultancy for further improvements
in PLN's financial planning and control systems.
Loan 2214-IND        Comprising: (a) construction of 110 (2 x 55) MW extension   1982      Completed in
Twelfth Power        of Kamojang geothermal power station in West Java; (b)                    1991
Project              construction of the third 400 MW thermal generating unit at
Suralaya, including engineering services for the third and
fourth generating units; (c) distribution system
improvements in Java, North Sumatera and South Sulawesi;
(d) a mini-hydro development program in North Sumatera;
and (c) training facilities and services to assist PLN's
manpower development program.
Loan 2300-1ND        Comprising: (a) construction of Cirata hydroelectric power    1983    Completed in
Thirteenth Power     project (4xl25 MW); (b) construction of 500 kV switchyard                 1990
Project              and 25 km 500 kV transmission line; (c) consultancy
services for Cirata project and an energy sector support
program to support engineering and design for major
thermal stations, an information management system study,
and feasibility studies for hydro, thermal and transmission
and distribution schemes



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                          Purpose                            Year of         Status
approval
Loan 2443-IND        To construct and install the third and fourth 400 MW    1984           Completed in
Fourteenth Power     thermal generating units at Suralaya in West Java; to extend               1992
Project              the distribution network in Jakarta, Bogor, Tangerang and
Bekasi (Jabotabek), East Java and Central Java; and to
provide consulting services for engineering and construction
supervision of transmission lines and substations in Java
and for engineering and design of hydro projects.
Loan 2778-IND        Comprising: (a) construction of transmission facilities (150,   1987   Completed in
Power Transmission   70 kV) and substations in Java; (b) construction of                        1992
and Distribution     distribution facilities in Java; (c) equipment for PLN's
Project              Testing and Research Center (LMK); and (d) consulting
services for preliminary design of Paiton and development
of PLN's Engineering Services Center (PPE).
Loan 3501 -IND       The project includes: (a) the construction of three coal-fired  1992  Implementation
Suralaya Thermal     units of 600/MW each at Suralaya, including associated               underway;
Power Project        works and a 500 kV transmission line from Cilegon to                 closing in 1999
Cibinong, with associated substations; (b) consulting
services for engineering, design and construction                    (c) & (d)
supervision of the proposed units; (c) feasibility study for a       completed
high voltage submarine cable link between Java and
Sumatra; (d) engineering and design of a thermal power
plant at Banjarmasin in South Kalimantan; (e) consulting
services for institutional development; and (f) training of
PLN's staff in public utility practices.
Loan 3602-IND        Its components are: (a) implementation of Phase It of the  1993      Implementation
Cirata Hydroelectric   Cirata hydroelectric development on the Citarum River in           underway;
Phase II Project     West Java; (b) consulting services for the engineering and           closing in 1999
construction supervision; (c) studies to upgrade hydrological
and environmental data bases, and improve data collection
practices; (d) studies to update PLN's hydroelectric
inventories, and determine pre-feasibility of selected
schemes; (e) studies to identify options to enhance
environmental conditions in the existing PLN reservoirs on
the Citarum River, and training of PLN staff in
environmental management; (f) training of PLN's staff in
dam safety and instrumentation monitoring; (g) power sector
institutional and regulatory framework studies for the
Government of Indonesia (GOI); (h) studies aimed at
assisting GOI to determine a long-term strategy for
financing power sector investments; and (i) pre-construction
engineering services.
Loan 3978-IND        To improve customer service by (a) increasing the physical  1996     Not yet effective
Second Power         capacity, efficiency, and reliability of the Java-Bali
Transmission and     transmission system and distribution network; and (b)
Distribution Project   promoting sector efficiency, competition, and private sector
participation by implementing functional decentralization of
State Electricity Corporation (PLN) operations in Java-Bali
and developing effective regulatory oversight and
institutions. The project has two principal components: (a)
the restructuring of and investment in PLNs operations; and
(b) the development of regulatory oversight.



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                         Date planned             Date actual
Identification                                                            12/1985
Preparation                                                                4/1987
Preappraisal (Upgraded to Appraisal)                                      4/1988
Negotiations                                                               5/1989
Board presentation                                                        6/22/89
Signing                                                                   7/21/89
Effectiveness                                                             10/06/89
Project completion:
Transmission Line                                         11/1992
Power Plant, Units 1 & 2                                  2/1995
Loan closing                                 September 30, 1995      September 30, 1995
Table 4: Loan disbursements (IBRD): Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY90        FY91       FY92       FY93       FY94    FY95    FY96
Appraisal         15.0        45.0       120.0      222.0      295.0    340.0    354.0
Estimate      _
Actual            28.4        57.4       145.1      233.2       280.6   310.1    337.2
Actual as % of
Estimate          189.3       127.5      120.9       105.0       95.1    91.2    100.0*
Date of Final
Disbursement                           February    16, 1996
*Total loan amount US$ 337.2 million, balance canceled.



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Procurement
Package            Bid Opening       Evaluation Complete    Contract Award      L/C Opened
Planned    Actual    Planned    Actual    Planned     Actual
Turbine Generators    11/87    12/87      8/88        8/88      8/89       1/90        6/90
Steam Generators     11/87     12/87      8/88       8/88       8/89       1/90        2/91
Coal Handling        12/89     12/89      5/90        8/90      8/90       6/91
Ash Handling          9/90     12/90      12/90       8/91      2/91      11/91
Civil Works II        7/90      9/90       9/90      10/90     11/90       3/91
Elec & Mech Works     9/90     11/90      12/90       3/91      3/91       7/91       12/91
Inst. & Controls      7/90      9/90      10/90      2/91       1/91       7/91        4/92
Water Treatment       8/90      9/90      11/90       1/91      1/91       7/91       11/91
2. Construction and Commissioning
Plant Component            Erection Start           Commisrsioning           Commercial
Planned     Actual      Planned      Actual     Planned   Actual
Paiton Unit 1              11/91       1/92        10/93       1/94        3/94      2/95
Paiton Unit 2               4/91       7/91         4/93       8/93        9/93      2/95
500 kV Transmission        12/91      12/91        11/92      11/92
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(In accordance with NERC Standards)
Years in Operation         1-2 Years         3-10 Years      11-20 Years       21-25 Years
Planned     Actual      Planned         Planned           Planned
Total Generation, TWh     4.4        3.3 i/       5.28            5.08              4.54
Plant Availability, %     70       81.2 i/        79              79                77
Plant Capacity Factor, %   63          60          75               72               65
1/ During first year of commercial operation. Generation during commissioning phase 2.4 TWh.



'7
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate                  Actual Cost          Foreign
Contract Package       ---------------USS million------------  ----------------USS million------------  as percentt
Local     Foreign    Total      Local      Foreign     Total    of Total
Preparation Works         67.0        -          67.0      58 4         9.3     67.8        13 7
Power House
Turbine-Generators &
other plant aux.        12.0        183.0     195.0      22.2       176 2     198.3      88.9
Steam-Generators &
aux.                    41.0        177.0     218.0      18 4       255.2    273.6       93 3
Chimney                  2.0          6.0       8.0       2 9         3 3       6 2      53.2
Civil Works             29.0         18.0      47.0      43.6         8.6      52.2      16 5
Marine Works              40.0        48.0       88.0      33.8        34.0     67.8       50 2
500 kV transmission &
substations             15.0         74.0      89.0      20.1       174 9     195.0      89 7
150 kV transmission &
substations              4.0          9.0      13.0       7 2        93 0      100 2     92 8
Engineering & Const.
Management               9.0         50.0      59.0       7.3        73 1      80 4      90.9
Overhead &
Administration          21.0         -         210       32.1         -        32 1        -
Technical Assistance
(a) Enviromnent          -           1.0        1.0       -           1.3       1.3    100 0
(b) Training             -           1.0        10        -           1.0       1.0    100 0
Total Base Coat          240.0       567.0     807.0      246.0      829.9   1,075.9
Physical Contingency     25.0       41.0      66 0        2.3         9.3       11 6
Price Contingency       60.0        94.0     154.0        6.7         9.6       16 3
Total Project Cost       325.0       702.0   1,027.0      255.0      848.8   1,103.8
Taxes and Duties                                         87 2        15 3 '    102.5
Interest During Const.              90.0      90.0        -          87.2      87.2
Total Financing Reqd.    325.0       792.0   1,117.0   1 342.2       951.3   1,293.5
1/ PLN is exempt from import duties Figure represents VAT on service contracts.
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisa. Estimate (t SM)            Actual (USSM)
Source               Local     Foreign               Local      Foreign
costs     costs      Total      costs     costs      Total
IBRD: Earlier Loans /a                 28.0        28 0       -         28.0       28.0
Project Loan                   354.0       354.0       40.6     296.6      337.2
Export CreditsI/             57.0    217.0        274.0        19.1    179 2       198 3
Cofinancing 2/                 -       92.0        92.0       20 1    174 9       195.0
Other Cofinancing 3/           -         -                      -      170.1      170 1
PLN/GOI                     268.0     1010 /b    369.0       262.4    102.5       364.9
Total         325.0     792.0    1 1,117.0     342.2     951.3    1,293.5
1/ Export Credits include US Exim Bank (106.1), Canadian Export Development Corp (4.5),
and Japanese Export Credit Agency (87.8).
Z/ Cofinancing by KIfW (195.0)
3/ Other Cofinancing includes Nissei Leasing (107.8), Banque Indosuez (41.3), Bank of Tokyo (15.0),
and Mitsui Leasing and Development (6.0).



18
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits
Appraisal Estimate                   Re-estimate
Base Case IERR (%)                21.8% on PLN's investment         15.7% on PLN's investment
program from 1989/90-1994/95     program from 1989/90-1995/96
Major Costs (US$ million)
Investment (Cumulative)                        5,914                             9,168
Fuel (Max. Incr.)                                257                               528
O&M (Max. lncr.)                                  89                               473
Major Benefits
Max. incr. sales (GWh)                      16,328                            24,031
Max. incr. revenue at average                1,087                             1,754
tariff (US$ million)
Max. incr. benefits (US$ million)            1,640                             2,637
For detailed calculations, see Annex C.



19
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
INDONESIA
Paiton Thermal Power Project (Loan 3098-IND)
Ref.           COVENANT                                                      COMPLIED
Loan
Art. 3.01 (B)    Subsidiary Loan Agreement with PLN                                    Yes
3.04      (I) Furnish to Bank by 12/31/89 detailed action plan for coal supply to Paiton  Yes
(11) Implement action plan for coal supply to Paiton                    Yes
3.05       Delivered price at Paiton no higher than the long-term contract price for steam    Yes
coal in the world market, adjusted for quality, transportation, etc.
3.06 (A)    Establish and maintain Task Force to review and advise on price adjustments  No
in the energy sector
3.06 (B)    Establish and maintain within NMME an Energy Pricing Unit              Yes
3.06 (C)    Prepare and furnish action plan to utilize some of the captive generating capacity  No
4.02 (A)    Review annually potential changes in load growth of Java Power and variations   Yes
of PLN's investment program
4.02 (B)    Review PLN's investment budget for next FY and its balance among generation,  Yes
transmission and distribution
4.02 (C)    Review annually PLN's development associated financial forecast and financial   Yes
plan
4.03       GOI departments/agencies overdues not to exceed 2-month total for GOI   Yes
6.01       Subsidiary Loan Agreement executed                                      Yes
Project
Art. 2.06      PLN to carry out action plans for efficiency improvement in all its operations  Yes
4.02       PLN shall periodically review LRMC and tariff structure with Bank       Yes
4.03       For FY 1989/90 and for each FY thereafter, PLN shall revalue its fixed assets    Yes
and accumulated depreciation
4.04       PLN shall not incur any debt unless reasonable forecast of revenues and  Yes
expenditures show projected net revenues for each FY during term of debt at
least 1.5 times the projected debt service on all debts
4.05       (1) Prepare 10-year financial forecast based on development plan        Yes
(2) Test each proposed development plan for financial feasibility       Y'es
(3) Develop financing plan for first five y(,ars                        Yes
(4) Ensure recommended development plan, etc., reviewed and approved by  Yes
Board and GOI/Bank
4.06 (A)(I) PLN shall take measures to realize for its Java operations, no later than FY 89/90 Yes
and in each FY thereafter an annual ROR of not less than 8%
4.06(A)(II) PLN shall take measures with respect to its non-Java operations to produce no
later than 1992/93, and in each FY thereafter, total revenues equal to no less than N/A
the sum of non-Java operations: (a) total operating expenses; (b) amount by which
debt service requirements exceed depreciation provision           (Replaced)
4.06 (B)    Before December 31 each year, PLN shall review adequacy of tariffs to meet  Yes
requirements in Art 4.06 (A) in light of Art. 2.06 and 4.02, and furnish to Bank
results of such review



20
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Staff inputs in carrying out the various tasks through the project cycle from preparation in FY85
through completion in FY94 were as follows:
Task                                         Input (Staff-Weeks)
Project Preparation                                   5.3
Project Preappraisal                                 23.3
Appraisal                                             18.0
Loan Negotiations                                     7.0
Board through Loan Effectiveness                      18.6
Project Supervision                                  70.1
Project Completion                                    8.0
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Project Cycle          Month/Year  Number   Days in        Specialization     Performance  Type of
of        Field          /a              Rating        Problems
Persons                                       /b         /c
Through Appraisal
Identification             1985        2
Preparatios                1987         3
Preappraisal               19R8        5
Appraisal                  10,68       6
Supervision
Supervision 1              8/89         1        10    E                           2       PR
Supervision 2             10/89        5         18    E, FA, EN                   2       PR
Supervision 3              3/90        7         18    E, FA, EC,C                 2       I, PR
Supervision 4              6/90        4         19    E, FA, EC                   2       I, PR
Supervision 5             11/90        3         16    E, FA                       2       1
Supervision 6              4/91        4         15    E, FA                       2       I
Supervision 7             10/91        4         16    E, FA                       2       I
Supervision 8              3/92        7         15    E, FA, EN, EC, C            2       1
Supervision 9             10/92        2         26    E                           2       I
Supervision 10             5/93         1         3    E                           2       1
Sup---%is.on II            6/94        2         19    E, FA                       2       I, EP
Supervision 12            12/94        3         23    E, FA                       2       1, EP
Supervision 13             3/95        3         20    E, EN                       2       1
Supervision 14 (ICR)       9/95      1           18    E                           2
/a E: Engineer; FA: Financial Analyst; EN: Environmental Specialist; C: Consultant (Env)
/b I = No or Minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems
/c I = Implementation delays; PR = Procurement delays; EP = Equipment Problems;
FN/IN = Financial/Institutional Problems



21
ANNEX - A
September 15, 1995
AIDE-MEMOIRE
This aide-memoire records the requirements and schedule agreed between PLN
and a special Completion Mission of the World Bank which visited Indonesia from August
30 to September 16, 1995, to mark the impending completion of the Paiton Thermal
Power Project (Loan 3098-IND), the loan for which is scheduled to close on September
30, 1995, and to start on the preparation of an Implementation Completion Report in
accordance with Bank guidelines. The mission also took this opportunity to conduct an
interim supervision of the Suralaya Thermal Power Project (Loan 3501 -IND), the Cirata
II Hydroelectric Power Project (Loan 3602-IND), and the Sumatera and Kalimantan
Power Project (Loan 3761-IND). The conclusions and findings of the mission in respect
of these projects are also recorded in this aide-memoire.
Implementation Completion: Paiton Thermal Power Project (Loan 3098-IND)
1.    The policy of the Bank is to evaluate completed projects, and it requires
Borrowers also to do so. In accordance with this policy, an Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) is required to be prepared for the Paiton Thermal Power Project (Loan
3098-IND) the loan for which is scheduled to close as per schedule on September 30,
1995. The ICR is regarded as a milestone in the project cycle, making a transition from
implementation to the project's future operation.
2.    The mission advised PLN that disbursements will continue for up to four months
beyond the loan closing date, i.e., upto January 31, 1996, for all eligible expenditures
committed before the loan closing date. It was also agreed that, for those Bank-financed
contracts yet to be closed, payment of retention money could be made against appropriate
bank guarantees l'. The contract for Marine Works (FC-13) will require an amendment of
the contract based on the settlement to be reached on price adjustment claims by the
contractor. PLN promised to complete the contract amendment formalities and make the
additional commitment for payments before the loan closing date of September 30, 1995.
3.    Preparation of the ICR was started during the Completion Mission. The project
completion steps were identified and data requirements, as enumerated in Annex-1, were
discussed. The mission was pleased to note that PLN had already started preparing its
own report on the subject project. The mission visited the project site and reached
agreement with PLN on the future operational phases of the project, as well as the
1/ An exception was made under this project to disburse against Bank guarantees.
However, according to existing policy, contract conditions must be met for releasing the
retention payment before the loan closing date. (Foot note added for ICR)



22
indicators against which the performance of the project would be monitored. In
accordance with this agreement, the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC)
standards for coal-fired power plants, that have actually been used for the economic
analysis of the project and included in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), would be used.
These standards and the resulting performance expectations are set out in Annex-2 to this
aide-memoire.
4.     It may be noted that the performance indicators are somewhat different from
those set by the Load Dispatch Center in East Java. The Load Dispatch requirements are
driven primarily by the need to meet the projected demand without recognition of
operational constraints that the power plant might experience when new and when the
equipment age. The NERC standards recognize that, typically, a power plant is likely to
be shut down several times during the first two years of its operation for the purpose of
tuning up the equipment as well as the control systems, just as much as it is likely to suffer
increased incidences of forced outage as the equipment wear out over the years of their
operation. The mission recommended that the NERC standards, recognized in North
America and by many utilities the world over, be adopted by PT PLN to set performance
standards for its coal-fired power plants.
5.    The mission discussed with PLN in detail, the ICR format and its proposed
contents. It was agreed that the outline recommended for the preparation of the ICR in
the Bank's Operational Procedures OP 13.55 of April 1994 would be followed. This
outline is included in Annex-1. A copy of the Bank's OP was also given to PLN.
6.      The mission noted that the Paiton project was delayed by about one year and five
months from the original schedule. At appraisal of the project, the two generating units
were scheduled to be placed in commercial operation in September 1993 and March 1994.
But these dates were revised to January 1994 and July 1994 because of delays in finalizing
export credits for the boilers and their auxiliaries. But even these dates could not be met
because of lengthy procurement cycles and construction delays caused by the failure of
some key contractors to perform to schedule, as well as equipment failures during
commissioning. The lengthy procurement cycle included finalization of export credits for
the coal and ash handling plants as well, both of which caused expensive project delays
and the need for making temporary provisions for starting up the plant. The Paiton
generating units were finally placed in commercial operation on February 18 and February
19, 1995.
7.      The performance of local contracts was generally below expectations. Almost
evervbody who applied was prequalified. During the lengthy "contract negotiation"
process, PLN would prevail over the selected bidder to reduce its bid price to the lowest
possible level. The bidder would accept the price in its eagerness to get the contract, and
then fail to perform. Delays caused by local contractors due to this reason have been
costly.



23
8.      There were cost overruns for all sole-source contracts. The electrical substation
and the 500 kV transmission lines, exceeded their estimated budget by significant
amounts. PLN will submit full account of cost overruns and identify the scope changes
that were authorized during project implementation.
9.      The following major lessons can be learned from the execution of the Paiton
Project:
a.      The project implementation schedule set out at the project preparation stage, on
which the project cost is based, and power supply commitments made on the basis of a
certain completion date of the project, must be regarded as inviolable. The implementing
agency, as well as all other supporting agencies must work in unison to meet the
established schedule. The time taken by GOI to finalize export credits has proved to be
very costly for the project.
b.      While local capability in Indonesia must be developed, prequalification of local
contractors is required to be made more objectively to make sure they have the capability
and the expertise to perform the contract to the required schedule. Also, there is need to
reflect on the "contract negotiation" process. The practice of driving down the prices
through the process of negotiation may appear to be an accomplishment in the short-term,
but it may not be in the best interests of PLN. This is one of the reasons why the World
Bank does not permit any negotiation on price as this is considered to be counter-
productive. Local contractors should also be encouraged to obtain experienced partners
from abroad until such time as they acquire the qualifications to work independently.
Otherwise, the price to pay for schedule slippage becomes too heavy.
c.      Certification of equipment should be made by ensuring strict compliance by all
manufacturers alike. Just because one manufacturer happens to be of world repute, it does
not mean that this manufacturer should enjoy any special privilege in matters of equipment
certification. The failure of three out of four unit auxiliary transformers is a case in point
where type test certificates were not verified in accordance with the specifications.
Construction management, including manufacturing surveillance, should be performed
religiously to ensure the quality of procurement and erection.
d.      Competitive bidding is the best means of ensuring fair prices for the products or
the required services. Sole-source contracting therefore, should be avoided. GOI needs
to ensure a competitive bidding process for procurement even under export-credit or
bilateral cofinancing arrangements.
e.      Procurement efficiency should be improved and the duration from bid opening to
contract award should be reduced drastically.
10.     The following schedule was agreed with PLN for the final preparation of the
ICR:



24
September 15, 1995  PLN submits to the Completion Mission its draft ICR, as
well as the completion report prepared by the Engineers
(Sargent & Lundy)
November 30, 1995  Bank submits to PLN an outline of the proposed ICR,
based on the available information
December 29, 1995  PLN completes Part II of the ICR and sends it to the
Bank for finalization. This contribution will be integrated
verbatim (or in a summary if the report is longer than
ten pages) into the Bank's ICR. This part should also
include DGEED's contribution for the TA component
under the project which helped strengthen its
environmental management capability
January 31, 1996    The Bank completes the ICR
The mission acknowledged with thanks the receipt of the two reports mentioned in
the foregoing on September 15, 1995.
11.   The mission noted that system reliability requirements and transmission system
constraints, caused especially by the single circuit transmission in the Krian-Ungaran
alignment, precluded loading of the Paiton Plant to its present generating capacity of 800
MW. This situation has resulted from the need to run the Gresik Combined Cycle Power
Plant to full capacity because of merit order dispatch requirements and the take or pay
contract with the power producer. Consequently, the Paiton Plant is being loaded to only
50% of its capacity at the present time. The mission was informed that this problem
would go away with the construction of the second circuit in the Krian-Ungaran section,
which is already under construction and expected to be completed by late 1996. As a
result of this constraint, the economics of the project will not be realized until the second
circuit is installed. The mission requested PLN to explore the possibility of expediting
completion of the second circuit on a fast track basis. The utilization of the Paiton units
will continue to remain low in the near-term until the second circuit is installed 2'.
12.   Overdue Audit Report (MME) - The audit report for the TA component to
strengthen the environmental management capability of MMfE, provided under the Paiton
Thermal Power Project, is long overdue for the period from April 1992 to October 1992,
thus constituting a serious violation of the loan covenant. This TA was provided over a
period of 18 months by Lahmeyer International and completed in October 1992. Despite
several reminders, MIME has failed to submit the audit report for the period in question.
2/ This issue is being addressed through policy dialogue with the Government and
through complementary actions to increase demand as well as through appropriate
covenants to reduce the reserve margin to around 30%. (Foot note added for ICR)



25
Violation of an important loan covenant, such as the timely submission of audit reports,
would normally attract remedial action by the Bank under the provisions of the Loan
Agreement. The mission discussed the matter with the MOF and was advised that MME
had already submitted a financial statement of accounts for the period in question to BPKP
for audit. Based on this information, MOF wrote a letter to BPKP on September 8,1995
requesting for an audit of the said accounts as soon as possible. The mission was assured
that the audit would be undertaken this month (September 1995) and completed soon. In
light of this assurance, the Bank may not seek remedies under the provisions of the Loan
Agreement at the present time; however, the mission drew the attention of MOF to the
strong possibility of the Bank taking such a course of action in the event there is any
further delay in submitting the audit report.



26
ANNEX B
PAITON STEAM POWER PLANT UNITS 1 & 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BORROWER'S REPORT
I. Project Objectives
At the Borrower's (PLN) level, the project objective was to successfully manage
the construction of the Paiton power plant and associated transmission and distribution
systems, initially with a capacity of 2 x 400 MW and with an infrastructure able to support
an ultimate plant capacity of 4,000 MW.
In this context a successful management required to comply with restrictions
imposed by technical performance, schedule, safety, environmental and budget limitations.
II. Achievement of Project Objectives
Within the scope of work of PLN, the project success can be assessed as
substantial in that all their objectives were met within most of the imposed limitations.
III. Implementation Record and Major Factors affecting the Project
Generally, all the project phases were implemented successfully, although a review
of the key indicators for project implementation shown in Table 5 of this report shows
delays regarding scheduled key dates.
Several causes contributed to these delays:
a)  Extended bid evaluations.
Extensive post bid correspondence with bidders for the purpose of bid
clarification, which had to be carried out with utmost care, contributed
greatly to these delays.
b)  Extended contract negotiations.
Negotiations to optimize the local content and to analyze options presented
by the successful bidders demanded extended time for this activity.



27
c)  Large number of contracts.
Over twenty foreign and local main contracts had interdependent interfaces.
This had a multiplying effect on delays by few contractors.
d)  Contractual problems between contractors and subcontractors during
execution of the work (2 major contracts)
The Coal Handling System contractor and his main foreign subcontractor had
insurmountable financial disagreements, with negative effects on the
equipment supply schedule and contract financing arrangements. The Ash
Handling System contractor and his local partner had financial disputes
resulting in downstream delays of several other major contracts.
e)  Unexpected construction problems (1 contract).
The Marine Works contract was delayed due to soil compaction
characteristics that could only be known through tests performed during
contract execution.
Delays due to reasons (a) and (b) above although still extensive are less than those
of previous comparable projects undertaken by PLN. This improvement is to be expected
as PLN gains direct experience in managing complex projects.
IV. PLN's Financial and Economic Performance
The economic evaluation of the project was carried out on the basis of its assumed
ultimate capacity.
PLN's financial and economic performance regarding the project will now be
dependent on the maximization of the utilization of its infrastructure with due regard for
demand and distribution requirements.
V. Project Sustainability
The project sustainability, that is, the continuous generation of electric power
through the life of the plant, depends mainly on generation (operation), transmission and
distribution, and consumption.
PLN is satisfied that the demand for electricity in Java will experience continued
high growth compatible with the developing phase of its economy.
Based on the projected demand, PLN has prepared and at present continues to
prepare the infrastructure necessary for transmission and distribution of the requirements
imposed by the demand.



28
The continuous generation is assumed by a suitable operation management which
ensures timely inputs of fuel, consumable and spares and proper maintenance of the
installation by means of its maintenance management system and operations plan.
VI. Bank Performance
In PLN's view, the performance of the Bank was satisfactory throughout all the
phases of the project from preparation to completion.
VII. Borrower Performance
The performance of PLN was generally satisfactory and improvements were
achieved by using the experience gained in previous projects regarding schedule dates for
bid evaluations and contract negotiations. Nevertheless, further improvement is necessary
to meet the target dates set for this type of activities.
The completion of the project is estimated to be about 13 months behind schedule
relative to the commercial operation scheduled date for Unit 2.
In addition to the delays to the project implementation phases detailed in point III
above, a major factor contributing to the overall project delay was the time consumed in
the finalization of the export credit financing for the boiler contract.  The Steam
Generators and Auxiliaries contract is by far the largest contract, being twice as large as
the second largest contract.  A delay of 4 months is attributable to these financing
arrangements.
The project is expected to be completed within budget in spite of the negative
effect of the exchange rate fluctuations of some of the most used currencies.
-VIII. Assessment of Outcome
The project achieved most of its major immediate objectives within budget. A
shortcoming was the inability to comply with the schedule as stated in Table 5 of part 2 of
this report, Key indicators for project implementation.
PLN is also set to ensure compliance with the long term achievement of
continuous operation during the lifetime of the plant.
IX. .Future Operation
Later.



29
X. Main finding and Key Lessons Learned
Further improvement is required in shortening delays in implementation, especially
during bid evaluation and contract negotiations.
Direct negotiation for the purposes of awarding contracts results in contract prices
much higher than anticipated and is to be avoided. Competitive bidding is to be used in its
place.
The number of contracts should be reduced to a few larger packages. The project
management would be simplified due to reduction in complex technical interfaces and in
repetitive administrative procedures.
Comments were received from contractors regarding cumbersome invoicing and
payment procedures
With the experience gained, PLN will continue to improve its management of
major projects though betterment of the procedures and guidelines (administrative as well
as technical) to handle the associated documentation approvals and responsibilities.



ANNEX C
Page I of 2
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3098-IND)
(:AI'l LATION OF INTF.RNAI FCONOM( HAT'E OF RETiRN a/
COSTS (USS MILLION)
Year     Generation    T&D      Iotal   Revaluaniotn  Constant  Shadow              O&M Cost              Fuel Cost c     Consumer Conttibuiton   lIota[
index      Plicc    Price bi    Curreff   ('ontslant   litcr.  lncrnitreuai    Currenit    Constant    Cost
1981/82      0.0           0.0       0.0    2.777          00        0.0        00        00        0.0            00            00          0.0        0.0
1982/83      31 0         00       31 0    2620           81.2      75 2        0.0       0.0       0.0            0.0           0.0         00       75.2
1983/84      55.9          00       55'9    2464         137.7    127.5         0(1       00       (tO              10           0.0         ).0      1275
1984/S5      240i         00       20.5    2307           472      437          00        00       oO              0.0           00          00       43.7
1985/86      1763          00      176 3    2.218        390.9    362.0         00        0.0       0.0            00            0.0         00      3620
1986/87     239.9          00     239.9    2003          4804     444.9         0.0       00       0.0             0.0           00          0.0     444.9
1987/88     2360           00     2360      1.838        433.8    401 7         00        0.0       0.0            00            0.0         00      401.7
1988/89      1341          0.0     134.1    1.71;        2294      2125       139.6    238.9        00             0.0           00          0.0      212.5
1989/90      92.1       306.7    398.8    1602           6389      591.6      168.7    2703        31 4            7.8         (446)       (714)    559.3
1990/91      141.6       249.8    391.4     1 480        579.3    536.4       1974      2922       53.3          1607          (520)       (770)    6735
1991/92     529.8       269 7     799 5    1.358       1,085.7   1,005.4      278.5    3782       139.3          254 9         1 16.6)     (22.5)   1,377.1
1992/93     11138       7387    1,852.5    1.257       2,328.6   2,1563       3176      399.2    160.4           294.0         (62.2)      (782)   2,532.5
1993/94     1108.6       509.0   1,617.6    1.119      1,858.6   1,721 1      512.3    588.6    3498             416.7        1147.2)     (169 1)  2,318.5                               t
1994/95     476.6        932.6   1,409.2    1 080      1,521.9   1,409.3      598.1    645.9    407 1            494.3        (191.4)     (2067)   2,104.0
1995/96     785.0      1,020.8   1,805.8    1.000      1,8058   1,672.2       711.6    711.6    472.7            528.0        (2679)      (2679)   2,405.0
1996/97      0.0          0.0        0.0    1.000                             711.6    711.6    4727             5280                               1,000.7
1997/98      0.0          0.0        0.0    1.000                             711.6    711.6    472.7            528.0                              1,000.7
1998/99      0.0           00       00      1 000                             711.6    7116      472.7           528.0                              1,000.7
1999/00      0.0          00        00      1000                              711.6    711.6    472.7            5280                               1,000.7
2000/01       0.0          00        00      1000                             711.6    7116      472.7           5280                               1,000.7
2001/02       0.0          0         00  0   1000                             7116      711.6    472.7           5280                               1,000.7
2002/03       0.0          0 0       0 0     1.000                            711.6    711.6    472.7            528.0                              1,000.7
2003/04       0.0          00        00      1.000                            711.6    711.6    472.7            528.0                              1,000.7
2004/05       00           (.0       0.0    1.000                             711.6    711.6    4727             528.0                              1,000.7
2005/06       0.0          0.0       00      1.000                            711 6    711 6    472.7            528.0                              1,000.7
2006/07       00           00        00      1000                             711.6    711.6    472.7            528.0                              1,000.7
2007/08       0.0          00        0.0    1.000                             711.6    711.6    472.7            528.0                              1,000.7
2008/09       0 (          It)       0.11    1.000                            711.6,    711.0    172.7           528.0                              1,000.7
2009/10       0.0         tt0        00      1 (t0O                           711.6    711.6    *172.7           528.0                              1,000.7
2010/11       00           0.0       0.0    1.000                             711.6    711.6    472.7            528.0                              1,000.7
2011/12       0.0          0.0       00      1000                             711.6    711.6    472.7            5280                               1,000.7
2012/13       00           00        0.0    1.000                             711.6    711.6    472 7            528.0                              1,000.7
2013/14       0.0          0.0       00(    1.000                             7116      7116     472.7           528.0                              1,000 7
2014/15       00           00        00      1.000                            7116      711.6    472.7           5033                                 976.1
a/     To inaxititize conmparability, the mnetlodology used here follows that in the SAR. 1995 prices are used throughoit.
b/     Shadow price factor for investment -        0.926
c/     Economic prices for fuel used.



ANNEX C
Page 2 of 2
PAITON TIIERMAL POWER PROfECI
(LOAN NO, 3098-lND)
CALCULATION OF INTERNAI, ECONOMIC RATE OF RETUIRN
BENEFITS
Average             Add. Economic Benefit d/   Total      Net
Year                         Sales (GWh)                                        Incremental Sales (GWh)                     Tariff    Revenue  Residential   lindustrial   1ienefit    Benefit
Residential Commercial Industnial   Puiblic   Total     Residential Commercial  industrial  Public    Total     (USc/kWh)  (LISS ni)  (USS m)    (USS mit)   (US$ in)   (US$ m)
1981182                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0
1982183                                                                                                                                                                                 (75.2)
1983/84                                                                                                                                                                                (127.5)
1984/85                                                                                                                                                                                 (43.7)
1985/86                                                                                                                                                                                (362.0)
1986/87                                                                                                                                                                                (444 9)
19S7t8S                                                                                                                                                                                (401.7)
1988/89     5,4943      1,391.0    7,5828    1,4766   15,9447           0.0         0.0         0.0     0.0        0.0        7.0          0.0         0.0          00         00      (212.5)
1989/90     5,998.7     1,595.3    9,582.8   1,582.9  18,7597         504.4       204.3     2,000.0   1003    2,815 0         80(        225.2        306          536      315.4      (244.0)
1990/91     6,795.3     1,872.7   12,040.1   1,6938   22,401.9       1,301 0      481.7    4,457.3   217.2    6,457.2         7.5        4843         94.3        119.5     698 1        24.6
1991/92     7,779.2    2,287.4   13,7803    1,719.5  25,566.4       2,2849        8964      6,1975   2429    9.621 7          7.9        760.1        1657        166.1    1,091.9     (2852)
1992193     8,7901     2,5389   15,318.0   1,742.4  28,389.4         1,295.8    1,147.9     7,7352   265.8   12,4447          77         958.2       238.9        2073     1,404.5   (1,128.0)
1993/94    9,947.7     3,0362    17,0508    1,7840   31,818.7       4,453.4      1,645.2    9,468.0   307.4   15,8740         79        1,254.0      3229         2517 -    1,830.7    (487.8)
1994/95    10,768.7    3,278.7   18,748.9   1,841.1  34,637.4       5,2744       1,8877    11,166.1   364,5   18,692.7        7.3       1,3646       382.4        299.3    2,046.2      (57.8)
1995/96    12,556.6    3,768 1   21,437.6   2,214 1  39,976.4       7,062.3     2,377 1    13,854.8   737.5   21,031.7        7 3       1,754 1      512 0        371.3    2,637.6      232 6
1996/97    12,556.6    3,768.1   21,437.6   2,214 1   39,9764       7,0623      2,3771    13,8548   737 5   21,031 7          7 3      1,754.3       5t20         371 3    2.637.6    1,636.9
1997i98    12,556.6    3,768.1   21,437.6   2,214.1   39,9764       7,062.3     2,377.1    13,854.8   737.5   24,031 7        7 3       1,754.3      512.0        3711 3    2,6376    1,636.9
1998/99    12,556.6    3,768.1   21,437.6   2,214.1  39,976.4       7,062.3     2.377 1    13,854 8   737.5   24,031.7       '7 3      1.754 3       517 0        371 3    '.637 6    1,36 9
1999/00    12,5566     3,7681   21,4376   2,214 1   39,9764         7,0(2.3     2,377t 1t3,854.8   7375   24,031 7            7.3      1,7543        512.0        371.3    2,037.6    1,6369
2000/01    12,5566     3,768.1   21,4376   2,214 1  39,976.4         7,062.3     2,377 1    13,854.8   737 5   2-1,031 7       .3       1,754.3      512.0        171.3    2,637.6    1,636.9
2001/02    12,5566     3,768.1   21,4376   2,214 1  39,9764          7,062.3    2,377.1    13,854.8   737.5   24,031 7        7.3       1,754.3      512.0        371.3    2,637.6    1,636.9
2002/03    12,556.6    3,768.1   21,4376   2,214 1  39,976.4         7,062.3    2,377.1    13,854 8   737.5   21,031 7        7.3       1,754.3      512 0        371 3    2,637c6    1,636.9
2003)04    12,556.6     3,768.1   21,437.6   2,214.1   39,9764       7,062.3     2,377.1    13,854 8   737 5   24,031 7       7 3       1,754.3       512 0       371 3    2,637.,    1,636.9
2004/05    12,556.6     3,768.1   21,4376   2,214.1  39,9764         7,0623      2,377.1    13,854.8   737.5   24,031.7       7 3       1,754.3       512.0       371 3    2,6376     1,6369
2005/06    12,5566      3,768.1   21,437.6   2,214.1   39,976.4      7,0623      2,377 1    13,854.8   7375   24,031.7        73        1,754 3       5120        371.3    2,6376     1,636.9
2006/07    12,556.6    3,768.1   21.4376   2,214 1   39,9764         7,0623     2,377.1    13.8548   737 5   24,031.7         7.3       1,7541        512.0       371.3    2,6376     1,o369
2007/08    12,5566     3,768.1   21,4376   2,214 1  39,9764          7,062.3    2.377 1    13,854 8   737, 5   24,031.7       7.3       1,754 3      512 0        371.3    2,637.,    1,636.9
2008/09    12,556.6    3,768 1   21,4376   2,214.1   19,976.4        7,062 3     2,377 t    13,854 8   737.5   24,031 7       7 3       1,754 3       512 0       371 3    2,637.6    1,o36.9
2009/10    12,5566      i,768 I   71.437 6   2.214:   390"76 :1      7,062 i    2,377 1    13,854.8   737.5   24,031 7        7.3       1,754 3       512.0       371 3    2,637 6    1,o369
2010/11    12,556.6     3,768.1   21,437.6   ),2.4 1  39,9764        7,062.3     2,377.1    13,8548   737 5   21,031 7        7.3       1,754.3      5120         171.3    2,637.6    1,6369
2011/12    12,5566      3.768 1   71,437 6   2,214 1  39,9764        7,062.3     2,377 1    13,854 8   737 5   2-1,031 7      7 3       1,7543        5120        371 3    2,637.6    1,636.9
2012/13    12,556.6     3,768 1   21,437 6   2,214.1  39,976 4       7,062 3     2,377.1    13,854.8   737 5   24,031 7       7 3       1,754.3      512.0       .371 3    2,o37.6    1,636.9
2013/14    12,5566      3,768.1   21,437.o   2,214.1   39,9764       7,062.3     2,377.1   13,854.8   737.5   '4,031.7        73        1,754.3       512.0       371 3    2,6376     1,6369
2014/15    12,556 6     3j768.1   21,437 6   2,214.1  39,9-,u 4      7,062 3     2,377 1    13,854.8   737.5   24,031.7       7.3       1,754 3       512.0       371.3    2,637 6     I,o6l.6
di   Additional economic benefit:                                                                                                                                    IEIRR           17
Residential - tUSc 7.25/kWh
Industiial -  USc 2 68/kWhr






INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
S U M A T E R A                                                                                                                        MAJOR POWER PLANTS AND MAIN TRANSMISSION LINES
-  _ _     =             _        1~50kV + 7    A0 W
JAKRA      AAP-A  Sl-
-           .          .           . O50 0       + 70 k0 -O
E  l > \ E                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XIV   P-s  WI.,.h -ub-n
J ~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                   WA   ARA _,\|, 
_a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i   -_;  AA TIMU Xa 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IM '_.   
1 1                                                                               '     - '/  









IMA'GING
Report No:       15'762'
Type: ICR



