Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7718-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
MAY 25, 1989
Industry and Energy Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
Thbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
(As of January 1989)
US$1                Rp 1,700
Rp 1 billion        US$0.588 million
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA AND PLN
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton             -    1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 liter (1)                   0.0063 barrels (bbl)
1 kilometer (km)         =    0.6215 miles (mi)
1 kilovolt (kV)          =    1,000 volts (V)
1 megavolt-ampere (MVA)  =    1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 megawatt (MW)          -    1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)    =    1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS
BAKOREN       -    National Energy Board
BAPPENAS      -    National Development Planning Agency
DGEP          -    Directorate-General of Electric Power, Ministry of Mines
and Energy
EHV           -    Extra High Voltage
EIA           -    Environmental Impact Assessment
ESMAP         -   Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
GOI           -    Government of Indonesia
IERR          -    Internal Economic Rate of Return
LNG           -    Liquified Natural ras
LRMC          -   Long Run Marginal Cost
MIS           -   Management Information System
MME           -   Ministry of Mines and Energy
PERTAfINA     -    National Oil and Gas Company
PLN           -    State Electricity Corporation
PPE           -    .ngineer'ng Services Center of PLN
PUSDIKLAT     -    PLN's Center for Education and Training
RE            -    Rural Electrificatioa
REPELITA      -    Five-Year Development Plan
ROR           -    Rate of Return
TA            -    Technical Assistance



FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                        .         .. ...  iv
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR AND ELECTRICITY SUBSECTOR
Sectoral Context ......................,;;.    1
Energy Resources ...........................................                     1
Institutions in the Energy Sector ..........................                     2
The Electricity Subsector ..................................                     3
PLN's Organization .........................................                     3
Sector Objectives and Priorities ...........................                     3
Rationalization of Energy Prices ...........................                     4
Liberalization of the Institutional Framework .............. S
Bank Role and Strategy .....................................                     6
The Bank's Earlier Operations and PLN's Performance ........                     8
II.   THE POWER MARKET AND THE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
The Market .................................................                     9
Demand .....................................................                     9
PLN's Facilities ...........................................                    10
Development Program ........................................                    10
III. THE BENEFICIARY
Institutional Development ..................................                    12
Accounting and Budgeting ...................................                    15
Billing and Collections ....................................                    15
Audit and Internal Control .................................                    16
Insurance ..................................................                    16
IV. THE PROJECT
Background .................................................                    17
Rationale for Bank Involvement .............................                    17
Project Objectives .........................................                    18
Project Description ........................................                    18
Status of Implementation ...................................                    19
This report was prepared on the basis of the appraisal carried out by V.P.
Thakor (Principal Power Engineer), A. Liebenthal (Senior Energy Economist),
S.K. Bhatnagar (Financial Analyst) and M.K. Mitra (Consultant) in
February/March 1989.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
Coal Su?ply ........ . ..................................            19
Technical  Assistance P rogram .............................         21
Cost Estimate ........ ... 9.................. ............ $ ........  21
Financing Plan   .      ......................................       23
Contract Strategy                     . ....  24
Procurement ......... .                        I............  24
Implementation Schedule                  .....   25
Disbursement .... .................................... .. . .        26
Monitoring and Reporting ................................. . .       26
E.-ironmental Aspects  ......   26
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Results ..................................................... 27
Regional Operations . .        ......................................  28
Financial Objectives .....                                           29
Present and Future Performance                 ..                    30
Performance Monitoring                    . . .    34
Tariffs                            ...  34
Taxes ......................................................         35
Financing Policy                      .....    35
Asset Revaluation .......................                            ....................  36
VI.  JUSTIFICATION
Primary Energy Options ...........                          .        37
Demand Growth and Project Need                 ....   37
Economic Rate of Return                .      .     .     ......     38
Risks                     ...    39
VII.  AG!EEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements Reached .........................................         40
Condition of Effectiveness                  ...                      41
Recommendations ...... ............                                  41



- iii -
ANNEXES
Annex 1    Organization Charts
Chart 1 - MME
Chart 2 - PLN
Annex 2    Growth of PLN's Consumers and Sales
Annex 3    Growth of Captive Power in Indonesia
Annex 4    Peak Load, Production and Installed Capacity in Jav-i
Annex 5    Peak Load, Production and Installed Capacity Outside Java
Annex 6    Investment Program - Indonesia
Annex 7    Investment Program - Java
Annex 8    PLN:  Performance Indicators
Annex 9    Design Features of the Paiton Thermal Power Project
Annex 10   Environmental Aspects
Annex 11   Cost Estimate for Paiton Units 1 and 2
Annex 12   Summary Scope of Hajor Contract Packages
Annex 13   Implementation Schedule - Units I and 2
Annex 14   Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Program
Annex 15   Schedule of Contract Awards
Annex 16   Key Construction Dates
Annex 17   Disbursement Schedule
Annex 18   PLN's Financial Statements - Past Results and Forecasts (Tables 1-10)
Annex 19   Notes and Assumptions for the Financial Forecasts
Annex 20   PLN's Tariff
Table 1 - Explanation of Tariff Categories in the Basic Tariff of
Electricity, 1989
Table 2 - History of Tariff Adjustments, 1982-1989
Table 3 - Average Revenue from Electricity Sold, by Major Consumers
Anrex 21   Table 1 - PLN's Oil Consumption Statistics
Table 2 - Domestic and World Prices of Petroleum Products
Annex 22   Calculations of the Internal Economic Rate of Return on Java
Investment Program (Tables 1 and 2)
Annex 23   Calculations of the Internal Financial Rate of Return for the Paiton
Units 1 and 2
Annex 24   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD       12453 R8
IBRD       21408



- iv -
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Loan and Project Swnmar'
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:       State Electricity Corporation (PLN), and the Ministry of
Mines and Energy.
Amount:            US$354.0 million equivalent
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years. including five years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:   The proceeds of the loan, except US$l.o million for
technical a~.sistance to the Government of Indonesia (GOI),
will be onlent from GOI to PLN for 20 years including a
grace period of five years; the onlending rate will be
equal to the Bank's standard variable interest rate plus
fees of 1.90Z. The Government will bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Proiect
Description:     The project includes:  (a) the construction of the Paiton
power plant comprising two coal-fired generating units of
400 14W each and other support elements necessary to
complete the installation, together with an infrastructure
to accommodate future units for an ultimate plant capacity
of 4,000 MW; (b) construction of a 500 kV double-circuit
transmission line between Paiton and Krian and associated
substations; (c) a 150 kV transmission line between
Probolinggo, Paiton and Situbondo, with associated sub-
stations; and (d) technical assistance to strengthen the
capability of the Ministry of Mines and Energy to formulate
and enforce environmental standards in the energy sector,
and to train PLN's engineering and design staff. The first
generating unit is planned to be in commercial operation by
September 1993, followed by the sscond unit six months
later, in March 1994.
Risks:             The Paiton project is similar to the coal-fired Suralaya
project financed under the Eighth and the Ninth Power
Projects. The experience gained at Suralaya confirms that
there are no technical risks associated with the Paiton
project. There is a risk of delay in the project for two
reasons: first, PLN will need to award the contracts on
schedule; and second, there could be inefficiency in
implementation. To reduce the first risk, an understanding
was reached on a suitable time schedule for contract
awards. Regarding the second, PLN has gained considerable
experience in the management of such projects in the last
few year? and has developed competent personnel for project



- v -
management, who will woik with the consultants, already in
place, to manage thu construction of the Paiton Thermal
Power Project.
Cost Estimate:
Local     Foreign     Tota&
------ (US$ million) ------
Preparation works                                   67.0            -      67.0
Power house
Turbine generators & other
plant auxiliaries                               12.0       183.0      195.0
Steam generators & auxiliaries                    41.0       177.0      218.0
Chimney                                            2.0         6.0        8.0
Civil works                                       29.0        18.0       47.0
Marine works                                        40.0         48.0      88.0
500 kV transmission & substations                   15.0         74.0      89.0
150 kV transmission & substations                    4.0         9.0       13.0
Engineering and construction management              9.0         50.0      59.0
Overhead and administration                         21.0            -      21.0
Technical assistance (a) Environment                   -          1.0       1.0
(b) Training                     -          1.0       1.0
Total Base Cost                               240.0       567.0      8C7.0
Physical contingency                                25.0         41.0      66.0
Price contingency                                   60.0        94.0      154.0
Total Prolect Cost  la                        325.0       702.0   1,027.0
Interest during construction                           -        90.0       90.0
Total Financing Required                      325.0       792.0   1,117.0
/a  The local costs are inclusive of taxes and duties, estimated to be about
US$15.0 million equivL sat.



- vi -
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign       Total
------ (US$ million) -------
IBRD - Earlier Loans La                            -         28.0         28.0
- Proposed Loan                              -         354.0        354.0
Export Credits                                    57.0      217.0        274.0
Other Cofinancing                                  -         92.0         92.0
PLN                                             268.0       101.0 Lb    369.0
Total                                        325.0       792.0      1,117.0
La Funds provided under earlier loans for design, engineering and specifica-
tions.
Lb Indirect foreign cost of civil works contract, plus interest during con-
struction.
Estimated           Bank FY        1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
-- (US$ million) -------
Disbursement:
Annual         15.0   30.0   75.0  102.0   73.0   45.0   14.0
Cumulative    15.0   45.0  120.0  222.0  295.0  340.0  354.0
Rate of Return:    The IER  is 222 on the 1989/90 - 1994195 time-slice of
PLN's investment program in Java, of which the Paiton
Thermal Power Project is a part.



INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL PO'WER PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR AND ELECTRICITY SUBSECTOR
Sectoral Context
1.1      Indonesia is richly endowed i'th energy resources including oil, gas,
coal, hydropower and geothermal energy. Since the country depends on oil for
a major part of its exports, and its earnings therefrom have been declining
since 1981, a major objective of the Government's energy policy has been to
maintair the level of export earnings by diversification of domestic energy
consumption away from heavy reliance on petroieum products (which account for
88Z of commercial energy consumption) towards aLternative fuels for which
there is a nonexportable surplus (gas and coal) or which are nontradeable
(hydropower and geothermal). The power subsector is playing ay, important role
in this respect.  It offers the iaost important market for the alternative
fuels, and promotes their development in such a way as to take advantage of
economies of scale in infrastructure. Electricity also substitutes petrolesim
fuels in industrial and domestic usage.
Energy Resources
1.2      Oil.  Indonesia's resources of original oil-in-place have been
estimated at about 70 billion barrels, and the proven remaining recoverable
reserves at about 8-10 billion barrcls. Though production had reached a peak
of 1.7 million barrels per day (bbl/d) in 1977, as a result of the gradual
depletion of reservee and, since 1983 OPEC production quotas, production
declined to about 1.3 million fbbl/d) in 1987, and is expected to continte at
about 1.1-1.3 million bbl/d until the year 2000.
1.3      Natural Gas.  The estimated proven remairing natural gas reserves
are about 80 trillion cubic feet (TCF)l/ of which 90Z is nonassoclated and can
be developed independently of oil. However, major reserves are generally
located away from population and industrial centers. The Arun field in North
Sumatra has 14 TCF and Natuna in the South China Sea, 41 TCF. About 5.0 TCF
of reserves are proven offshore Java, of which about 2.7 TCF are in the East
and 2.3 TCF are in the West. Production of natural gas reached 1.7 TCF in
1987. Half of this was exported as liquefied natural gas (LNG) to Japan from
Arun and Badak. LNG production was about 16.8 million tons in 1987.2/
Domestic consumption is only about 0.3 TCF/year at present but is expected to
grow rapidly through the 1990s as reserves on and offshore Java are developed
and t'he power sector becomes a major consumer. A major issue that the GOI is
currently addressing to facilitate this development is the formulation of a
pricing policy that would encourage gas producers to develop the resource and
the power sector and other consumers to use gas in lieu of petroleum products.
11 1 TCF of gas = 175.7 million barrels of oil equivalent.
2/ 1 ton of LNG - 8.8 barrels of oil equivaleit.



- 2 -
1.4      Coal.  Indonesia's coal reserves are believed to be as high as 25
bill-ion tons,3/ mostly located it Sumatra and Kalimantan. While production
is currently 2.7 million tons per year, major increases are planned by GOI.
Wor1c on a three million ton-per-year mine at Bukit Asam and on a 0.6 million
ton-per-year mine at the nearby Muara Tiga coal field is nearing completion.
Proven reserves in this area are over 600 million tons. A program to raise
the coal production at Ombilin in West Sumatra to 1.3 mi'lion tons per year,
mainly for export, is also being implemented by GOI. In addition, in 1981,
GOI entered into a number of production-sharing agreemer,s with private
foreign and Indonesian joint-venture companies for the exploration and
exploitation of coal reserves in Kalimantan. Coal reserves already defined by
these contractors and expected to be economically recoverable ar-c't to about
700 millio.. tons. The South Sumatre and Kalimantan coals have the potential
for sustaining a large program of coal-fired power generation in the country
and also provide for exports.
1.5      Hydropower.  Indonesia's total hydroelectric resources are large but
development is limited by their geographic distribution relative to demand.
The greatest potential (over 352) lies in Irian Jaya where the demand is less
than 12 of total domestic demand, while Java, which accounts for 80Y of elec-
tricity consumption, has less than 101 of the total potential.  Existing
hydroelectric installations aggregate to 2,807 m  they are located in Java
(1;840 MW), Sumatra (736 MW), and Sulawesi (203a .4). Schemes with an
aggregate capacity of about 300 MW are currently under construction. The
State Electri_ity Corporation (PLN), has carried out a systematic countrywide
resource survey, that has produced an inventory of hydroelectric sites. The
survey is being followed up with various prefeasibility and feasioility
studies of the promising hydroelectric sites.
1.6      Geothermal.  Surface manifestations of geothermal energy are found on
al. islands except Kalimantan. Several sites have been investigated and one,
Tamojang in West Java, has been developed. It is believed that potential
reserves may approach 10,000 MM, distributed as follows: Java, 5,500 MW;
Sulawesi 1,400 MW; Sumatra 1,100 MW; other islands 2,000 MW. GOI initiated
development of the Kamojang field in 1976. The first 30 4W generating set was
commissioned in 1983, and the expansion of the station by 110 MW, was comple-
ted in 1987. Further development potential exists in Kamojang. In 1982,
PERTAMINA (The National Oil and Gas Company) entered into a joint operation
contract with Union Geothermal, a subsidiary of Union Oil of California, for
development of the Salsk field in West Java. A potential of over 200 Mh has
been proven by exploration. Also, PERTAMIM& has explored geothermal fields in
the Dieng and Drajat areas in Java, which appear promising for further
development. A decision has been made to develop the Salak and Drajat fields
to the extent of 110 MW each, during the next five-years.
Institutions in the Energy Sector
1.7      The principal agency responsible for implementing government policies
in the energy sector is the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MMS).  MME was
established in 1978 to coordinate all activities in the energy sector and con-
trol the three state enterprises responsible for the execution of government
31 1 ton of coal = 4.3 barrels of oil equivalent.



.3-
policies in the energy subsectors; PERTAMINA for oil and gas, P.N. Batubara
for coal, and PLN for electricity. Other ministries and agencies are also
involved in the sector; for example, the Ministry of Public Works primarily
deals with hydropower resource surveys, the Ministry of Agriculture oversees
forestry products, and the National Atomic Energy Commission is responsible
for nuclear development. In order to ensure appropriate coordination of
energy policy, the GOI established an interministerial National Eaergy Board
(BAKOREN) to oversee sectoral development. BAKOREN is supported by a Techni-
cal Committee (PTE) consisting of senior officials in different departments,
chaired by the Director General of Electric Power and New Energy (DGEP). This
Diractorate is also charged with the responsibility of developing environmen-
tal management plans for existing projects, as well as approving new projects.
The organization chart of the MME is shown in Annex 1, Chart 1.
The Electric'ty Subsector
1.8      The electricity subsector is regulated by M*E through the Director
General of Electric Power and New Energy (DGEP). The subsector comprises.
(a) FLN, the State Electricity Corporation; (b) captive plants installed by
private parties for their own use; and (c) a small number of cooperatives
uhich were set up to provide electricity in certain rural areas remote from
PLN supply systems. An Electricity Act was passed in 1985 ,Law No. 15). It
consolidates earlier decrees, and permits private and cooperative
participation in the electricity subsector. The DGEP is the chairman of the
Supervisory Board which oversees PLN's operations and reviews PLN's investment
plans, budgets and tariffs.
PLN's Organization
1.9      PLN was established as a public corporation (Perum) under
Presidential Decree No. 18 of 1972, with responsibility for the generation,
transmission and distribution of electricity and the planning, construction
and operation of electricity supply facilities. PLN is managed by a Board of
Directors headed by a President Director, who is appointed by the President
and is accountable to the Ministry of Mines and Energy. The President
Director has authority for all operations of PLN. The Board currently
includes five other directors with functional responsibility, respectively,
for planning, construction, operations, finance and administration.
Operational responsibility devolves in 17 regions, and responsibility for
major construction in 12 project managers. Also reporting to the Board are
several staff units responsible for power research, education and training,
management services, an internal audit unit called the Corporation
Inspectorate, the Java system operation and control unit, and a newly
established Engineering Services Center (para. 3.7). PLN's organization chart
is shown in Annex 1, Chart 2.
Sector Obiectives and Priorities
1.10     In view of Indonesia's rich endowment in energy resources, the main
objectives of the sector may be summarized as follows:
(a) to maximize export earnings by promoting the development of tradeable
energy resources, including oil, gas and coal; and



- 4 -
(bi to meet the country's growing energy requirements in a least cost
way, and coneerve exportable petroleum reserves, by encouraging the
domestic market to substitute oil consumption by alternative fuels
for which there is a nonexportable surplus (gas and coal) or which
are nontradeable (hydropower and geothermal).
The underlying developmental objective should be, of course, to improve the
welfare of the population, both directly, by keeping its energy expenses low,
and indirectly, by stimulating economic activity through the provision of
energy in a cost-effective way and the maximization of export earnings. In
this regard, a subsidiary objective has been to use the energy sector as one
of the means for reducing the developmental imbalance between urban and rural
areas, and between Java and the Outer Islands. This objective is being
pursued through the implementation of uniform countrywide prices for petroleum
products and electricity, and tLe promotion of rural electrification.
1.11     The major priorities associated with the pursuit of the above objec-
tives are the following:
(aj in regard to export markets, the uncertainties associated with the
future level of petroleum, LNG and coal prices, as well as the
resource constraints on the economy, make it advisable to continue
with the current policy of relying on foreign investors to absorb a
major part of those risks and invest in the development of the
resources;
(b) in regard to domestic markets, the uncertainties associated with the
future level of demand make it advisable to improve the feasibility
of the relatively large infrastructure investments through the
coordinated development of coal and gas. Here also, the resource
constraints on the economy point to the need to attract foreign
investors;
(c)  in regard to increasing the efficiency and reducing the costs of the
sector, it is desirable to introduce transparency in the funding of
the socially directed loss-making operations and also to introduce
competitive pressure in some areas;
(d)  in regard to the energy sector's contribution to rurA. development,
the very limited implementation capacity of Governiment agencies in
rural areas (as well as budget constraints) make it advisable to
establish a framework which would encourage the development of
community self-heip and private initiatives to meet the needs of
rural areas.
As outlined in the Bank's "Energy Options Review' (keport No. 6583-IND, August
1987), the desirable policy framework to achieve the above objectives and
priorities would include establishment of efficient energy prices and
liberalization of the institutional framework.
Rationalization of Energy Prices
1.12     In the pricing area, the policy objective should be to minimize
distortions in domestic prices, using economic costs and netback value as the



-5-
norms. Specifically:
(a) the level of the electricity tariff needs to be maintained such as to
enable the power sector to fund a reasonable share of its investment
program through self-generated funds, and the structure of the tariff
needs to be maintained to signal to the different classes of-
consumers the economic cost. (i.e., LRMC) of electricity supply (para.
5.20);
(b) the prices for primary fuel resources that are nontradeable or of
which Indonesia has a nontradeable surplus (coal, natural gas and
geothermal), need to be set between a ceiling imposed by the cost of
competing fuels and a floor dictated by their own economic cost
(i.e., their LRMC); and
(c) the prices of petroleum products, particularly kerosene and diesel,
need to be adjusted to correct existing distortions in the relation
between domestic and international prices.
1.13     To assist the Government in achieving the energy pricing objectives,
an OEnergy Pricing Policy Study' is being funded under the Gas Distribution
Project (Loan 2690-IND). Also, under the proposed Power Sector Efficiency
Project, the GOI has agreed to specific proposals for institutionalizing the
process of review of the energy prices, including the prices of petroleum
fuels (LPG, kerosene, gasoline, diesel, fuel oil), gas, geothermal steam, coal
and electricity. The proposals consist of the followings
(a) establishment of an Interdepartmental Energy Pricing Task Force to
review and to advise Government on energy prices--the Steering Com-
mittee for the Energy Pricing Policy Study would be the core group
for this; and
(b)  establishment of an Energy Pricing Unit in MME to provide analytical
support and technical data to the Task Force--the counterpart team
for the Energy Pricing Policy Study could be the core group for this.
Such an agreement is also included under the proposed loan.
Liberalization of the Institutional Framework
1.14     In addition to the rationalization of energy prices, the achievement
of the long-term objectives of the sector will require the liberalization of
the institutional framework. In the power subsector, this policy direction
can be pursued through:
(a) encouragement of the financial autonomy of PLN by reducing its
dependence on the Government budget, and giving it responsibility for
investment and commercial decisions; and
(b) encouragement of private sector investment in situations where it may
be able to produce electrical energy at a cost competitive with that
of PLN.



- 6 -
1.15     Segregated Information on Rural Electrificatiion.. As an important
step towards financial autonomy, PLN needs to obtain a better understanding of
the costs associated with its substantial socially-directed activities (e.g.,
rural electrification), particularly in its operations outside Java. The
socially-directed activities impose a growing financial burden on PLN. To
assess the impact on its finances of such activities, PLN has agreed to
institute a system for segregating information on rural electrification
activities, as a proxy for socially-directed activities (para. 5.18).
1.16     Coordination with Private C.eneration.  In regard to the encouragement
of private sector involvement, a first step will require the coordination of
generation between PLN and existing privately owned captive generation capa-
city, of which there are about 2,900 MW in Java and 4,600 MW in all of
Indonesia. Thus, the initial objectives would be to:
(a) enable PLN to save in the installation of reserve capacity required
for system reliability by encouraging capacity assistance agreements
between PLN and major industrial captive generation plants. About
ten such captive plant users in Java currently have an installed
generating capacity of over 1,000 MW; and
(b) encourage cogeneration by industrial units that may be able to pro-
duce electrical energy at a cost competitive with that of PLN by
using industrial waste (e.g., wood waste, rice husks, bagasse),
combined heat and power generation (cogeneration), or for other
reasons.
1.17     For both these measures, it is necessary to prepare a suitable regu-
latory framework and establish model administrative and operating agreements.
Under the proposed Power Sector Efficiency Project, the Government has agreed
to establish basic rules and regulations, covering legal, technical and
commercial aspects, to utilize captive power in coordination with PLN's
system, based on mutual benefit. Such an agreement is also included under the
proposed loan. The draft interim rules and regulations will be prepared by
November 30, 1989. Thereafter, during an initial period of one year, pilot
projects will be used to gain experience.
Bank Role and Strategy
1.18     The above sectoral objectives have been supported through the Bank's
involvement with the electricity subsector which has gone through three
distinct phases. In the first phase (1968-77), the Bank's work was directed
towards creating an autonomous national entity to deal with power supply
problems and, after PLN's creation in 1972, to help put in place procedures
and systems to manage and improve its then small-scale operations. In the
second phase (1978-84), the primary thrust of the Bank's work was to enable
PLN to rapidly expand its supply facilities and, coupled with efforts to
evolve integrated grids (particularly in Java), to take advantage of advanced
technologies to reduce supply costs. The fruits of this effort are now being
reaped with the commissioning of large power plants at Suralaya (1,600 MW),
Saguling (700 MW), and Cirata (500 MW) with an overlay of 500 kV transmission
grid running across Java. The current phase of the Bank's involvement focuses
partly on contributing to the financing of Indonesia's massive power programs



-
to meet its development needs, and even more, on building on the foundations
laid in the second phase to transform PLN into a moeern and mature utfility by
emphasizing institutional objectives. These objectives include greater finan-
cial autonomy, better operating efficiency, and improved corporate and finan-
cial planning capability. In the future, the Bank vill continue to support
the development of the power subsector with the objectives of 2 (i) improving
the efficiency of PLN; (ii) enabling PLN to become more commercially oriented
and financially self-supporting; (iii) maintaining electricity prices at
economically and financially appropriate levels; (iv) assisting in the
preparation and implementation of a least-cost investment program; and
(v) guiding and supporting institutional development to meet the sector's
evolving needs. Also, the Bank would pursue two main objectives for efficient
development of the rural electrification program: (i) reducing the cost of
supply to rural areas by optimizing design and construction standards; and
(ii) encouraging the mobilization of village resources, from private and
cooperative enterprises.
1.19     In addition to the development of the electricity subsector, the Bank
has in recent years brcsdened its support of sectoral objectives through grow-
ing involvement in sector-wide policy dialogue. This broadening began when
the Bank carried out a study of energy sector issues and prepared a report
entitled 'Indonesiat Issues and Options in the Energy Sector in 1981. The
report confirmed that alternatives to oil must be developed quickly for elec-
tricity generation and recommended that this strategy should be extended to
such other sectors as industry, transportation and households. It emphasized
the need for efficiency pricing, stronger institutions and manpower dovelop-
ment as major objectives. In 1984, the Bank carried out a detailed review if
PLN's 1984185-1993j94 investment plan. The findings supported the general
direction of the plan but suggested a scaling down and some measures for
improving investment efficiency. These findings, which were accepted by the
Government, were presented in a report entitled Olndonesias Power Sector
Investment Review" (Report No. 5486, September 1985). Also, the Bank studied
possible improvements in the efficiency of operation of thermal and hydro
plants and of maintenance of diesel plants and presented its findings in a
report entitled v.'ndonesia: Power Generation Efficiency Study* (Report No.
050186, February 1986). This was followed up by a more detailed report
entitled "Diesel Generation Efficiency Improvement Study" (Report No. 085/88
of December 1988). The Government and PLN have accepted the recommendations
of these reports. In addition, the Bank reviewed the rural electrification
program in Indonesia and presented its findings in a report entitled
"Indonesia: Rural Electrification Options Review.' (Report No. 6144-IND,
November 1986). The Bank also financed a set of three gas-related studies
through the Fifth Technical Assistance Credit, including the 'City Gas Distri-
bution Study', the 'Gas Utilization Study* and the "LPG Feasibility Study".
In 1987, an 'Energy Options Review" (Report No. 6583-IND) assessed the
priorities for energy sector development and recommended a strategy for their
implementation. Most recently, the Bank has undertWken an 'Institutional
Development Review' of the power sector, which will, inter alia, analyze
regulatory and organizational issues to promote efficient institutional
development.
1.20     The Bank has also been involved in the coal and gas subsectors
through the Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation Project



-8-
(Loan 2079-IND) the Coal Exploration Engineering Project (Loan 2153-IND), and
the Gas Distribution Project (Loan 2690-IND). The Gas Distribution Project
includes an Energy Pricing Policy study. which is expected to be completed in
August 1989. In the future, the Bank will continue to support the broad
objectives of the sectoral development through pursuit of the following
strategy:
(a) Promote the development of nontradeable natural gas, particularly in
Java, which appears to be the most economic fuel for use in power
generation. Since the presentation of the "Energy Options Review",
progress has been made in the acceptance of the gas option for power
generation, particularly gas from the offshore fields in East Java
(KODECO and ARCO). Prospects also exist for gas supply from onshore
fields in Central Java (CEPU and others) but little action has been
taken to explore these fields. By coordinating the development of
gas and power strategies, the Bank can provide an impetus for more
rapid development of economical gas supply to industries and house-
holds as well. The Bank would also have a role in helping GOI to
devise suitable institutional and financing arrangements which would
attract private sector participation in gas-fired power plants.
(b) Promote the growth of coal mining primarily to meet the short and
medium terms needs of the power sector. In this respect, coal
production from South Sumatra mines will need to be stepped up to
about 5.0 MT per year to meet the requirements at Suralaya from 1990.
In addition to the mining capacity, augmentation of the infra-
structure facilities (railway, port and shipping) will be needed.
Also, a production and transportaticn capacity of about 2.5 million
tons of coal per year will be needed from Kalimantan to supply the
proposed Paiton Thermal Power Project.
(C) based on the "Energy Pricing Policy Study', further the dialogue with
the Government on implementing policies and plans for the pricing of
primary energy resources including diesel oil, residual fuel oil,
kerosene, natural gas, LPG, and geothermal steam and electricity.
The Bank's Earlier Operations and PLN's Performance
1.21     Since 1969, the Bank Group has provided US$2,309 million for power
generation, transmission and distribution facilities through 15 separate
projects. Six transmission and distribution projects (Credits 165-IND and
334-IND, and Loans 1259-IND, 2056-IND, 2443-IND and 2778-IND) rehabilitated
and expanded the distribution facilities in Java. Ten power projects (Credit
399-IND and Loans 1127-IND, 1365-IND, 1513-IND, 1708-IND, 1872-IND, 1950-IND,
2214-IND, 2300-IND and 2443-IND) assisted PLN to expand electricity generation
capac.ty in Java, to provide a strong all-Java 500 kV grid, to extend
distribution facilities, to reduce system transmission and distribution
losses, and to introduce a pilot program of mini-hydro development in Sumatra.
Project Performance Audit Reports and Project Completion Reports on the first
seven projects (Credits 165-IND, 334-IND, 399-IND and Loans 1127-IND,
1259-MID, 1365-IND, 1513-IND) have been issued. Also, PCR's for the Eighth,
Ninth and Tenth Power Projects (Loans 1708-IND, 1872-IND and 1950-IND) are
finalized. They conclude that these projects achieved the objectives set out



at the time of the appraisal and were implemented within the budget. Taken
together, these projects have enhanced PLN's institutional capabilities,
particularly its capability to carry out a rapid system expansion program.
Currently, PLN handles an investment expenditure of over $1.0 billion and
connects over one million new consumers, each year. However, the problems
encountered in the earlier projects, relating to the need to reduce
impl-mentation delays by timely appointment of consultants, and speedier
procurement and construction, still persist, though to a reduced extent. PLN
and GOI are both aware of them and are addressing them at the institutional as
well as the national levels. The Bank has been actively associated with the
Government in the resolution of these issues, which are common to many
sectors.
II. THE POWER MARKET AND THE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
The Market
2.1      Principal sources of electricity supply in Indonesia are PLN and
self-generation (captive), mainly by industries. Electricity consumption in
the country grew rapidly in the last decade from about 50 kWh per capita in
1977 to about 200 kWh per capita in 1988.
2.2      The share of captive generation, which accounted for over 60? of
capacity in 1976177, declined to about 43Z in 1987/88 and, although captive
generation capacity has continued to increase in recent years, a more
important trend has been a rapid ohift by industrial users from exclusive
reliance on captive generation to use of captive generation for standby
purposes only. Annex 2 shows the growth in PLN's consumers and sales, and
Annex 3 shows the growth in captive plants in Indonesia.
2.3      Notwithstanding the rapid growth, the level of consumption of
electricity in Indonesia remains low, at about 200 kWh per capita, compared to
a level of about 550 kWh per capita in Egypt or about 350/400 kWh per capita
in Thailand and the Philippines. Indonesian per capita electricity usage is
even lower than that in India and Pakistan, both of which countries have lower
per capita GDP.
Demand
2.4      The low level of electricity consumption is primarily due to lack of
supply facilities and access to the network for the residential and other aa.-
tors. In 1987/88, only 242 of all households in Indonesia were electrified.
The electrification ratio was about 272 in Java and about 19Z off Java.
2.5      Several studies have shown that the demand for electricity is still
large and that there is a potential for rapid growth in PLN's sales as supply
capacity expands. This is supported by the fact that, even though PLN's sales
in 1982-88 grew by about 14? a year, additional growth in electricity consump-
tion was supported by expanding use of private generation by industry. The
rapid growth in PLN's sales originates from three sources, viz.,
(a) extension of supply to new areas for residential and other users;



- 10 -
(b) gradual take-over of supply in industries currently using their own diesel
plant; and (c) growth in consumption by existing customers as a result of
rising output and income.
PLN's Facilities
2.6      PLN's total installed capacity in 1987188 was 6,421 MW, of which
4,280 KW (67Z) was in Java. About 602 of the capacity uses petroleum fuels.
Table 2.1 shows the breakdown of the generating capacity in Java and Outside
Java.
Table 2.1: PLN'S GENERATING CAPACITY (MARCH 31, 1988)
(MW)
Share
Type                      Java         Outside Java          Total            Z
Steam (coal)             800                65                865           13.5
Steam (oil)             1,475              180              1,655           25.8
Gas turbines              630              294                924           14.4
Diesel                      -            1,420              1,420           22.1
Hydro                   1,235              182              1,417           22.0
Geothermal                140                -                140            2.2
Total             4.280             2,141              6,421         100.0
Development Program
2.7      PLN's investment program in Java is designed to meet the following
important targets by the end of the Government's Fifth Five-Year
Development Program (Repelita V) in 1993/94: (a) a 752 electrification
ratio in urban areas (up from 542 in 1988), (b) a 29Z electrification ratio
in rural areas (up from 162 in 1988), and (c) the substitution of 802 of
the captive generation in Java, which is currently 3,225 MVA (Annex 3).
The Bank views these targets as attainable if the supply can be expanded to
meet them, although they should be close to the economic limits of the
market (i.e., to meeting the 'unmet' demand for PLN's electricity).
2.8      Based on these expansion targets and the projected growth in the
industrial and comdercial demand, the electricity sales forecasts, shown in
Table 2.2, have been agreed for the planning of the system expansion
program.



- 1. -
Table 2.2: SALES FORECASTS
Sales (GWh)
Year            Java           I         Indonesia         2
1988/89         15,345        15.8         19,682         16.3
1989/90         17,647        15.0         22,697         15.3
1990/91         20,293        15.0         26,112         15.1
1991192         23,235        14.5         29,932         14.6
1992/93         26,488        14.0         34,169         14.2
1993/94         30,065        13.5         38,850         13.7
1994195         33,973        13.0         43,862         12.9
2.9      Annexes 4 and 5 summarize the least-cost generation expansion program
for Java and Outside Java for the period 1988/89 to 1994/95 based on the
projected sales targets. The corresponding investment requirements for
Indonesia and Java are shown in Annexes 6 and 7. The estimated requirements
of additional generating capacity in the period 1991/92 through 1994/95 is
about 2,500-3,000 MV. The proposed project would provide 800 MW of generating
capacity to meet a part of this demand.
2.10     As a measure to ensure soundness of the development program, the Bank
has reached the following agreements with the GOI and PLN which are in
substance the same as those reached under the Power Transmission and
Distribution Project (Loan 2778-IND).
(a) Each year, PLN and GOI will review with the Bank PLN's development
plan and investment budget so that the Bank can express its views on
the priorities and the balance among the generation, transmission,
and distribution investments; and
(b) The Government will ensure that PLN has access to sufficient funds to
finance its capital expenditures as reviewed and agreed with the
Bank.



- 12 -
III. THE BENEFICIARY
3.1      The borrower of the proposed loan would be the Government of
Indonesia (GOI) and the principal beneficiary would be PLN, the sole
government-owned national power utility in Indonesia. PLN's organization
was described in para. 1.9.
Institutional Development
3.2      Over the past ten years PLN has grown impressively.  Since
1977178, PLN has connected new consumers at an average rate of about
680,000 per year, increasing from about 370,000 in 1978179 to about
1,200,000 in 1987188. Its sales increased at an average annual compound
rate of about 17T in 1977178-1987188, from 3,530 GWh to 17,077 GWh.  Annex
8 summarizes selected performance indicators for PLN, which show gains in
many areas.
3.3      During the next several years, PLN is expected to continue to grow
rapidly (para. 2.9). The rapid expansion of supply facilities involves
increasingly complex technical and managerial tasks, for which PLN will
need to continue to strengthen its institutional capacity. Areas that need
strengthening have been recognized, and actions and programs are either
already underway or planned, in many cases with assistance from the Bank.
These actions and programs are designed to support PLN's efforts in the
following major areas, namely: (a) planning; (b) organization and
management; (c) improvement in operating efficiency; and (d) manpower
development and training.
(a) Planning
3.4      Through the years, PLN has strengthened its technical planning
activities in the areas of generation, transmission and distribution. The
generation and transmission planning functions are now well established in
PLN and are functioning smoothly. The emphasis now rests on improving the
planning, operation, maintenance and management of distribution facilities,
for which responsibility is largely dispersed in PLN's regional offices.
The proposed Power Sector Efficiency Project provides technical assistance
for the strengthening of PLN's distribution management functions.
3.5      PLN set up a corporate planning unit in 1981, and its first five-
year corporate plan defining corporate objectives for all of its major
functions was issued in 1984. However, the process of corporate planning
in PLN is yet to develop into a substantive activity. Factors that have
hampered the effectiveness of corporate planning in PLN have been the lack
of appropriate organizational structuring of the function, inadequate
staffing, and insufficient familiarity of management and staff with modern
corporate and strategic planning techniques and procedures. There is also
need for better coordination among PLN's directorates (planning,
construction, operations, finance, and administration, including human
resources) on planning matters, and for their active involvement in the
corporate planning process. Closer coordination between the corporate
planning and financial planning functions is particularly important, since



- 13 -
financial objectives are a critical set of corporate objectives, and it is
essential that both the corporate and financial plans are better
integrated. The corporate planning and financial planning functions need
to be further strengthened, botn organizationally and technically. The
Board of Directors of PLN fully supports this concept and, as part of the
1988 reorganization of PLN, has already set up planning units in the
functional directorates and the regional offices, with the corporate
planning division in the planning directorate having the responsibility for
the overall coordination of the planning activities (para. 3.6). Staffing
of these planning units is substantially complete. Technical assistance
for strengthening these functions is provided under the proposed Power
Sector Efficiency Project.
(b) Organization and Management
3.6      Annex 1, Chart 2 shows PLN's organization chart.  The
organizational structure is basically centralized. However,
decentralization of functions and responsibilities to the regional managers
is a necessity that has been recognized. In December 1987, PLN implemented
a reorganization within its functional directorates at its headquarters and
in its regional offices to streamline the planning, programming, budgeting,
operational and evaluation activities. Under this reorganization, planning
and evaluation units have been set up in each functional directorate and
regional office, and the responsibility for the overall coordination of
these activities is vested in the corresponding units in the Directorate of
Planning. To decentralize further, the regional managers have been
assigned a larger role in the preparation of t.eir annual programs and
budgets, and greater responsibility and accountability for carrying out
their operational functions. These organizational changes are a step in
the right direction and are expected to help improve the overall efficiency
and effectiveness of PLN. In view of the erpected substantial growth in
PLN's operations, the need for a further review of PLN's institutional
development was recognized. Towards this end, a review of the adequacy of
the institutional framework in the power sector, including the role of PLN
and its relationship with the Government, was undertaken by the Bank in
February/March 1989. The results of this review will be presented in a
Bank report and discussed with the Government.
3.7      As agreed under the Fourteenth Power Project (Loan 2443-IND), PLN
has established an Engineering Services Center (PPE) where activities such
as project formulation, engineering, design, procurement and construction
monitoring are unified. The staffing of the Center has been accomplished.
Consultants financed under the Power Transmission and Distribution Project
(Loan 2778-IND) are already assisting PLN in developing the Center. The
proposed project will support further development of the Center by
providing hands-on experience to PLN's staff in carrying out the
engineering, contract management, post-contract coordination and
construction management of the Paiton Thermal Power Project, along with the
expatriate consultants. Also, training will be provided for PLN engineers
in specialized fields through technical assistance funds included in the
proposed project (para. 4.16).



- 14 -
(c) Improvement in Operating Efficiency
3.8      Annex 8 shows some of the performance indicators for PLN for the
years 1979180 to 1987/88, which indicate significant achievements in
several areas. However, further improvements are possible and necessary.
Under the Power Transmission and Distribution Project (Loan 2778-IND), PLN
agreed to carry out an action plan for such improvements, whict, is under
implementation. The major components of that action plan ares
(a) efficiency improvement in distribution including reduction in losses;
(b) conversion of selected oil-fired thermal plants to gas-firing;
Ic) improvements in the operatior of major thermal power plants;
(d) improvements in the operation and maintenance of diesel power plants,
including their relocation and rehabilitation; and (e) renovation of small
hydro plants. The proposed Power Sector Efficiency Project supports the
implementation of this plan. The agreement to carry out such an action
plan will be continued under the proposed loan.
(d) Manpower Development and Training
3.9      As of March 31, 1988, PLN had about 51,200 employees of whom about
36,700 are employed on the permanent payroll. PLN has no difficulty in
recruiting staff educated at levels up to technical high school, but less
than 3Z of the staff have university degrees. To address its training
needs, PLN has a separate department for training. This department, known
as PUSDIKLAT, plays an important role in PLN's efforts to upgrade the
skills of its technicil and administrative staff, and manages ten training
centers with a staff of about 470, including about 180 trained instructors.
PLN expends considerable effort in the training of staff not only within
the organization, but also through student scholarship and foreign
training. These efforts have been largely successful. In 1987/88, shout
3,800 staff received training of various duration; of these staff, a'  t
1,900 received training at the PUSDIKLAT, about 1,700 domestically outside
PUSDIXLAT, and about 200 outside Indonesia.
3.10     The Bank has been supporting PLN's training activities and human
resources development efforts, including the establishment of several
training centers. Currently, three major training efforts are well
underway with assistance provided under the Twelfth Power Project
(Loan 2214-IND). Tney ares (a) technical assistance to reorganize aad
enlarge the entire manpower development, training and personnel management
functions for middle- and lower-level staff; (b) setting-up new training
centers, for thermal power plants, transmission lines and middle-level
managers; and (c) a program for the training of senior- and middle-level
personnel outside Indonesia in technical and financial areas. Progress
under these activities has been satisfactory. The proposed project
provides for training of PLN's staff in the Engineering Services C?nter
(para. 3.7) as well as training of the staff for the operation and main-
tenance of the thermal plant at Paiton (para. 4.8).
3.11     An extensive training program for operators and maintenance
technicians is also being conducted at the Suralaya coal-fired thermal
power station by the British Electricity International Ltd. under a British
Government grant. Additionally, PLN has set up an advanced training school



- 1S -
for operators of thermal power plants, at Suralaya Power Station, funded by
the Bank (Loans 1872-IND and 2214-IND). Operators for the Paiton Thermal
Power Plant are scheduled to be trained at this training center, in
addition to hands-on training at the Suralaya power station, before being
posted at the Paiton plant.
Accounting and Budgeting
3.12     PLN's accounting system, installed in the early 1970s, follows
generally accepted accounting principles, and normal utility practices, but
it needs upgrading to keep pace with the growing complexity and volume of
accounting transactions. There is need for improvement with respect to the
completeness and accuracy of fixed asset accounting, depreciation,
inventory accounting and accounts receivables. The accounting system needs
to produce more accurate information in a timely manner for use by PLN
managers in making decisions. Also, PLN's internal procedures for
preparing budgets and monitoring actual expenditures need to be
strengthened through better coordination among and participation by the
various functional directorates and regional offices in the process, to
enhance the budget's value as a management tool.
3.13     Under the Eleventh Power Project (Loan 2056-IND), funds were
provided for management consultancy for developing an integrated system for
budgeting, accounting, and financial reporting. This study is complete and
its recommendations are in various stages of implementation. PLN has
engaged or is engaging consultants to improve fixed assets accounting, cost
accounting, and inventory management. Since 1987, PLN is implementing an
action plan to improve its accounting practices and functions by
(a) establishing a uniform accounting system, (b) improving related support
systems, (c) sensitizing concerned non-financial managers and staff to the
importance of timely and accurate accounting, (d) upgrading the skills of
the accounting staff through in-house and external training courses, and
(e) computerizing the accounting process. Through its recent reorganiza-
tion, PLN is also attempting *o improve coordination between its depart-
ments and its regional offices in the areas of budget preparation, and
monitoring and evaluation of performance as discussed in para. 3.6.
Technical assistance is being provided under the proposed Power Sector
Efficiency Project to further improve the accounting system.
Billing and Collections
3.14     Bills are prepared monthly.  Computer billing is utilized at the
computer center at the headquarters in Jakarta. Overall collection
performance is generally satisfactory. The receivables position of general
consumer accounts has been good, as it has been kept at about one and one-
half months of the yearly billing. The collections from government users
(including the Armed Forces and local governments), who account for sbout
1OZ of PLN's total sales, has also improved in recent years. The
Government has taken various measures to reduce overdue government
accounts--from over one year in 1981/82 to under two months' billing now.
A covenant under Loan 2778-IND requires that amounts owed to PLN by all
government users will not be overdue in the aggregate by more than two
months of total billings to such users. This covenant will continue under
the proposed loan.



- 16 -
Audit and Internal Control
3.15     PLN's accounts are required by its charter to be audited by
Government auditors. The audits are carried out following generally
accepted accounting practices and standards. The audit reports in recent
years have received qualified opinions from the auditors. In the latest
report for FY1987/88, the qualification related to its inventory accounts,
The magnitude of discrepancies is not so large as to render the accounts
unacceptable; the Bank has, therefore, considered them acceptable. Since
1983, PLN has made special efforts to expedite the closing of accounts and
has succeeded in completing them usually within six months after the close
of the fiscal year as stipulated by Government for all public corporations.
PLN is also taking measures to train its accounting staff and has prepared
computerization plans to expedite accounts processing (para. 3.13).
Government audits normally take about three months. While the unaudited
accounts are generally finalized and received in time, there are still
delays in auditing of accounts. These delays have been largely due to
protracted discussions between PLN and the auditors on matters that have
been the subject of qualified opinions from the auditors. As these delays
are expected to be transitory, the audit covenant under Loan 2778-IND, that
requires PLN to submit to the Bank its unaudited accounts no later than six
months, and the audited financial statements and the report of such audits
no later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year, will be
continued under the proposed loan.
3.16     PLN has an effective internal audit group which reports to the
President Director for various special investigations, in addition to
keeping general and project accounting matters under review.
Insurance
3.17     PLN currently carries transit and marine insurance on equipment
and materials in transit. Projects umder construction are covered by the
contractor's all risk and erection insurance. Fire and other hazards on
most of the assets in operation are as yet self-insured. In view of the
geographical spread of PLN's assets, any single loss would be relatively
small by comparison with total assets and operations, and this policy has
been accepted by the Bank. However, some very large projects have recently
been completed and others now under implementation would result in a
greater concentration of assets in certain locations than in the past. As
agreed under the Fourteenth Power Project (Loan 2443-IND), with assistance
from a local insurance company, PLN carried out a review of its insurance
practices and requirements. As a result of the review, PLN took out
commercial insurance for all the major operating plant and equipment at the
Muara Karang and Suralaya thermal plants. Under the proposed loan, an
understanding was reached that major works, plant and equipment at other
large projects such as the recently completed Saguling, Cirata and Mrica
hydroelectric plants and the proposed Paiton Thermal Power Project, would
be insured with outside agencies.



_ 17 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Background
4.1      The power sector has been rapidly growing Ln Indonesia with FLN's
sales growth exceeding 171 a year. As discussed in para. 2.10, the Bank has
been closely associated with the review of PLN's expansion plans to ensure the
implementation of a least-cost development program. To provide the baseload
generating capacity, coal-fired generating plants are identified as the most
economic option for the expansion of the generating capacity in Java. The
Bank supported the construction of the first coal-fired power plant in West
Java at Suralaya, through the Eighth, Ninth, Twelfth and the Fourteenth Power
Projects (Loans 1708-IND, 1872-IND, 2214-IND and 2443-IND), which will have a
capacity of 1,600 MW in operation by the end of 1989. The Bank aiso supported
the construction of a 500 kV transmission backbone to enable integrated
operation of all generating plants in Java. The next step in the least-cost
development program is the construction of generating capacity in East Java.
The Bank fin-nced under Loan 1513-IND a site selection and feasibility study
that resulted in the selection of the Paiton site. Subsequently, the lank
loans financed the design and detailed engineering of the Paiton project.
Initially, the project implementation was to commvnce in 1985 to achieve
completion of the first two units of 400 MW each by 1990. However, a slowdown
in demand growth in the period 1982-85, delayed the requirements of additional
generating capacity. Demand forecasts and generation expansion plans have
been reviewed periodically. Current estimates place the need of additional
generating capacity in Java during 1992 to 1995 at about 2,500-3,000 MW.
4.2      The Bank's Energy Options Review (Report No. 6583-IND of August 1987)
concluded that the major least-cost options for power generation in 1990-2010
will involve a balance between the use of natural gas, to the extent it is
available, and coal. PLN has formulated a generation expansion plan that
proposes to meet these requirements by adding combined-cycle gas- and coal-
fired generation, geothermal units, and small hydro plants. The Bank supports
this program which requires the proposed project to be commissioned in
1993/94. The proposed project will provide 800 MW of the estimated shortfall;
a combined-cycle gas-fired plant at Gresik near Surabaya in East Java is
expected to provide between 900 MW and 1,200 MW of additional generating
capacity during the same period.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.3      As discussed in para. 4.1, the Bank has been closely involved in the
preparation of the Paiton project, including the feasibility study, site
selection, design and engineering phases. Project implementation would
benefit from the Bank's continued association through technical advice and
financial support. The proposed project would act as a vehicle for further
strengthening PLN's financial autonomy, development of skilled manpower for
complex engineering tasks, and strengthening GOI's institutional capacity to
formulate, monitor and enforce environmental protection measures in the energy
sector. The project would also help foster an efficient coal industry in
Indonesia through agreed Government actions, which would include:



- 18 -
(a) providing a choice to PLN. on the basis of price, to contract for the
supply of coal from amongst several private companies; (b) establishing
infrastructure for coal transportation from Ralimantan to Paiton, including
loading and shipping facilities; and (c) ensuring that the price of indigenous
coal to PLN will be no higher than the world market price.
Proiect Obiectives
4.4      The Paiton Thermal Power Project stpports the major elements of the
GOI's energy policy of promoting the use of nontradeable surplus coal as an
economic option for the generation of electricity and expanding PLN's generat-
ing capacity in Java to meet part of the expected growth in demand for elec-
tric power during 1992193-1995196. The objectives of the proposed project are
to: (a) expand PLN's generating capacity in Java to meet the expected demand
growth; (b) promote the use of coal for economic electricity generation;
(c) develop PLN's project implementation capability by fully involving its
newly-established Engineering Services Center in the engineering, design and
project management aspects of the plant; (d) strengthen the Government's
environmental monitoring capability as well as its ability to formulate and
enforce environmental standards in the energy sector; (e) promote economic
development of indigenous coal industry; and (f) provide training for PLN's
staff.
Project Description
4.5      The project includes: (a) the construction of the Paiton power plant
comprising two coal-fired generating units of 400 MW each and other support
elements necessary to complete the installation, together with an
infrastructure to accommodate future units for an ultimate plant capacity of
4,000 MW; (b) the construction of a 500 kV transmission line between Paiton
and Krian (about 140 km), with associated substations; (c) the construction of
a 150 kV transmission line between Probolinggo, Paiton and Situbondo (about
100 km), with associated substations; and (d) technical assistance to
(i) strengthen the capability of tFe Ministry of Mines and Energy to formulate
and enforce environmental standards in- the energy sector; and (ii) develop
PLN's engineering and design staff by helping them attend higher educational
courses and receive advanced training in power plant technology. The first
generating unit is planned to be in commercial operation in September 1993,
followed by the second unit in March 1994
4.6      Paiton is located on the north coast of East Java between the cities
of Probolinggo and Situbondo and is about 140 km southeast of Surabaya city.
The plant will receive coal, oil and materials by ship through the strait of
Nadura. The coal will be pulverized, and burned in the steam generators to
produce steam at high pressure and temperature to run the turbine generators.
The cooling system will consist of once-throt.gh design, using sea water from
the strait of Madura. The plant will supply power to the 500 kV transmission
system at Krian and to the 150 kV sutztations at Probolinggo and Situbondo. A
more detailed project description comprising plant design features is given in
Annex 9.



- 19 -
Status of Implementation
4.7      Engineering and Design.  The site selection and prefeasibility study
for the Paiton Steam Power Plant in East Java was financed under the Seventh
Power Project (Loan 1513-IND). Several other power projects (Loans 1872-IND,
2056- D , 2300-IND and 2778-IND) provided funds for consulting engineering
services for design and engineering, including preparation of equipment
specifications and tender documents.
4.8      The engineering and design of the Paiton Steam Power Plant is being
carried out by PPE (para. 3.7). with the assistance of Sargent and Lundy of
the USA and Intercontinental Engineering of Canada, who were selected
following Bank guidelines for the appointment of consultants. They are
associated with a local consulting firm, PT Citaconas. The work has been
crganized to ensure utmost transfer of knowledge to and training of PLN's
personnel, in Indonesia as well as overseas. Also, PLN's staff will be
trained in the areas of plant operation, maintenance and management, with the
assistance of the consultants and the suppliers of plant equipment.
4.9      Post-engineering coordination, including the balance of the
engineering, design, procurement and interface with the contractors will be
performed in Indonesia jointly by PPE and the consultants. A special Project
Management office (Proyek Induk) will be established for the Paiton Project to
coordinate and implement the project. PLN will also establish a construction
management organizaticon at the site supported by the consultants' site
personnel. Construction management will include, inter alia, quality
assurance during actual construction and measurea to assure compliance with
erection specifications.
Coal SuplY
4.10     The co&l for the Paiton plant will be derived primarily from
Kalimantan, in view of its proximity to the plant, where GOI has already
entered into production sharing agreements with private companies (para. 1.4).
Annual coal consumption for the Paiton plant at a 702 capacity factor will be
approximately 2.5 mmt/y (million tons per year) for the 800 MW generation
planned initially, the average heat value of the coal being 6,040 kilocalories
per kilogram and average sulfur content of about 0.672 (range 0.2-1.01). The
aggregate production potential from the three major mining regions in
Indonesia is summarized in Table 4.1.



- 20 -
Table 4.1: INDONESIA-COAL PRODUCTION POTENTIAL
(million tons)
Region/
minelcontractor         1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
South Sumatra
Bukit Asam           1.0   2.0   2.5   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0
Muara Tiga             -  0.5   2.0   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7
Banko Barat            -   1.0   3.0   4.5   5.4   5.4   5.4   5.4   5.4
Subtotal         1.0   3.5   7.5  10.2  11.1  11.1  11.1  11.1  11.1
West Sumatra
Ombilin              1.0   1.2   1.5   1.6   1.6   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.8
Kalimantan
PT Arutmin           0.5   1.5   1.5   2.5   4.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0
PT Utah                -  0.5   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
PT Kideco Jaya         -     -      -   1.0   2.0   3.0   4.0   5.0   5.0
PT Adaro               -     -      -   1.0  1J.0  6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0
PT Berau               -     -      -     -     -  0.5   1.5   2.5   2.5
PT Kaltim Prima        -     -      -     -     -  0.5   2.5   4.0   6.0
Subtotal        0.5   2.0   2.5   5.5  10.0  16.0  20.0  23.5  25.5
Grand Total     2.5   6.7  11.5  17.3  22.7  28.8  32.8  36.3  38.4
Source: Mission estimates.
4.11     The domestic coal industry in Indonesia has in recent years developed
to a point where there exists a variety of public and private enterprises
willing and able to produce and deliver coal at prices competitive with
imported coal. The Bank's Energy Options Review estimated the economic cost
of development of these coals to be in the range of $18-2.Iton delivered to
Paiton. Under a current GOI decree, PLN will have freedom to select and enter
into contracts with any of the suppliers in Kalimantan area for the
procurement of coal for Paiton.
4.12     Two methods of transportation of coal from Kalimantan are currently
envisaged for the Paiton plants One, coal could be transported from East
Kalimantan to Paiton by barges with capacities up to 10,000 tons. A suitable
jetty for loading such barges would be needed. Two, coal could be transported
by larger ocean-going ships up to a capacity of 60,000 tons, in which case a
harbor will need to be built at Pelabuhan Kota Baru on Pulau Laut. A study is
in progress to determine the most efficient plan for the transportation of
coal to Paiton. Under the proposed loan, the GOI has agreed to finalize the
coal supply plans by December 31, 1989 and implement them thereafter, so as to
reach a supply capability of about 2.5 million tons per year beginning March
31, 1994.



- 21 -
4.13     As discussed in para. 4.11, the economic cost of coal is in the range
of US$18-24/ton delivered to Java at 1986 prices. Even after correcting the
cost to 1988 prices and adding taxes and profits, it should be possible to
deliver the coal at below the current average international price of $40/ton
delivered to Java, provided, of course, the coal industry is tun efficiently.
PLN has an option to import coal for Paiton, if necessary. In view of this,
GOI has agreed under this loan to ensure that the price of indigenous coal for
the Paiton plant will be no higher than the long-term contract price of steam
coal in the world market, adjusted for quality and accounting for
transportation and handling costs to Paiton.
4.14     In the event of a delay in the development of indigenous coal
production, it would be possible to meet the coal requirements of Paiton by
imported coal. The boiler design and the arrangement of the coal handling
system at Paiton is based on the characteristics of a range of coals that
could be made available at the plant from Kalimantan, South Sumatra (Bukit
Asam), as well as from Australia.
Technical Assistance Program
4.15     As a component of the Paiton Thermal Power Project, technical
assistance (TA) will be provided tot (a) supplement the Government's effort
in developing appropriate environmental management and control plans for the
energy sector, which will reflect state-of-the-art technology; and (b) support
the institutional development of PLN's engineering and design staff.
4.16     With regard to the environmental aspect, the following objectives
will be accomplished through this TA program: (a) formulation of environ-
mental regulations and quality standards; (b) development of standard methodo-
logies for controlling various environmental impacts; (c) development of
environmental monitoring plans; (d) strengthening of enforcement procedures;
and (e) training of personnel. The TA program would provide the necessary
means to formalize the environmental management strategy at the sectoral
level. The Ministry of Mines & Energy, as the implementing agency of the GOI
policies in the energy sector, and having responsibility for management vested
in the Central Committee on Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), would be
the immediate beneficiary of this TA program. The institutional development
provided by the TA would also assist in satisfying the EIA requirements of
development projects in the energy sector. The terms of reference for the
consulting assignment for the TA, agreed with the >XI, are given in Annex 14.
Under the proposed loan, the GOI has agreed to appoint consultants according
to a time schedule satisfactory to the Bank. In addition, PLN's design and
engineering staff will receive working experience on the Paiton project as
they work hand in hand with the consulting engineers. The TA program agreed
with PLN, envisages complementary academic and vocational training for about
forty of PLN's design and engineering staff to help them expand their
knowledge and expertise.
Cost Estimate
4.17     Table 4.2 summarizes the project cost estimate.  The costs are net of
taxes and duties for the imported items since PLN is exempt from them. Local
costs include VAT and other taxes, estimated to be about US$15.0 million
equivalent.



- 22 -
Table 4.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST
Local   Fore ln  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Foreign as
--- (Rp billon) -       -(MS million) -    l of total
Preparation works              114.0        -   114.0   67.0     -    67.0         -
Power house
Turbine generatore & other
plant auxiliaries           20.0   511.0   851.0   12.0 183.0   196.0        98.8
Stem gnerators & auxilIlaries   70.0    801.0   871.0   41.0 177.0   218.0     81.2
Chimney                        8.0    10.0    18.0    2.0   6.0       8.0      76.0
Civil work*                   49.0     81.0    80.0   20.0  18.0    47.0       80.8
Marine works                    68.0     82.0   150.0   40.0  48.0    68.0      54.6
500 kV tranmission & substations  26.0    126.0   162.0   16.0  74.0    89.0    83.1
150 kV transmission & substations   7.0    16.0    22.0    4.0   9.0    18.0    69.2
Engineering a construction
management                    16.0     86.0   100.0    9.0  60.0    69.0       84.7
Overhead and administration     86.0        -    86.0   21.0     -    21.0         -
Technical assistance
(a) Environment                  -      2.0     2.0      -   1.0     1.0      100.0
(b) Training                            2.0     2.0      -   1.0     1.0      100.0
Total Base Coot           408.0    9B6.0 1.373.0  240.0 667.0   807.0       70.8
Physical contingency            48.0    70.0   118.0   26.0  41.0    66.0
Price contingency              102.0    160.0   262.0   60.0  94.0   164.0
Total Project Cost         665.0  1.196.0 1.748.0  826.0 702.0 1.027.0      68.4
Interest during construction       -    165.0   168.0      -  00.0    90.0
Total Financina Reauired   668.0  1.848.0 1.901.0  825.0 792.0 1.117.0        71
4.18      The Bank loan will finance the following:
(a)  structural steel, tiank  and chimneys;
(b)  supply and installation of 2 x 400 MW turbine-generators and  plant
auxiliaries, including water treatment plant, instrumentation and
controls, mechanical and electrical works, and mobile equipment;
(c)  marine works;
(d)  150 kV transmission lines and associated substations;
(e)  consulting services for detailed engineering and construction
management; and
(f)  technical assistance for environmental management, and academic and
vocational training of PLN's engineering and design personnel.
4.19     Annex 11 gives the detailed cost estimates for the Paiton Units 1 and
2.  Al1 costs are based on December 1988 prices; physical contingencies
average about 8.2Z of the estimated base cost, ranging from 5I for equipment
to 10-151 for civil and other construction works because of higher levels of



- 23_
uncertainty. The price contingencies, calculated on the basis of the
inflation factors shown in Table 4.3, average about 17.72 of the base cost
plus physical contingencies. The cost estimate was developed using historical
records for coal-fired steam plants of the same size as Paiton. Actual bid
prices were used for the turbine generator (FCO1), steam generator (FC02) site
preparation (LCOI) and equipment unloading dock (LCO6) packages.
Additionally, Suralaya steam power station bid prices were taken into account
for items with similarity of work content.
Table 4.3: INFLATION FACTORS
Local            1989                1990             1991 onwards
Foreign           5.3                5.3                  4.1
Local             9.0                9.0                  5.2
Financing Plan
4.20     The financing plan for the project is expected to be as shown in
Table 4.4.
Table 4.4: FINANCING PLAN
(USIS million)
Source                                   Local    Foreign    Total        X
IBRD (a) Earlier loans la                   -       28.0      28.0        2.5
(b) Proposed loan                     -       354.0     354.0      31.7
Exnort creditst  Steam generators          50.0    165.0     215.0       19.2
Ash handling plant        1.0      12.0      13.0       1.0
Coal handling plant       6.0      40.0      46.0       4.3
Other cofinancing                           -       92.0      92.0        8.3
PLN                                       268.0    101.0     369.0       33.0
Total                                325.0    792.0   1,117.0     100.0
/a  Funds provided for design, engineering, and specifications under Loans
1872-IN, 2056-IND, 2300-IND, and 2778-IND.
4.21     The proposed Bank loan will finance 44.7Z of the foreign cost of the
project or 31.7? of the project financing requirement, including the interest
during construction. The proceeds of the Bank loan, except $1.0 million for
technical assistance to GOI, would be onlent to PLN for 20 years including a
grace period of 5 years, under a subsidiary loan agreement, the signing of
which will be a condition of loan effectiveness. The onlending rate will be
the Bank's standard variable interest rate plus fees of 1.902 to cover
administrative charges, and a part of the foreign exchange risk that will be
borne by the Government.



- 24 -
4.22     Parallel co-financing arrangements are envisaged for the Paiton
project to meet the foreign exchange requirement for discrete packages of
goods and services, such as the 500 kV transmission lines and substations, as
well as EHV transformers. Export-credit is already being discussed for the
steam generators and auxiliaries, while further export credits, to be
determined through international tendering, will cover the cost of coal and
ash handling plants. PLN will meet the total cost of site preparation, civil
contracts, the full requirement of local expenses and the interest during
construction. It is agreed that the financing arrangements will be finalized
by March 31, 1990.
Contract Strategy
4.23     The contract strategy divides the scope of work into fifteen
international and seven local contract packages.  In addition, there are
another eight packages of work associated with the total development, and for
ease of identification, the undistributed costs have been divided into four
packages. These thirty-four contract packages are described in Annex 11 (Cost
Estimates) under contract description. A description of the scope of each
item is given in Annex 12.
Procurement
4.24     All equipment and services financed under the proposed Bank loan will
be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB), in accordance with the
Bank's procurement guidelines. The Bank-financed items are those listed in
para. 4.18. Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.5. In the ICB
procedures for the procurement of equipment, domestic manufacturers would be
eligible for a preference in bid evaluation of 152 or the import duty,
whichever is lower. Also, in the ICB procedures for the procurement of civil
works, domestic contractors would be eligible for a preference in bid
evaluation of 7.5Z. All bidding packages for goods financed by the Bank loan
estimated to cost over US$1,000,000 equivalent will be subject to the Bank's
prior review of procurement documents, which covers all contracts. For
consulting services, the consultants will be selected and engaged in
accordance with Bank guidelines.
4.25     Bids for the steam generators and turbine generators have been
received, evaluated and the lowest evaluated bidders were determined. Bids
for turbine generators were invited following Bank guidelines. Discussions to
finalize the contract with the steam-generator supplier are already in
progress, to be followed by discussions with the turbine-generator supplier.



- 25 -
Table 4.5, PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement method
Project element                 ICB        LCB   Other    N.A.   Total cost
-------------- (US$ million) -------------
Preparation works                   -       85      -        -       85
Turbine generators and            244        -      -        -      244
other auxiliaries              (227) la                          (227)
Steam generators and
other auxiliaries                 -        -    215Lb     -       215
Ash and coal handling                -       -     59Lb      -       59
Civil works                        43       20      -        -       63
Chimney                            10        -      -        -       10
(7)                              (7)
Marine works                      117        -      -        -      117
(60)                             (60)
500 kV lines & substation           -        -    1131c      -      113
150 kV lines & substations         17        -      -        -       17
(11)                             (11)
Engineering and construction        -        -     47        -       47
management                                      (47)              (47)
Overhead & Administration           -        -      -      27        27
Technical Assistance                -        -      2        -        2
(2)              (2)
Total                        431     105    436       27        999 id
(i305)          (49)              (354)
La  Figures in parentheses indicate proposed Bank loan use.
/b By export credits.
/c Bilateral cofinancing.
/d Excludes $28.0 million funded from earlier Bank loans.
Implementation Schedule
4.26     Annex 13 gives the implementation schedule for Paiton units 1 and 2.
Unit 2 will be built and commissioned first primarily to facilitate the
construction and initial operation of the coal handling system. All common
facilities necessary for the operation of both units are to be installed with
Unit 2.
4.27     The commercial operation dates for the first unit (Unit 2) is
September 1993 and that for the second unit (Unit 1) is March 1994. The
project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1995 and the closing date of
the loan will be September 30, 1995. The implementation schedule for the
Paiton units is based on the contracts for both turbine generators and steam
generators being awarded no later than August 1989. Annex 13 provides the
dates for major contract package awards. For the balance of the contracts to



- 26 -
be awarded on schedule, specifications on Piling, Powerhouse Civil Works,
Mechanical and Electrical Works and Instrumentation and Control Systems are
required to be finalized, based on the technical data obtained from the boiler
and turbine bids. PPE has started doing this work with the help of the
consultants. Key dates for major contract awards are given in Annex 15. Some
key construction dates are given in Annex 16. It was agreed that contract
awards would be carried out in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the
Bank (Annex 15).
Disbursement
4.28     The Bank loan would be disbursed against approved contracts and will
cover: (a) 10O of the foreign costs of directly imported equipment and
materials; (b) 100? of local expenditures ex-factory of locally manufactured
items; (c) 55Z of the total cost of the marine works contract; and (d) 10OZ of
the expenditures for consulting services, and technical assistance.
4.29     The disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank loan is given in
Annex 17, which also gives the disbursement profile for power projects in
Indonesia. The disbursements for this project are expected to be somewhat
faster than the profile since major contracts are expected to be awarded soon
after loan signing.
Monitoring and Reporting
4.30     Satisfactory procedures for progress reporting on the project were
agreed upon. The arrangement provides for the submission by PLN to the Bank
of monthly progress reports in the earlier phases of the project.
Environmental Aspects
4.31     The design of the Paiton power plant has taken into account the
applicable environmental guidelines of the Bank as well as of GOI. The design
of the plant ensures that the limits imposed by these guidelines are not
exceeded at the fully developed plant capacity of 4,000 MW. During
negotiations of the proposed loan, GOI assured that, while implementing
subsequent phases of the project, the various aspects of these design features
would be kept in view, which, inter alia, would maintain the sulfur dioxide
emission within permissible limits. Transmission facilities will be designed
and carried out in accordance with the current technological practices and
will cause minimum disturbance to the environment. The environmental aspects
of the project and the design features concerning them are described in Annex
10.



- 27 _
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Results
5.1       PLN's financial operating results for 1980181 to 1987188 are
summarized in Table 5.1.  Historical financial statements are given in
Annex 18.
Tabl- 5.1: SUIMARY OF PIN'S FDNUNCIUL OPERATING RESULTS,
1980/81-1987/88
Fiscal yer              1980/81 1981/82 1982/88 1988/84 1984 ac 1985/86 1988/87  1987/88
Energy sales (0Mh)       6,623   7,845   9,101  10,000  11,041  12,706   14,78B 17,077
Sles Increase (X)         22.1    20.8    16.0      0.9    10.4    15.1      18.4   15.5
Average revenue (Rp/kWh)    41.4    48.8   6.5    76.0    07.8    96.6       98.5   92.6
Operating revenues
(Rp bin)                 284     856      586     787   1,111   1,263    1,425  1,629
Operating expenses
(Rp bin)                 2S8     875      571     600   1,119   1,278    1,292  1,685
Operating Income (Rp bin)   26    (19)    (B8)    (18)      (8      (10)      188    (6)
Net income (Rp bIn)         20    (20)    (41)    (82)    (46)    (55)         87  (182)
Rate base (Rp bin) /a      787      970   1,218   1,497   1,998   2,779    8,867  5,098
Rate of return (U) -       8.5   (1.9)   (8.0)   (0.9)   (0.4)   (0.8)        8.4  (0.1)
Capital investment O#p bIn)  808   409      585     981   1,080   1,408    1,712  1,918
Self-financing ratio (X)
Annual                 87.0    26.8    80.6    18.2    11.4      8.7     28.0    1.0
Three-year average b   28.4    29.9    80.8    28.6    16.8    12.2      16.8   10.7
Debt service coverage
(times)                    -    10.8      6.6     8.8     2.4      1.7      2.6    1.1
Debt/debt plu equity (X) /c 9.8    14.1    17.8    27.4    82.8    86.1     89.9   40.5
Operating ratio (X)         91      106     107     102     101      101       91    100
Current ratio (times)      4.5      8.4     2.4     2.2     2.6      2.1      1.8    1.1
/a  Based on revalued assets (pore. 5.26).
Lb  Three-year moving average (current plus two preceding years).
c  Excluding revaluation surplus.
5.,:      During 1981/82-1985/86, PLN's operating revenues and expenses
inceeased at about the same rate, averaging about 35Z p.a. PLN's energy sales
grew at an average annual compound rate of about 14Z. Although, the average
revenue per kWh sold increased by 18.52 p.a. over the period, PLN's
profitability was negative. Nevertheless, throughout this period, PLN had
comfortable liquidity, good debt service coverage, and an adequate capital
structure as a result of substantial paid-in capital. This situation resulted
from the Government's policy during this period of permitting tariff increases
that were just adequate to meet the increases in operating costs, caused
mainly by increases in fuel prices. The Government enabled PLN to proceed



- 28 -
with the sizeable investment program by providing equity capital, which
reflected in its healthy debt/equity ratio and debt service coverage. In
1986/87, PLN achieved a positive operating income, a positive net income, and
a positive rate of return (3.41) on net revalued assets. PLN's net internal
generation of funds in 1986/87 was about Rp 394 billion (US$232 million), and
its annual self-financing ratio (SFR) was 231 on a total capital investment of
about Rp 1,712 billion (US$1,007 million). Its operating ratio (91Z) and debt
service coverage ratio (2.6 times) showed significant improvements, and its
debt to total capitalization ratio (excluding revaluation surplus) increased
to about 40X.
5.3      The outcome for 1987188 showed a substantial deterioration in PLU's
financial performance compared to that in 1986/87, due to several factors
including (a) the devaluation of the Indonesian currency in September 1986;
(b) inflation; and (c) substantial increases in the proportion of oil-based
generation in 1987/88 compared to 1986/87, mainly due to the drought of 1987.
To meet an increase of about 15X in sales, PLN's operating expenses in 1987/88
increased by 262, resulting in an operating ratio of 1002 and a ROR of -0.12.
As a result, the debt service coverage declined to 1.1 times and the annual
SFR was about 12. The Government did not permit tariff adjustment during
1988, which resulted in further deterioration of PLN's financial performance
in 1988/89 (para. 5.10). However, the Government approvrd on March 27, 1989,
an average increase of about 252 in the electricity rates effective April 1,
1989, which is expected to restore and improve PLN's profitability. (para.
5.11).
Regional Operations
5.4      Considerable disparity exists in PLN's regional operating
performances. PLN's Java operations, which include large central power
stations supplying electricity through an interconnected grid system, are
largely commercially-oriented and profitable. PLN's non-Java operations are
mainly small-scale and dispersed over a large number of islands, and encompass
over 600 separate generation and supply networks. Most of them are highly
unprofitable, and have a negative impact on PLN's overall finances. The
selected 1986/87-1987/88 financial indicators for PLN's Java and non-Java
operations, presented in Table 5.2, illustrate the substantial operational
differences between the two operations.



- 29 -
Table 6.2: SELECTED FINANCIAL INDICATORS FOR PUN AND ITS JAVA
AND NON-JAVA OPERATIONS, FY1986/87-1907/88
FY1986/87  TtlFf1987SIS  o
Java  Non-Java  PLN     Java  Non-Java  PIN
Energy sales (OWh)           11,677   8,209   14,786  18,890   8,679   17,07?
Sales lncreas ()               16.2   20.9    10.4   16.7   14.6    16.6
Operating revenues (Rp billion)   1,096    880   1,425   1,256    874    1,829
Operating expense (Rp billion)    848    444    1,292   1,108    682    1,686
Operating tnco  (Rp billion)   247    -114     188    162   -168        -B
Net income (Rp billion)         176   -189       87      62   -184    -182
Rate base (Rp billion)        2,848   1,021   8,867   8,652   1,441   5,098
Rate of return (X)              8.7   -11.1     8.4    4.2   -10.9    -0.1
Operating ratio (%)              78    135       91      88    142      100
5.5      In 1986187, PLN's Java operations generated an operating profit of
Rp 247 billion, with a ROR of about 8.7Z, which exceeds the 82 ROR target of
the revenue covenant (para. 5.7). The non-Java operations, however, incurred
an operating loss of Rp 114 billion with a ROR of about -11.1, and thereby
brought down PLN's overall operating profit to Rp 133 billion and the ROR to
3.4Z. Nevertheless, the operating results of PLN's non-Java operations showed
an improving trend in 1986/87 compared to the results in 1985186. While the
non-Java sales increased by about 212 in 1986187, the related operating
expenses increased by about 13.82, and the ROR improved to -11.12 from -14.22
in 1985/86.
5.6      The factors discussed in para. 5.3 impinged heavily on PLN's Java
operations, for which the operating ratio rose from 782 in 1986187 to 882 in
1987/88, largely as a result of an increase of about 322 in fuel expenses
because of 19Z higher oil-based generation and 152 lower hydro generation.
Also, the Java operations' rate base grew by about 28Z from 1986187 to 1987/88
due to the addition of new assets, the cost of about 802 of which was affected
by the rupiah devaluation, and asset revaluation. As a result, the ROR for
the Java operations declined in 1987/88 to 4.22.
Financial ObJectives
5.7      In the revenue covenant agreed under the Power Transmission and
Distribution Project (Loan 2778-IND, 1987), PLN was required to: (a) realize
for its Java operations, by no later than its fiscal year 1988/89 and in each
fiscal year thereafter, an annual ROR of not less than 82, and (b) for its
non-Java operations, achieve a break-even situation in each of its fiscal
years beginning with fiscal year 1990/91, i.e., total revenues equivalent to
not less than the sum of their (i) total operating expenses, and (ii) the
amount by which debt service requirements exceed the provision for
depreciation. A covenant under Loan 2778-IND also required PLN to carry out
an action plan for efficiency improvements for all its operations (para. 3.8),
in a manner to ensure that the break-even requirements of the revenue covenant
for the non-Java operations are achieved.



- 30 -
5.8      The principal financial objectives underlying the revenue covenant
are that PLN should achieve: in the short term, sufficient overall
profitability for it to cover its operating expenses, realize positive annual
rates of return, meet its debt service requirements, maintain adequate
liquidity and self-finance about 202 of its annual capital expenditures; and
in the medium term, to improve its profitability further to self-finance ahout
30-35i of its capital expenditures, and rely mostly on borrowings to finance
the balance, confining the Government's contributions to programs that involve
the building of the infrastructure rapidly and supplying electricity to the
targeted low income groups at affordable rates. Such a strategy should enable
the share of PLN's retained earnings in total equity to rise, with the
debt/total capital ratio remaining below 55Z and the debt service coverage
staying above 2.0 times. To achieve these financial objectives, PLN will need
to undertake measures to improve the efficiency and reduce the costs of its
operations, both in Java and outside Java (para. 3.8), and the Government will
need to permit tariff adjistments for increases in costs due to fuel price
escalation, inflation and exchange rate depreciation.
Present and Future Performance
5.9      PLN's actual financial performance for 1986/87-1987/88, the estimate
for 1988/89 and projections for 1989/90 through 1994195 and related income
statements for its Java and non-Java operations are summarized in Table 5.3
and details are given in Annex 18, and notes and assumptions underlying the
projections are given in Annex 19. In the projections, the sales growth and
iuvestment requirements for Java and non-Java operations are based on PLN's
latest demand forecasts and related power development program agreed with the
Bank (paras. 2.8 and 2.9).



- 31 -
Table B.St RNIS FINANCL. PRFOR8AN00
1981/7-199,4/98
acual        Eattats                       Prolatico.s
Fmll year                   1/8  1987/ae        199/89  199/90  1990191   191/902  1992/9S 199/94  1994/95
Ahwmje avrnu  Q(p kWh)
PRN total                  98.5    99.6        92.3    tts.6    120.8      1.4    100.4  128.6   141.0
Incrasae (t) (3-8)   (0.9)                  (0.4)    2B.0       4.0       4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0
Java                       91.7    91.0        90.6    110.2    117.7      12.4    17.3   12.4   187.7
Incraa  (5)             (3.4)   (0.8)       (0.4)    25.0       4.0       4.0      4.0      4.0     i.0
Non-Java                   99.9    98.8        98.8    125.2    180.2      188.4    140.6   146.5   182.3
Incrasa (5)             (2.9)   (1.4)       (0.2)    27.3       4.0       4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0
Enera Sale (G h)
PLN tatal                 14,766  17,077     19.862  22.697   2.11,2    29,982   84.169  38,860  48.612
Java                      11.877  10,396     15,801   17 7V 4   20,93    2s,2as   26,4e8  80.06,  8a.97e
Non-Jes                    3.209   3.679      4.81e    4.948    8.819      6.697    7.61   6e,76s   9,869
Oo..ratln. Ravanuaa (l billfin)
PN total                   1,425   1.629      1,690    2.6S4    a3.2       8.ee    4.567   5.386   6,621
Java                       1.09    1,288      1,480    2.057    2.442      2.905    8,442   4.060   4.766
Nor-Java                    8a0      374        440      687       760       93s    1,115   1,826   1.888
flpratln Exaans"  (R billIon)
PRN total                  1.292   1.68       1.987    2,261    2.597      2.995    8,416   6,6SI    4,a89
javw                        8e    1.103       1,87     1,82B    1,762      2.082    2,370   2,663   8,048
Nm-Java                     444      s62        594      723      6S3        948    1,046   1,166   1.316
Cflari1JnaIom (t  billion)
RN totl                      183     (6)       (77)      448       65        648    1,141   1.888   1,962
Jawa                        247      12         7r       829      S6W        6s     1,072   1.897   1,725
N.-Java                    (114)   (16        (184)      (as)     (8)       (10)       69      la     287
Rote Ons R billion)
PIN total                  3,867   s.03       6,924    8,95    10,628    12,178   18,9S7   17,006  20.411
Java                       2.848 e  ,682      4.980    6.614    7.772      6841    9,62  12,060  14.669
Non-Java                   1.021   1,441      1,044    2.841    2.656      3,882    4.10    4,988   5,722
Rate of Ratuen  )
PLRN  totI                   .4    (0.1)       (1.1)     4.9       8.9       6.9      8.2     9.0      9.6
Java                        6.7      4.2        1.5      6.0       6.7       9.9     10.9    11.6    11.8
Non-Java                   (11-.)  (10.9)      (7.6)    (37 )      (1.9)    (0<.)     1.7     2.6      4.1
Otrtine Ralto CO)
PW total                     91      100        104       64        61        eo       78      72       69
Java                        T7       a8          94       74        72        71       69      e6       64
Non-Java                     198     141        108      110        107      101       94      9o       as
Current ratio (tie")         1.8     1.1        1.4      1.5        1.8      2.0      2.2      2.8     2.8
Oabt/debt plus eqity M l     39.9    40.5      48.5     40.1       40.9     44.4     48.2    80.4    51.8
Self-ftinancng ratio (t)
Autual                   26.0     1.0        0.6      20.6      27.8     29.8     81.6    37.9    48.1
-ear avarage IS          10.8    10.7        6.7      6.0       16.5     26.6     80.0    a3.6   S8.A
Debt service coverage (tit_) 2.6     1.1        1.3      2.0        2.5      2.9      8.5      4.1     5.1
1* On ravolued rat. ba.
A Eacluding revaluation aurplus.
1* Threa-year aming average (currant plua tao previous years).



- 32 -
5.10     As mentioned i para. 5-3, the financial performance of PLN is
expected to deteriorate in 1988189 compared to 1987188. The operating ratio
for the Java operations is estimated to rise from 87Z in 1987188 to 942 in
1988189. With an estimated growth of about 352 in the rate base for 1988/89,
the ROR in that year for Java operations would decline to 1.52 from the 4.22
achieved for 1987/88, with PLN's ROR becoming negative (-l.l) and the annual
SFR remaining about 1Z.
5.11     With the adjustment of its tariff, effective April 1, 1989 (para.
5.3), PLN's financial position is expected to improve substantially in
1989/90, with the ROR for the Java operations rising to 82 and that of PLN as
a whole to about 4.9X, with an annual self financing ratio (SFR) of about 20Z.
PLN will achieve further improvements in its financial position through
efficiency gains, if the tariff is adjusted periodically to compensate for
changes in those costs that are outside PLN's control, such as fuel costs,
exchange rate depreciation and inflation. In the financial projections, which
are based on constant fuel prices, the tariff is assumed to be adjusted
annually by 42 for fiscal years after 1989/90 to absorb the impact of
increases in operating costs and in the rate base assumed in the financial
forecasts.
5.12     As reflected by its projected operating ratios, PLN's overall profit-
ability would improve substantially over the projection period, and its over-
all annual rate of return would rise from about 4.92 in 1989190 to about 9.62
in 1994195. The capital structure would remain satisfactory; the debt as a
percentage of debt plus equity (excluding revaluation surplus) would rise from
412 in 1987188 to 512 in 1994195. PLN's debt service coverage ratio would be
well in excess of 2.0 throughout the projection period. An existing covenant
under Loan 2778-IND requires that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, PLN
may not incur any additional debt unless a reasonable forecast of its net
revenues after expenditures for each year du_ing the term of the debt to be
incurred shall be at least 1.5 times its projected debt service requirements.
This covenant will continue under the proposed loan. PLN's current ratio is
expected to be about 2 times through most of the projection period; this would
provide adequate liquidity. With the projected level of financial
performance, PLN would meet the principal financial objectives underlying the
revenue covenant (para. 5.8).
5.13     The financial projections show that during the forecast period, the
profitability of PLN's Java operations would improve substantially, with the
operating ratio declining and the annual ROR rising, respectively, from the
estimated 94Z and 1.52 in 1988/89 to 742 and 82 in 1989/90, and thereafter
continuing to improve to 642 and 11.82 in 1994/95. Consequently, the Java
operations would meet from 1989190 onwards the ROR target of the revenue
covenant (para. 5.7). PLN's operations outside Java, however, would be unable
to achieve a financial break-even situation in 1990/91 (projected operating
ratio of 1072 and operating loss of Rp 55 billion), as required under the
revenue covenant (para. 5.7) agreed under Loan 2778-IND. Crucial to reaching
the financial break-even outside Java is the implementation by PLN of an
action plan for sales promotion, efficiency improvement and cost reduction in
the operation of a large number of isolated, scattered small systems (para.
5.7). Based on the current plans for system expansion and cost reduction, the
financial projections show that the operating ratio for the operations outside
Java would improve to 1012 in 1991/92 and a financial break-even would be



- 33 -
achieved in 1992193 when the operating ratio is projected to be 94Z. In view
of the above, under the proposed loan, the test year for the financial
performance targets in the revenue covenant is revised as follows:
(a) an annual rate of return of not less than 82 for the Java
operations in FY1989190 and fiscal years thereafter; and
(b) a break-even situation for the non-Java operations, beginning with
FY1992193.
5.14     In the financial projections, PLN's capital expenditures projected
for 1989190-1994/95 are derived from the investment requirements and least-
cost expansion plans discussed in paras. 2.8-2.9. These capital expenditures
(including interest during construction) total about Rp 29,110 billion
(US$17,123 million) in current prices. The financing plan assumed in the
financial projections for the Repelita V (1989190-1993194) is presented and
compared to that for the Repelita IV (1984185-1988189) in Table 5.4. Details
are given in Annex 18.
Table 5.4: COMPARISON OF PINANCING PLANS
Repelita IV               Repelita V
Fiscal year                         1984185 - 1988/89         1989190 - 1993/94
Billion Rp   (Z)         Billion Rp   (Z)
Capital expenditure                     9,017    100.0          21,865    100.0
Financed by:
Net internal sources La                 677      7.5           6,810     31.1
Borrowings                           4,752      52.7          10,985     50.3
Government contribution              3,588      39.8           4,070     18.6
Total                            9,017    100.0          21,865    100.0
la   Including consumers' contributions and deposits, and adjusted for changes
in working capital.
5.15     In the projected financing plan for the Repelita V (1989/90-1993/94),
the Government's contribution is estimated to be about 19Z, compared to about
402 for the Repelita IV period, with the annual contribution declining to 16X
in 1991/92, and to 91 in 1993194. PLN's own contribution from its internal
sources is projected to increase from about 72 during Repelita IV to about 312
during Repelita V, with annual SFRs increasing from about 202 in 1989/90 to
about 382 in 1993/94. Borrowings would cover about 502 of the financial
requirements during the Repelita V, almost at the same level as in the
Repelita IV.



- 34 -
Performance Monitoring
5.16     The revenue covenant agreed under Loan 2778-IND (para. 5.7), where
separate financial performance targets are adopted for PLN's Java and non-Java
operations, will be retained under the proposed loan. The target years,
however, would be revised under the proposed project, as discussed in
para. 5.13.
5.17     For monitoring the financial performance under the revenue covenants
for PLN's Java and non-Java operations, PLN has been providing the Bank, as
agreed during the negotiations of the loan for the Power Transmission and
Distribution Project (Loan 2778-IND), with separated historical financial
results (beginning with its fiscal year 1986187) and forecasts on a proforma
basis, but not separate audited financial statements. Accounting for PLN's
Java and non-Java operations is separate except for overhead expenses and debt
service payments, which have been difficult to separate except on a notional
basis. It was also agreed with PLN that, while initially the overhead
expenses and debt service payments could be allocated on the basis of unit
sales of energy, PLN will pursue the separation of debt service payments on
the basis of actual debt and related service payments. Simultaneously, there
is also a need to pursue a financing strategy that provides a higher
proportion of equity contribution and concessional funding to investments
outside Java, which have a higher social content. These objectives will be
pursued as a part of ongoing dialogue with GOI and PLN.
5.18     As an important step towards improved efficiency, PLN needs to obtain
a better understanding of the costs associated with its substantial socially-
directed activities (e.g., rural electrification), particularly in the
operations outside Java, which are not commercially viable and pose a growing
financial burden on PLN (paras. 5.4-5.5). To assess the impact on its
finances of such activities, PLN has agreed to implement a system for
segregating financial and operating information on rural electrification
activities both for Java and outside Java operations, which, as a first step,
will serve as a proxy for socially-directed activities. The data generated by
this system would provide a basis for the Government to assess the extent to
which it should assist PLN to sustain and expand the agreed socially-directed
electrification programs. Under the proposed loan, it was agreed with PLN
that such information will be compiled and submitted to the Bank, along with
the annual accounts.
Tariffs
5.19     PLN's current tariff schedules, which became effective April 1, 1989,
comprise 21 consumer categories, compared to 17 consumer categories in the
previous schedules.  A separate tariff category has been established for large
social institutions, and three new tariff categories have been established for
the hotels that were previously included in the industrial consumer
categories.  For all except the smallest domestic class, two-part charges are
applied. For medium and large industrial, and large commercial consumers, and
for large office buildings, time-of-day pricing is in effect. The current
tariff schedules and the history of past tariff increases are given in
Annex 20.



- 35 -
5.20     Under the Power Transmission and Distribution Project (Loan
2778-IND), agreements were reached that (a) PLN will periodically review its
long run marginal cost (LRMC) and tariff structure, and discuss the results of
the review with the Government and the Bank, and (b) before December 31 in
each year, PLN will review the adequacy of its tariffs to meet the
requirements of the revenue covenants (para. 5.7). Such a review will take
into account the results of the review of the LRMC-based structure and an
action plan for efficiency improvements to achieve, inter alia, the
requirements of the break-even revenue covenant for the non-Java operations
(para. 5.7). These covenants will be continued under thue proposed loan.
5.21     In September 1987, PLN completed a. study of its LRMC of supply in
Java, which was reviewed by the Bank. The study indicated that PLN's average
revenue in 1987/88 would have been Rp 106.3/k1Wh if the tariff of each consumer
category was set at the estimated LRMC of supply in Java. With the current
tariff schedule, PLN's average revenue in 1989190 is estimated to be
Rp 115.8/kWh. The current level of the electricity tariff is close to or
above the LRMC of supply for all categories of consumers except small social
institutions, and small residential and small industrial consumers. The above
mentioned LMRC study also indicated that there was a need to apportion a
larger percentage of the electricity price to the demand charge (fixed charge)
for all categories of consumers, and to increase the peak energy charges for
Several consumer categories, particularly for industrial consumers. Under the
current tariff effective April 1, 1989, the demand charge has been raised by
502 for all categories of consumers, and energy charges have been raised
significantly for both peak and off-peak uses of electricity. Two issues
remain in the current structure of tariffs. The first is the continuation of
the substantial cross-subsidy to small social institutions, small residential
consumers and small industrial consumers, all of whom continue to be charged
rates that are lower than the LRMC of supply; and second, there is scope for
recovering a larger portion of revenue through the demand charge (fixed
charge) rather than the energy charge. These matters will be kept under
review as part of the Bank's ongoing dialogue with the Government and PLN in
the context of the periodic reviews of the adequacy of electricity tariffs.
Taxes
5.22     In accordance with the prevailing tax legislation effective since
1984, PLN is subject to a 10? value-added tax (VAT) and to corporate income
tax. The Government currently bears the VAT on the foreign contracts, and PLN
bears it on the local contracts; this policy is assumed to continue throughout
the projection period. With respect to corporate income tax, the current
Indonesian tax code permits the use of accelerated depreciation of assets in
operation, instead of the straight-line method used by PLN in its financial
accounting. As a result, PLN does not expect to pay any corporate income tax
for its fiscal year 1988/89, and during the projection period. In calculating
the rate of return, however, any income tax payments will be taken into
account.
Financing Policy
5.23     The Government provides substantial financial assistance to PLN in
various forms, the most important of which is equity. PLN is authorized by



- 36 -
its charter to borrow from local and foreign lenders and to issue its own
obligations. However, in line with its policy for all State Corporations, the
Government secures all foreign borrowings on behalf of PLN and bears the
foreign exchange risk.
5.24     PLN prepares long-term development plans for corporate and national
planning purposes, and also prepares multi-year financial forecasts and
financing plans. Based on these plans, the Government approves PLN's capital
expenditures and the operating budget one year at a time. Although the system
of annual budget approval will continue, formulation of a long-term financing
strategy is essential in view of the inherently long-term nature of electric
utility planning; most investment projects in the electricity sector have a
multi-year execution period. Preparation of a long-term financing strategy,
where the parameters of the capital structure of PLN--including the shares
therein of PLN's retained earnings, Government equity and debt--are defined,
helps in more substantive policy discussions between PLN and the Government.
Therefore, an existing covenant (Loan 2778-IND) relating to this aspect of
financial planning will be continued under the proposed loan. This covenant
requires that, as part of its ongoing annual planning activities, PLN should
prepare a ten-year financial forecast based on its proposed development plan,
and also prepare for the first five years of the forecast period a financing
plan that should indicate the amount of external financing and the appropriate
mix of equity and debt, and if possible the potential sources of financing.
The covenant also requires that PLN's development plan, and related financial
forecast and financing plan should be reviewed and adopted by its Board, and
that these plans and the forecast should be submitted to and discussed with
the Government and the Bank.
5.25     It is desirable that PLN should bear the foreign exchange risk on the
Bank loan onlent to it by the Government. However, the Government has a
policy of bearing the foreign exchange risk for all the borrowings for the
public sector corporations (PERUM).  In the Bank's past loans in the power
sector, the Government had not accepted any fee in the onlending rate to PLN,
to cover the foreign exchange risk. However, as a step in this direction
under the proposed loan, the Government has agreed to charge fees to PLN, over
the Bank's standard variable interest rate, of 1.9Z to cover administrative
charges and a part of the foreign exchange risk (para. 4.21).
Asset Revaluation
5.26     PLN's assets have been revalued periodically.  The last detailed
revaluation was done in 1979180 as required of all public corporations under
instructions of the Ministry of Finance. The revaluation was recorded in the
books and was accepted by the Bank. Fixed assets acquired after March 31,
1979 are appraised at cost. Following the currency devaluation in September
1986, the Government issued Regulation No. 45/1986 dated October 2, 1986,
providing for the revaluation of assets of businesses and public corporations,
acquired through September 12, 1986. The Regulation specifies the annual
revaluation factors for the years 1970 to 1986 for adjusting the asset values
as of January 1, 1987, and corrorations had until December 31, 1987 to report
the revalued data. PLN has also prepared a revaluation of its assets for
1979/80-1986187 based on the Regulation; however, it has not yet been recorded
in the books. The methodology for asset revaluation was discussed during the



- 37 -
loan negotiations and found satisfactory to the Bank. A covenant under Loan
2778-IND, that requires PLN to revalue annually its fixed assets (including
work in progress and consumers' contributions) and accumulated depreciation
for the purposes of the rate of return and break-even calcalations under the
revenue covenant (paras. 5.7 and 5.16), is continued under the proposed loan.
VI. JUSTIFICATION
Primary Energy Options
6.1      The power sector offers the most important opportunity for reducing
the share of oil consumption and increasing the use of alternative sources of
energy. These alternate sources are: natural gas, coal, geothermal and
nuclear. Natural gas can, of course, take a substantial share of the power
generation provided it is available at a competitive cost and in sufficient
quantities. Proven reserves in Java would be fully committed after earmarking
about 65 billion cubic feet per year for fuel oil substitution in existing
plants and another 80 billion cubic feet per year for a 900 MM of capacity
increment needed in 1991-93. Any increase in gas utilization by the power
sector in Java above these levels would need to be based on the confirmation
of as yet unproven or unverified reserves onshore/offshore Java.
6.2      The geothermal development program has progressed, albeit more slowly
than anticipated. Exploratory work is continuing; however, lead time between
discovery of potential and actual exploitation for the generation of power is
usually long (about seven years). Also investigations on three fields so far
in Java (Salak, Dieng and Drajat) indicate that geothermal generation will be
more expensive than other available alternatives such as coal- and gas-fired
generating plants.
6.3      Studies on the possible role of nuclear energy have revealed that,
under most assumptions, the cost of nuclear generation is higher than that of
generation from co'nl-fired plants. Therefore, for the short to medium term, a
nuclear power progrsm cannot be justified on economic grounds.
6.4      Thus, the major least-cost options for power generation revolve
around a balance betv4en the use of gas, subject to availability, in combined-
cycle plants and the use of coal in steam plants. A risk-averse strategy for
the power sector, therefore, calls for pursuing the policy of a balanced
development of both coal and gas. The sector will act as the balancing
consumer of gas whenever nontradeable surplus is identified. Paiton coal-
fired plant is a .Art of that least-cost development plan.
6.5      Annex 4 shows the least-cost Generation Expansion Program for the
Java systems during 1988'89 to 1994195. The program is based on full
utilization of available gas from offshore fields in East Java for generation
up to 1,800 MW at Gresik and using coal for baseload generating capacity.
Demand Growth and Project Need
6.6      Taking into account the projects currently under implementation, the
forecast shows that available capacity would not be able to meet the demand



- 38 -
from 1992193 onwards unless new generating capacity is added to the system.
The deficit will be about 700 MW in 1992193 and 1,570 MW in 1994195 in
addition to Gresik combined-cycle generation of about 900 MW to utilize the
available gas. The Paiton units (800 MS) would meet a part of this need with
their commercial operation dates of September 1993 and March 1994. The
balance of the shortfall in generating capacity is expected to be met by the
expansion of the Suralaya Power Station or the Gresik combined-cycle plant.
6.7      The proposed project would support GOI's efforts to stimulate
production and employment in Java by helping to satisfy the demand of
electricity, and contribute to institution-building in the electricity, coal
and environmental subsectors. The Bank has been involved in the development
of this major thermal generation project at Paiton starting from site
selection, feasibility study, and design and engineering phases. The Bank's
support of the project will ensure timely implementation of generation
facilities.
Economic Rate of Return
6.8      It 's difficult to assess the benefits attributable to the specific
components of the expansion program in power projects that form a part of a
least-cost development plan. In such cases, it is appropriate to evaluate the
economic rate of return of the entire program rather than attempt separate
economic analysis of the components. For this project, an economic analysis
of the FLN's investment program in Java for the period 1989/90- 1994/95, of
which the current project is a part, was carried out. Annex 22 sets out the
details.
6.9      The economic analysis uses the investment costs for generation,
transmission and distribution facilities that would be put in place during the
period. Investments incurred prior to 1989/90, for the generating plants to
be commissioned in the same time slice, are included in the cost stream. A
shadow price factor of 0.8 is used for locally procured equipment and
materials which account for about 2OZ of the investments and a factor of 0.65
is used for unskilled labor which constitutes about 10 of the cost of the
program. The balance of the investment costs are not shadow priced since PLN
would import equipment and materials on which it pays no duties or taxes. The
foreign exchange rate is its shadow price in Indonesia due to an open foreign
exchange environment. The incremental fuel costs are derived from the
computer simulation of system operation for the period under study. Fuel
costs have been valued at economic prices derived in December 1988.
6.10     The benefits are derived by using the estimated incremental sales
that would result from the proposed investments. In addition to revenues to
PLN, consumer surplus has been quantified on the basis of 'willingness to pay"
of industrial and residential consumers.
6.11     The willingness to pay for industria' consumers is estimated by two
methods. One, there is ample evidence that industrial consumers &re willing
to pay the cost of electricity provided by captive diesel plant (para. 1.16),
which is in the range of Rp 120 to 200 per kWh, depending on the size of the
installation and the usage pattern. Considering PLN's average revenue per kWh
from industrial consumers of about Rp 90, the willingness to pay would be in



- 39 _
the range of 1.3 to 2.2 times the current tariff. In an earlier study, a
demand curve was constructed using available information which showed that
some industrial consumers were willing to pay up to three times PLN's tariff
and over 502 of them were willing to pay over 1.5 times the cost of PLN's
supply. Based on such a survey, the consumers' surplus for the industrial
consumers was estimated at 1.7 times PLN's industrial tariff. For the present
analysis, a factor of 1.5 is used.
6.12     Willingness to pay for residential consumers is estimated in a Bank
study entitled "Indonesia: Rural Electrification Review" (Report No.
6144-IND, November 1986). The study concludes that the willingness to pay for
residential consumers is of the order of 2.0 to 2.5 times the prevailing
tariff, mainly consisting of the benefits for substitution of kerosene for
lighting and other uses of electricity such as additional lighting, use of
electrical appliances and television. For the present analysis, a multiplier
of 2.0 is used.
6.13     PLN's average tariff to commercial consumers is relatively high
(about Rp 200 per kwh). Hence the willingness to pay is equated to the
current tariff. Similarly, for the Government users and public supply such as
street lighting and mosques, the willingness to pay may be no nigher than the
current tariff and the multiplier has been taken as 1.0.
6.14     The IEER for the investment program in Java works out to 222.  It
would fall to 202 if the investment costs increase by 102 or if sales decline
by 10X. The IERR, with only revenue at current tariff as a benefit, works out
to about 13?.
6.15     The financial rate of return (m) for th-: Paiton Thermal Power
Project is estimated at 102. The costs include investments on the plant as
well as the associated transmission and distribution facilities, incurred
between 1990 and 1995, and the operation, maintenance and fuel costs over the
life of the plant. The expected revenue from the sale of energy from the
Paiton plant is taken as the benefit. The calculations of IEER and PRR show
that the project is viable, both economically and financially.
Risks
6.16     The Paiton Thermal Power Project is similar to the coal-fired
Suralaya project financed under the eighth and ninth power loans; the
experience gained at Suralaya confirms that there are no technical risks
associated with the Paiton project. There is a risk of delay in the project
for two reasons: first, PLN will need to award the contracts on schedule; and
second, there could be inefficiency in implementation. The first is reduced
by the understanding reached with PLN and GOI on a time schedule for contract
awards. Regarding the second, PLN has gained considerable experience in the
management of such projects in the last few years and has developed competent
personnel for project management who will work with the consultants, already
in place, to manage the construction of the Paiton Thermal Power Project.



- 40 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A8reements Reached
7.1      During the negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
With GOI
Ca) the Government will furnish to the Bank, by December 31, 1989, an
action plan for the supply of coal to Paiton Thermal Power Plant,
and will implement it thereafter to eLsure that coal supply at the
rate of about 2.5 million tonslyear to Paiton is reached by March 31,
1994 (para. 4.12);
(b) the Government will ensure that the price of indigenous coal
delivered to Paiton is no higher than the equivalent price of
imported coal (para. 4.13);
tc) the Government shall employ consultants in accordance with a time
schedule satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.16); and
With PLN
(a) PLN will ensure tlat the award of contracts for the implementation of
the projects will be carried out in accordance with a the schedule
satisfactory to he Bank Cpara. 4.27).
7.2      The following agreements, reached during the negotiations, are in
substance the same as those reached under the Power Transmission and
Distribution Project (Loan 2778-IND) and the proposed Power Sector Efficiency
Project.
(a) Establishment of an energy pricing task force and an energy pricing
unit (para. 1.13);
(b) Coordination with private generation (para. 1.17);
(c) Review of PLN's development plans and investment program
(para. 2.10);
(d) Action plan for efficiency improvement (para. 3.8);
(e) Overdue electricity accounts of Government users (para. 3.14);
(f) Audited accounts and reports (para. 3.15);
(g) Revenue requirements (paras. 5.13 and 5.16);
(h) Debt limitation (para. 5.12);
li) Segregation of Information for Rural Electrification (para. 5.18);



- 41 -
(j) LRMC and tariff review (para. 5.20);
(k) Financing plan for the investment program (para. 5.24); and
(1) Asset revaluation (para. 5.26).
Condition of Effectiveness
7.3      Signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between GOI and PLN
(para. 4.21) will be a condition of the effectiveness of the proposed loan.
Recommendations
7.4      With the above agreements and understandings, the proposed project is
suitable for a loan of US$354 million for a period of 20 years including a
five-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, to the
Republic of Indonesia.



C~~~~i ISE
|t~~r- Xl I ,    X 
I-'ii    I \   1'iI'li
S~~~~~ iX E E
F~~~ F



ANNEX 1
43                                                              Chart 2
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POE PROECT
Ogonhaaton Chat of PIN
Ill ld                                            KNRegionR
Coorotroin                                                                                       PNRg  
Inspectorotate                                                                                   N    S b roM
Generahan and TronsmisAd**taW                                                                Sinxtcnclbn
| oh uDa                                           _   _                             7
Manectorde d                                                          PtNRee9  V
G ration  Co                                                                                     PN ReRrgtiono      I
Nost Suffmatra                                                                                       oUnma
Main Proec
Generation and Traonsnt    _Kmameol
SoAth umatr= Et.laipOun"
Jnib  and Twngntcutuh n Cniz
mJbn PoectP                                                                                                D
G er and Trans_tr on
Man  orecd(
Soiln  F                                                                                        Q  Rg  l
S -Cenda Jama
Matin PPOJeN
Mand                                                                                             RNReXI
Wn PFo __                                                                                        $l PeVN Eofff
Eesl JamCanter                                       Ce
MoWn od Sank.41187 
Mhdnc jed |m                     EMId PoLN Edxo   |n
HydMio                       Reeac Centeralwbo
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Srlf0ne DMntc Pr||                                                       I      ont|
|   Thanel Pager   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                                  J   Rta ~~~Wod onk418d



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Growth of PLN's Consumers and Sales
Fiscal                  Number of             Connected                Sales
year                   consumers             load MVA                 in GWh
1975176                1,140,745               1,426.4                  2,804
(5.02)               (13.0)               (14.72)
1976177                1,208,538               1,594.5                  3,082
(5.82)               (11.8?)               (10.12)
1977178                1,413,855               1,939.2                  3,527
(17.02)               (21.62)               (14.62)
1278/79                1,783,246               2,459.1                  4,287
(26.1Z)               (26.82)               (21.62)
1979180                2,246,657               3,063.4                  5,343
(26.0Z)               (24.62)               (24.62)
1980/81                2,745,176               3,744.2                  6,523
(22.22)               (22.22)               (22.1?)
1981182                3,232,075               4,502.8                  7,845
(17.7Z)               (20.3Z)               (20.32)
1982183                3,802,421               5,270.4                  9,101
(17.6?)               (17.02)               (16.02)
1983184                4,406,047               6,126.7                 10,000
(15.92)               (16.3Z)                (9.9z)
1984/85                5,133,231               7,120.7                 11,041
(16.52)               (16.2Z)               (10.4Z)
1985/86                5,953,293               8,149.9                 12,706
(16.02)               (14.52)               (15.1?)
1986/87                6,965,580               9,282.1                 14,786
(17.0Z)               (13.92)               (16.42)
1987/88                8,203,349              10,710.7                 17,077
(L7.82)               (15.42)               (15.52)
Sources PLN.



- 45 -                                                              -
PAlUh THi4A. PEg f RiJM
Geot, o emCotive Pa In I,donmela
o.fa *l tei do Jays                                                tenonib
Fleol    Cuwnicte4 Not conec-                      conected  eOe .e-                         ConqeOted Not conne-
Jenr     to PUr   ted to PW*   Total  Incerna       to PKm   ted to PWN   Toai  Incremr       to P0U   ted to PLU   Total  Increvee
-----(WVA)-CB)                            -    -      VA)                                       ("VA)----    (S)
1974/75                             -       -           - S62.7    1,447.6   2,070.8   18.0
1975/76        -          -         -       -           -           -         -       -          688.4    1,598.8   2.227.2   10.4
197s77         -          -         -       -           -           -         -8                 781.5    1,070.0   2,401.S    5.0
1sr/N          -          -         -       -           _           -         -       -          P07.1    1,757.1   2,574.2    7.0
1978/79        -          -         -       -           -           -         -       -          846.8   1,880.9   2,709.7    5.0
1n97/8-    -                   -        -         -           -               -       -          072.2    1,911.5   2.780.7    8.0
1980/81        -          - - _     _                                                             78. 1_980.6   2,608.9    0.9
1981/82        -          -         -       -           -           -                 -           79.?    1,933.9   2,818.6    0.2
19s2/s         -          -         -       -           -           -         -       -          900.8    2,078.1   2,973.9    5.7
198/84      91.o       918.2   1,9.2        -         212.2     1,486.5   1,686.7     -        1,888.2    2.874.7   s.so7.9   18.0
1984/85   1,21.4    1,088.0   2,074.4   12.8         289.7     1.847.8   1,687.5   (1.9)      1,811.1    2,480.8   8,711.9    5.8
195/8u    1,478.8    1,z22.2   2.702.0   80.8         888.5     1,888.8   1,716.8    4.8       1,857.     2,881.5   4,418.6   19.0
19e8/87    1,928.8    1,244.5   3,167.8   17.2        272.8     1,897.7   1,670.0   (2.7)      2,195.6    2.642.2   4,887.8    9.s
1987/88    2,095.8    1,180.1   8,225.4    1.8        884.1     1,514.6   1,84.7   10.7        2,429.4    2.844.7   5,074.1    4.8
Note: The above *%cludev the following mjor itetallotiona:
Krakateu Steel    (eat  la)          800.0 N
P.T. NCO         (PW)4 Region VIII)    20.8 No
ASAHAN           (PI Region II)      785.8 N
AMM LNO           KM Region          165.0 Mo
CALTrE Oil       (ew Region ffl)     272.5 No
Source: PWN.



- 46 -
Il!DONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Peak Load. Production and Intal led Cagacitl
Java Syte
Actual
1997/88  1988/80  1989/90  1990Q11  1991/92  1902/9/  193/94   19C4/9S
Sleso (G1h)                 13 ,88   16,845   17,647   20,293   13,285   26,488   30,065    88,978
EE.O of growth (3)           16.7     16.8      15.0     16.0     14.6     14.0     15.6       18.0
TnD lossec (X)              18.8      17.1    16.6      16.1    16.7      16.2      14.7      14.3
Gross   noeration (GWh)    17,678   19,701   22,617   26,787   29,166   82,762   86,477    89,988
System peak load (MW)      2,862    8,260    8,714    4,246    4,832    6,476    6,178       6,941
System load factor (7)         0        69        9       609      69       609       69        89
Installed Ca sclt (MIN)
Htdr  Powr Plnt
-VBal Power Flot1,286    1,238    1,286    1,285    1,286    1,285    1,2SS                  1,286
Wades Li ntang p1-2          0        16       16       16       16       16        16        16
Mrica #1-8                   0       60       180      180      180      180       180       180
Sengguruh                    0       29        29       29       29       29        29        29
Cirata                       0      6m0       600      F00      5W0      500       600       600
C5liomn                      0        0         0        0        0        0        10        10
Tulunao ung                  0         0        0        0        0        0        go        so
Kudungauno                   0         0        0       28       28       28        28        23
Subtotal                1.286    1.U40    1.960    1.98a   1_088    1.98S    2.023        2.023
Stea Power Plant
Res'ual OilI
Basis                  1,475    1,475    1,400    1,400    1,400    1,200    1,200       1,200
Greelk  -4                 0      400      400         0        0        0         0         0
Subtotl                 1 .476    1.876     . 800       14400    1.200    1.200           1.200
Natural Gas
Tres-ikt3-4,1-2            0        0         0      400      400      600       600       600
Subtotal                            0         a      400      400      600       600       6O
Coa I
tsis                      800      800      8OO      800       800      800      800       800
Suralays #8-6              0      400       800      300      800      800       800     1,400
Paoton #1-2                0        0         0        0        0        0       800       800
Subtotal                  800    1200    1.600    1.80       1.0        oo    2.400       8.000
Gas Turbine Power Plant
Distil lte uiI
- ihsls                  660      680       630      sao      580      680       680       44
Subtotal                  560      650       680     5C83      580      50        680       446
Natural Gas                  0        80       so       80       80       on        8p        80
Geothermal I Power P I ant
Kamo) ang t1-3            4lO        140      140      140      140      140       140       140
S lak #1-2                   0        0         0        0      110      110      1l1        11o
Orajat #1-2                  0        0         0        0        0      110       11o       11o
Subtotal                  140       140      140      140      260      860       go0       860
CobinCyCcle (Gas)
EstJava #1-8                 0        0         0        ki       0      600       900       900
Subtotal                     Q       Q         Q                 0      600o      900       O0
Total                   4.280    S26       6.110    6.188    6.243    6.9C8    8.098      8.708



- 47                                       At-  5
MO4ESIA
PAITON TIRNAL POWER PROJECT
Peak Load, Production and lnatalled Camaelty Outside Java
Actul
1987/68  198/91989/90 100/91 I01/02  0M/98  1993/94  1904/96
Sales (0wh)               8,670   4,387   5,050   5,819   0,697   7,061   8,786    9,889
---Ea of growth (S)       14.6    17.9    16.4    16.2    16.1    14.7    14.4    12.6
T&D looga  (X)           18.8    17.8    16.8    16.8    15.8    15.4    14.9      14.4
Gros generation (G0h)    4,728  .6,09   6,377   7,804   8,854   9,525  10,829   12,119
Syatem peak load (mm      971   1,104   1,261   1,487   1,621   1,844   2,081    2,827
Systa. load fctor (3)      55      67      50      so      59      69       59       so
Inslld Cacity (MU)
5W C                  18.19 .9   191.0   181.9   181.9   181.9   181.9   181.9    191.9
Mini hydro              0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.6    12.0    24.4      87.2
Too 1 91-4              0.0     0.0    10.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    18.0
Tangoari I              0.0    17.0    17.0   17.0   17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0
Tangpri ll              0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    19.0    19.0
Bakaru #1-2             0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   126.0   128.0   126.0    126.0
Subtotal             181.9   198.9   214.9   214.9   841.6   a52.9 j0 4.$    897.1
Dieel Power Plant     1,419.8  1.501.2 1.578.4 1.619.0 1.629.? 1.8011.1 1.79.2  1.681.7
Steam Power Plant
Natural Cao
Baa-a                 0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Kramsan 91-2          0.0     0.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    25.0
bELAWAN 91-2          0.0     0.0   130.0  180.0   180.0   180.0   180.0    180.0
Subtotal               0.0     0.0   S55.0   165.0   155.0   155.0  15.0    155.0
Co I
Feels                 0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Ombilin #1-2          0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0   100.0   100.0    100.0
Sukit Am 91-4        65.0   180.0   180.0   180.0   180.0   195.0   195.0   195.C
Balikpapan #1-2       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0   100.0   100.0    100.0
B.nJoraaain 91-8      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Subtotal              65.0   180.0   180.0   180.0   180.0   295.0   895.0    446.0
Resldual Oil
Baala               100.0   180.0   25.0    25.0    2S.0    25.0    25.0    25.0
Beloawn 98-4          0.0     0.0     0.0   180.0   180.0   180.0   180.0    180.0
Subtotel             180.0   180.0    25.0   155.0   165.0   165.0   156.0    155.0
Pet
Pontianak I           0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Subtotal                0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Gae Turbine Power Plant
Natural Gas
WMio                111.0   111.0   111.0   111.0   111.0   111.0   111.0    111.0
Payapaair 91-2        0.0    80.0    80.0    80.0    80.0    80.0    80.0    80.0
Selowan 91-2          0.0   100.0   200.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Subtotal              110.0   241.0   841.0   141.0   141.0   141.0   141.0    141.0
Distillate Oll
Basna                 188.0   158.0   138.0   188.0   188.0   138.0   188.0    188.0
Pandang                 0.0     0.0     0.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0      20.0
Subtotal                188.0   158.0   188.0   158.0   158.0   168.0   158.0    158.0
Comnbin dCle (Case)
Power *lint
Proexct                 0.0     0.0     0.0   800.0   800.0   800.0   800.0    300.0
Subtotal                  0.0     0.0     0.0   800.0   800.0   800.0   300.0    300.0
Total               2.140.? 2.484.1 2.677.8 2.872.9 8.010.2 83165.0 3.267.s  8.6B4.8



- 48 -                                 ANNEX 6
INJ %ESIA
PAITON THERM&L POWER PROJECT
Investment Program - Indonesia
(All costs in constant 1987 USS million)
Total
FY89190  FY90191  FY91192  FY92193  FY93/94  FY94195  FY90-95
Diesel
Foreign cost      21.5       15.2      6.8      8.7       8.0     11.0       71.2
Local cost         8.5        6.1      3.6       3.6      4.2      4.3       30.3
Gas turbine
Foreign cost      60.0        3.2      0.0      0.0       9.0     13.4       85.6
Local cost        25.3        0.3      0.0      0.0       2.0      1.3       28.9
ydro
Foreign cost      67.0       51.4     92.7    138.9    175.3    255.3       780.6
Local cost        39.1       35.7     61.9     76.3      99.2    140.2      452.4
Steam oil
Foreign cost      21.5       69.0     11.4     71.6      65.1     61.1     299.7
Local cost          4.6       2.8      4.9      8.1       8.6      9.1       38.1
Steam coal
Foreign cost     117.4      283.3    464.6    572.4    618.8    626.3   2,682.8
Local cost        54.2      109.2    168.5    200.2    219.3    221.1       972.5
Geo thermal
Foreign cost      29.2       17.2      8.1      5.1       6.0      9.2       74.8
Local cost         5.8        3.5      1.8      1.0       0.7      0.8       13.6
Combined cycle
Foreign cost       0.0      114.4    151.2     75.6      10.8      0.0      352.0
Local cost         0.0       16.4     27.2     18.9       4.2      0.0       66.7
Transmission
Foreign cost      68.0       48.4     56.5    103.6      60.4     49.3     386.2
Local cost        23.9       14.6     20.0     22.5      22.5     20.4      113.9
Substation
Foreign cost     111.8      107.6    112.3    129.4    161.1    165.4       787.6
Local cost        14.0       15.4     17.4     18.4      23.3     23.6      112.1
Consumer
Foreign cost      27.0       28.1     29.3     30.7      32.2     34.3     181.6
Local cost        27.0       28.1     29.3     30.7      32.2     34.3      181.6
MV Line
Foreign cost      67.7       76.9     85.5     94.0    102.0    109.1      535.2
Local cost        68.6       77.8     86.4     94.9    102.7    109.8      540.2
LV line
Foreign cost      42.2       47.8     53.1     58.4      63.3     67.8     332.6
Local cost        42.7       48.4     53.6     58.9      63.8     68.2      335.6
Dist transformer
Foreign cost      31.3       35.9     40.0     44.0      48.3     51.8     251.3
Local cost        31.3       35.9     40.0     44.0      48.3     51.8      251.3
Other investment
Foreign cost       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Local cost        20.2       25.8     32.5     38.2      39.8     42.8      199.3
Subtotal
Foreign cost     664.5      898.3  1,111.6  1,332.4  1,360.3  1,454.1   6 821.2
Local cost       365.3      419.9    547.4    615.6    670.8    727.8   3,346.8
Total        1.029.8   1,318.2  1,658.9  1,948.0  2,031.1  2,181.9  10,168.0
Note: Includes rural electrification.



- 49 -
ANNEX 7
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Investment Program - Java System
(All costs in constant 1987 US$ million)
Total
FY89/90  FY90/91  FY91192  FY92193  FY93194  FY94/95  FY9o-95
Diesel
Foreign cost          0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Local cost            0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0
Gas turbine
Foreign cost          0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       9.0    13.4     22.4
Local cost            0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       2.0     1.3       3.3
Hydro
Foreign cost         31.9     15.1      22.9      25.3      21.8    50.4    167.4
Local cost           13.4      7.4       9.8       8.2       5.5    14.7     59.0
Steam oil
Foreign cost          0.0     57.4       0.0      28.7       0.0     0.0     86.1
Local cost            0.0      0.1       0.0       0.1       0.0     0.0      0.2
Steam coal
Foreign cost         78.6    192.7    325.5      414.2    492.9   568.0  2,071.9
Local cost           43.4     85.6    133.8      168.7    197.7   209.8    839.0
Geothermal
Foreign cost         29.2     17.0       7.3       2.4       0.0     0.0     55.9
Local cost            5.8      3.5       1.7       0.6       0.0     0.0     11.6
Combined cycle
Foreign cost          0.0     86.4    151.2       75.6      10.8     0.0    324.0
Local cost            0.0     12.6      27.2      18.9       4.2     0.0     62.9
Transmission
Foreign cost         46.4     32.0      43.5      85.9      39.8    17.2    264.8
Local cost           13.2      8.3      13.3      14.5       8.9     7.2     65.4
Substation
Foreign cost         84.9     82.2      88.6     105.7    128.1   116.0    605.5
Local cost           10.3     11.9      13.9      15.0      17.0    17.6     85.7
Consumer
Foreign cost         19.2     20.0      20.9      21.8      22.8    24.2    128.9
Local cost           19.2     20.0      20.9      21.8      22.8    24.2    128.9
14V line
Foreign cost         45.5     51.8      57.7      63.9      70.4    77.0    366.3
Local cost           46.2     52.4      58.3      64.5      71.1    77.6    370.1
LV line
Foreign cost         29.2     33.2      36.9      40.8      44.9    49.0    234.0
Local cost           29.6     33.6      37.3      41.2      45.3    49.4    236.4
Dist. transformer
Foreign cost         24.4     28.1      31.2      34.5      37.9    41.5    197.6
Local cost           24.4     28.1      31.2      34.5      37.9    41.5    197.6
Other investment
Foreign cost          0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Local cost           11.9     17.6      22.7      25.7      25.8    28.0    131.7
Subtotal
Foreign cost        389.4    616.0    785.7      898.8    878.3   956.6  4,524.8
Local cost          217.5    280.9    370.1      413.7    438.1   471.1  2,191.8
Total            606.9    897.0  1,155.8   1,312.5  1,316.5 1,427.8  6,716.6
Note: Includes rural electrification.



- 50 -
IiAi nO4  PWa  PROJECT
B&I ParfanrMn Ind;catrar
1979/80    19tiO/U    1981/82    1482/88    19818/4    1984/65    198/66    196/87    1907/88
1. Intalled capacity (KW)               2.686      2,5t5      Sae2         .406 SS    9S5       4.815      5,685      6.200      5.421
2. Peak demnd ()                         1.276      1.577      1.876      2.265      2,413      2.608      2,946      8,40S       S,83S
S. Capecity qtiliasticn (2)*(1)          0.60        0.62       0.62       0.67       0.61       0.58       0.88       0.55        0.60
4. Energy production (W1)               7.004      8.420      10.130     11.847     1S.842     14,777     16.6u       19.455     22.305
5. Selee (oh)                          6S.4a        6.52s      7.84       9.1o01    1O.ttO    11.041      12.70       14.786     17.077
6. S growth in mias                      24.6       22.1        20.8       16.0        9.9       10.4       15.1       16.4        lS.5
7. Loies with stltIon mm (U)             28.7       22.5       22.6        28.2       25.8       25.8       24.8       24.0       23.4
eithoft stetion uoe (i)        19.5       19.1       18.7        19.1       20.8       20.6       10.8       19.6       l8.7
8. Number of eer                     2.246.8657  2.745.176  S.212.075  8.802.421  4.406.047  6.13S.291  5.958.293   6.5665.80  8,201,349
S groeth)                         (28.9)     (27.2)     (17.7)     (17.6)     (15.9)      (16.5)     (16.0)     (17.0)     (17.8)
9. Average revn, per k%h esld (Rp)       27.8       41.4        48.8       56.5       75.0       97.8       96.61      98.5       92.6
10. Average fuel cost per kWh eold (Ra)    9.4       14.8       16.2       28.4       58.8        62.4       54.4       48.3       50.6
11. Total  npoewr (eplqee)              so8.10o    32,51      85.791      89.962     44,909    4*.6t9      51.290     51.571     61.203
12. Conoumsr per eaye                       76         88         90         95         98         l0S        116        tS6        16O
1s. Sales per eaploe (IWh)                 177        198        219        228        228         222        248        287        334
14. Average fuel pw  gWh in central
tl.erl plenta (oil) (liter)         0.80       0.80       0.so       0.29       0.2?       0.29        0.29       0.29       0.30
15. Rote bae (Rt billion) ,a                 -        737        976       1.216      1,497      1,998      2,779      8.$67      6.093
16. Rate ot return an revalued
rote bes M                          -8.7        8.5       -1.9       -8.0       -0.9       -0.4      -4.8          8.4       -0.1
1?. Operating ratio (S)                    114        91        10         107         102        101        101         91        t00
18. Current ratio (time)                   4.8        4.5        S.4        2.4        2.2         2.8        2.1        1.8        1.1
19. Debt/emi ty ratio C3)                 7/98      10/90       14/86      17/6s      27/73      WAS/6      36/64      40/60      41/59
20. Debt service overage ratio
(ti MO)                               -          -        10.8        6.8        8.6        2.4        1.7        2.6         1.1
21. Self-financing ratio (S)
(S-year oving average)              20.0       28.4       29.9       S0.8       2S.6       18.8       12.2        15.8       10.7
22. overall cuetamra' eccounts
receivable (day'. sales)               6o         s6          74        a6         6a          58         51         48         47
A  eased on revlued e     .
Source: PIN.



ANNEX 9
- 51 -                           Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Design Features
General
1.       Paiton Steam Power Plant will initially consist of two coal-fired
generating units with each unit having a nominal rating of 400 MW. The first
unit is planned to commence commercial operation in September 1993, and the
second unit in March 1994.
2.       Coal from East Kalimantan will be delivered to the plant by ship on
the Strait of Madura. Mechanized ship unloaders will help unload and convey
the coal to the unit silos after being crushed. The coal will then be
pulverized in the mills and blown into the boiler furnace where it will be
burned. Part of the ash would fall to the bottom of the furnace as bottom ash
from where it will be sluiced out. Most of the ash, however, will be carried
in suspension by the flue gas. This fly ash will be separated from the gas
stream in the electrostatic precipitators and will be removed from the
hoppers.
3.       Air for combustion will be provided by the forced draft fans.  The
induced draft fans would take suction from the furnace through the precipita-
tors and blow the flue gas through the chimney out to the ambient atmosphere,
in accordance with environmental guidelines (Annex 10, Sec. ld).
4.       The plant will supply a major part of the power requirements for East
Java and will ultimately have a capacity of 4,000 MW consisting of 4 x 400 MW
units and 4 x 600 MW units.
Turbine Generator
5.       Units 1 and 2 will have a nominal capacity of 400 MW each.  Many
units in this size range have been manufactured worldwide. The turbines will
have seven stages of extraction for feed-water heating, and will be designed
for 169 kg/cm2 throttle pressure, 5380C live-steam temperature and 5380C
reheat temperature. The turbine generator will also be capable of operating
continuously at 51 overpressure.
6.       The design will include a turbine by-pass system consisting of a
high-pressure by-pass and a low-pressure by-pass. The turbine will also be
suitable for variable pressure operation. The generator will be hydrogen
cooled, with water-cooled stator windings.
Steam Generator
7.       The steam genera.or will be pulverized coal-fired.  There will be
five pulverizers sized such that four pulverizers will be capable of carrying
'1 I1 oil will be used during start-up.  The steam generator



- 52 -                            ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
will be capable of operating up to 302 load at full pressure on fuel oil only.
Fuel oil will also be used for flame stabilization when burning excessively
wet coal and/or at low loads. There will be two regenerative air heaters for
primary air and two regenerative air heaters for secondary air.
Coal Handling
8.       Coal will be delivered to the plant site by barges or ocean-going
vessels which will be moored at the site jetty. The coal will be unloaded by
mechanical means and transported to the boiler silos by belt conveyors,
undergoing weighing, sampling and crushing in the process. Coal may also be
diverted to yard stock-out facilities and reclaimed from reclaim hoppers.
Circulating Water System
9.       The circulating water system will be designed as an open-flume
arrangement with a minimum of pipe or conduit in the intake or discharge sys-
tem. Each pump-house structure will contain a bar grill with powered trash
rack, drum-type screens and vertical mixed-flow type circulating water pumps.
The structure will also contain auxiliary water pumps primarily used to supply
cooling water for closed cooling water-system heat exchangers. The condensers
will have titanium tubes and titanium tube sheets. Each condenser will have a
ball-type continuous tube-cleaning system.
Transmission Lines and Substations
10.      A double-circuit 500 kV transmission line (about 140 km) between
Paiton and Krian, and associated substations, will be constructed to evacuate
power generated by the Paiton plant. A 150 kV transmission line (about 100
km), between Probolinggo, Paiton and Situbondo with associated substations,
will also be constructed. The 500 kV substation at Paiton will be designed as
a gas-insulated substation.



- 53 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA
PAXTON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Environmental Aspects
An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) has been made for the Paiton
Thermal Power Project with regard to the likely effects of the plant on the
environment. The design of the plant for the fully developed capacity of
4,000 MW, has been made to ensure that the plant will meet the Bank's and
GOI's environmental guidelines in respect of various ecological factors. A
preliminary EIA has also been performed on the transmission lines to be
constructed under the project. These design features are discussed below:
1.       Air Quality
(a) Electrostatic Precipitators with a particulate removal capacity of
99.5Z are provided to prevent ash and dust particles from polluting
the environment.
(b) SO, emissions will be controlled by burning low sulfur coal. In
addition. a stack height of 200 meters has been selected for
effective dispersal of the flume.
(c) NOx levels will be controlled by the use of properly designed burners
and combustion system. SO, and NOx levels will not exceed the limits
laid down by the Government of Indonesia and the World Bank environ-
mental guidelines.
(d) A meteorological and air quality modeling analysis has been conducted
to define the expected ground-level air quality effects of the Paiton
plant. The analysis was carried out to delineate the likely impacts
of the plant, and to provide information on optimal stack heights,
pollution control requirements, and other design factors. Air
quality impacts have been investigated through a review of climatic
conditions in the Paiton site area, analysis of more than one-year of
detailed onsite meteorological measurements, and application of a
sequential hour-by-hour air quality dispersion model. The computer
model utilized on-site meteorological data to predict 24-hour maximum
pollutant (SO2, TSP and NO.) concentrations and annual average
concentrations in the regions surrounding the plant. The complex-I
model was developed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
specifically to treat dispersion from point sources involving complex
terrain, where sections of land areas surrounding the source may have
elevations as high or even higher than the emitting stack. The World
Bank guidelines allow a maximum of 500 micro g/m3 S02 concentration
for populated areas and 1,000 micro g/m3 for areas without human
settlements. Results of the modeling calculations have been inter-



- 54 -                             ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 5
preted in terms of probable plant impacts, with consideration given
to local meteorology, possible variations in fuel characteristics,l/
and potential plant expansions. Based on the data, it is predicted
that the annual arithmetic mean of the 502 concentration in the
populated areas will be 3 micro g/m3 only, with a maximum possible
24-hour concentration of 28 micro g/m3 (assuming full load plant
operation at 800 NW and average fuel sulfur content of 0.67Z), both
of which are well within the permissible limits. At an elevation of
approximately 450 m, 6 km south south-east of the plant location, the
maximum 24-hour average S02 concentration is predicted to be 487
micro g/m3, although the annual arithmetic mean at the same location
is 26 micro g/m3 only. The nature of the topography around the plant
is such that this particular location happens to be on top of a
hillock, that is a reserved forest under the Department of Forestry
where there is no human settlement. Table 1 presents the maximum
predicted S02 concentration, for 24-hour and annual periods, for
three different plant sizes.
11 The characteristics of Kalimantan coal are predicted to be as follows:
Kalimantan Coal Ultimate Analysis
(as received)
Average (Z by weight)
Moisture                          5.1
Carbon                           60.7
Hydrogen                          4.9
Nitrogen                          1.1
Chlorine                          0.01
Sulfur                            0.67
Ash                              17.5
Oxygen (Diff)                    10.0
I by weight                 100.00
Average sulfur in South Sumatra (Bukit Asam) coal: 0.652 by weight
Average sulfur in imported Australian coal: 0.27Z by weight
Average hardgrove grindability index: 37



- 55 -                              ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 5
Table lt PREDICTED GROUND LEVEL S02 CONCENTRATIONS
(micro g/m3)
High terrain
Populated areas                       (>300 m MSL)
Number of                               Annual                       Annual
units        MW       Max. 24-hr   Arith. Mean    Max. 24-hr  Arith. Mean
2          800          28             3             487           26
4        1,600          56             6             966           52
8        4,000         114            12           1,96,2         106
In light of the data analysis and the predicted levels of S02
concentration, it is considered unnecessary to provide flue gas
desulfurization (FGD) equipment for the first two units at Paiton.
This will represent a saving of S80-100/kW in capital investment at
the initial stages of development of the Paiton project. FGD
equipment may, however, be necessary for future units. To maintain
the highest concentrations of S02 within a limit of 1,000 micro g/m3
per the environmental air quality guidelines for areas with no human
settlement, 661 sulfur removal would be required in the remaining six
units.
(e) Provision for the installation of emission monitoring instrumentation
in the stack kas been made.
2.       Liquid Effluents
(a) The thermal pollution guidelines have been met by limiting the
temperature rise across the condenser and the proper design of the
circulating water system. The maximum temperature rise across the
condenser and the auxiliary cooling water heat exchangers is 8.50C.
The distance from the condenser to the circulating water discharge
structure is 1.5 km. The average ambient sea water temperature
varies between 280C and 300C. A thermal dispersion model analysis
has been performed that indicates that the maximum rise in the
surface temperature of sea water due to circulating water discharge
would be about 20C with full production of 4,000 MK at Paiton. This
temperature rise is well within the permissible guidelines for the
protection of marine life.
(b) Liquid chemical effluents from the Water treatment plant.
Demineralizing plant, Boiler blowdown and Air preheater wash will be
controlled by the use of a properly designed waste water treatment
system. The liquid wastes at full plant capacity will amount to
approximately 50 m3/day and the pH of the effluent will be anywhere
between 1 and 14, depending on the specific ion exchanger being
regenerated at the demineralizing plant. These effluents will be
conditioned in a neutralizing tank to a pH between 6 and 9 before



- 56 -                             ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 5
being discharged into the circulating water discharge channel where
they will be rapidly diluted prior to entering the sea.
(c) Sanitary waste water will be treated in a sewage treatment plant.
(d) Oil separators will be installed in the waste water treatment plant
to minimize oil discharge.
(e) To ensure minimum water usage, and consequently minimum water
discharge, the ash is collected and discharged almost in a dry state.
Some ash, however, would fall into a water-filled trough located at
the bottom of the furnace. Drag bars will remove this bottom ash up
an inclined plane where the ash will be dewatered by gravity. No
waste water will thus be produced from the ash system.
(f)  The condition of the ground water quality at the disposal site will
be monitored on a continuous basis.
3.       Solid Wastes
(a) Both bottom ash and fly ash will be disposed of dry. The disposal
area is located south of the public highway to the west of the plant
area. The disposal area consists of hilly terrain where the top
layer basically consists of clay with thickness varying from 20 cm to
40 cm underlain by layers of clayJbSlty clay interbedded with
boulders.  Fly ash and bottom ash wiil be spread and compacted in
layers following the existing grade in the disposal area. Perimeter
drainage ditches and/or berms will be constructed around the active
disposal area to divert the sur.ace run-off from the surrounding area
away from the disposal area to settling ponds to settle out the
suspended solids prior to disposal into the sea. Since the clay
layer will prevent leachate entering into the ground water table,
contamination of ground aquifers will be prevented.
(b) Dust containment and suppression methods will be used in the coal,
ash handling and water treatment facilities. Bag filters and water
sprays mixed with chemical wetting agents will minimize dust from
coal, ash, lime and alum handling areas to remain within specified
limits.
(c) The coal storage area will be surrounded by drainage ditches that
will carry runoff to a settling pond. The function of this pond will
be to collect and treat runoff from the coal pile area, which is
characterized by high suspended solids concentration and low pH. The
pond will be lined with at least 750 mm thick layer of clay. The
overflow from this pond, neutralized and having a suspended solids
concentration of less than 200 mg/l, will run into the sea.
4.       Coral Reefs.  Marine investigations reveal that, in general, the
coastal area of Paiton is not rich in biological species. Evidence of some
coral reef formation has, however, been found in the vicinity of the site. A
lighthouse will be erected in this area to protect the coral reefs from coal-
carrying barges and ships.



- 57 -
ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 5
5.       EHV Transmission Line.  Construction of a 500 kV transmission line
between Paiton and Surabaya (Krian), as well as the 150 kV line, are not
expected to pose any major environmental problem.  The routes do not run
through either heavily populated or protected foiest areas. The routing of
the transmission lines will be so selected as to avoid disruption to human
settlements. Only the land required for the towers will be acquired by PLN.
No major resettlement component, as a result of such acquisition, is expected.
A preliminary survey of the routes and the tower-spotting studies have been
completed, which indicates that the implications of the line construction on
the environment are not significant. A detailed EIA is scheduled to be
completed by October 31, 1989.



- 58 -                                                     ANNEX 1
INONESA
PAITON POWER THERMAL PROJECT
Cefor Patton Untie 1 A 2
(US8 000 ln De nme  'n8 Prices)
Contract                                                  Unit 2                  Unit 1               Unit 1   2
no.          Contract description              Coval Forelgn    T    Local Foreign  Total  Lcasl  Foreign  Total
FCO1    Turbine- nerstore & auxiliaries           1.4    54.8    56.2    0.3    48.7    44.5    2.2    98.5   100.7
FCW2    Steaw-generntore & suxiliari.e           19.8    75.2    95.0   16.9    60.5    76.6   35.8   115.7   171.6
FCW4    Ash handling system                       0.5     6.0     5.5    0.5      4.9      6.4    1.0     9.9    10.9
FCOS    Coal handling systom                      2.8    19.2    22.0    1.0    12.8    18.7    3.8    31.9    36.7
FCOs    Water tretment plsnt                      1.1     5.2     0.8      -       -        -     1.1     5.2      6.8
FCO7    Mechanical A electrIcal works             3.9    28.2    82.1    2.6    21.6    24.8    6.6    49.7    56.3
Fc0o    Instrumentation A controls                0.2     4.8     6.0    0.2      4.0     4.2    0.5      0.8      9.2
FCW9    EHV transformers                          0.8     5.7     6.0    0.2      2.7     2.9    0.5      8.4      8.9
FCIO    Paiton A Krten substation                 2.8    24.1    26.4    0.05    0.1      0.15   2.3    24.3    26.6
FCII    HV transformers                           0.1     1.9     2.0    0.1      1.8      1.4    0.2     3.3      8.4
FC12    Chiaey                                    1.0     2.9     3.8    1.0      2.8      8.8    2.1     5.6      7.7
FC13    Marine works                             39.6    47.9    67.6      -       -        -    39.6    47.9    87.6
FC14    Steel structures                          1.0     7.1     6.1    0.6      6.0     5.4    1.6    12.0    ;3.6
FC15    Civil works I-power house                 9.7    12.1    21.8    4.9      6.3    11.2   14.6    18.4    32.9
FC1I    Mobile equipment                          0.1     8.0     3.1    0.06    2.5      2.56   0.1      5.6      5.6
LCOI    Site preparation                         10.8      -     10.6    0.5       -      0.6   11.8       -     11.3
1C02    Piling                                   10.8      -     16.8    6.3       -      6.3   23.1       -     2381
LCOS    Civil works U1 - site                     7.2      -      7.2    7.5       -      7.6   14.7       -      14.7
LCO4    Site finishing                            1.9      -      1.9    2.1       -      2.1    4.0       -      4.0
LCOS    Tanks                                     0.6      -      0.6    0.1       -      0.1    0.7       -       0.7
LCO6    Equipment unloading dock                  8.7      -      3.7      -       -        -     3.7      -       3.7
LCO7    Ash disposol ares                         6.3      -      6.8    0.7       -      0.7    7.0       -      7.0
PCO1    500 kV lines (Pit.on-Krian)              12.4    41.4    53.8      -       -        -    12.4    41.4    53.8
PCO2    150 kV lines & equipment (supply)          -      S.9      8       -       -        -      -      8.9     8.9
PC03    150 kV lines & equipment (install)        4.1      -      4.0      -       -        -     4.1      -      4.1
PC04    Water supply system                       6.0      -      6.0    0.8       -      0.8    6.8       -      6.3
PCOS    Main highway reloltion                   1.4      -      1.4      -       -        -     1.4      -       1.4
PCQ8    Substation site prpration                 4.5      -      4.6      -       -        -     4.6      -      4.5
PCOT    Permanent housing                         4.0      -      4.9      -       -        -     4.9      -       4.9
PCOS    Personnel service vehiles                 0.1      -      0.1      -       -        -     0.1      -      0.1
UCO0    Land                                      5.0      -      6.0      -       -        -     6.0      -       6.0
UC02    Owner' management                         6.1      -      4.9    8.6       -      8.5    8.7       -       8.7
UCOS    Construction facilities                   5.4      -      6.2    2.2       -      2.2    7.6       -       7.6
UC04    Engineering and construction
managment                                6.7    82.2    41.0    8.1    17.3    20.4    9.7    49.6    68.2
Total Base Cost                   165.6   879.68   66.2   U4.    185.8   239.6  240.0   564.8   804.8
Physical contingency L.                 19.9    29.0    48.9    5.3    12.0    17.8   26.2    41.0    68.2
Price contingency /b                    43.8    59.0   102.8  18.1    35.1    51.2   59.9    94.1   164.0
Tot l Cost                        249.3   467.6   718 9   75.7   232.4   808.1  825.0   700 0 1,026.0
io  Average 10X on local costs and 7X on foreign costs.
Inflation factors (1)  Year         19S9       1990    1991 onwards
Foreign     5.8        5.8         4.1
Local       9.0       8.0          5.2



-59-                                            ANMEX 12
Pg 1i of 3
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Summary Scon. of major Contract Patkowss
Covered bv Contract Packs. Mos..
Work Description                            Foroign Contrracts                 Loca  Contracts
1.   Sit. Preparation, Sit. Finishinf,             10, 13, 14                        01, 02, 08, 04 PLN
Substations Sit. Improvement, Ash
Dispoal Area Development
2.  Roads S Parking, Accoss Road for Ash           18, 16                            01, 03, 04
Olsposal Area
8.   Permanent Drainage Waste Water, Coal          18, 16                            01, 02, 03, 04
yard drainage, Sanitary System
4.  Site Socurity                                                                    01, 04, 06
S.  Shore Protection                               13, 1C                            01, 04, PLN
6.  Unloading Dock, Coal Jetty                     13                                PLN
7    Well Water System PuMp Station, District                                        PLN
Pipeline, facilities
S.  Percanent Warehouses                           16
0.  Structures for Boiler, Ash Handling,           02, 04, 06, 07, 14, 16, 18        02, 08
Precipitators and Fans, Fuel Oil
Handling, Aux. Boiler, misc.
10.  Stack (Chimney)                                12                                02
1.  Equipment Buses, Transformer Str., Bus         6, 10, 15                         02, 03
Duct and Support Str., Substation Yard
Str., Die7sl Generator Structures
12.  Turbine Room, Turbine Foundation               01, 07, 14, 16                    02
13.  Control Building, Substation Control           06, 07, 10, 14, 15                02
Bldg., Yard Control Bldg.
14.   Civil A Str. Work - Probolinggo                                                 PUN
16.  Bldgs. for Wasto  Water Treatment, Water       01, 06, 0?, 14                    02, 08, PLU
Treatment, Chlorination, Hydrogen, Fire
Station, Mosque, Machine Shop and Stores,
Admlnistrotion, Central Lab
;      16.   CW Pumphouse, Discharge Channel and            18, 15                           08, PLN
Ba  in, Intake Str., Intake Channel and
11.   Coal Transfer Houses, Crusher Houses,         05, 15                            02, 08
Unloading to Stockout Support Str.



- 60 - 
ros 2 of a
Covered by Contract Package Nos.
Work Ossoriptlon                            Faorein Contracts                 L"oaI Contracts-
18.   Housing, General Facilities, Services                                           PLN
19.  Water, Steam, Air and Us Circuits, Fuol        02, 07, 08                        05
Firing, Steam Gsnerator AuxilIaries,
Primary Stem, Auxiliary Steam
20.  Bottom Ash, Fly Ash, Ash Disposal,             02, 04                            07
Particulate Removal System
21.   Steam Turbine and Gonerator, Turbine          01, 07, 08
enewrator Auxi lI ries
22.   Condensing, Condensat, Feod Water and         01, 02, 0?, 08                   0o, 05
Extraction Steam Vents and Drains
23.  Main Generator Output, WV, LV and DC           01, 05, 07, 09, 11                03
Power Dist, UPS, Emergency Power Supply
24.   Motor Control, Station Grounding and          05, 06, 07, 12, 1S                03
Lighting System
25.   Cable Troy and Cabilng Systems                02, as, 08, 07, 10                08
26.   Comaunlcation S estam                         as
27.   Fire Protection and Cathodic Protection       05, 07, 10                        02
28.  Paiton and Krian Substations (500 kV,          09, 10, 11
150 kv), and Aux. Systems
29.  Probolinggo and Situbondo Substations                                            PLN
a0.  Polton - Krion 500 kV Trans. Lines                                               PLN
Polton - Probolinggo and Palton -
Situbondo 160 kV Transmission Lines,
Steel Towers
S1.   Controls for Stem Generator                   02, 07, O8
82. Turbine - Generator Monitoring and
Controls, I A C for Water Induction
Prevention, Control Panels and Desks,
Plant Computer, Coordinated Load Control,
Electronic Controls and Interlocks
83.   Water and Steam Sampling, and Analysis        07



- 61 -
ANNEX 12
Page 8-   8
Covered Jb Contract Packaso Nos.
Work Description                             Foreign Contracte                 Local Contracts
84.    I A C for Coal Handling, Cire. Water,          01, 02, 04, 06, 06, 07, 08        02, 08, 05
Water Treatmnt, Water Condtlloning,            10, 14, 16
Water Servicela, Fire Protection,
Compressed Air, Vacuum and Gas
86.  Ventilation and Air Conditioning                02, 04, OB, 07, 10
88.  Liquid Wastes                                   as                               0O
87.   Materials Handling                             04, 06, 07
88.   Mobile and Portable Equipment, Bldg.           01, 06, 07, 16
Equipment and Furnishing, Central Lab.
Equipment
89.   Miscellaneous Piping                           1S                                08
40.   Ship Unloading and Stockout, Crusher           05, 18, 16
House Supply Unit Silo Supply and Common
Systems
41.   Temporary Construction Facilities                                                01, 08
42.   Engineer's and Owner's Facilitios                                                PUN
48.   Spare Parts                                    01, 02, 04, 05, 06, 07, 08        05
09, 10, 11, 12, 16



INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Implementation Schedule: Units 1 & 2
1987           lees              1989              1990              1991              1992               1993              199SS
2  3  4  1 2  3  4  1  2  3 4  1 2  3I    1  2 13 I4  1 l2 1 3                                            l2  3           1 l2  3   4
1. Ste P1epamation
2. Coaln  Tanllina P lan t                                                     II
13. CinlWrstueaio W& Coantrols.1W .        1 
14. StelSransfores
15. Substlationg VtrS ytmW
*.*.m....s.u  Egneeing                                             v7  BId Isue              FCL Pull CommrctiaJl Loaid|
"*@|@g|*||@@*BIdding Cycle                                    W   Contract Awrd         HV: Higt SVolage 
-.-.-.- - Bid Ealuatbon                                               n itJt Compbete        EHV Extra Hig Voltage 
A        d nPactrg Devery CostructIn   C o              s                                   SST: StatIon ServIce Transformer                                                ,
11. ~ ~   ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       i Marin  Workst W  4                                                                               448a



- 63 -                              ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 5
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
I. SCOPE AND WORK PROGRAM
1.       Under the proposed technical assistance program, the Consultant's
work will cover, but not be limited to, four major areas, namely, training,
planning, institutional development, and data management system.
A. Training
2.       The Consultants will be required to provide on-the-job training to
their counterparts in the Ministry of Mines ard Energy, or their designees
drawn from other departments under the Ministry, in the following subject
areas: environmental screening of development projects; an EIA study
conforming to the guidelines formulated for the control of the environment;
review of EIA reports submitted by project proponents; monitoring of the
implementation of EIA recommendations during both construction and operation
phases of the projects; integration of EIA with development planning at the
project, regional, provincial and sectoral levels; and management and
administration of EIA activities. In addition, the Consultants will be
required to conduct at least two in-house training workshops to complement the
above hands-on program. These workshops are expected to be of two to three
days duration with about 30 to 40 participants.
B. Planning
3.       The Consultants will be required to help the Ministry of Mines and
Energy (MME) develop guidelines for environmental protection and management in
the energy sector and its capability to deal with EIA requirements, including
initiation of studies, analysis of reports, formulation of action plans, and
enforcement of the environmental regulations. Additionally, the Consultants
will help the Ministry prepare operational programs for the EIA Working
Groups, training of personnel and development of institutional support, such
as the appropriate use of the Management Information System.
C. Institutional Development
4.       The Consultants will assist the MME in initiating institutional
development for implementing the ETA program including arrangements for:
(a) the coordination of activities of the Working Group of each Directorate
General in the Ministry to ensure the consistency of their EIA program
implementation procedures and the cross-sectoral cohesiveness, thereby
simplifying the review process; and (b) interagency coordination and
cooperation to ensure the effectiveness of the ETA program.
D. Data Management System
5.       The Consultants will assist MME in setting up a data management
system for supporting the EIA program including recommendations on the use of
existing resources of the Ministry to manage the program.



- 64 -                              ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 5
6.       In performing these tasks, the Consultants will work in close
association with their MME counterparts so that, together, they will comprise
the Working Groups charged with the responsibilit; of carrying out the EIA
program. This working arrangement would ensure the necessary transfer of
skills from the consultants to their counterparts.
7.       The consultants will comprise three foreign experts and one local
expert. Two of the three foreign experts will serve as EIA advisors with one
of them serving as the Team Leader. The Team Leader will work directly with
the Secretariat, and, as needed, with the Minister of the Ministry of Mines
and Energy, and other Government agencies. These advisors, working with
Working Groups, and other designated staff, will divide their available time
among the various Directorates General. The third foreign advisor will be an
expert in Management Information Systems who will advise the Ministry on
establishing an environmental data manag3ment system for the purpose of
monitoring compliance with the program. The local EIA consultant will assist
the Team Leader in project coordination and training.
II. SPECIFIC TASKS
8.       The initial task of the Consultants will be to develop a specific
work plan to allocate appropriately their time and responsibilities among the
Working Groups. The objective is to make optimal use of the consultants' time
and expertise. This initial task will be the substance of the Inception
Report.
9.       The above areas of work required of the consultants would involve,
but not be limited to, the specific tasks set out belows
A. Training
(a) Methodology for environmental screening of projects, including the
use of the Initial Environmental Evaluation process, to determine the
need for detailed EIA.
(b)  H4ethodology for formulating a pragmatic EIA study including preparing
terms of reference, identifying required expertise, estimating inputs
required with minimum but sufficient use of expatriate skills to
ensure acceptable results, and implementation planning.
(c) Methodology for preparing critiques of draft ETA reports, for
reviewing these with the project proponents and for ensuring that the
needed environmental management provisions are included in the ETA
and in the project feasibility study.
(d) Methodology for ensuring that the environmental management measures
to be observed during the construction period will be complied with.
(e) Methodology for preparing cost effective environmental monitoring
programs following completion of construction, as the project goes
into operation. Institutitonal aspects for reporting and distribution
of monitoring results should alre be included so that pertinent



- 65 -                               ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 5
agencies will be kept informed and that necessary corrective measures
can be taken by the appropriate authorities in the event of non-
compliance.
(f) Review and preparation of critiques of all available ETAs done to
date on energy-related projects in Indonesia within the area of
interest of the Working Groups (to be done as part of the initial
work program).
(g) Conducting at least two in-house training workshops (with
participation by pertinent Bank staff and others, if possible). The
local consultant will translate the workshop proceedings into Bahasa
Indonesia in a training module format for use at the provincial
level.
B. Planning
(a) Assessment of needs for academic and practical training for
environmental staff of the MME Directorates, PLN and other agencies,
including needs for training in ZIA technology for field staff.
(b) Assistance in planning for the establishment of an appropriate
environmental library containing guidelines for environmental
protection and management in the energy sector for the Commission's
Environmental Team and Working Groups, including suggestions on
practical ways for continuing procurement of significant reference
materials.
(c) Preparation of detailed ZIA Manuals appropriate for use by the
particular Working Groups, including use of formats that will meet
the needs of the Directorates General, as well as the individual
Directorates.
(d) Assist the Ministry in continuing appraisal of the program
implementation capabilities of the NME environmental staff so that
optimal use of these personnel can be made and that, those who
deserve merit, receive proper guidance in their career development
needs.
(e) Assistance in planning the use of standard equipment of approved
quality for control and monitoring purposes so that data processing
requirements are simple, maintenance procedures are streamlined and
spares inventory is substantially reduced.
(f) Making arrangements for use of specialist consultants on specific
problem areas.
(g) Preparation of an operational program for the NME, the Directorates-
General, and the Working Groups.



- 66 -                               ANNEX 14
Page 4 of 5
C. Institutional Development
(a) Coordination of the assistance given to each Working Group to meet
the overall needs of the program, including maintenance of optimal
relationships on project implementation with other implementing
agencies.
(b) Preparation of an appropriate system for gradinglevaluation of the
Elk capabilities of private sector firms and for licensing of firms
considered qualified to carry out EIA projects.
(c) Assistance in developing methodology for relating already completed
studies to ongoing or planned regional development projects.
(d) Review and assessment of the present MME environmental staff
organization, and the extent of financial and budgetary support it
commands.
(e) Assistance in designing the most appropriate institutional
arrangements for meeting the EIA program implementation requirements
with particular attention to the organizational efficiency and
general staffing requirements of the MNE Environmental Team and the
various Working Groups.
(f) Identification of the technical and managerial skills that will be
required by MME for conducting an effective EIA program and assess
existing staff capabilities for meeting such requirements.
Sg) Identification of training needs and formulation of a training plan
(short- and long-term training) including short-term overseas
training and on-the-job training.
(h) Assistance to the Ministry to determine an effective approach for
strengthening the EIA capabilities of related agencies whose
cooperation will be needed by MHE such as, other implementing
agencies, university environmental centers, and private consulting
firms.
D. Data Management System
10.      The MIS should include procedures and guidelines for ensuring close
communication between MWE and other agencies so that the information obtained
from the HIS is not only fully disseminated among participating agencies, but
is used effectively to enforce the environmental management plan. The work
will includes
(a) Review of the existing data management system in the energy sector to
prepare recommendations on the strengthening of the system to support
the EIA program.
(b) Assist in establishing au appropriate computerized data bank storage
and retrieval system for management of the data on environmental
quality, that are obtained from the continuing EIA program, and that



- 67 -                               ANNE  14
Page 5 of 5
are also compatible with the overall needs of the Ministry. This
will include an evaluation of the compatibility of any existing
computers that are in use.
(c) Evaluate environmental monitoring data to determine its usefulness in
improving control standards in existing projects and in planning new
projects, as well as in periodic reorientation of the monitoring
programs to make them more cost effective.
(d) Recommend the present and future training needs for the application
of computer programs for information system operation and information
management.



- 68 -                                ANNEX 15
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POiWER PROJECT
Schedule for Contract Awards
Bid              Contract
No.          Name                                 Issue             Award
FC01     Turbine Generators                        Finalized        08189
FCO2     Stezm Generators                         Finalized         08/89
FC04     Ash Handling                              12/89            07/90
FC05     Coal Handling                             06189            0190
FC07     Mech. & Elec. Works                       01/90            09/90
FCO8     Instrumentation and Control               12/89            08/90
FCO9     EHV Transformers                          06/89            01/90
FClO     Substations                               06189            01/90
FC1l     H.V. Transformers                         09/89            03/90
FCl2     Chimney                                   09189            03/90
FC13     Marine Works                              07/89            02/90
FC14     Steel Structures                          01190            09/90
FCl5     Civil Works I                             11/89            07190



-69-                              ANNEX 16
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POMER PROJECT
Key Construction Dates
Unit 2         Unit 1
1.  Complete Turbine Foundations                         04191          10/91
2.  Complete Boiler Foundations                          04/91          02/92
3. Complete Circulating Water Pumphouse
Foundations                                        02/91          10/91
4.  Start Steel Erection                                 04/91          1191
5.  Start Boiler Erection                                04/91          09/91
6.  Install Turbine Room Crane                           02192               -
7.  Start Turbine-generator Erection                     04/92          10/92
8.  Complete Piping Installatio-                         12192          05/93
9.  Complete Condenser Erection                          01/93          06193
10. Vacuum Test                                          04193          10/93
11. Complete Instrumentation and Control
Installation                                       05193          11/93
12. Coal Handling Systems  Start                         03192          06/92
Complete                     07/93          01194
13. Ash Handling System:   Start                         04/92          10/92
Complete                     07193          01/94
14. Water Treatment Plant Installation:  Start                   07191
Complete               07/92
15. Complete Marine Works                                        07193
16. Provide Startup Power                                        02/92
17. Complete 500 kV Tranmission Lines and Substations            01/93
18. Energize 500 kV  Transmission Lines and Substations          04/93



-70 -                               ANNEX 17
INDONESIA
PAITON ?HERMAL POVER PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Bank                                Disbursement                   Indonesia Profile
FY      Semester        Semester    Cumulative        X            (Power) ?
1990         I              0.0           0.0          0.0
II            15.0          15.0           4.2                0
1991         I             15.0          30.0          8.5                -
II            15.0          45.0          12.7              6.0
1992         I             30.0          75.0         21.2                -
II            45.0         120.0          33.9            20.0
1993         I             52.0        172.0          48.6                -
II            50.0         222.0          62.7            43.0
1994         I             43.0        265.0          74.9                -
II            30.0         295.0          83.3             72.0
1995         I             25.0        320.0          90.4                -
II            20.0         340.0          96.0            86.0
1996         I             14.0        354.0         100.0             92.0



- 71 -                                            ANNE'. 18
Table 1
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
PLN - Past Financial Results
Income Stateents
(Rp billion)
Fiscal year                  1980/81   1981/82   1982/68   1968/84   1984/85   1986/88  1986/87   1987/88
Sale- increase (U)           22.1       20.8      10.0       9.9       10.4      16.1      16.4       16.5
Energy sales (CUb)          6,523      7,846     9,101    10,000    11,041    12,708    14,786    17,07
Average revenue (Rp/kWh)     41.4       48.8      66.5      76.0       97.8      96.0      98.5       92.6
Energy revenue                271        840       614       760      1,080     1,227     1,382      1,581
Other operating revenue         18        16        21        27         31        36        48         48
Total Revenues           284        86S       636       787     1.111      1.2683    1.425     1.629
3e:rat no Expens
Fu61/bUlk power                 99       147       283       477        712       776       720        881
Operations                   8S        107       143       165        203       237       261        320
Depreciation                 78        121       146       158        204       261       321        434
Total Expenses           258        375 671             800     1.119      1.273     1.292     l.836
Operatino Income          26        (19)      (3)       (13)                 ( 10O)    133        I!L
Other tncom  (net)              (6)        1         -         -        (14)      (21)       (9)        (8)
CIross Interest                 12        29        33        68        144       110       164        214
Less: Interest during
construction                 12         27        28        44        120        s6        77         98
interest CharL ci to
uperalFons -             -          2         S        19        24         24        87       118
Net Income /              20        (20)      (41)      (82)                 (5l (S5)   87       (132)
Rate base L6                   787       976     1,218     1,497      1,998     2,779     3,867      5,093
Rate of return (X)            3.5       (1-9)     (3.0)      (0.9)     (0.4)     (0.3)      8.4       (0.1)
Operating ratio (U)            91        lO       107       102        101       101        91        100
la Before taxes (see para. 5.22).
Lb Based on revaluation of fixed assets from FY79/80 onwards, In accordance with Government Regulation No.
45/1986 dated October 2, 1988 (see para. 5.26).



- 72 -
ANNEX 18
Table 2
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
PLN - Rest Fnasncial Results
Balance Sheets
(Rp billion)
Fiscal year                            1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/86  1985/06  1988/87  1987/88
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Plant in service                   1,233    1,716    2,124    2,771    3,710    5,002    8,8S3       8,735
Leus    Accumulated depreclation     143      276       436      614      842    1,186   1,584       2,163
Net plant In service               1,080    1,442    1,669    2,167    2,866    3,886    E,249       6,682
Work In progress                     856    1,057    1,370    1,878    2,148    2,503    3,192       4,089
Total Fixed Ausets                X  4     2.499    a.0o9    4.036    S.018    8.389    8.441    10.671
Current Assets
Cash                                 136      179      237       142      131      124      218        239
Inventories                           79       96      122       171      213      280      146        210
Receivables                           63       88       108      165      1SO      208      226        283
Other current assets                  23       23        0o       44       44       46       29         26
Total Current Assets                301     3a4       497       522      574     e6s       617        738
Other Assets                             -        -         1        1       18       20       69        143
TOTAL ASSETS                      2.247    2.883    3 .57    4.658   ;.608    7.046    9.127    11,562
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Paid-in capital                      1,189    1,468    1,779    2,017    2,442    3,000    3,422       4,282
Retained earnings                        (6)     (33)     (689)    (97)    (143)    (193)    (162)      (284)
Revaluation reserve                    633      811       931    1,083    1,238    1,439    2,120      2,865
Total Equity                      1.812    2.248    2.641    3.003    3.537    4.246    6.390      6,863
Long-term debt (net)                   151      276      417       8"    1,302    1,s85    2,535       3,140
Current liabilities                     67      112       206      235      227      312      486        696
Other liabilitiss /                    213      249       291      454      542      632      737        863
TOTAL EQUIM  AND LIABILITIES      2.247  2,88a    3.657    4a58    _6s_08    7.048    9.127    11.652
DeLt X of debt oequity Lb                 10        14       17       27       32       as        40        41
Current ratio (times)                    4.5      3.4       2.4      2.2      2.5      2.1       1.3       1.1
/ Including consumers' contributions and deposits.
tb Including consumers' contributions, but excluding revaluation surplus.



- 73 -                                            ANNEX 18
Table 3
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
PLN - Post Financial Results
Funds Flow Statements
(Rp billion)
Fiscal year                         1980/81  1981/82  1982/88  1988/84  1984/85  1985/88  198R/87  1987/88
Internal Sources of Funds
Not income before Interest
and tax                            20      (18)     (36)       (13)     (22)     (31)     124       (14)
Depreciation                         73      121      145       158       204      281      321       434
Consumers contributions and
oth,r adjustents                   42       so       45       187        71       89      108       118
Total Internal Funds             135      183      164       312       253      319      S58       536
Operational Reuiremants
Variation working capital and
others                             23       (6)     (41)       93        71       68     (107)      107
Debt repayment                        -        8       i1        21        52      112       87       289
Interest charged to operations        -        2        6        19        24       24       87       118
Total Operattonal Requirement    23         6      (26)      133       147      204      (67)     494
Total capital Investment              303      496      S8S       981    1,030    1,408    1,712    1,918
Balance to be Financed           191      868      406       802       924    1.293    1.228    1.875
Financed by
Borrowings                           64      132      163       489       488      728      898    1,038
Government contributions            191      279      311       238       425      658      442      8B0
Total Capital Sources            256      411     4U4        707       913    1.288    1.318    1.898
Cash Increase/Decrease           84        43       58       t         (11                92       23
Debt service coverage ratio (times)    -      10.3      6.8       3.6       2.4      1.7      2.6       1.1
Contribution to construction:
Annual (U)                         37.0     26.8     30.6      18.2      11.4      8.7     23.0       1.0
3-year average (I) La              28.4     29.9     30.3      23.6      18.3     12.2     16.8      10.7
/a Current and two preceding years.



- 74 -                                                ANNEX 18
Tablo 4
INDOESIA
PAITOt4 THERMAL POWER PROJECT
PLN - Indonesis Operations
Inco_ Statemnte
(tp bi lli on)
Actual        Estimate                       Proietton
Fiscal yer                    1986/87   1987/88    1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/96
Energy sles (CWh)             14,788   17,077      19,882   22,697   26,112   29,932   94,189   38,860   43,862
Sales Incre"a  (X)              16.4    15.6         16.4    14.2    16.1    14.6    14.2    13.7    12.9
Average revenue (Qp/kWh)       98.47    92.60       92.90   116.81   120.62   126.86   130.36   186.62   141.01
Average revenue increase (1)    (3.3)    (0.9)       (0.8)   26.0       4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
Operati no Revenues
Enery revenue                1,382    1,681       1,636    2,629    3,147    8,7S2    4,466    6,2e9    6,185
Other operating revenue         43       48          65       6S       76       88      102      117      136
Total Revenue             1.426    1.629       1.990   2.694    a,m2    8.839    4.567   S6388    6.321
Operating Exeno"
Fuel *nd lubricating oil       701      870       1,040    1,160    1,240    1,466    1,660    1,799    1,946
Power purchased                 19       11          1o       12       18       la       la       13       13
Personnel expense              131      149         189      216      228      242      267      272      289
Repsir/malntenance              76      118         10l      136      161      187      224      284      333
Depreciation                   321      434        s66       640      860      997    1,166    1,390    1,681
Other expe                      44       66          60       89       96      101      106      113      119
Total Expense             1.292    1.636       1.967    2.261    2.697    2.996    !.41      .8M     4.9ss
Operating Income            133                  (77)     443      826      843    1.141    1.536    1.982
Nonoperating incom                1s       26           7       1B       18       23       30       39       S0
Nonoperating expense              22       33          18       U4       37       41       48       so       64
Other Income (Net)           (9)      (                       21)  (19)     (18)     (16)     (11)      (4
Not Income Bo.ore Interet 124        (14)        (83)     422      806      826    14125    1 624    1.968
Total interet                    164      214         267      $21      440      68?      998    1,363    1,721
Lees: I.9.C.                      77       96         136       68      165      393      697    1,024    1,393
Interest charged to operations 87       118         121      258      286      294      301      339      328
Net Income                   37     (132)       (204)    169       821      631      824    1 186    1.630
Rote base                      3,867    6,093       6,924    6,966   10,628   12,173   13,957   17.008  20,411
Rate o- return (X)               3.4    (0.1)        (1.1)    4.9       5.9      6.9      8.2      9.0      9.6
Operating ratio (X)               01      100         104       94       81       80       75       72       69



*75 -                                               ANNEX 18
Tabl- 6
INONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
PLN - Java Operations
Income Statm_wnte
(Rp billion)
Actual       Estimate                       Proiection
Fiscal yer                   198S/87   1997/88    1986/89  1089/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95
Energy sales (01h)           11,677   18,998      15,601   17,764   20,298   23,286   26,489   30,065  33,973
Sales lncrease (5)             16.2    16.7         15.7    14.6    14.8    14.5    14.0    18.5    13.0
Average revenue (Rp/kWh)      91.69    90.99       90.66   118.20   117.78   122.44   127.84   182.43   187.78
Average revenue lncrese (X)   (3.4)    (0-8)        (0.4)   25.0       4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
Operating Revenues
Energy revenue              1,061    1,219       1,404   2,010    2,869    2,845    8,873    3,962    4,679
Other operating revenue        33       86          48       47      65        60       69       78       89
Total Revenues           1.096    1.255       1.460   2.057    2.442    2.905    3.442    4.060   4.768
OD ratino Expenses
Fuel and lubricating oil      460      595         722      797      843    1,020    1,193    1,263    1,396
Power purchased                17       10           9       11       11       11       11       11       11
Personnel expense              61       92         194      1S0     18       146      166      164      174
Repair/maintenance             48       78         6e        87      102      115      139      119      213
Depreciation                  225    a30           892      440      601      689      797      966   1,1se
Other expense                  29       86          48       68       67       71       75       60       84
Total Expene               648    110         1.378 1628     1.762    2.052    2.870    2.663   3.043
Operating Income           247      162          7       529      690      858    1.072    1.397    1.726
Nonoperating Income              11        7           4        7       14       16       28       80       39
Nonoperating expense             14        9           7       18       29       32       86       39       42
Other Income (Net)          .()      (2          (       (11)    (15)      (14)     (12)       9
Net Income Before Interest 244      150          74      618      606      839   1.060    1.388    1.722
Interest chergWd to operations   66       98         101      208      215      228      210      226      204
Net Income                 176       52         (27      815      450      616      860    1.2    1.618
Rate ba"  (revalued)          2,846    3,662       4,960   6,614    7,772    8,641    9,S02   12,060   14.639
Rate of return (5)              8.7      4.2         1.6      8.0      8.7      8.9     10.9    11.6    11.8
Operating ratio (5)              78       66          94       74       72       71       69       66       64



- 76 -                                                ANNEX 18
Table 8
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL PO2ER PROJECT
PLN - Non-Jova ODerations
Income Statemnt,
(Rp billion)
Actual        Estimate                         Prolection
Fiscal year                   19*8/87   1987/88 18 88/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/96
Energy sales (W)               3,209    3,679        4,881    4,943    5,810    6,697    7,881    8,786    9,689
Sales increase (3)              J-?,.9    14.8        19.1    12.8    17.7    15.1    14.7    14.4    12.6
Average revenue (Rp/kWh)      90.86    98.47         08.32   125.20   130.21   136.42   140.84   146.47   162.33
Average revenue incroese (1)    (2.9)    (1.4)        (0.2)    27.3      4.0      4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0
Operating Revenues
Energy revenue                 320      362         431       819      768      007    1,082    1,287    1,506
Other operating revenue          9       12            9       18       22       26       33        39       47
Total Revenues              30       874         440       837      780      933    1.115    1.328    1.653
Operating Exnenses
Fuel and lubricating oil       251      275          310      3e3      307      436      467       516      660
Power purchaad                   2         1           1        1        2        2        2         2        2
Personnol expense               S0       57          S5        85       90       96      102       108      114
Repair/maintenance              30       43           33       48       59       72       8s       106      120
Depreciation                    96      184          175      200      259      308      369       424      496
Other expense                   15       22           12       26       28       30       31        33       as
Totel Expenses              444      532         s94       723     3ss       943    1.046    1.188    1.316
Operating Incom            (114)    (156)        (1544     (        (S6)     10)      89       138      237
Nonoperating income                2       16            8        6        4        5        7         9       11
Nonoperating expense               8       24            6       16        8        9        11       11       12
Other Income (Net)           Le       Lei          m       (10)      (41      [i       141       Q        M
Net Income Before Interest (1201    (164)        (157)     (S8)     (S9)     (14)      e6       136      236
Interest charged to operations    19       20           20       s0       70       71       91       i13      124
Net Income                 (139)    (184)        QI I4             (129)     (85)      (26)      23      112
Rate base (revalued)           1,021    1,441        1,944    2,341    2,866    3,632    4,165    4,968    5,772
Rate of return (X)             (11.1)   (10.9)        (7.8)    (3.7)    (1.9)    (0.3)      1.7      2.8      4.1
Operating ratio (3)              185      142          18S      113      107      101       94        90       85



-77-                                                 ANNEX 18
Tsbl- 7
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
PLN - Indonesi Operations
Bmalance Sheets
(Rp bilIIIon)-
Actual        Estimate                        Paoiactton
FiscalI year                   196/87   1987138   -TUU7UU  1989/90  199/91  199i/9  1992/93  L993/94  19W965
A`;SETS
-Tx-d Assets
lant in service             6,883    8,785      12,058   14,621   17,668   20,418   24,300   80,162   85,483
Less: Accum. depreciation 1,604    2,168         2,868    8,694    4,778    6,981    7,402    9,120   11,185
Operating plant             5,249    8,682       9,190   10,927   12,880   14,486   16,898   21,042   24,278
Work in progress            8,192    4,089       4,641    6,760    7,061    9,687   12,616   14,627   18,661
Total Fixed Assets          8,441   10,671      18,731   16,677   19,931   24,122   29,18   a6.689   42,829
Current Assets
Cash and bank                 216      289         100       100      344      420       480      626      86B
Accounts receivable           181      204         252       802      345      411       488      577      878
Inventories                   146      210         211       247      241      278       822      871      423
Other current assets           74       8S          87       185      182      200       270      242      266
Total Current Assets          617      788         660       815    1.112    1,309    1,610    1,715    1.951
Other assets                     69      148         211       228      282      284       287      289      241
TOTAL ASSETS                9,127   11,662      14,692   17,720   21,276   2,e6   8261   37,628   46,021
EUITY AND LIABILITIES
VPiA,-in capital              8,422    4,282       6,605    6,980    7,840    8,620    f,110    9,676   10,226
Retained earnings            (152)    (284)        (486)    (816)       6      586    1,860    2,646    4,176
Revaluation surplus         2,120    2,e8s       8,647    4,480    6,416    6,800    7,a89    8,677   10,266
Total Equity                6.890    6.863       6,667   11,094   18,261   16,860  17.689   20,897   24,65e
Long-term debt (LTD)          2,748    3,456       4,740    6,240    6,400    8,489   11,256   14,217   17,468
Less:  Current portion          218      al8         268       200      882      849      a84       382      486
Net long-term debt          2,U      3,140       4.482    4.980    6,068    8,090   10,891   18,886   17.023
Current Liabilities
Current portion of LTD        213      818         258       260      863      849       864      882      436
Accounts payable              218      816         18O       246      262      284       810      841      378
Other current liabilities      84       62          15        20       21       22        23       24       26
Total Current Liabilities    465       696         463       626      6le      656       697      747      839
Consumers' contributions        589     6O0          695       785      904    1,058    1,220    1,408    1,620
Other liabilities /a            198      247         292       366      426      611       818      786      88a
TOTAL EQUITY A LIABILITIES 9i127   il,562       14,692   17,720   21,276   26,666   31,260   37,628   46,021
Current ratio (times)             1.3      1.1          1.4      1.6      1.8      2.0       2.2      2.3      2.3
Debt as % debt plus equity L   39.9       40.5         *3.6     40.1     40.9     44.4      48 2     50.4     51.5
Accounts receivable (days)         48       47           42       42       40       40        40       40       40
/ Including consumers' deposits.
Including consumers' contributions, but excluding revaluation surplus.



- 78 -
ANNEX 18
Table 8
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
PLN - Indontsi Operations
Funds Flow Statement,
(Rp bilIion)
Actual        Estimate                         Pro2ction
Fiscal year                       I19.1T7 sT177WU   1988/89  asEWq      1S99/91  101/92  1m/99     199(a94  194/95
SOURCES OF FUNDS
-Iternl souirces
Not income befor- Interest       124       (14)         (88)     422      6o8       826    1,126    1,524    1,958
Depreciation                     821       484         667       640     80        997    1,166    1,890    1,661
Consumers contributions           ea        67          89        70      189       149      167       1se      212
Other                             46        49          50        71       71        85      102       126      147
Total Internal Sources          568       588         628    1.208    1,676    2,056    2,660    8,225    3,978
Debt Service
ntirst chsrged operations        87       118         121       25a      285       294      8ol       889      828
Debt repymnt                      87       269         260       281      81o       882      849       864      882
Total Debt Service              174      a8e          8Sl       684      596       626      650       708      710
Net Internal Sources            879       160         242       669    1.021    1.480    1,900    2jS22    s,2es
Borrowings
-  ietITno borrowings            S89    1,088        1,602       658      a6s       164      le        71        -
Future borrowings                  -         -           -       221    1,042    2,199    2,987    8,236    3,68s
Total Porrowings                696    1,0o8        1,602       779    1.896    2.688    8.148    8,807    a,688
Oovernmnt equity                   422       660       1,828    1,875       860       890      500       565      560
TOTAL SOURCES                 1.897    2,048        8,167    2,828    8,889    4,463    5.888    6s94    7.86
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
C*pEtel Exp nditure
ToNne ructiin expenditure        1,685    1,828        2,818    2,646    2,978    8,912    4,782    5,216    5,849
Interest during construction      77        96         Is8        66      1S6      898       69.    1,024    1,898
Total Capitol Expenditure    1,712    1.918         2,949    2,718    8.129    4.806    6,479    6,289    7,242
Changes In working capital
and other                        (15)      I8O         218       11o      210       158      169       165      144
TOTAL APPLICATIONS            1,697    2,048        8.187    2.82a    8,889    4.463    6.688    6,a94    7,S8e
Increase (Decrease) in Cash      92        28        (la9)        -      244        76       60       46        60
Cash at beginning of year            124       216         289       100      100       844      420       480      626
Cash at end of year                  216       289         loo       1oo      84a       420      480       625     S8
Annual debt service coverage
ratio (times)                      2.6       1.1         1.8       2.0      2.6       2.9      8.5       4.1      6.1
Self-Finsncing R-tio P)
Aebiii i                          28.0       1.0         0.8      20.8     27.8      29.5     31.8      37.9     48.1
8-year moving average
(current + 2 post years)        15.8     10.7          6.7       8.0     16.5     26.6      80.1     83.6      88.1



ANNEX 18
Table8
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
PLN - Indonesia, Java and Non-Java Operatilons
Calculat;ons of Rabe Base /a
(Rp billion)
Fiscal year                          1986/88  1988/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90   1990/91  1991/92    19m9/98   1993/94 1994/95
Indonesia Operations
Gross fixed assets (revalued)       5,002    6,838    8,736   12,053   14,821    17,853    20,416    24,300   30,1762   35,4s8
Less:  Accumulated depreciation    1,138    1,584    2,158    2,888    8,694        4,778     5,981      7,402     9,120   11,185
Not Fixed Assets in Operation   3,868    5,249    6,582    9,190   10,927    12,88        14,485    18,898    21,042   24,278
Loes: Corsumers Iontri buti ons
(revalued)                  625       756      89o    1,03S    1,172      1,379      1,690     1,828     2,097    2,401
Balance                          8,241   4j494    6,s92    8,1665   9,7ss    ll,SO        12,845    1S,07      18,946   21,897
Rate Base                            -    8.887    s,093    8,924    9.955    10,628    12,173    18,957    17,008   20,411
Java Operations                                                                                                                                    NO
Gross fixed assets (revalued)       8,860    4,999    8,238    8,788   10,788    12,896    14,488    17,188    21,504   25,454
Less:  Accumulated depreciation       784    1,098    1,528    2,016    2,658       3,339     4,178      5,156     6,352    7,s80
Not Fixed Assets in Operation   2,896    3,903    4,707    6,772    8,198        9,a37    10,262    12.030    15,152   17,664
Less:  Co vsu  6s'   ontributions              608       708      817       925     1,087     1,251      1,438     1,646    1,882
Balance                          2,393    8,800    4,004    5,965    7,278       8,270     9,011    10,694   1L,60s   15,722
Rate Base                            -    2,848    3,862    4,98o    6.814       7,772     8,641      9,80     12,060   14,639
Non-Java Operations
Gross fixed assets (revalued)       1,822    1,834    2,502    3,266    s,888       4,957     5,978      7,112     8,658   10,009
Less:  Accumulated depreciation       852      488       627      847    1,109      1,484     1,805      2,244     2,768    3,886
Not Fixed Assos in Operation       970    l,aU      1.876    2418         9 2L?22          4,17       4,s88     5,890    6,624
'V*C;4ss                     122      152      187       218      247       292        889       892        451      519
Balance                            848    1.194    1,898    2,200    2.482       8,231     38,       4,478      5.489    6 IOS
Rate Base                            -    1,021    1.441    1,944    2.841       2,856      ,582     4,165      4,958    6,772
/a  The rate base is the averaga of not fixed asseto  in operation, less revalued consumers' contributions.
Ib 
0D 



ANEX le
Tab le 10
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMIAL POWER PROJECT
PLN - Non-Java Operations
Break-Even Revenue Covenant Monitoring Indicators
(Np bilon)
Actual        Estimate                        Projection
Fiscal year                                   1996/87   1987/38    1988/8S  1361/90  1990(11  1991/92  19293  1993/94  1994/9S
Revenue.
Operating revenues                            880      374         440      687       760      988    1,116    1,826   1,663
Net nonoperating income                        (6)      (6)         (8)    (10)        (4)      (4O      (4)      (2)     (1)
Total Revenues                             824      868         437      627       778       M     1,111    1,324   1,662
Tota I Oeratl no Expensee                       444      632         594      728       885      948    1 048    1,188   13 16
Of Thich: UepreCiation                                  P 1                           UN       i         W    ..B69 424i    49S
Debt Service
Iterestcharged operations                      19       20          20       SO        70       71       91      118     124
Debt repayment                                 19      109         100       79        98       78       93      107     122                            0
Total Debt Service                         s8       129         120      129       168      149      184      220     246
Excess of debt serice over depreciation           -        -           -        -         -        -        -        -       -
Revenues required for break-even                444      632         594      728       885      948    1,048    1,188   1,816
Total revenues as X of revenues required for
break-even                                     73       89          74       87        93       98      106      111     118
Operating ratio (3)                             18S      142         18S      118       107      101       94       90      8S
t-~1
O



- 81 -
ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Notes and Assumptions for the Financial Forecasts
1.       Inflation has been taken into account at the following rates (2):
1992 and
Year:           1987    1988      1989      1990     1991    after
Offshore costs /a             9.8       5.3       5.3      5.3      4.1     4.1
Local costs /b                9.3       9.0       9.0      9.0      5.2     5.2
Ja Including indirect offshore costs, excluding fuel.
/b Excluding indirect offshore cost and fuels.
2.       Separation of accounts of PLN's operations in Java and outside Java
is based on individual accounts maintained by PLN for each of it s regional
units. These accournts are separate except for overhead expenses, which, for
the purposes of financial projections, have been allocated proportionately on
the basis of unit sales of energy. In the financial projections, consumers'
contributions have also been allocated in a similar manner.
3.       Energy sales are based on the sales forecasts that have been agreed
for the planning of PLN's system expansion program (para. 2.8).
4.       Revenues for FY89/90 are based on average tariff increase of 252 that
became effective on April 1, 1989. For fiscal years thereafter, the tariff is
adjusted annually by 42 to absorb the impact of increases in operating costs
(other than fuel), and on the rate base assumed in the financial forecasts.
Efficiency gains are assumed to be internalized to improve the financial
performance of PLN so that it can undertake an increasing percentage of self-
financing of its rapidly growing investment program.
5.       Fuel/bulk power for FY89/90 is based on the budget, and for FY90/91
nnd beyond is derived from PLN's computer simulation of system operation. The
fuel costs are calculated on the basis of current domestic fuel prices charged
to PLN, plus transportation costs. The fuel prices to PLN are not escalated,
on the assumption that any increases during the forecast period will be passed
on to PLN's electricity customers through its tariff.
6.       Operating expenses, other than fuel and personnel expenses, have been
forecast taking into account the facilities expected to be in use each year,
and subject to foreign and local cost inflation, as appropriate.  Personnel



- 82 -
ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 2
expenses are assumed to increase at an overall rate of 62 p.a. in line with
expected productivity gains. Repair and maintenance expenses for PLN's Java
and non-Java operations are estimated at 1.12 and 1.62 of their respective
revalued gross fixed assets ir operation during the preceding fiscal year.
7.       Depreciation is based on the application of PLN's normal rates
(straight-line method) to assets revalued annually. For purposes of corporate
income tax, the current Indonesian tax code permits the use of the accelerated
method of depreciation of assets in operation instead of the straight-line
method.
8.       Financing.  Terms of foreign borrowings are assumed to be 20 years
including 5 years' grace, at interest rates of 102 p.a. in FY89/90-FY90/91,
and 112 p.a. in FY9l/92 and thereafter. Term of local borrowings, which are
to be from Government-owned banks, are assumed to be 12 years including two
years' grace, at interest rates of 182 p.a. from FY89/90 onwards.
9.       Capital expenditures are based on PLN's investment program (Annexes 6
and 7) to meet the projected sales growth (para. 3 above), and exclude costs
of geothermal steam field development, which are assumed to be incurred by
another agency. The 10 Value Added Tax (VAT) on the foreign contracts is
assumed to be borne by Government, and on the local contracts it is assumed to
by borne by PLN.
10.      Gross fixed assets, work in progress and consumers' contributions are
revalued annually, up to FY86187 according to Government Regulation No.
45/1986, date October 2, 1986, and from FY87/88 onwards, according to weighted
annual escalation rates (foreign and local). The rate base is the average of
the revalued net fixed assets in operation, less revalued consumers'
concributions. The rate base does not include work in progress.
11.      Customer accounts receivables are assumed at 40 days of energy
revenues.
12.      Transmission and Distribution (T&D) system losses are estimated to
decline by about 0.72 in FY88/89 to a level of about 182 and are assumed to
decline gradually thereafter to a level of about 14.32 in FY94/95.
13.      Substitution of fuel oil ii the existing oil-fired plant at Gresik in
Java by natural gas is assumed to be completed in two phases during
FY90191-FY92193 when gas-bdsed generation is projected to account for about
172 of total energy generation in Java.
14.      For PLN's operations outside Java, implementation of an action plan
to improve the efficiency of these operations (e.g., reduction of T&D system
losses) and to reduce costs, is assumed for the forecast period.
15.      All projections are net of Corporate tax.  Based on the current
Indonesian tax code, PLN does not expect to pay any corporate income tax
during the projection period (para. 5.22).



-  83                                ANNEX 20
Table 1
INDONESIA
PATTON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
PLN's Tariff
Explanation of the Tariff CateEories
in the Basic Tariffs of Electricity. 1989
Tariff
category      Contracted power             Explanation of tariff category
S1                  to   200 VA         For small consumers (low voltage)
S2           250 VA to   200 kVA        For small to medium social institutions (low
voltage)
S3           201 kVA and over           For large social institutions (medium
voltage)
RI           250 VA to   500 VA         For small residential service (low voltage)
12           501 VA to 2,200 VA         For small residential service (low voltage)
13         2,201 VA to 6,600 VA         For medium residential service (low voltage)
R4         6,601 VA and over            For large residential service (low voltage)
U1           250 VA to 2,200 VA         For small commercial service (low voltage)
U2         2,201 VA to   200 kVA        For medium commercial service (low voltage)
U3           201 kVA and over           For large commercial service (medium voltage)
U4                                      For temporary service (low voltLge)
Il/H          250 VA to  99 kVA          For small hotel industry service (low
voltage)
I2/H          100 kVA to 200 kVA         For medium hotel industry service (low
voltage)
I3/H          201 kVA and over           For large hotel industry service (medium
voltage)
Il           450 VA to 13.9 kVA         For small industrial service (low voltage)
12            14 kVA to 200 kVA         For medium industrial service (low voltage)
13           201 kVA and over           For medium industrial service (medium
voltage)
14         10,000 kVA and over          For large industrial service (high voltage)
Gl           250 VA to 200 kVA          For small to medium office service (low
voltage)
G2           201 kVA and over           For large office service (medium voltage)
J                                      For street lighting service (low voltage)
Source: PFN Finance Department.



il~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
PAITON TMO4AL POWER PROJECT
PLN' Tariff
Hietor. of Tariff Adiu tment. 1802-19
1962 IFebruar.-                 1983 .F bu 1r 1                                                   1    Ah..st                            1989  AritI
Tariff   Demand      Eneray    Awvrage  otend         Enargy    Aragi   Dland   -Leroy         Average    t.nd       Enray        A.ea4       ond             EnerMr        Anr n.g
cateomry  charges    charge       rice    tharge      charge      price    chiarg.   chaorge     rice      charge     charge        Price    Charge            chrePrice
(Rp;/hVA)   (Rp/kWh)   (RX/kh)  (Rp/kVA)   (Rp/;Wh)   (Rp/kWh) (Rp/' VA) (Rp/hh)  (Rp;/kh)   (Rp/VA)   CRp=/W)           (Rp/kWh)  (Rp/k VA)        (Rp;W)        (Rp/kWh)
St       La          -          -          A          -          -         LS                 -            is        -            5050                    L   -              57.50
S2    I,tiO        22.00       S4.12    1.S00       35.00       48.22   2.100      43.bO     60.57      2,100      43.50          65.62   2.700             45.00            81.97
55        ,          _          _           _        _           _          _        _           __                  -             -       3.160          P.136.50           94.92
OPSeB 00
Al    1,600        37.80       48.65    1,600       66.00       67.21   2.100      70.50     85.19      2,100      70.50          89.:o 3.160   63.80 fo  ( hra             1 0.
86.00 for ) 60hra/.
R2    1.600        45.80       58.76    1,600       67.00       79.12   2.100      84.50     90.41      2.100      84.50          100.07   3,160   76.00 for < s0h r./ao.   119.74
115.50 for I Shro./m.
83    2,800        68.0        006.00   2,600      97.00       121.75   3,660    126.50    156.42       5,660     126.50          119.60  5S520            155.50           20.96
R4    2.6d0        79.80       99.05   2,d00       117.60      137.50   S,680    150.00    184.10       3.680     158.00         U1.81   5,520             196.50           239.91
U1    2,600        66.00       84.67   2,800        99.50      121.04   3.600    134.00    160.10       3.680     134.00          167.37   5,520  166.00 for C llOhra,Ieo   209.30
U2    2,600        70.00       96.17   2,800       100.50      137.37   3,600    10.O00    189.73       3.6d0     150.00          190.92   5.520  1866.8  for < tlb0r./o.  244.43
149.10 for ) lSOhra./ao.                0
4.0
U8    1o750    WiP * 74.00    63.46    1,750   P * 111.00       89.28   2,300  P . 158.00  123.17       2,300   P " 158.00       118.75   3,460           P.219.50          152.07
lW  *46.50                       OP * 70.00                     GOP - ".c                        eo * 9.0                                  OP-109.50
U4        -       160.00       160.00       -      221.00      221.00       -    307.00    307.00           -     507.00         307.00        -           400.00           400.00
lI^    2.800       54.50       68.03        -        _-                        -                -        -                        91.43   3.460             67.00           112.45
12H    1.750       38.50       44.45        -        -           -          -        -        -            -         -            82.18   3.460            95.00            114.5S
13H       -          -          -                                                                                                 73.44  34.160             94.00           102.55
it    1,750    VIP -409.0    58.S3   1,t70       p   81.50      76.65   2,J00   P ,106 00.    93.97    2.300    P  947.60         90.66   3,460            60.00            105.91
*te   30.80                    OP - 51.00                     OP *6.0                         OPO  a 60.50
12    1.150       P * 46.50    46.09    1.750    P * 77.00      67.15   2.SO0    P . 180.00   85.81    2,300    P - 92.50         82.46   3,460          P.136.S0           106.92
1LW  * 29.00                     OP - 48.00                      OP * 62.50                      OP - 57.50                               ONP70.00
I    1.600    V8P * 44.00    S8.19   1,60    P . 68.b0         36.40   2,100   P -96.50   75.60       2.100    P * 90.50         73.23   3,160           PU134.00           95.03
SMw * 27.50                      OP * 43.00                      OP * 60.10                      OP * 56.50                               OP.cS.00
14    1,500    WIP * 40.00    34.O    1.500    P - 50.00       44.12   1.970   P * 81.50    61.13      1,970    P . 77.00        59.22   2,960           P.119.50           76.90
LV8P * 25.50                     OP - 37.00                      OP * 52.00                      OP * 48.50                 'S60.00
0    2,800        40.00       62.00   2,800        71.00       89.06   3.S68      96.00    120.86      5.680      96.00         125.71   5,520            122.50           161.04
02/NV   1,600    WP * 46.00    44t0   1,500    P * 72.00         64.02   1.970   P * 9.00   84.92        1,970    P * 99.00        07.06   2,9t0           P1159.50          112.47
WUPa 3OCO                        OP . 47.0                       GP  e6s.00                      OP  65.00                                 OP.79.50
J9       -        41.00       41.00        -      56.50        66.80              76.50     76,60                 76.5           76.50        -            '6.00            98.00
Avora"                        WS.91                           71                                                                                                                        > 92.65  UL51
Tariff Si! 100 to 2t0 VA * Rp 1,465 to 2935/month
7Triff SI' 100 to 200 VA * Rp 2.010 to 4 020/Amnth                                                                                                                                    1_ t
Tariff 51   100 to 200 VA  Rp 2.510 to 5 023/aonth                                                                                                                                   m  x
a  Triff S.:  60 to 200 VA * RP 1,750 to S,450/eonth
Note: WIP - P * Peak houra (18:00-22:W)                                                                                                                                                      1
tWP . OP * Off-peak hour* (22:00-18:00)
For 1983. th  triff cateoory was reduced to 17 tariff c&t*egorie. Categories H  (ma I /H) and H4 (no, Lf4 for botel roneuwer with 1o  volt    ar. grouped  .nto I and IL,,
respectively. For 1989, the tariff category i- expnded fres 17 to 21 categoriel. A net ter;ff cAtegory Tb,) h  bean eetabliahed for large eccal ,no.itutiona with   dlue ; oIto";
and oeparate tariff ce:tgoriea ( /94, 12/9, I /H) ha, been *otebli;d for hotel Consumers with tow and  au   voltegee, aho oere previously grouped wth industrial eonnu_er- at
Corresponding voltage (1. 1,2 ane Y). The lverage prico shown for 1986 relates to the tariff cataeories in 1909-
Sour-e: PLt Finance DCPertment



ANNEX 20
Table 3
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWERPROJECT
PLN's Tariff
Average Revenue from Electricity Sold. by Maior Consumers
(Rp/kWh)
Tariff category      1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985185  1986/87  1987/88
Residential          29.51      29.55    49.43    49.50    64.09    85.01   102.15   102.59   102.35   102.64
Commercial           34.98      33.99    63.92    68.45    90.17   123.73   167.66   168.99   167.77   165.77
Industrial           23.72      23.58    31.77    33.08    42.84    58.15    77.62    75.78    70.84    69.78
Buildings            27.57      27.40    42.59    43.78    58.17    79.18    91.76    91.98    91.58    92.25
Lightings            20.10      20.10    33.84    35.18    44.90    59.56    78.02    77.83    78.17    78.07
Source: PLN Finance Department.
r z
F- m
w t_
o



ANNEX 21
Table 1
IINDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
PLN's Oil Consumption Statiatics
The date Of            1978/79      1979/80    1980/81     1981/52    1962/88    1808/84               1985/86   1066187    1987/88
fuel price change    04/01/78    04/06/79   05/01/60    01/04/82   01/07/88   12/01/84   1984/86   04/01/86   07/10/86
Hiahepeed
Diesl OH)         KI  768,219      680,261    842,441      886,290  1,088,041    966,827    932,961   043,071    48",106  1,263,897
Price of fuel
(NSA)         Rp/i   25.00        86.00       62.60       86.00      146.00     220.00     220.00    242.00    200.00      200.00
Average price in
an Ft          Rp/l   26.76        34.79      51.84       60.46       97.13     167.08     221.97    888.00    224.82      202.00
Industrial Diesel
Oil (IZO)        KI   81,?77        16,116     16,264      1U,-46      84,067     41,766     92,269    81,100      1,862     66,367
Price of fuel
(I00)         Rp/l   22.00        30.00       46.00       76.00      126.00     200.00     200.00    220.00    200.00      200.00
Average price In
an FY          Rp/l   24.54        89.76      46.46       64.47       00.83     140.87     205.58    226.19    224.32      216.01
Relidual           KI  480,282       806,286  1,161,961    1,386,278  l,78,652   2,08S,247  2,182,605  2,188,851 1,840,782   1,996,592
Price of fuel
(residual)    Rp/l   22.00         80.00      46.00       76.00      126.00     200.00     200.00    220.00    200.00      200.00
Average price In
an FY          Rp/l   22.27        29.47      42.64      65.17        8s.?8     141.89     203.69    224.92    214.03      206.74
Source: PLN Finance Department.



-87-                                ANNEX 21
Table 2
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Domestic and World Prices of Petroleum Products
(As of October 1988)
Share of     International   -mestic  Ratio of domestic
Category             consumption  parity price lb  price        to world price
(t) la    ------ (Rp/liter) -------           (2)
Aviation turbo            2.6             265          250            0.94
Gasoline super            0.9             242          440            1.82
Gasoline regular         18.2             231          385            1.66
Kerosene                 27.2             255          165            0.64
Automotive diesel        33.9             259          200            0.76
Industrial diesel         5.2             244          200            0.81
Fuel oil                 11.9             144          200            1.39
Total/Average      100.0            237           226            0.95
Ia 1987 data.
Lb Based on estimated average price of Indonesian crude of US$15.00 per bar-
rel, converted at 159 literslbarrel. US$1.00 - Rp 1,700.
Source: Bank staff estimates.



INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Calculations of the Internal Economic Rate of Return on Java Investment Prooram. 1989190-1994196
FY                          Invstments                                     Increrment.l               Increm_ntel  Incremental   Consumrse
(ending        Generation    TM      Total   Shadbw price   Production        production    Fuel cost    fuel cost   OWM cost    contribution            Total cCCt
March 31)   -- -----  tUS  m-lion)                                                ---- -------- _________       (USS m1tilon) - - - . --- ------------  ----- - - ---
t1)               a           O     (4)           O(8)                         l7)            ()1)()(1
1986                17.0                 17.0      16.7                                                                                                     15.7
1986                38.0                 36.0      35.2                                                                                                     36.2
1987                86.0                 05.0      80.1                                                                                                     88.1
1989                89.6                 89.6      62.8                                                                                                     82.8
1969                72.6     438.9      511.5     473.1                                                                                                    473.1
1990               170.2     491.8    "61.8       612.2          22,614                          106.7                      20.7          74.7             558.2
1991               362.8     540.8      923.1     858.9          26,740             8,226        162.1         66.4         34.6          82.2             862.7
1992                08.9     641.5   1,250.4   1,156.6           29,290             8,776        186.2         79.6         63.3          90.4           1,199.0
1993              454.0      796.8   1,250.9   1,167.0           38,164            10,670        248.6        142.9         72.1          99.5           1,272.6
1994               166.7     842.0   1,000.7      988.0          37,442            14,926        299.6        193.0         87.2         109.4           1,104.6
1995                97.7       -         97.7      90.4          42,062            19,548        862.2        256.6         88.7         120.8             316.3
1996                 -         -          -         -            42,062            19,4U8        302.2        256.6         " .7           -               346.2
1997                 -         -          -         -            42,06?            19,648        302.2        258.5         88.7           -               846.2
1996                 -         -          -         -            42,062            19,54U8       32.2         256.5         88.7           -               345 .2
1999                 -         -          -         -            42,062            19,548 N82.2               265.6         S8.7           -               345.2
2000                 -         -          -         -            42,062            19,548        382.2        2S6.5         88.7           -               345.2   $
2001                 -         -          -         -            42,082            19,54U8       32.2         268.5         68.7           -               346.2
2002                 -         -          -         -            42,062            19,548        362.2       256.5          88.7           -               245.2
2003                 -         -          -         -            42,062            19,648        362.2       256.6          88.7           -               846.2
2004                 -         -          -         -            42,062            19,548        862.2       268.6          68.7           -               34S.2
2006                 -         -          -         -            42,062            19,648        862.2       26B.S          88.7           -               346.2
2006                 -         -          -         -            42,062            19,548        382.2       266.6          88.7           -               34s.2
2007                 -         -          -         -            42,062            19,548        862.2       268.6          88.7           -               845.2
2008                 -         -          -         -            42,062            19,548        a82.2       260.6          88.7           -               845.2
2009                 -         -          -         -            42,062            19,648        362.2       260.6          88.7           -               846.2
2010                 -         -          -         -            42,062            19,4S8        382.2       256.6          88.7           -               346.2
2011                 -         -          -         -            42,062            19,548        382.2       268.6          88.7           -               846.2
2012                 -         -          -         -            42,062            19,54U8       32.2        266.5          88.7           -                465.2
2013                 -         -          -         -            42,062            19,548        362.2       256.6          86.7           -               346.2 2 .
2014                 -         -          -         -            42,002            19U468        382.2        256.6         88.7           -               846.2
2016                 -         -          -         -            42,062            19,S48        362.2        268.6         88.7           -               845.2
2016                 -    -          -         -                 42,062            19,548        362.2        286.6         88.7           -               846.2 r 
2017                 -         -          -         -            42,062            19,648        362.2        256.6         88.7           -                U46.2    "w
/a  Generation lnvestments are for the projects scheduled to be comissloned 1989/90-1994/96.
7b T&D investments from 1989/90-1993/94 are as planned.
Z Shadow pricing: About 80X of the investmo;nt program consists of equipment and materials imported at offshore prices. This component does not need shadow
pricing. Out of the remaining 40X, about 203 would be for local moterials with shadow price fector of 0.8, 10 for unskilled labor with-shadow price
factor of 0.65 and 10 for skilled labor with a shadow price factor of 1.0 since skilled labor is scarce. The composite shadow price factor for the total
investment cost works out to 0.926.
L  Fuel costs have been worked out using an operation simulation model.  The economic costs of fuol are as follows:  coal, USt24 per ton; fuei oil, USSP.10
per liter; diesel, US$0.17 per liter; natural gas, USt1.40 per MMcf; geothermal steam, USSO.028 per kWh.
/ OUM costs are estimated at 1.65 of the cumulative investments.



INDONESIA
PArTON THEMAL POt RffJ5ECT
Calculations of the Internal Feconomic Ratm of R,twrn on Java Inttet  Proaree. 1989M90-1994/95
FY                  Sjle.                               Incremntal sales             Revenue  Add'l economic banefit/b                              Bonaf,..
end-  R-i-  Comer-             Indus-          Ro-i-  Co_mer-          Indu--        at avorage  Resi-   Indus-           Total       Total costs      minus
ing  dntial   cial   Public  trial  T.:tal d.ntial  cial   Public  trial  Total  tariff La dential  trial  Total   benefit*   (froe Table 1)    coats
03/31  ------------------------------------- (Q) -----------------               -                 (US$ million) ------------------
1986                                                                                                                                      15.7         -15 7
1986                                                                                                                                      35.2         -35.2
1987                                                                                                                                      60.1          -6D.1
19S8                                                                                                                                      82.8         -82.8
1989                                                                                                                                     473.1         -473 1
1990   6,233    1,151    2,090   8,173   17.647                                                                                          568.2        -637.3
1991    6,963    1,207   2.418  9,706  20.294    730       56    328   1,53S   2,647    176.3    52.9    41.1   94.0        270.3        862.7        -592.4
1992   7,711    1,273   2,772  11.481  23.236   1.478    122    682   8,308  5,389   372.2   107.2    88.7  195.9           568.1      1,192.0         -630.9
1993   8.479    1.341   8.161  13.517   26.489  2,246    190  1,061   5,344  8,842   588.9   162.8   143.2  306.0           894.9      1,272.5        -377.6
1994   9,267    1,519   3,657  16,833  30,066  3,034    259  1,467   7,660  12,419   827.1   220.0   205.3  425.3   1,252.4            1,140.6          147.8
1995   10.090   1,519   4.000  18,366  33,974  3,867    368  1,910  10,193  16,328  1,087.4   279.6   273.2  352.8   1,64C.2             315.3        1,324.9
1996  10,090   1.519   4,000  18.366  33.974  3,867    388  1,910  ^0,193 16,528  1,087.4   279.6   273.2  552.8   1,640.2               345.2        1.295.0
1997  10,090   1,519    4,000  18,366   23,974  3S867    368  1,910  10,195  16,328  1,087.4   279.6   273.2  652.8   1,640.2            345.2        1,295.0                        OD
199S  10,090    1,519   4,000 18,366  33,974  3,O57    S68  1,910  10,193  16,328  1,C87.4   279.6   273.2  662.8   1,640.2              345.2        1,295.0
1999  10,090   1.619   4,00  18,366  33,974  3,867    S66  1,910  10,193  16.328  1,087.4   279.6   273.2  652.8   1,640.2               345.2        1,295S0
2000  10,090   1,619   4,000  18,366  33.974  3,857    368  1,910  10,193  16,328 1,087.4   279.6   273.2  62.8   1,640.2               345.2        1,295.0
2001  10,090   1,619   4,000 18,366  33.974  3,957    368  1,910  10,193 16,328  1,067.4   279.6   273.2  552.8   1,640.2                345.2        1,295.5
2002   10,090   1,519   4,000  18,366  33,974   .,a57    868  1.910  10.193 16.328 1,087.4   279.6   273.2  552.8   1,640.2              34S.2        1,29S.0
2003   10,090   1.519   4,000  18.360  33,974  3,867   S38  1,910  10,193 16,328  1,067.4   279.6   273.2  652.8   1,640.2               34,.2        1,295 0
2004   10,090   1,619   4,000  18,366  33,974  3.857    368  1,910  10,193 16,328  1,007.4   279.6   275.2  552.8   1,640.2              345.2        1,295.0
2005  10,090   1,519   4,000  18.366  33,974  3,867    S68  1,910  10,193 16,328  1,087.4   279.6   27t 2  552.8   1,640.2               345.2        1,295.0
2006  10,090    1,519   4,000  18,366  33,974  8,067    368  1,910  10,193 16,328  1,087.4   279.6   27?..2  562.8   1,640.2             345.2        1,295.0
2007  10,090   1,519   4,000  18,866  33,974   S,867    S68  1,910  10,193  16,328  1,087.4   279.6   273.2  652.8   1,640.2             345.2        1,295.0
2008  10,090   1,S19   4,000  18,366  33,974  3,867    368  1,910  10,193 16,328  1,067.4   279.6   273.2  552.8   1,640 2               345.2        1,295.0
2009  10,090   1,619   4,000  18,366  33.974  8,867    368  1,910  10,193 16,328  1,087.4   279.6   273.2  632.8   1,640.2               345.2        1.295 0
2010   10,090   1,619   4,000  18,366  33,974  3,857    368  1,910   10,193  16,328  1,087.4   279.6   273.2  532.8   ),640.2            345.2        1,295.0
2011  10,090   1,619   4,000  18,366  33,974  3,SS7    S68  1,910  10,193  16,328  1,06;.4   279.6   273.2  552.8   1,640.2              345.2        1,295 0
2012   10,090   1,519   4,000 18,366   33,974  3,867    368  1,910  10,193 16,326  1,067.4   279.6   273.2  552.0   1,840.2              345.2        1,295.0
2013   10,090   1,619   4,000 18,366  33,974  S,857    36s  1,910  10,193  18,3S2   1,087.4   279.6   273.2  652.8   1,640.2             345.2        1,295.0
2014   10,090   1,619   4,000  18,366  83,974  3,857   S38  1,910  10,193  16,325  1,087.4   279.6   273.2  852.8   1,640.2              345.2        1,295 0
2015  10,090   1,519   4,000  18,366   33.974   3,857    368  1,910  10,193 16,326  1,087.4   279.6   275.2  652.8   1,640.2             545.2       i,295.0
2016  10,090   1,519   4,000  18,S6b  3S,974  3,857    368  1,010  10,19'  16,328  1,087.4   279.6   278.2  552.P   1,640.2              345.2        1,295.0
2017   10,090   1,619   4,000  18,366  33,974  3,887    368  1,910   10,193 16,S32  1,087.4   279.6   273.2  532.8   1,640.2             345.2        1,295.0
IERR = 21.8S.
/r Average tariff in FY90 a Rp 113.2/kWh - US* 6.66 por ivWh.
&  Additional economic benefit for r-eidential and industriel conumra calculated as fol lo.:
R.sidential   : Current average revenue per kWh * Rp 123.2 a US* 7.25;
Additional seonoeic benefit r US* 7.25 per kWh.
Industrial     Current average revenue Dor kWh a ,p 91.2 a US$ 5.36;
Additional econoeic beneift a USJ 2.68 per kWh.



Am* 231
IDONESIA
PAITON TPS4L POlwER PROJKT
Calculations of Int.rnal Financial Rat, of Raturn (IFRRt - Paiton Unita 1 A 2
(US6 million)
Capital Cost.
Unit. I A 2                                Production L                   Total Cost   Energy Sold k*              Caeh fIs
Fia'al Yesr   and Tranasi.  Di-tri. LI  0  14 Coot. tb      (Ch)        Fuel Coat Ld (4).(2).(3)*(S)     (Ch)        Rewnoue L   (If -fO.
(ending 3/31)      (1)           (2)           (S)            (4)              (5'           (6)           (7)           (a)         (9)
1990                 85                                                                       as                                     4-
1991                111          IDO                                                         211                                     -211
1992                281           100                                                        381                                    -361
1993                230           100                                                        a30                                     -330
1994                1lo                         5.2          1.099            18.4         124.6            7n           W.5        -6.1
1995                 43                        21..5         4.398            73.4         135.9         351.6          234.3        97.4
1996                 22                        20.5          46.18            77.1         119.6         369.4          246.0       126.4
1997                                           20.5          52.80            83.2         108.7         42.24          201.3       172.6
1998                                           20.S          52.80            88.2         108.7         42.24          211.3       172.6
1999                                          20.3           32.80            88.2         108.7         42.24          281.3       172.6                                 0
2000                                           20.3          52.80            LS.2         108.7         42.24          281.3       172.6
2001                                           20.S          52.80            88.2         108.7         42.24          281.3       172.6
2002                                           20.5          52.80            88.2         108.7         42.24          281.3       172.6
2003                                           20.5          52.30            87.3         107.8         41.64         276.7        170.9
2004                                           20.5          50.80            84.8         105.3         40.64          270.7       165.4
2005                                           20.3          50.80            84.6         105           40.64         270.7        16B.4
2006                                           20.5          50.80            84.6 .05.3                 40.64         270.7        165.4
2007                                           20.35          0.80            84.8         IIS.3         40.64         270.7        165.4
20D8                                           20.5          50.80            64.8         105.3         40.64         210.7        185.4
2009                                           20.5          80.80            84.8         105.3         40.U4         270.7        166 4
2010                                           20.5          50.81            64.8         IOS.3         40.64         278.7       IS.4
2011                                           20.3          88.80            84.6         105.3         40.64         270.7        165.4
2012                                           20.6          50.80            84.8         105.3         40.64         2m.7         165.4
2013                                           20.5          50.13            83.7         10.42         40.10          267.1       162.9
2014                                           20.3          45.4             75.9          96.4         36.33          242.1       14.57
2013                                           20.5          45.44            73.9          96.4         36.35          242.1       14.57
2018                                           20.5          45.44            73.9          96.4         36.35          242.1       14.57
2017                                           20.3          45.44            75.9          96.4          36.33         242.1       14.5?
2016                                           13.2          34.08            6.9           72.1         27.26         1U1.6        109.5
LI Distributbon cost approximtely 3SS of Cmneration cost.
L  0lM cost 25 of aeneration plus 1 of distr;iution.                                                          Tpll A
L  U.S. Criteria (NERC) for coal-fired poor plant perforsance statistics applid as                    Yea r   Y       ear  VYear
ahoen in Table A.                                                                        Loa    1-2    3-10    11-20  21-.2
Li Fuel cost . Ulk 1.6/kWh or U516.700/tWh at USt42.5/ton of coal with heat value             'WS  4.500  6.OOD  5.000  3.510
of 6.000 kcal/gk. and overall plant heat rat of 2.355 kcal/'Wh.                            753    730    460  1.410  2.2D8
/  Sales - 0.8 n Generation.                                                                   WS    91.0    460    48;   1,080
Lf Revenue at Rp 113.2 *.h or USe 6.66/kUh average tariff                                       05  2.630  1.600   1.800   2.000



- 91 -                               ANNEX 24
INDONESIA
PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project VFle
Reports on the Sector
1. Legislation Affecting PLN: Electricity Act of 1985.
2. Final Accounts of PLN, 1987/88.
3. Audit Report of PLN, 1987/88.
4.  Financial Forecasts (1988/89-1994/95) ard Working Papers.
5. Commercial Information, 1986/87, PLN.
6. Annual Financial Information, 1986/87,PLN
7. The Decree of the President of the Republic of Indonesia No. 3 of the Year
1983, Concerning the Procedures of Promoting and Supervising Departmental
Agency (PERJAN), Public Corporation (PERUM) and Limited Liability State
Corporation (PERSCRO), dated February 17. 1983.
8. The Decree of the President of the Republic of Indonesia No. 28 of the
Year 1983, Concerning Amendment to Decree No. 3 of the Year 1983, dated
November 28, 1983.
9. Electricity Basic Tariff, 1989 PLN.
10. Long Run Marginal Cost Study, 1987, PLN.
11. Government Regulation No. 45/1986 dated October 2, 1986, concerning the
adjustment of prices or acquisition values of assets in connection with
tbh change of the Rupiah exchange rate in September 1986.
12. The Decree of PLN Board of Directors, No. 185/DIR/85 on the Corporate
Five-Year Plan (1984/85-1988/89).
13. The Decree of PLN Board of Directors, No. 090/DIR/87 on the Action Plan
for Improving Accounting Functions, 1987/88-1989/90.
14. The Decree of PLN Board of Directors, No. 097/DIR/87 on Action Plan for
Improving Consumer Administration, 1987/88-1989/90.
15. Circular letter No. 013/PST/1987 regarding Report on Rural Electricity, by
PLN's Board, dated October 5, 1987.
16. Paiton Design Reports, Vol. I thru VII, by the Consulta-ts (Sargent &
Lundy).
17. PLN's Investment Program (1987/88-2000/01) Scenario 481C. February 1989.



- -' ,' .   ,'IBRD 12453R'
fo,ot  \rHA^LAND  05                                           lISo         kS]               l~~         ~          ~        ~~~~~~~~~io,  lis- g'  r30                                       13 f5-                          1io
ondo AceS                      -S_>'} '\ THAI LAND                                                                                                                                                 ' flY  IV                                        INDONESIA
i.                                                                                                                                         PHIlhPPINES                                 PLN GENERATING CAPACITIES BY Rt-GIONS
oA-n                                                                                                                                           /    '                                                                                  SEPTEMBER 1988
{-   i MALAYSIA                                                              BRUNEI *<v                             /                                                                                    INtuAnDMW   INSTAUEDMW
'-* t.   i  NtdQno  v i    r *  'F,9,, ,-                                      5?                                    ,1  50S5         v!Is  .22       _ _ _  W 4s
285         4.     68               WAWAyS 110&M.olos
/ A5shcor  \.0, .t.   \  )   _                                                                                 EV  501          1>              _ . _      h          n69
I s  -   !   S   .                 r                 N                                                             /        -v   119                                         137
MALAYSIA                                .,                                                                                             VI 236
Sholgo                                        C                                                           1080090>1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I23                        -A57
..:SINGAPORE
'- onjtgplnng Pi.                                                                    I                                                       / ,q4tMAA ERA                                     .) K.
/                          0IM0A                               Govo-  , I 
, t | 4 . ~~~Pontionok \K                                                    /                     folonkolo,   I                                                    :                    /_.
,ombifi.                                                          KALIMANTAN                           *Sr 0.rdo                                                     I '    y          / ;
Jon,ui   7sNCrs                  i                      9trSoobro,    oap o                 t V             ; 'l.7    SEPAl ,OL&O 510    -7 .' 1 >                                    )
S    MoIhl A          oA,b  f          T-Aon rTo-og  -d. .                                                                         ' W  SULAWESI              '/       Ix       _                                                             -0
Thb. C    W-w Am              im               8FqStUN1                                                                                                                                                      o                                R .SIAN  JIA r    '-
N8014                                                              S igor.BURLLS                                                                                         LM,Envt
idu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_sloroIv 'goj  5
ToluISbotng *           P             r             i             g            h009r Poodn;Q~,                                                         - *_                                                                       Agt >eo's    
I/    JAKARTA                                                                                           Booboo           .                                                       E/' -
oI~W    JAWA                                                                                                                >      '~N,
psorog                  MADUR/A                                                                                                                                                                      7 A
8Ao,Komojoog      *              ,,    I,-
YULoKovo          3uA0b0yo-
4                                                              AtP LBAWA-          -
J~~ ~ ~ A_~ -)                        . qiop"a  Spr - Bimo,                 rtonojoo6                                   ,                                                                          Me,oo2S, 
Mln.Pows r10.-i K                                                                                                0    i 0  - 20             300       400       5IX                  IY
00   Io =0           0 oO 10   sokO Bone E cM r rB  lv | SVMYA    20,0 300Q0o 4090   590  6po 7po spo
/ovPn rn-KILOMETERS
lrQ   Ip0'  _   !'             I,i    !                         wno                              t2J'                              130                              125                                 APRIL 1985~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARI 18



'06'                                                           108.                                                           110'                                                                INDONESIA                                                  114' IBRD 214
INDONESIA
SUMATERA                                                                                                                                                                                         PAITON THERMAL POWER PROJECT
MAJOR POWER PLANTS AND MAIN TRANSMISSION LINES
UNDER         PROPOSED         TUTURE
eXISnNG       CONSTRUCTION      PROJECT       DETEUOPMENT
Transmission Lines:
-                  -    S                                      t \ +) n -  500 kV
150 kV + 70 kV
"              JAKARTA                                                                                                                                              I                *               U                U         Power Stations
S- a_                                                                                                                                                                                                            500 kV Substations
YEkolou S,.rl i , e0                                                                                                                                                                                                                             150 kV + 70 kSV 7   ubstations
S era ns   **            , ~R.naodevklok
Ron,k,nb,lun,                               > /  ;;_;p SUk-mcnd,                                                                                                          EndunWv XIV  PLN's Wilayah Numbers
Buronnb     H                                                                                                                            0 _     Wilayah or Distribusi Headquarters
Ro,g.Johur  J.i                                                                                                           .          PLN's Wilayah Boundaries
*__ _f--vzl   !                Koiofzoodo,g   Adi'00'                                                      SEMARANG               fTo.,... Jo-
Ubrug       (      $               \              \             ht;< D9                                      S-ns C Po,lS Srepg lCo mo
XPsIabuhaRn SEUnblsI!|
JAWA  BA RAT                                                                                                                                                                 S-ooojo-p
D-N a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~L
Eom=ob                 ToSo',    Mu,oodlou 108'                                                             -Ca                                                                                                           lAio                                             A   g\  /    mll
5olr5hr         Por -i SaT                                                                                                            ' Ea_dak1                          *e           -  vu8lmgo                                 SMaun/i
mo=romuvcul bPallr-ebk                                                                                                                                                                TIMUR
AKARTA                                                                                                                                         Wl5        \         \*/                                                 -        -,,_
oea9t        S       I~~A-    P,,.k  M-rnd.                               l<IPWoi                                                                                                                                      2=
S    C,ng SEhtARAN 9Je-  n     S1EMARANG
SerS K m gi>    Cikorong                                               , r        | ~~~~~~~~SURABAYA                            /Kondon,J99                                                                                      Smm        8nuog
G\ono ,df   So,kH=i<m  /                                   S.Kabo.
R. RNgko.bOa'g                    / vCI.mnop                          "       3       E=slS.moron                       S egod         o                                                     in dPian         Ocen
eDum~~~~~~~'il~                               r                               -g                                 _                                                              ndiorpng   0\c,n '.Kmeonb
C,b,no-gTo9n
\.Q.. /  Ung5ron-                                                                                                                   10             ]so <lh,  1 0  KILOMETERS
Koas\o\                                                                                                       Mojoberk             59        d                      D        2D       40D      44       0        IDD MILES
\                                                       /____________________/_________'________\___                                                                                    112                                                            114'
FEBRUARY



