Report No. 964-EC
Appraisal of    FILE COPY
a Seeds Project                                                                         RETURNOTO
Ecuador                                                                             REPORTS En- 7
WITHIN
March 5, 1976                                                                             O     EE
Regional Projects Department                                                             ONE    WEEI'A,
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



RETUtjP p  'To F2.-FP  S TXESK
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS      ROOAI, A         ,jY:
SUCRE            5 3/
US$1         -   S/ 25
S/ 1         -   US$0.04
S/ 1,000     a  US$40
S/ 1,000,000 -   US$40,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 quintal (qq)  - 45.5 kg       100 lb
1 ton  *  22qq  a  1,000 kg 2    2,200 lb
1 hectare (ha)  -  10,000 m       2.47 ac.
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
MAG    -  Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
INIAP  -  National Agricultural Research Institute
DCS    -  Department of Seed  Certification
EMS    -  Seeds Corporation
CB     -  Central Bank
BNF    -  National Development Bank
NSC    -  National Seeds Council
SEED TERMINOLOGY
(As Used Under the Project)
Breeder's seed - Seed of high genetic purity produced by the plant breeders at
INIAP research stations.
Basic seed - Progeny of breeder seed produced at INIAP research stations. This
seed mast keep the genetic identity and the varietal purity.
ReRistered seed - Progeny of basic seed also obtained at INIAP research stations.
It should reasonably maintain the same qualities of the variety.
Certified seed - Progeny of registered seed produced by selected farmers under
contract. It must satisfactorily maintain the genetic identity and varietal
purity and its production must be supervised and approved by the Department of
Seed Certification (DCS). Field production of certified seed must be processed
before sale to farmers.  The processing consists basically of diying, cleaning,
selecting, disinfecting, and packing.
Dockage - Portion of seed lots classified at field production level as certified
seed and later discarded during screening selection at the processing plants,
because of under size or impurity.
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FM  OFFICIL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Table of Content.
page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS   ................................   i-ili
I.   ITrMODUCTION   .................................       .......         1
II.   BACKGROUND  .......................................... so.......       1 
A.   General            ........................................      1
B.   The Agricultural Sector  .0..  ... . ..... . .. ..............   2
C.   The Existing Seeds Industry   ....................               4
III.   THE PROJECT .**......................*.................                6
A.   Objectives and Brief Description  ...............                6
B.   Detailed Features   ..............................               7
C.   Cost Estisates  .........................................        9
D.   Financing  ............................                         11
E.   Procurement and Disbursement  ..................o.     12
TV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . ....... . . . . . .  ......... .....   13
A.   Project Coordination and Administration    ....  o..            13
B.   National Donelop        eont Bank ............     o  ........  13
C.   Executing Participating Entities  ....... o.. oo...             14
D.   Accounts and Audits          ...o..o ...... oo   ............   14
E.   Monitoring and Key Indicators                 .......   .o.     15
V.   SEEDS PRICING AND FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS  ..* ..........               15
A.   Seeds Pricing  .......o ......  ..... ...  ...-.... .-..        15
B.   Financial Projections   ...o ...... .          ...............  16
VI.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ..............a-*..........               17
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ...............                18
This-report Is based on pl,eparation work done by an FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program mission that visited Ecuador in March 1975 and on the findings of
an appraisal mission, consisting of Messrs. J. Bazo and J.A.N. Wallis (IBRD);
P.P. Maleki (PAO); and B. Bullock (consultant), that visited Ecuador in
August 1975.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
1.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Table 1  -  Crop Areas, Yields and Production; 1966-74
Table 2  -  Farm Size Distribution; 1968
Table 3  -  Value and Percentage Distribution by Activities of Loans
Provided by Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF) to the
Agricultural Sector; 1970-74
Table 4  -  Agricultural Credit Provided by Banco Nacional de Fomento
(BNF); 1973-74
Chart    -  (IBRD-15182) Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG)
Organization Chart
2.   THE SEEDS INDUSTRY
Table 1 - Varieties Eligible for Seed Certification in 1975
Table 2  -  National Institute of Agricultural Research (INIAP)
Experiment Stations for Basic Seed Production
Table 3  -  Production Goals for Registered Seed of Selected Crops;
1975-77
Table 4  -  Certified Seed Distributed by the Seeds Corporation (EMS)
in 1974
Table 5  -  Existing Seeds Distribution Centers
Table 6  -  Technical Coefficients Used in Projections
Table 7 - Projections of National Total Areas Under Project Crops -
Years 0-5
Table 8  -  Project Targets for Certified Seed - Years 0-5
a. Percentage of National Total Seed Requirements
b. Area to be Sown with Certified Seed
c. Certified Seed Requirements
Table 9  -  Projections of Foundation Seed Requirements
Table 10 - Projections of Registered Seed Requirements
a. Requirements for Clean and Bagged Seed
b. Requirements for Field Production
c. Requirements for Area of Production
Table 11 - Projections of Field Requirements for Certified Seed
a. Requirements for Field Production
b. Requirements for Area of Production
Chart 1 - (IBRD-15184) National Institute of Agricultural Research
(INIAP) Organization Chart
Chart 2 - (IBRD-15185) "EmLsemillas" Seeds Corporation (EMS)
Organization Chart
Chart 3 - (IBRD-15183) Seeds Certification Department (DCS)
Organization and Staff Chart
Chart 4 - (IBRD-15179) Project Organization and Operational Flow Chart



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES (Continued)
Chart 5 - (IBRD-15181) Seed Processing Flow Chart
Chart 6  -  (IBRD-15180)  Crop Sowing, Harvesting and Seed Processing
Chart
3.   TERMS OF REFERENCE, GUIDELINES AND FELLOWSHIPS
4.   ESTIMATED PROJECT AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE COSTS
Table 1 - Investment and Operating Costs of the National Seeds
Council
Table 2  -  Incremental Project Investment and Operating Costs of
the Seeds Certification Department
Table 3  -  Incremental Project Investment and Training Costs of
the National Institute of Agricultural Research
Table 4  -  Summarized Incremental Project Investment and Training
Costs of the Seeds Corporation (EMS)
Table 5  -  Detailed Investment Costs for Three Seed Processing and
Storage Plants for the Seeds Corporation (EMS)
Table 6  -  International Technical Assistance Costs
Table 7  -  Annual and Total Project Capital Cost for Participating
Entities
Table 8  -  Annual and Total Incremental Recurrent Costs for
Participating Entities
5.   ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
6.   INITIAL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
7.   SEED PRICES
Table 1 - Seed Prices (July 1975)
a. Commercial Grain Prices
b. Price to Seed Growers
c. Seeds Corporation (EMS) Sales Price for Certified Seed
Table 2 - Projected Prices for Seeds Corporation (EMS) Sales Price
for Certified Seed
Table 3  -  Incremental Benefit to Farmers as a Result of Using Certified
Seed
8.   ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL RETURNS TO CONTRACT GROWERS OF CERTIFIED SEED
Table 1  -  Rate of Return for Certified Wheat Seed Production
Table 2  -  Rate of Return for Certified Hard Corn Seed Production
Table 3  -  Rate of Return for Certified Soybean Seed Production
Table 4  -  Rate of Return for Certified Rice Seed Production



ANNEXES (Continued)
9.   ANALYSIS AND FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS FOR THE SEEDS CORPORATION (EMS)
Table 1  -  Projected Purchases of Field Production by the Seeds
Corporation (EMS); Years 1-5
Table 2  -  Projected Sales of Clean and Bagged Certified Seed by
the Seeds Corporation (EMS); Years 1-5
Table 3  -  Projected Sales of Dockage by the Seeds Corporation (EMS);
Years 1-5
Table 4  -  Projected Annual Operating Costs of the Seeds Corporation
(EMS); Years 1-5
Table 5  -  Streams of Costs and Revenue to the Seeds Corporation at
Alternative Levels of Sales Prices for Clean, Certified
Seed; Years 1-20
Table 6A -  Projected Cash Flow for the Seeds Corporation (EMS);
Years 1-12, assuming 12% Increase for Certified Seed Prices
Table 6B -  Projected Cash Flow for the Seed Corporation (EMS); Years
1-12, assuming 15% Increase for Certified Seed Prices
Table 7  -  Balance Sheet of EMS, 1974
10.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Table 1  -  Incremental Quantity of Production Generated by the Project
Table 2  -  Incremental Expenditure by Farmers for Seed Under the
Project
Table 3  -  Incremental Net Financial Benefits Generated by Project
Table 4  -  Streams of Costs and Benefits of the Project; Years 1-20
Table 5  -  Project Cash Flow
MAPS
IBRD - 11860 Production AIeas for Certified Seed
IBRD - 11861 Seed Processing and Distribution Centers



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agriculture remains the most important sector of Ecuador's economy
in terms of output, employment, and foreign exchange earning, even though its
relative contribution to GDP has been overshadowed by recent developments in
the oil sector.  Agriculture employs 55% of the country's labor force and,
despite the surge in oil exports, still provided 39% of export earnings in
1974. Because of the nature of the economy, moreover, and the uncertainties
in the oil sector, agriculture remains at the heart of Ecuador's economic
growth. Consequently, serious problems confront Ecuador in that agricultural
production has been unable to expand fast enough to meet the needs of the
growing population (7.1 million in 1975), rising at a rate of 3.4% annually,
or to satisfy the increased food demand resulting from the recent improvement
in incomes. Government policy is now focused intensively on promoting in-
creased agricultural production and reducing the impact of rural poverty.
Organized schemes to produce and distribute the main agriculture inputs such
as high quality seeds and fertilizer would enhance substantially the Govern-
ment's chances of pursuing this policy to a successful conclusion as well as
increase the benefits to be derived from technical assistance and credit
services.
ii.       The existing seeds industry in Ecuador has the framework necessary
to support an operation that would make a substantial impact on the agri-
cultural productivity of the country. What is needed mainly is proper co-
ordination of efforts and a strengthening of the institutions involved in
performing the different tasks required by the seeds industry. The National
Institute of Agricultural Research (INIAP) does some work on production of
new varieties and basic seed, the Department of Seeds Certification (DCS)
is charged with seed certification and quality control, and a newly estab-
lished Government-private sector Seeds Corporation (EMS) has the respons-
ibility for processing, storing and distributing certified seed that is
produced by selected farmers under contract.
iii.      Previous Bank/IDA-financed operations in Ecuador include a national
livestock development program financed through a loan (501-EC) and two credits
(173-EC and 222-EC); an irrigation and small farmers' settlement project at
Milagro in the coastal area (Credit 425-EC); and a fisheries project (Loan
555-EC). The execution of these projects has generally been satisfactory,
although the objectives of the fisheries project will not be fully achieved.
Future Bank lending is aimed at strengthening the institutional framework for
development policy and resource allocation in agriculture and, with consider-
ably new emphasis, in rural development. The latter has become a main focus
for Government efforts, principally in terms of increased public expenditures
and improved coordination of economic policies. In addition, the Government
has started to prepare several integrated rural development projects, some of



- ii -
which figure significantly in the plans for future Bank lending. These should
serve as a useful forum for consideration of important overall economic as
well as sector policy changes required to overcome the recent unsatisfactory
agricultural performance.
iv.       The main objective of t:he proposed project is to develop a modern
seeds industry, capable of producing and delivering to the bulk of farmers
substantial quantities of high quiality seeds for most of the country's basic
food crops and pastures. The specific target would be to make available by
year 5 some 8,800 tons of certified seed to meet about 30% of total seed
requirements (for project crops), compared to the 14% that is presently
covered. The project would increase the availability of certified seed
for wheat, rice, hard corn and barley and would produce for the first time
certified seed for soft corn, soybeans, other oilseeds, beans and pastures.
v.        To attain its objective, the project would finance technical serv-
ices, and physical facilities to strengthen the three existing institutions--
INIAP, DCS, and EMS--and the establishment of a coordinating National Seeds
Council (NSC). The bulk of project investments would be for the installa-
tion of three large-scale seed processing plants to be operated by EMS, but
an important component would be the provision of a two-man team of experts--
for three years--and 24 man-months of short-term consultants to assist in
specialized fields. Staff trainirng within the country and overseas would also
be provided.
vi.       The Bank loan of US$3 million would finance the foreign exchange
cost of the project (60%), while the local cost, amounting to US$2 million,
would be financed by the Government and EMS (23% and 17%, respectively).
The Bank loan would be at the prevailing interest rate at the time of loan
approval, for a term of 15 years, including four years of grace.
vii.      The borrower would be the Government.  Loan proceeds would be
channeled to participating entities through the National Development Bank
(BNF), which would act as the borrower's financial agent. About 50% of the
loan proceeds would be relent by the Government to EMS over about a 12-year
period, including four years of grace, and at a 9% annual interest rate.
Project costs of the other participating Government agencies would be absorbed
by the Government in the form of non-reimbursable contributions. The foreign
exchange risk of the Bank loan would be borne by the Government.
viii.     The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, on behalf of the Gov-
ernment, would hold overall responsibility for the project, but it would del-
egate this to the NSC, which would act as the project administrative committee.
A Project Executive Director would be in charge of the day-to-day tasks of
project implementation and serve as the liaison executive between the NSC and
participating institutions. He wouLd also handle all project transactions
with BNF and the Bank related to the management of the Bank loan proceeds.
ix.       Procurement of civil works, machinery, equipment and installation
for the processing and storage of seeds would be carried out by international
competitive bidding, in accordance rith Bank guidelines. Contracts for goods



- iil -
and services not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent would be procured under
locally advertised competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures,
satisfactory to the Bank. The Project Executive Director would bulk items
under US$100,000 in value whenever possible.
x.        The main benefits from the proposed project would be the higher
crop yield and net returns that a substantial number of farmers would ob-
tain from the use of certified seed. The incremental production of commer-
cial grain, attributable solely to the use of the additional certified seed
to be marketed by EMS as of Year 5 of the project, and annually thereafter,
would be estimated to amount to 25,000 tons, valued at about US$4.3 million.
The project would benefit the majority of farmers, of whom the main users of
soft corn, bean and barley seed would be the small farmers of the highlands.
It is expected that the economic rate of return of the project would be about
48%. If yield increases estimated under the project were to be reduced by
half, the rate of return would still be 16.5%.
xi.       During negotiations assurances were obtained, which provide a suit-
able basis for a Bank loan of US$3 million, for a term of 15 years, including
a grace period of four years.






ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Ecuador has requested a Bank loan to help finance
the establishment of a modern seeds industry. The project, the first of its
kind in Ecuador, would provide technical and financial assistance mainly to
strengthen existing institutions that are already working on seed development
and handling, although on a limited scale. It would also make an important
contribution to the achievement of the Government's plans to increase produc-
tion and productivity of priority crops, such as wheat, rice, corn, barley,
beans and oilseeds, as well as cultivated pastures to increase the output
of beef and milk.
1.02      Previous Bank and IDA activities in the agriculture sector in
Ecuador consist of a nationwide livestock development program, including
pasture research (Loan 501-EC and Credits 173-EC and 222-EC); the Milagro
irrigation project in the Coast near Boliche (Credit 425-EC); and a fish-
eries project (Loan 555-EC). Execution of these projects has generally been
satisfactory, although the objectives of the fisheries project will not be
fully achieved.
1.03      This report is based on the preparatory work of an FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program mission that visited Ecuador in March 1975 and on the
findings of an appraisal mission, consisting of Messrs. J. Bazo and J.A.N.
Wallis (IBRD); P.P. Maleki (FAO); and B. Bullock (consultant), that visited
Ecuador in August 1975.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Ecuador's overall economic position has improved substantially
since the export of petroleum began in 1972. From then to 1974, gross
domestic product (GDP), which had been increasing, in constant terms, by
about 5% annually from 1969 to 1971, rose by an average of 10% annually.
Ecuador, however, continues to be one of the poorest countries in Latin
America with a per capita income equivalent to about US$415 in 1974 and
a large proportion of the people living under conditions of absolute
poverty. Population, at 7.1 million in 1975, rose at a rate of 3.4% a
year from 1960 to 1973.



-2-
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.02      Agriculture, including forestry and fisheries, remains the most
important sector of the economy in terms of output, even though its contri-
bution to GDP at factor cost declined from 33% in 1965 to 22% in 1974. The
sector employs over 55% of the labor force and, up to 1971, provided over 85%
of export earnings. It contintues to be the prime source of employment for
the bulk of the labor force and. the source of subsistence for thousands more.
Moreover, the prospects of the oil sector are unclear, even as early as 1980.
Because of Ecuador's fundamental reliance on agriculture, there is a basic
problem in that the sector has been unable to expand its production fast
enough to meet rising demand, especially for wheat, rice, and edible oils,
from the growing population or to satisfy the increased demand by the seg-
ment of the community that has benefitted from the higher real income re-
sulting from the rapid development of the petroleum industry. In 1974
imports totalled some 155,000 tons of wheat (US$35.5 million), 20,000 tons
of rice (US$9.1 million) and 15,000 tons of edible oil, of which 11,300 tons
of soybean oil was valued at US$8.6 million. Rice has been exported during
1975, and provided that water control and grain handling and storage facil-
ities are improved, rice exports could be considerably expanded in the future.
2.03      According to the 1968 agricultural survey, there were 633,000 farm
holdings in the country, some 74% being less than 5 ha in size and occupying
no more than 10% of the total farm land. Most farmers produce only for family
subsistence and so remain outsidle the market economy. By Bank definition, 1/
in 1974 between 50% and 66% of the rural population were "absolutely poor"
and 75%, "relatively poor." A special program of land tenure reform and
settlement was started in 1964 but so far only some 60,000 families have
benefitted.
2.04      The rural population :Ls divided almost equally between the Pacific
coastal region --Costa-- and the central Andean highlands --Sierra-- with
very few people living in the lowlands of the Amazon basin --Oriente. Tem-
perate climate crop and dairy production is concentrated in the Sierra where
there are both medium and small sized farms. Tropical crops, including the
main export items --bananas, cacao and coffee-- and beef, are raised mainly
in the Costa and, to a limited extent, also in the Oriente. The area with
the most potential for increasing cropland is in the Costa, and it is prob-
able that an extensive portion of the Oriente, close to the Andes, could be
developed as grassland; there are only limited opportunities for incorporating
additional land in the Sierra for crops and livestock production. Current
national average yields are generally low in comparison with adjoining coun-
tries, although improved varieties and management systems have been developed
for the main crops (para 1.01). Factors such as shortages and poor distribu-
tion of seed of the improved varieties, insufficient fertilizer supplies,
inadequate water control practices, and deficient pricing policies have de-
layed improvements in productivity, but Government policy is now focussing
on promoting increased agricultural production and reducing rural poverty.
1/   Report No. 588 Rural Development and Bank Policies;  A Progress Report
December 2, 1974.



- 3 -
Organized schemes to produce and distribute the main agriculture inputs
such as high quality seeds and fertilizer would enhance substantially the
Government's chances of pursuing this policy to a successful conclusion as
well as increase the benefits to be derived from technical assistance and
credit services.  To make large amounts and varieties of improved seeds
available to farmers by means of large scale imports is not a viable solu-
tion. In economic terms it would be impracticable to import the necessary
seeds in advantageous conditions. For successful and nationwide crop pro-
duction the basic solution is the local production and well organized dis-
tribution of certified seeds that would match the different micro-climates
existing in Ecuador and that would be resistant to the plant diseases that
also exist in Ecuador. The proposed seeds project would be one part of this
effort. Other measures would be required to overcome the unsatisfactory
performance of the agricultural sector. The Bank is assisting Ecuador to
prepare projects for the increased domestic production of other commodities.
In that connection, the proposed project enhances the prospect for a fruitful
dialogue with the Government on important overall economic as well as sector
policy changes needed to bring about more positive results.
2.05      Several corrective steps have already been taken to encourage
greater production efforts. The flow of credit has been increased, rising
from S/ 579 million (US$23 million) in 1972 to S/ 2,621 million (US$105
million) in 1974, and the National Development Bank (BNF) has recently made
considerable progress in extending its credit and agricultural supply serv-
ices to more remote and small-scale farmers. Additionally, import duties on
agricultural inputs were entirely removed in April 1974 and farm production
reference prices have been raised substantially. Although the performance
of the sector in 1974 was still disappointing in spite of these incentives,
it appears that the downward trend was halted. Some encouraging increases
in production were registered for cassava, cotton, and sugarcane. Other
factors besides those mentioned in the previous paragraph that are believed
to have restrained expansion include the higher cost of inputs; uncertainties
concerning the implementation of the 1973 Agrarian Reform Law; problems of
water control; dissatisfaction with farm-gate prices actually received; and
the greater attraction of investment in urban properties and commercial en-
terprises than in rural operations. Other weaknesses in the sector have
been inadequate marketing and storage facilities for the main products and
insufficient integration of the various farm advisory services of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG), and limited transference of
the technical information available from the National Agricultural Research
Institute (INIAP) to the farmers.
2.06      The proposed project would seek to accelerate the transference of
the results of crop and pasture breeding work from INIAP to the farming com-
munity at large by strengthening the system for the production, certification
and distribution of improved seed. The crops selected for inclusion in the
project are those which are of national importance to improve the food supply
(corn and beans), reduce imports (wheat, barley, edible oil crops, and pasture
seed), and provide larger exportable surpluses of rice. Further information
on the agricultural sector is contained in Annex 1. Meanwhile, the Government
has stepped up its past efforts to address the problem of widespread rural



- 4 -
poverty in Ecuador. It announced its intention of allocating a greater share
of public expenditures to rural development activities, notably the improve-
ment of social services and infrastructure in disadvantaged areas. This new
emphasis also has made possible some progress towards a more effective co-
ordination of policies and government operations affecting the rural popula-
tion. At the same time, the Government has started to prepare several in-
tegrated rural development projects, especially in the Sierra. In an attempt
to expand these initiatives, in late 1974, the Government asked for the
Bank's counsel in applying its irnternational experience in rural development
to the alleviation of Ecuador's problem. In addition to providing a report
to the Government on this subject, the Bank has defined a program which would
extend substantial support in this field. This entails plans for an initial
technical assistance project and integrated rural development projects in
Tungurahua Province, the Quevedo area, the Lower Guayas-Naranjal zone and
possibly the Esmeraldas River Basin.
C. The Existing Seeds Industry
2.07      The existing institutions concerned with seeds production in Ecuador
provide the elements essential to a sizable seeds industry (Annex 2). There
is a lack, however, of overall coordination and direction of these institu-
tions, and there are inadequate facilities for processing and distributing
improved seed in the quantities necessary for a significant impact on the
productivity of the agricultural sector. In 1974, about 3,400 tons of im-
proved seed of rice, hard corn, wheat and barley were distributed--sufficient
to plant about 14% of the national area under project crops.
2.08      INIAP has developed and tested improved varieties of all the crops
of major importance in Ecuador and has the technical capacity and facilities
to maintain a regular flow of breeder's seeds of new improved varieties. INIAP
keeps a permanent relationship on technical matters with three important inter-
national agricultural research centers: CIMMYT in Mexico for wheat and corn
programs; CIAT in Colombia for activities related to programs for beans and
rice production, and swine and cattle raising; and CIP in Peru in connection
with potatoes production. However, INIAP does not have enough suitably located
land to produce all the registered seed which would be required under the
proposed project. Some registered seed is now being grown by farmers under
contract with INIAP, but this procedure is not advisable because of the amount
of technical control and supervision required.
2.09      Legislation was enacted in 1972 establishing a Department of Seeds
Certification (DCS) within MAG, and establishing seeds rules and standards.
DCS has made a modest but satisfactory start and has sufficient personnel
and facilities for the current level of activity. In some cases, however,
it has lacked sufficient support to carry out fully its responsibilities,
and the lack of a high level coordinating body for the entire seeds industry,
plus some gaps and other defects in the legislation have reduced its effec-
tiveness as a quality control agency.



-5-
2.10      A Seeds Corporation (EMS), the first in Ecuador, was established
in April 1973 as a joint Government-private sector enterprise. Its main ob-
jectives are to acquire and operate plants to process certified seeds, sell
the processed certified seed to farmers, and promote the use of certified
seed among all farmers. Initial capital was S/ 7 million (US$280,000), but
in August 1975 it was raised to S/ 27 million (US$1.1 million) in shares
worth S/ 100 each, held by BNF, 48%; MAG, 26%; Comision de Valores (Government
Finance Company), 22%; and about 20 private persons, 4%. Even though EMS is
registered as a private company in the Public Registry, it enjoys a number of
privileges granted by the Government, including importation of machinery and
equipment duty free and use of BNF short-term credit at a preferential in-
terest rate of only 1% per annum. The corporation is controlled by a Board
of Directors appointed by the shareholders, a General Manager with a staff
of 10 agronomists, four professionals in administrative positions, and 18
other personnel working on a permanent basis at Quito headquarters and at
offices in Guayaquil, Cayambe, Riobamba, Guarandas, and Cuenca. Its first
year of operations (1974) was successful in terms of recruiting contract seed
growers and setting up certified seed distribution and sale centers ( Annex 2).
During that period, EMS had contracts with 40 seed growers, selected on the
basis of their know-how and creditworthiness, who, with BNF and private bank
financing for their farm operations, produced enough certified seed to permit
EMS to process and sell the 3,400 tons mentioned in paragraph 2.07.  Some
seed was processed in the old rudimentary plants handed over by MAG as its
capital contribution to EMS and some was processed by INIAP under contract
at the small modern facilities it maintains to handle the registered seed
produced at its research stations.
2.11      In recognition of the key importance of the production of improved
seeds and their further use by farmers to its strategy to raise agricultural
productivity, the Government has given such production and use of improved
seeds the highest priority for agricultural credit from BNF. As a promotional
measure to get farmers to use improved seed, Government payments to wheat
producers have been partly in cash and partly in vouchers exchangeable only
for certified seed and fertilizers. This system has been used only for wheat
so far, but it has worked fairly well and may eventually be extended to cover
other important crops as well. As another important promotional measure for
the use of improved seeds by farmers, BNF would also play a major role by
making the purchase of certified seed a condition of production loans to farmers,
as well as make adequate provision for their credit requirements.
2.12      The Government now wishes to extend the scope of the seeds industry
to include all major food crops and to increase substantially the proportion
of the national areas of the crops sown with improved, certified seed. Such
an expansion will, however, require strong coordination at the center, addi-
tional investment in processing facilities, technical assistance and training,
and a considerable promotional campaign. The proposed project is designed
to meet these needs.



-6-
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objective and Brief Description
3.01      The proposed project would aim at developing a modern seeds industry,
capable of producing and deliver:Lng to farmers substantial quantities of high
quality seeds for most of the cotntry's priority crops. Production and dis-
tribution targets for such crops to be attained by year 5 of the project
would total some 8,800 tons of certified seed, broken down as follows: about
2,400 tons of wheat, 1,000 tons of barley, 400 tons of soft corn, 500 tons
of hard corn, 3,000 tons of rice, 700 tons of soybeans, 200 tons of other
oilseeds, 450 tons of beans, and 120 tons of pasture seeds. This volume
would permit the sowing of about 160,000 ha of crops, or about 33% of the
total area devoted to the kinds of crops included under the project. The
project would operate on a commercial scale in two of the three geo-
ecological regions of the country (IBRD Map 11860)--the Costa and the Sierra.
Operations in the Oriente would be limited since the area is not extensively
cultivated.
3.02      The project would finance the necessary technical services, physical
facilities and initial incremental operating costs to:
(a) establish a National Seeds Council;
(b) develop a seed variety release system;
(c) produce registered and certified seed;
(d) establish three large-scale certified seed processing and
storage plants (two in the Sierra and one in the Costa);
(e) strengthen the existing seeds certification department and
related regulatory works for seed quality control;
(f) construct and improve some 25 seed distribution centers; and
(g) train personnel in different aspects of the seeds industry.
3.03      The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG) would have overall
responsibility for the project. Funds would be channeled to the participating
entities--the National Agricultural Research Institute (INIAP), the Seeds
Corporation (EMS), and the Department of Seeds Certification (DCS)--through
a special account to be administered by the National Development Bank (BNF).
Actual implementation of the project would be in the hands of the National
Seeds Council (NSC) through a project unit with an Executive Director, assisted
by a Project Technical Adviser (Arnex 2, Chart 4). Technical assistance would
also be provided.



-7-
B. Detailed Features
Project Administration
3.04      A National Seeds Council would be set up by the government under the
project to exercise overall direction of the seeds industry and policy matters.
It would operate under the jurisdiction of MAG and be chaired by the Minister
of Agriculture and Livestock or by the Director General of Agricultural Devel-
opment. The Council would otherwise consist of the Director General of INIAP,
Technical Manager of BNF, one representative of the seed processing enterprises
and one representative of the seed growers. The Director of DCS would perform
the functions of Secretary of the Council. The Council would monitor and
advise the Government among other points on (a) the prices paid to farmers
for producing certified seed; (b) the prices paid by farmers for purchasing
certified seed; (c) the needs for seed supplies of various crops, to be used
in defining national targets for seed production; (d) seed varieties eligible
for certified seed production; and (e) coordination of the activities of the
various Government agencies involved in the seeds industry. (Details of NSC
functions are contained in Annex 3.) The establishment of the Council would
serve to provide the improved central coordination required and a better basis
for greater flexibility and responsiveness in dealing with all matters affect-
ing the seeds industry than now exists. The NSC would also serve as the
administrative entity responsible for the direction of the project (para. 4.01).
Establishment of the NSC in accordance with the guidelines as shown in Annex 3
would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
Seed Certification (DCS)
3.05      Since farmers' demand for certified seed would depend on their
previous experience with such higher priced seed, efficient quality control
would be fundamental to the success of the seeds industry. To enable the
DCS to perform a more effective job in this respect, the project would finance
the purchase of vehicles, testing equipment, label printer, and promotion
equipment, as well as training, local and foreign (para 3.12), but the hiring
of additional personnel would be financed separately by the Government (para
4.05).
Basic Seed Production (INIAP)
3.06      Under the project, INIAP plant breeders would continue to be respon-
sible for the provision of breeder's seed and for the production of basic and
registered seed at its experimental stations (Annex 2). INIAP has the neces-
sary technical staff for the task but more land would be required for the
Santa Catalina (Sierra) station for production of all the registered wheat
seed called for under the project. Financing would therefore be provided
for purchase of 150 ha to provide the area required to meet project demands.
During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government that, within
one year of effectiveness the said land acquisition would be completed. Addi-
tionally, the project would finance enlarging INIAP's storage facilities at



-8-
Santa Catalina (by 400 tons), Boliche (by 50 tons), Pichilingue (by 50 tons)
and Portoviejo (by 100 tons). All four plants would also be provided with basic
testing equipment, and the seed processing plant at Santa Catalina would get
an additional cleaner, scale and bagging machine.
Seed Processing, Storage and Distribution (EMS)
3.07      Production of certified seed for project crops would be undertaken
by selected farmers (para 2.10) under contract with EMS. It is anticipated
that, to fulfill project targets, about 100 farmers, with an average area of
50 ha devoted to seed growing, would be engaged in this activity by the fifth
year of the project. Certified seed production for oilcrops and pastures
would be carried out by EMS and INIAP jointly in the initial years of the
project because of the lack of experienced seed growers for these crops. The
Government has given MAG about 400 ha in the Coastal region (Portoviejo), some
150 ha of which would be transferred to INIAP for the expanded production.
3.08      Three large-scale processing and storage centers would be constructed
and equipped under the project to handle the increased certified seeds produc-
tion. These centers would be owned and operated by EMS and they would handle
the seed produced by the contract seed growers. Two of the plants, located
at Sierra (Quito area) and Costa (Guayaquil area), would turn out 4 to 5 tons
of processed seeds per hour and each site would have facilities capable of
storing 500 tons of seeds in bags and 1,000 tons in bulk. The third plant,
to be installed in Austral Region, would be smaller, with a rated output of
2 to 3 tons per hour and storage facilities for 250 tons of seeds in bags and
500 tons in bulk. It is estimated that the Sierra and Costa plants could each
process up to 5,000 tons of seed during a five-month processing period, work-
ing eight hours a day, while the third plant would process about 3,000 tons
over the same period. The plants would be fully equipped for the processing
operations, which call mainly for facilities for weighing and receiving,
drying and conditioning, cleaning and grading, treating, bagging and labeling,
quality control testing and storing. Processing and storage operations would
take place between harvest and sowing in the respective plants' areas of in-
fluence. Plants would be designed to permit processing of different types
of seeds. The rated capacity of the plants would be about 50% above the
requirements projected for year 5 of the project, to allow for subsequent
increase in demand for certified seed.
3.09      Construction and installation works for the Sierra and Costa plants
would be started as soon as possible after the project effectiveness date, and,
depending on procurement speed, should be operating in 16 to 20 months. Con-
struction on the third plant would be started in the second year of the project;
operations would begin in the third year. EMS, during the first 18 months of
the project, would continue processing seeds using the facilities at INIAP's
research stations under contract. Soybean seeds would be processed by contract
for at least the next four years at: a new INIAP processing plant now under
construction at the Portoviejo Research Station. Details regarding all aspects
of the seed processing and storage component of the project are given in Annex 2.



- 9 -
3.10      Stocks of certified seed processed by EMS would be delivered to
farmers at 25 different locations--12 in the Sierra and 13 in the Costa
(IBRD Map 11861). Distribution centers would be the EMS processing plants
and the INIAP plant at Portoviejo (for soybean seeds), and some 25 warehouses
belonging to EMS, MAG, and BNF (Annex 2). The project would finance construction
of 10 of these warehouses for EMS, each capable of storing about 100 tons of
bagged seeds. Finance would also be provided for the purchase of three trucks
to move seed stocks.
Technical Assistance
3.11      Two technical experts, internationally recruited, would be financed
under the project. They would be contracted for three years, one to serve
as Technical Adviser of the project and as specialist in seed processing and
storage, and the other in seed production, certification and quality control
matters. In addition, a total of 24 man-months of short-term consultant
services would be provided to take care of specific problems, such as pasture
seeds work. Annex 3 gives details on their terms of reference.
Training
3.12      Organized training in all technical aspects of the seeds industry
would be an important component of the project. In-country training, to be
provided by the consultants and senior local staff of the participating in-
stitutions, would be made available to some 50 participants (including seed
producers) per year. Advanced and specialized training would be provided to
the staff of the participating entities through overseas fellowships. A
total of about 200 man-months of these fellowships would be financed under
the project (para 4.05 and Annex 3).
C. Cost Estimates
3.13      The total cost of the project is estimated at S/ 126.3 million
(US$5 million equivalent), of which about S/ 75.3 million (US$3 million)
would be the foreign exchange component. The project costs include incremental
operating costs amounting to about US$0.5 million, to be financed by the Gov-
ernment during the three-year period of project implementation. The Government
will continue to finance recurrent costs thereafter. Details of project costs
are given in Annex 4 and summarized below:



- 10 -
SuriTarx of Project Costs
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Forei -n  Total   Exchanr?e
T_  Sucres S000--)         -         'oooXT
1. ProLect Administration (NSC)
Administration                 4,278      -     4,278   171.1        -    171.1       -
Office equip. and vehicles       151      193     344      6.o      7.7    13.7       56
Operation & maint. of vehicles  80         34     1114     3.2      1.4     4.6       30
Travel                           720      -       720    28.8        -     28.6       -
Consultants                    _956   5,h7o   6.426    38.2   218.8   257.0           85
Sub-total                   6,185   5,697  11,882   27.    227.9   475.2          7
2. Seed Certification (DCS)
Technical Personnel            1,920      -     1,920    76.8        -     76.8        o
Equipment and vehicles           390   3,010   3,400    15.6 - 120.4   136.0          89
Operation & maint. of
vehicles                     1,051      450   1,501    42.0    18.0    60.0         30
Training                       1 700   1 800   3,500    68.o    72.0   140.0          51
Sub-total                   ,'T  5      ,260 10,321   202.1   210.14 7 412.8
3. Basic Seed Production (INIAP)
Land                           6,000     -      6,ooo   240o0        -    240o0        0
Buildings                        540      360     900    21.6    14.4    36.0         40
Machinery and equipment          365   3,285   3,650    14.6   131.4   146.0          90
Training                         150   1 350   1 500       6.o    54.0    60.0        90
Sub-total                   7,055   t2,95  105o   2           12990.  19,8 20
4. Seed ProcessinR. Storage
and Distribution (S
-Land                            1,200      -     1,200    48.o        -     48.o        0
Buildings                      8,0148   5,365  13,413   321.9   214.6   536.5         40
Processing equip. (installed)3,506  26,617  30,123   140.1 1,064.8 1,204.9            88
Vehicles                         165   1,485   1,650       6.6    59.4    66.o        90
Pasture seeds combines            75      675     750      3.0    27.0    30.0        90
Training                          90      810     900      3.6 - 32.4    36.o         90
Consultant                       928   5,259   6,187    37.1   210.4   247.5          85
Sub-total                 114012  02 531                             2,168.3     77
Base Total Cost Estinate            32,313  56,163  88,476 1,292.2 2,246.7 3,538.9          63
5. Contingencies
Physical 10,%                  3,231   5,616   8,847   129.2   224.6   353.8          63
Price - Local                 15,4714     -    15,474   618.9       -     618.9       -
- Foreign                  -    13,519  13,519      -      514.8   540.8      100
Sub-total                  l7F   19.135  37.810   718.1   765.4 1,513.5          _
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  51.C18  75,298 126,316 2,040.3 3,012.1 5,052-14         60



- 11 -
3.14      The cost estimates are based on July-August 1975 prices including
quotations cif Ecuadorian ports for equipment expected to be imported.
Physical contingencies of 10% have been added to the baseline costs, and
price contingencies of 30% have been added to the baseline costs plus the
physical contingencies. Price contingencies are based on assumed interna-
tional inflation rates of 10.8% in 1975, 8.8% in 1976, 8% in 1977 and 7.5%
in 1978 for the foreign exchange costs, and inflation rates for local costs
of 19% in 1975, 17% in 1976, and 16% during 1977 and 1978. The price con-
tingencies have been calculated from July 1975 to the mid-point of the dis-
bursement periods, i.e. January 1977, 1978 and 1979.
D. Financing
3.15      The Bank loan of US$3 million would finance the foreign exchange
cost of the project (60%) over a three-year investment period. The local
costs, amounting to about US$2 million equivalent, would be covered by the
Government (23%) and EMS (17%). Proposed financing arrangements would be as
follows: 1/
Bank     Government      EMS      Total
----_US$'000 (rounded)-------
Administration - NSC                   10           210         -         220
Seed Certification - DCS              135          135          -         270
Registered Seed Production - INIAP  145             275         -         420
Certified Processing, Storage
and Distribution - EMS            1,370            -        520       1,890
Technical Assistance and Training   590             110        40         740
Sub-total                     2,250           730        560      3,540
Contingencies                         750          420        290       1,460
Total                         3,000         1,150        850      5,000
3.16      Government would be the borrower and would bear the foreign exchange
risk. The Bank loan would be made at the current Bank lending rate at the
time of loan approval, for a term of 15 years, including four years of grace.
NSC, DCS and INIAP depend entirely on Government budgetary support to finance
their operations, while EMS has the status of a commercial institution and
operates with its own capital and commercial credit. The Government, there-
fore, would contribute, as a grant, the foreign and local project costs of
1/   Same figures as table in para. 3.13 with "technical assistance and
training" identified separately.



- 12 -
the NSC (including the cost of the Project Unit and its Executive Director),
DCS, INIAP and the overall technical assistance and training component. The
approximately US$2 million equivalent for EMS foreign exchange project invest-
ment costs including contingencies would be made available by a subloan from
the Government to EMS, repayable over 12 years; including four years of grace,
with an annual interest of 9%. EMS project local costs would be financed
with EMS' own resources and short-term credit from local banks.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.17      International competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guide-
lines on Procurement would be required for the civil works, machinery,
equipment and installations for the three proposed EMS plants (estimated
at about US$1.7 million, exclusive of contingencies). Bids would include
(a) detailed designs for the seed processing flow, for the buildings needed
to house the processing equipment, for the storage building, and for the
layout of the storage bins; (b) dletailed list of machinery and equipment
called for in seed flow design; (c) direct supervision of assembly and in-
stallations of machinery and equLpment; and (d) test runs to insure satis-
factory operations. Bids would be called for supplies and civil works for
one, two or all three plants on a single contract or alternatively for separate
contracts for the civil works component alone. Machinery and equipment other
than that mentioned above and vehicles would be procured under international
bidding whenever the size of individual contracts exceeded US$100,000.  Pro-
curement of items in amounts less than US$100,000 equivalent and civil work
contracts under a similar value would be carried out on the basis of competi-
tive bidding advertised locally in accordance with local procedures, satis-
factory to the Bank. However, the Project Executive Director would bulk such
items together into larger contracts whenever possible. Assurances were
obtained from the Government that all contracts in excess of US$100,000,
technical specifications, draft tender documents, bidding invitation documents,
and bid evaluations would be approved by the Project Technical Adviser prior
to submitting them to the NSC for its approval. The two consultants chosen would
would be satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursement
3.18      The proposed loan of US$3 million would cover the foreign exchange
component (60%) of the project. The Bank loan would be disbursed over a
period of about four years against:  (a) 100% of the total c.i.f. cost of the
processing and storage equipment f'or the EMS plants; (b) 40% of the local costs
of transport, assembly, installation and test operations of the items financed
under (a) (equivalent to the foreign exchange component); (c) 100% of the cif
cost of imported project machinery other than that in item (a), equipment,
vehicles and imported items; (d) 40% of the total costs of civil works (equiv-
alent to the foreign exchange component); and (e) 100Z of the foreign expendi-
tures for technical assistance and overseas training. Because short-term



- 13 -
consultants may be required to initiate certain project actions immediately,
retroactive financing, not to exceed US$100,000, is recommended to cover their
costs and those for other technical services provided after January 30, 1976.
Disbursements would not be made against costs of land, administration, opera-
tions and maintenance and local costs for the consultants and training.
Any balance left in the loan account after completion of the project would
be cancelled. The Schedule of Disbursements is in Annex 5.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Coordination and Administration
National Seeds Council
4.01      MAG would be the official representative of the Government and
therefore responsible for the overall aspects of the Seeds Project; it would,
however, delegate responsibility for implementation of the project to the NSC.
The Council would meet at least once a month to review progress of the project
and take necessary actions and decisions (para 3.04).
Project Executive Director
4.02      The Project Executive Director would be responsible to the National
Seeds Council for the day-to-day implementation of the Seeds Project. He
would be assisted by the Technical Adviser (consultant, para 3.11) and would
have a Project Unit with a small staff (about seven), consisting of an account-
ant, an administrative assistant, secretaries and clerks. The Executive
Director would be particularly concerned with administrative, technical,
financial and economic aspects of the Seeds Project. He would be the regular
channel of all project financial transactions between NSC, the executing
participating entities, BNF, and the Bank. He would see that the necessary
approvals were obtained and that project funds were properly disbursed. His
duties and responsibilities are further detailed in Annex 3, and the Initial
Implementation Schedule is in Annex 6.
4.03      A Project Unit would be established and its Executive Director would
be appointed by the Government (MAG), on the recommendation of the NSC, who
would select a qualified candidate in consultation with the Bank. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations to this effect. The appointment of the Executive
Director would be a condition of effectiveness.
B. National Development Bank
4.04      BNF would participate in the project by serving as fiduciary agent on
behalf of the borrower for channeling the loan funds to participating enti-
ties. The Government would enter into an agreement with BNF, under terms and



- 14 -
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, in which procedures and regulations
governing BNF disbursements for project investment costs and withdrawals for
reimbursements from the Bank loan would be set out. The signing of the agree-
ment, satisfactory to the Bank, between the Government and BNF would be a
condition of effectiveness.
C. Executing Participating Entities
4.05      The entities executing operations financed under the project would
be INIAP, EMS and DCS. BNF and private banks would not be provided with
project funds, but would participate indirectly by financing out of their own
resources short-term credit to EMS and the credit needs of seed and crop pro-
ducers (para 3.07). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that BNF would
make adequate provisions for the credit requirements of such producers, of
seed growers and EMS, as well as make the purchase of certified seed a condi-
tion of production loans to farners (para 2.11). INIAP's present organization
is capable of absorbing project activities in breeder's seed research and seed
multiplication development with  minimum additional assistance, which would
be provided under the project by short-term consultants (para 3.11). INIAP
would also be allotted fellowships for specialized staff training overseas.
Local training of technicians and seed growers would be conducted at INIAP
research stations. Chart 1 of Annex 2 shows the INIAP organization. EMS
would manage the three new certified seed processing plants to be financed
under the project. The present staff, assisted by the consultants to be con-
tracted with project funds (para 3.11), would be sufficient for the initial year.
Besides additional local trainirng, the project provides for foreign fellowships
for the EMS staff in the fields of seed production, processing and storage,
and quality control. Chart 2 of Annex 2 shows the EMS organization. The DCS
is also well staffed for the initial year, but additional personnel would
be provided for Year 2 of the project, and also fellowships would be financed
for overseas training in field inspection techniques, seed testing, seed
pathology, and seed certification works. Chart 3 of Annex 2 shows the DCS
organization.
D. Accounts and Audits
4.06      Separate project accounts would be established by BNF and by the
participating entities receiving project funds. BNF accounts are subject to
internal audits, and the Superintendence of Banks does the external auditing,
which would be acceptable to the Bank. EMS, however, operates under private
commercial legislation. An independent firm, acceptable to the Bank, would
therefore be required to audit accounts. Project contributions as Government
grants to NSC, INIAP and DCS would be reflected in BNF's project accounts in
the case of foreign exchange payments, and local cost contributions would be
part of the MAG annual budget auelited by the General Controller of the Govern-
ment. EMS accounts would be mairntained so as to reflect, in accordance with



- 15 -
sound commercial accounting practices, its entire operations and financial
condition. Aesurances were obtained during negotiations that these institu-
tions would: (a) establish and maintain such accounts, (b) have the above
accounts audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank,
and (c) send audited BNF project accounts and EMS accounts and their audit
reports to the Bank within four months after the close of each fiscal year.
E. Monitoring and Key Indicators
4.07      The NSC would be responsible for establishing and maintaining a
system, acceptable to the Bank, for monitoring the impact of the proposed
project and the adequacy of certified seed supplies to meet the farmers'
needs for such certified seeds. Under this system, it is envisaged that DCS
would be required to assemble information each season from a sample of repre-
sentative farms and from other sections of MAG relating to the area sown with
certified seed and the yields obtained using certified seed. Projected
technical coefficients are given in Annex 2. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that a monitoring system acceptable to the Bank would be established
by the NSC, and submitted to the Bank within a period of 12 months.
V. SEEDS PRICING AND FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
A. Seeds Pricing
5.01      Under the project there would continue to be three sets of prices
for seed, one for registered seed produced and processed by INIAP, one for
certified seed produced by contract seed growers for EMS, and one for the
processed certified seed sold by EMS to farmers (Annex 7 Tables 1 and 2).
INIAP-Registered Seed and Contract Growers
5.02      The price for registered seed, as set by INIAP, taking into account
the production and processing, would be 5% to 30% higher than prices projected
for certified seed.  However, registered seed is planted only by the certi-
fied seed growers, and, as shown in Annex 8, Tables 1 to 4, its cost has
little effect on total certified seed production costs. Certified seed
produced by contract growers would be priced at the commercial grain level
at the time of harvest, plus premiums ranging from a minimum of 15% to a
maximum of 30%. The Annex 8 tables also show that a 15% premium for certified
seed produced by contract growers would permit returns of at least 30% on the
marginal investments that have to be made by farmers to produce certified
seed, which would make seed production sufficiently profitable to be attract-
ive. Rice seed now brings a premium of 30% over the commercial price, which
seems unnecessarily high, but it is in line with the present price policy.



-16-
EM'S Certified Seed
5.03      EMS prices for some certified seed (after dockage, 1/ processing,
treatment and packaging) would have to be increased by about 12% over current
prices to cover all costs and still allow EMS a satisfactory rate of return
on its investments without any sort of subsidy. Current prices have been
determined on the basis of subsidized short-term credit for seed stocks and
other operating costs. They do not include a return on investments consist-
ing of the old processing facilities transferred to EMS from MAG. Projected
prices for EMS cerSified seed (Annex 7) would represent differences of about
65% to 75% over the prevailing grain market prices for wheat, soybeans and
beans; 90% to 100% over barley, soft corn, sesame, and peanuts; and 210% to
230% for rice and hard corn. T'he wide range is due partly to the different
amounts of dockage, which range from 15% to 20% for wheat and rice seed to
60% for hard corn seed. The prices for pasture seeds are based on current
prices for imported seeds. All prices are established at distribution centers
and include transportation costs to these points (Annex 9, Tables 1 and 2).
5.04      The yield increases per hectare that a farmer could expect to
obtain by switching to certifie,l seed (Annex 2, Table 6) while making no
other change in his traditional production practices indicate that, except
in the case of barley, certifiedl seed prices could be increased substantially
and still remain a very attract:Lve investment to farmers (Annex 7, Table 3).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that an annual price review would
be made by the National Seed Cotncil (NSC) in connection with its function
of monitoring the impact of the project, which report would be assessed by
the Minister of Agriculture. Assurances were obtained also that, in the
light of the said price reviews the Government would effect the necessary
adjustments in the prices paid by farmers for certified seeds supplied by
EMS and adopt other measures necessary to: (a) enable EMS to have an annual
rate of return of not less than 10% on its net assets, and (b) ensure that
farmers would have the necessary incentive to utilize certified seeds.
B. Financial Projections
Contract Seed Growers
5.05      Contract seed growers would require no long-term investments beyond
those they have already made for the production of commercial grain. They
would, however, have higher production costs per hectare for certified seed
growing due to intensive land preparation, more agro-chemicals, higher cost
of basic seed and more labor than for commercial grain production, but reve-
nues would be higher as a result of higher yields and higher prices paid for
certified seed, including dockage. Annex 8 shows that, for all crops under
1/   Discarded seeds not acceptable undertified seed standards.



- 17 -
the project, the revenues obtained by contract growers from the sale of seeds
exceed the costs by amounts sufficient to make seed growing under contract an
attractive business.
Seed Corporation (EMS)
5.06      EMS (para. 2.10) would account for over 60% of total project costs,
mainly for investments related to the construction of its three processing
plants, and it would be the only entity that would receive project funds on
loan. Its repayment capacity would be related to its revenues from the sale
of processed certified seed and from the sale of dockage resulting from the
seed purchased from contract growers. Revenues from the sale of seeds have
been estimated assuming a 12% increase over existing sale prices.  Based on
these assumptions and the projected volume of certified seed sales, the
financial rate of return on EMS investments would be about 12% (Annex 9).
Since the intention is that EMS' operations be on a commercial basis, seed
price projections and financial forecasts would be prepared and updated
annually. Not less than two months before the start of each financial year,
the forecasts would be reviewed by its directors in conjunction with the
latest available accounts. In making its review, EMS would take note of
the rate of return on capital employed. Assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions that EMS would make these financial reviews.
5.07      The projected cash flow for EMS, given in Annex 9, shows that the
Corporation would be financially viable to receive the proceeds from the
Bank loan channeled to it through the Government, to be repaid in 12 years,
including four years of grace. Interest has been set at 9% per annum, which
is the prevailing rate in Ecuador for this type of loan. Short-term credit
for the seed stocks and operating costs, which would be provided by BNF, is
set at 9% interest.   This is the interest rate applied to all agricultural
loans in Ecuador, except that, in the case of Bank Loan 222-EC, sub-loans in
excess of US$25,000 equivalent carry a 12% interest rate. The 9% although
negative in the light of last year's rate of inflation, constitutes a
substantial increase over the 1% rate charged to EMS by the BNF until now.
The Government favors the 9% rate so as to make seeds available at moderate
prices.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The main benefits from the proposed Seed Project would be the
higher crop yields that a substantial number of farmers would obtain from
the use of certified seed. Annex 2, Table 6, details selected technical co-
efficients under the project and shows estimated yield increases for project
crops attributable to the use of certified seed alone, assuming that the
farmer does not change his cultural practices. These increases range from
12% in the case of soybeans, to 20% in the cases of wheat, barley, and corn,
and 25% in the case of rice. The use of fertilizers, which the Government
intends to promote among farmers benefitting from certified seed, would add
substantially to these projected increased yields.



- 18 -
6.02      The incremental production attributable only to the use of the
additional 5,400 tons of certified seed to be marketed by EMS in Year 5 of
the project, would be of the order of 25,000 tons annually, valued at US$4.3
million (S/ 108 million). The total amount of certified seed to be marketed
by Year 5, amounting to some 8,l300 tons (para 3.01), would be sufficient to
sow about 152,000 ha (31% of the about 490,000 ha expected to be under proj-
ect crops in that year). This woould compare to 68,000 ha (14%) sown with
certified seed produced without the project. The incremental production
would be directly responsible for helping to reduce imports of wheat and
oilseeds and indirectly respons:Lble for lowering imports of corn. It
would also increase the exportable surplus of rice.
6.03      So far, only progressive farmers and cooperatives of rice producers
have profited from the use of certified seed produced in the country (hard
corn, rice, wheat and barley). Under the project, however, seed would be
made available for the first time, through 25 seeds outlets, for crops grown
mainly by small farmers, such as soft corn and beans. Certified seeds for
oil crops would also be produced for the first time. Furthermore, it is ex-
pected that the availability of seeds for typical small farmers' crops and
the experience already gained would make it possible to introduce the use of
certified seed to a great number of small farmers quickly so that they could
reap the benefits in a relatively short time. Planting this seed would jus-
tify the use of fertilizer and would maximize the effect of extension and
credit.
6.04      It is unlikely that th,e project would adversely alter the ecology
of the areas in any way.  The use of organo-mercurial seed dressing in seed
processing has been prohibited in Ecuador, due to its possible harmful
effects, so it would not be used under the project.
6.C5      Using the cost and benefit assumptions of this report the economic
rate of return of the project would be of about 48%, but if benefits were
to be reduced by 50% the economic rate of return would still be satisfactory
at 16.5%, and it would also remain high when various other alternatives
assumptions are tested, as shown in Annex 10. The project benefit stream
was obtained by subtracting the increased seed expenditures generated by
the project from the gross value of the increased production. The project
cost streams include the investments (exclusive of price contingencies) and
the operating costs of the entities financed under the project (also see
Annex 10).
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a)  Within a year of effectiveness the additional 150 ha of land
needed by INIAP would be acquired (para 3.06);



- 19 -
(b)  all contracts in excess of US$100,000, technical specifica-
tions, draft tender documents, bidding invitation documents,
and bid evaluations would be approved by the Project Technical
Adviser prior to submitting them to the NSC for its approval
(para 3.17);
(c)  the ProJect Unit would be established and the Executive Director
would be appointed on the recommendation of NSC, who would
select a qualified candidate in consultation with the Bank
(para 4.03);
(d)  BNF would make adequate provisions for the credit requirements
of crop producers, seed growers and EMS as well as make the
purchase of certified seed a condition of production loans to
farmers (para 4.05);
(e)  BNF and participating institutions would:  (i) establish and
maintain separate project accounts, (ii) have such accounts
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, and (iii) send audited BNF project accounts and EMS
accounts and their audit reports to the Bank within four
months after the close of each fiscal year (para 4.06);
(f)  NSC would establish a monitoring system, acceptable to the Bank,
to measure project impact and the adequacy of certified seeds
supplies to meet the farmers' needs, and submit it to the Bank
within a period of 12 months after effectiveness (para 4.07); and
(g)  unless the Bank otherwise agrees, the Borrower would, from time
to time, adjust the prices paid by farmers for certified seed
supplied by EMS and adopt other measures necessary in order to:
(a) enable EMS to achieve in Fiscal Year 1977 and thereafter
a rate of return of not less than 10% on its net assets, and
(b) ensure that the farmers will have the necessary incentive
to utilize certified seeds. To these effects it was also agreed:
(A) that EMS would review on a yearly basis its financial results
for the previous fiscal year as well as make financial forecasts
for the following fiscal year, and (B) that NSC would review the
prices paid by farmers for certified seed, at least once a year,
obtaining MAG's assessment of such review (paras 5.04 and 5.06).
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be that:
(a)  the NSC has been set up in accordance with the guidelines
shown in Annex 3 (para 3.04);
(b)  the Executive Director had been appointed (para 4.03); and



- 20 -
(c) BNF and the Government has signed an agreement, satisfactory
to the Bank, setting out disbursement and reimbursement
procedures and regulations (para 4.04).
7.03      It is recommended that retroactive financing not to exceed
US$100,000 be allowed to cover costs of consultants and other technical
services incurred after January 30, 1976 (para 3.18).
7.04      With the indicated assurances obtained, the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$3 million, for a term of 15 years, including four years
of grace.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
The Agricultural Sector
Introduction
1.        Ecuador's economic position has changed substantially since 1972,
due to the recent development of petroleum production and exports, which has
had a dramatic effect on the country's internal and external financial position
and has accelerated the rate of economic growth. A basic question now is how
fully will the country be able to utilize its considerably increased financial
resources to strengthen its economic structure. Only by expanding, diversify-
ing and raising the productivity of the non-petroleum sector can Ecuador
create the necessary opportunities for employment of its rapidly growing labor
force and raise the living standards of th2 broad mass of the population. In
constant terms, the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) at factor cost increased on
average by 5% annually from 1969 to 1971, by 7% in 1972, by 13% in 1973 and
by about 10% in 1974. The rapid rate of economic growth in recent years has
been accompanied by price inflation, particularly in 1974; however, the rate
of inflation declined from 28% (12 months ending March 1974) to 14% (12 months
ending June 1975).
Agriculture's Role in the Economy
2.        Agriculture, including forestry and fisheries, remains the most
important sector of the Ecuadorian economy, although its contribution to the
GDP declined from 33% in 1965 to 22% (preliminary) in 1974. The sector
employs over 55% of the labor force and, up to 1971, provided over 85% of
export earning; relative participation in the total export value then declined
rapidly as the value of petroleum exports increased. Preliminary figures for
1974, based on export permits totalling US$1,050 million - 93% more than
1973 - show that petroleum exports amounted to US$615 million (59% of total),
products of agricultural origin, US$414 million (39% of total), and manu-
factured goods, not of agricultural origin, US$21 million (2% of total).
Import permits issued in 1974 totalled US$958 million - 80% higher than for
1973. There remains considerable uncertainty as to the total value of im-
ports of food items and inputs for the agricultural sector, but, these
categories probably amounted to between 20 and 25% of the total value of
imports in 1974.
3.        A recent study by the Center for Demographic Analysis has shown that
of the total population of 6.5 million (1974), 5.4 million fall within the
category "low economic status and social prestige" and, of these, 3.4 million
live in rural areas. According to Bank standards 1/ in 1974, between 50 and
66% of the rural population (1.5 to 2.5 million) could be described as
"absolutely poor" and 75% (2.8 million) were, by Bank standards, "relatively
poor."
1/   Report No. 588 Rural Development and Bank Policies:  A Progress Report
(December 2, 1974)



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        Agricultural production in Ecuador has neither kept up with the
3.4% increase (1960-73) in population nor has it been able to satisfy the
increased demand from the sector which has benefitted from the higher real
income resulting from the rapid development of the petroleum industry. In
recognition of the importance of increasing the food supply for urban areas
and checking the spread of poverty in rural areas, the Government designated
1974 as the "Year of Agriculture." The Government has devoted particular
attention to encouraging production through raising minimum prices, removing
import duties on agricultural inputs and increasing the flow of credit to the
agricultural sector. In spite of these incentives, the performance of the
sector in 1974 was disappointing, although it appears that the previous down-
ward trend was halted (Table 1). Factors which are believed to have limited
the expansion of agricultural production during 1974 include the high cost
and shortages of inputs, particularly fertilizers; uncertainties concerning
the implementation of the 1973 Agrarian Reform Law; dissatisfaction with
farm-gate prices; the greater attraction of investment in urban properties
and commercial enterprises and inadequate marketing and storage facilities.
Natural Resources
5.        Ecuador covers about 27 million ha, of which the eastern 49% lies
in the lowlands of the Amazon basin --the Oriente-- and the remainder is
equally divided between the mountainous highlands of the Andes --the Sierra--
and the Pacific coastal lowlands --the Costa. The rural population of some
4 million is almost evenly divided between the Sierra and the Costa, but few
people live in the Oriente.
6.        As shown below, the riain potential for increasing the area under
crops lies in the Costa while an extensive area of the Oriente could probably
eventually be developed under grassland. In the Sierra, there is a much more
limited potential for incorporating additional land for crop or livestock pro-
duction.
Costa     Sierra      Oriente        Total
----------- million ha -----------------
Grassland
Actual                             1.2        1.6          0.4           3.2
Potential                          1.2        2.0          3.8           7.0
Arable land
Actual                             0.8        0.7       Negligible       1.5
Potential                          1.8        1.1          0.8           3.7
Total
Actual                             2.0        2.3          0.4           4.7
Potential                          3.0        3.1          4.6          10.7



ANNEX 1
Page 3
7.        High rainfall areas, receiving over 5,000 mm a year, are located in
the northern part of the Costa and in the piedmont section of the Oriente
between Puyo and Tena. Most of the farming areas receive between 1,000 and
2,000 mm of 7iin annually (Map, IBRD 11860), which is generally concentrated
in the early part of the year. In the Costa and parts of the Sierra, second
crops are grown often with irrigation during the mid-year sumer season.
The wide range of altitudes and broken terrain of the Sierra produce a multi-
tude of climatic conditions throughout the farming areas. Soil fertility and
physical conditions also vary widely, from young volcanic ash to deep well-
developed soils of high agricultural potential. The diversity of micro-
climatic and soil conditions in Ecuador make it necessary to develop a range
for varieties of the principal crops and pasture plants to suit the various
ecological micro-regions within the main areas of production.
Farm Sizes and Rural Population Density
8.        The National Agricultural Survey of 1968 included 633,000 holdings
on some 7 million ha out of the 11 million ha in the country believed to be
suitable for crop or livestock production. At the time of the survey, 74%
of the holdings were less than 5 ha and occupied 10% of the area, while farms
over 100 ha accounted for 2% of the total number and 47X of the total area
(Table 2). During the 10 years in which there has been a Government program
on agrarian reform (1964-74), the form of land tenure has been changed on
about 0.2 million ha, and 0.8 million ha of previously unexploited land has
been colonized under official schemes. These two types of agrarian reform
have affected nearly 60,000 families, or rather less than 10% of the number
of holdings covered by the 1968 survey.
9.        It is probable that some improvement in agricultural productivity
could be achieved through the more rational allocation of land, but this
alone could not raise production sufficiently to meet the national require-
ments for food and other products of the land. In 1974 the rural population
density averaged up to eight persons per ha of cultivated land (Tungurahua
Province); in the Sierra, it averaged three persons and in the Costa two
persons per ha. Even if all suitable land were to be incorporated into farms,
these man-land ratios might be reduced to two persons per ha in the Sierra
and one person per ha in the Costa assuming the rural population remained at
the 1974 level. It is evident therefore that the productivity per unit of
land must be raised substantially if total agricultural production is to be
raised significantly.
Intensification of Production
10.       The Government has recently promoted an ambitious mechanization
program, and, by abolishing import duties on agricultural inputs, has
encouraged the importation of tractors and farm machinery, fertilizers and
plant protection chemicals. This has lead to a proliferation of tractor
brands and the accumulation of fertilizer imported at 1974 prices, which were
considerably higher than prevailing a year later; however, these difficulties
were in the course of being resolved in July 1975.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Agricultural Credit - Banco Nacional de Fomento
11.       The main channel for credit to the agricultural sector has been
through the Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF), which has very substantially
increased its lending to the sector from SI 579 million (US$23 million) in
1972 to S/ 1,129 million (US$45 million) in 1973 and then S1 2,621 million
(US$105 million) in 1974 (Table 3). The number of loans made has also
increased sharply, from 26,000 (1973) to 41,000 (1974) (Table 4), although
the latter is only about 6X of the number of farm holdings enumerated in
the 1968 survey. The average loan size and loan amount per ha increased
considerably between 1973 and 1974, as shown below:
Average Loan Size         Loan per ha
Year        S/          US$            S/   US$S
Crops included in the    1973        39,003       1,560         2,465   99
proposed project        1974       61,517       2,461        4,831  193
All crops                 1973       36,586       1,463         2,853  114
1974      56,095       2,244         5,292  212
Pasture                   1973       40,196       1,608             -    -
1974      65,995       2,640             -    -
Agricultural Credit - "Fondos Financieros"
12.       On July 14, 1975, the Monetary Council (Junta Monetaria) issued
Regulation 781, which consolidates and amends all previous Regulations govern-
ing Development Funds scheme (Fondos Financieros) established as part of
Central Bank (CB) in 1973 to promote the development of crops, livestock,
artisans, small industries, fisheries and tourism. The Development Funds are
formed by the resources of private Banks; credit lines of the CB; a Special
Fund of the Government for the development of certain semi-permanent and
permanent crops, the purchase of breeding cattle and fixed investments neces-
sary for beef and dairy production; and revenue from the sale of Development
Bonds by the Central Bank to private banks, which, with effect from August 31,
1975. The Development Funds have also received disbursements from external
loans and credits from the US Agency for International Development.
13.       Regulation 781 fixes 9% as the maximum interest rate for all opera-
tions of the Development Funds, with the exception of the livestock develop-
ment program, which is partially financed by Credit 222-EC. In only this
case, 12% may be charged for loans of over US$25,000 equivalent, unless the
sub-borrowers are members of cooperative societies established and approved
by the Land Reform and Colonization Institute (IERAC). The maximum terms of
loans which may be financed under the provisions of Regulation 781 are as
follows:



ANNEX 1
Page 5
(a) seasonal, short-term crops, 360 days;
(b) the purchase of inputs and young stock for livestock
production, working capital for artisans, small in-
dustries, fisheries and tourism, two years;
(c) semi-permanent crops, five years;
(d) the formation and acquisition of fixed assets, seven
years; and
(e) long-term crops, 10 years.
The Central Bank will re-discount at 3% interest up to 100% of the loans, but
for loans over two years, it will provide re-discount facilities for only the
final two years of their terms.
14.       Additional details on the provisions of the Development Funds for
the agricultural sector are given by Regulation 781. An annex lists crops
for which loans may be rediscounted at the Central Bank and includes all the
cereal and grain legume crops that are proposed for seed production under the
project, and in another annex for the livestock sub-sector, there is provision
for financing the sowing and improvement of pastures. The limit for redis-
counting was set at S/ 1,000 million (US$40 million) for crop production and
S/ 180 million (US$7.2 million) for livestock production.
Agricultural Research
15.       All official agricultural research in Ecuador is the responsibility
of the Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agropecuarias (INIAP), which was
created in 1959 although it did not commence functioning until January 1962.
The main station, "Santa Catalina," was established in 1962, 14 km south of
Quito, and, in the same year, a sub-station was opened 12 km south of Porto-
viejo. In the following year, INIAP took over from the Inter-American
Cooperative Service the station located 14 km south-east of Pichilingue
established in the early 60ts and it also set up a sub-station 38 km west of
Santo Domingo. Work started in 1969 on the Boliche sub-station 26 km east of
Guayaquil and it was opened in 1971. INIAP has evolved as an institution of
major importance in Ecuador and has attracted the support of the Rockefeller
Foundation and bilateral and international agencies. In 1974 the professional
staff totalled 190 engaged in plant breeding, agronomic and plant protection
research, studying the feeding and management of livestock and research into
agricultural economies. Thirteen years of research have provided a good tech-
nical basis for practical advice on increasing agricultural productivity, and,
during this period, INIAP has developed and tested improved varieties of mDst
of the major crops which should be included in the project, although intensified
research should be devoted to produce improved varieties of soft corn, beans
and pasture species.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Extension Services
16.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG) includes Bureaus
(Direcciones) for Crop Development, Livestock Development, Forestry, Market-
ing and Rural Development (see Chart). Coordination of the various types of
advice given is not yet satisfactory and many small-scale farmers and farmers
distant from provincial capitals still do not have access to technical advice
on farm management. However, for the proposed seed project, the following
existing development "Programs" should be capable of ensuring that the limited
objectives of the project are achieved within five years.
Programs of the Bureau for Crop Development          Crops Promoted
Rice and hard corn                       Rice and hard corn
Temperate grains and forage crops        Wheat, barley, soft corn and
highland pastures
Agricultural diversificatLon             Peanuts, soybeans and sesame
Pulses                                   Beans
Programs of the Bureau of Livestock Development       Pastures Promoted
Agricultural Development Funds             Highland and lowland pastures
(Credit 222-EC)
Animal nutrition service                   Highland and lowland pastures
In addition, INIAP runs regular courses for farm managers and all types of
agricultural agents. These courses will play an important part in disseminat-
ing information on the advantages of using certified seed of improved varieties
of crops and pasture species.
Agricultural Prices
17.       The lack of a consistent price policy for the main agricultural
products has been an important constraint to agricultural development. The
Government recognizes this fact and has taken steps to improve the situation
by forming two entities with special responsibilities in this field. A Price
Supervision Agency (Superintendencia de Precios-SP) has been established to
set minimum reference prices and to regulate price margins in the marketing
channels for all important products. A National Agricultural Storage and
Marketing Corporation (Empresa Nacional de Almacenamiento y Comercializacion
Agropecuaria-ENAC) has been created to stabilize the price of the main agri-
cultural products by intervening in the market, however so far it has not
been very effective as it lacks sufficient storage facilities and experience



ANNEX 1
Page 7
in marketing. These new agencies provide a framework for the implementation
of price policies, but further improvement is necessary in the determination
of the policLes and in particular the relationship of domestic to inter-
national prices. For example, the current domestic reference minimum price
for soybeans in S/ 520 per quintal (US$457 per ton) while the international
indicator price for Jan-June 1975 was US$225. 1/ Since oilseed crushers can
import soybeans freely, the actual farm-gate price is considerably below the
official minimum price. Considerable improvements have been made recently
to the wheat price structure and, in this case, the farm-gate price is prob-
ably close to the official reference price. For the 1974/75 season, the
wheat price to producers was S/ 250/quintal (US$220/ton); S/ 200 were payable
in cash, S/ 30 in a voucher valid for the purchase of fertilizer and S/ 20
in a voucher valid for the purchase of certified seed. The Ecuadorian
authorities are considering whether or not this type of payment might be used
for other crops to promote increased production through the more wide-spread
use of fertilizers and improved seed.
Export Crops
18.       Bananas continue to be the most important export crops earning
US$113.5 million from 1,357,000 tons exported during 1974 (US$126.1 million
from 1,370,000 tons in 1973). The main production area has moved progressively
from the northern and central parts of the Costa to the eastern parts of the
Provinces of Guayas and Los Rios as the Gros Michel variety has been replaced
by the Panama-disease resistant Cavendish variety. Other farming activities
are required in the former main areas of production. Cocoa exports in 1974
brought in a record US$102.9 million (US$27.1 million in 1973) since an
unusually large crop of about 90,000 tons coincided with exceptionally high
world market prices. More intensive attention is required to rehabilitate
and replant cocoa trees in the best areas of the Costa and to improve on-farm
processing and the internal marketing system. Coffee export value in 1974
was US$67.4 million (US$66.7 million in 1973). This crop is grown in parts
of most Provinces, but principally in the Costa. As in the case of cocoa,
attention is required to improve the productivity of coffee, which is a crop
of importance to many small-scale farmers. Sugar cane production is estimated
to total 5 to 6 million tons a year, but much of this is used for the produc-
tion of panela 2/ and alcohol. For the May 1974 to April 1975 season, centri-
fugal sugar production from the seven main mills totalled about 305,000 tons
(270,000 tons in 1973/74). The value of exports during 1973 was US$12.1
million but this rose to US$39.5 million in 1974, despite the fact that
Ecuador was able to fill only about two-thirds of the import quota assigned
by the United States (about 60,000 tons out of 96,754 tons). Castor beans
are produced almost exclusively in Manabi Province of the Costa in association
with corn, peanuts, cotton, cassava and coffee. In 1974, exports totalled
19,331 tons valued at US$5.8 million, while production was about 39,000
1/ US cif Rotterdam.
2/ Non-centrifugal sugar.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
tons. Abaca (Manila hemp) production rose from 6,557 tons in 1973 to about
9,500 tons in 1974. Exports of vegetable fibers, principally 7,000 tons of
abaca, brought in US$5.7 million in 1974. Pyrethrum production in the Sierra
has declined from 612 tons of dry flowers in 1973 to only 338 tons in 1974.
Production in 1968 amounted tc about 4,000 tons of dry flowers but since then
production has fallen rapidly, although world demand for pyrethrins has
recently recovered. Other export items from the agricultural sector include
annatto seed (US$0.3 million in 1974), vegetable ivory (US$0.3 million in
1974), hides and skins (US$0.1 in 1974) and also smaller values of tea, honey-
dew melons, mushrooms, sun flowers, and woven "toquilla" straw (Panama hats),
which, together, in 1974, brought in an additional US$4.3 million. Forestry
products such as balsa bamboo and other woods, earned less than US$0.2
million in 1974, but the value of exports from the fisheries sub-sector
totalled US$17.1 million (US$30.0 million in 1973). With the exception of
tea and bananas, and possibly Panama hats, the prospects are favorable for
increasing exports of all items mentioned above.
Domestic Consumption Products
19.       The domestic requirements for wheat in 1974 were considered by MAG
to have totalled about 225,000 tons; however, the supply amounted to no more
than 205,000 tons made up of 55,000 tons of national production and about
155,000 tons imported at a total cost of US$35.5 million (US$229/ton). In
the national development plan published in December 1972, 1/ it was projected
that domestic production would rise to 129,000 tons by 1977. In the proposed
seed project, it has been assumed that the area under wheat will not increase
in the immediate future because production costs are high and, at current
prices and yields, the profit margin is not sufficiently attractive to bring
new areas into production. Existing wheat farmers are expected to benefit
through using improved seed; and, over the five-years of the project, it is
expected that the national average yield will increase from 936 kg/ha to nearly
1,100 kg/ha. The area under barley has steadily declined, from an average of
136,000 ha (1962-70) to 98,000 ha (1971-74). The area harvested in 1974
totalled 61,000 ha producing about 56,000 tons (918 kg/ha). In addition,
imports of 6,300 tons of malting barley a year were required by the brewing
industry. Approximately two-thirds of the total supply of barley is used
for human consumption and the balance goes for stock feed (3,000 tons),
brewing, seeds and waste.
20.       INIAP has ready for release a new variety of two-row barley it
considers suitable for brewing; however, the local beer industry maintains
that it would prefer to continue to import barley from Chile and Colombia.
1/   Plan Integral de Transformacion y de Desarrollo 1973-77.
Junta Nacional de Planificacion y Coordinacion Economica.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
About half the area of wheat and of barley is grown on farms of less than
10 ha and only 22% to 26% of these crops are grown on farms of over 100 ha,
which constitute only 1% of the number of growers (see below):
Less than 10 ha         10 to 99.9 ha           100 ha and Over
% of       X of        % of        % of        X of       % of
Harvested  Number of  Harvested  Number of  Harvested  Number of
Farm Size    Area       Growers      Areas      Growers     Areas      Growers
Wheat          46.2       84.6       32.3        14.3        21.5        1.1
Barley        54.1        90.4       20.0         8.6        25.9        1.0
21.       Rice production has fluctuated considerably from year to year in
response to changes in prices, land tenure policies and climatic variations.
The 1974 crop totalled 152,000 tons of milled rice, which was the highest
quantity recorded for one year, but a record amount of about 21,000 tons of
all forms of rice was imported during 1974 at a cost of US$9.1 million.
Assuming that there was no significant change in stocks, the apparent con-
sumption in 1974 was 172,000 tons. There can be no doubt that this quantity
could be produced in Ecuador, which should also be able in the future to
regularly export significant quantities of rice. The main areas for develop-
ment are in the Guayas River Basin. Grain handling and storage facilities
require considerable expansion and improvement.
22.       According to the 1968 survey, 41% of the rice area was on holdings
of over 100 ha and only 24% was on small farms - under 10 ha. Since that
time, the relative importance of small-scale farmers has increased, but since
the 1974 Agricultural Census results are not yet published, no more recent
information is available.
23.       During 1974, about 62,000 tons of edible fats and oils were consumed
in Ecuador. In addition, about 24,000 tons of soap were produced in the same
year. Approximately 97,600 tons of edible vegetable oilseeds were processed
in 1974 (71,400 tons in 1973). The production of oil was as follows:



ANNEX 1
Page 10
1973          1974 Preliminary    1975 Estimate
Field     Crude    Field       Crude    Field      Crude
Production   Oil   Production   Oil   Production   Oil
Palm fruit bunches       51.0         -      68.0         -       88.0         -
Palm oil                    -       7.8          -     11.0          -     14.0
Palm kernals              5.0         -        2.7        -        3.7         -
Palm kernal oil             -       2.2          -      1.3          -       1.8
Cottonseed                8.2         -       14.5        -       18.0         -
Cottonseed oil              -       1.4          -      2.5          -       3.0
Sesame                    1.5         -        1.7        -        1.7         -
Sesame oil                  -       0.7          -      0.8          -       0.8
Peanuts                   0.5         -        1.5        -        1.5         -
Peanut oil                  -       0.2          -      0.6          -       0.6
Soybean                   3.7         -       8.2         -       13.7         -
Soybean oil                 -       0.5          -      1.5          -      2.5
Fish oil                    -       0.7          -      2.2          -       2.5
Other oilseeds            1.5         -        1.0        -        1.0         -
Other oils                  -       0.7          -      0.5          -       0.5
Totals              71.4      14.5      97.6       3.4      127.6     25.7
Imports of edible oils in 1974 amounted to about 15,000 tons, of which 11,300
tons was soybean oil costing US$8.6 million. Other imports of vegetable oils
and greases included 7,500 tons of choice white grease, 1,000 tons of
Paraguayan palm oil and 3,000 tons of inedible tallow for the manufacture of
soap. The balance of the requirements for domestic consumption and the
manufacture of soap are presumed to have been derived from the livestock sec-
tor, mainly in the form of butter and lard. There has been a rapid increase
in the production of oil from African palms and recently the production of
soybeans has begun to increase and contribute significantly to the local
supply of edible oil.
24.       Cotton has been an important import crop but, in contrast, the
1974 production was equal, and, in the case of long staple cotton, in excess
of domestic requirements. The 1974 harvest totalled almost 42,000 tons of
seed cotton compared with under 20,000 tons in 1973. This sharp increase
was also of importance in increasing the local production of edible oils.
25.       Tobacco production in 1974 recovered somewhat from the depressed
levels of 1972 and 1973 and amounted to about 2,000 tons. This was mainly
the black native variety, but also included some flue-cured, burley and cigar
leaf tobacco. Imports of manufacturing tobacco increased to 635 tons in 1974
(481 tons in 1973) and, in addition, 97 million packs of cigarettes were im-
ported (78.5 million packs in 1973) and approximately 80.5 million packs were
manufactured in Ecuador during the year.



ANNEX I
Page 11
Crop and Livestock Products for Domestic Consumption
26.       There are major discrepancies between various estimates of corn
production in Ecuador. The data in Table 1 are from the Bureau of Planning
of MAG, but they differ considerably from production estimates of the appro-
priate programs of MAG, as shown below:
Bureau of Planning            Corn Program
Ha            Tons            Ha         Tons
Soft Corn          109,615        76,252         61,960       36,935
Hard corn          161,640       185,628         78,826       78,769
All corn           271,255       261,880        138,786      115,705
For the purposes of the proposed project, it has been assumed that the esti-
mates of the specialized programs are more accurate than those of the Bureau
of Planning of MAG. Seed requirements have been calculated with reference
to a total 75,000 ha a year of soft corn and two sowings of hard corn a year
totalling 85,000 ha. Soft corn is grown exclusively in the highlands of
the Sierra, mostly (85%) on farms of less than 10 ha although in 1974 about
7% of the crop was grown on farms of over 100 ha. Hard corn is grown mainly
in the Costa and the lower slopes of the Sierra. According to the MAG program,
7,323 large farms, 8,868 individual small farms and members of 88 cooperative
societies produced hard corn in 1974.
27.       Pulses play an important part in the farming system and the diet
of the inhabitants of the Sierra (see bleow):
1973                           1974
Ha         Production         Ha       Production
tons                       tons
Beans              66,335        31,961          66,181        28,001
Broad beans        17,447         12,352         14,850        11,652
Peas               15,506          8,961         14,460         9,384
Lentils             3,580          1,541          3,700         2,275
Edible lupins       2,260            685           2,041          723
Total       105,128         55,500         101,232        52,035
28.       According to the MAG figures given above, the total production of
pulses in 1974 was about 3,500 tons (6.2%) less than in 1973. The 1968 survey
showed that 40% of the area of beans was grown on farms of less than 5 ha and
22% was on farms of over 100 ha, the balance of 38% being on farms of between
5 and 100 ha.



ANNEX 1
Page 12
29.       Tubers and roots provide a major source of carbohydrates for domestic
consumption; potatoes in particular play an important part in the farming sys-
tem of the Sierra.
1973                         1974
Ha     Production, tons      Ha      Production, tons
Cassava             54,111       741,265          48,895      837,666
Potatoes            43,573       539,198          39,138      503,340
Sweet potatoes       2,187         8,371           2,110        10,617
Total         99,871    1,288,834           90,143    1,351,623
30.       The production of potatoes dropped by 6.7% between 1973 and 1974
as a consequence of adverse weather conditions and restrictions in the use of
fertilizers by the commercial farms because of shortages and higher prices.
Potato prices fluctuate sharply each year and until a proper system of storage
has been developed, it is unlikely that production will expand sufficiently
to assure the market of a regular supply throughout the year. The Inter-
national Potato Center (Lima,-Peru) is cooperating with INIAP in a potato
storage research project and has also provided funds for specialized train-
ing in potato production and potato seed technology. The total budget for
1975 and 1976 is US$25,400. It is hoped that this work will lay the basis
for the inclusion of "certified" potato seed production in the national seed
project at a later date.
Pastures and Livestock
31.       According to the 1968 survey, there were 1.2 million ha sown or
planted pastures in Ecuador at that time - 0.3 million ha in the Sierra 0.8
million in the Costa, and 0.1 million ha in the Oriente. In the Sierra, the
most common species sown have been Italian and perennial rye grass (Lolium
multiflorum) and (L. perenne) and white or red clovers (Trifolium repens L
and T. pratense). Alfalfa (Medicago sativa) is usually grown in a pure stand.
All upland pastures tend to be invaded by Kikuyu grass (Pennisetum clandestinum).
In the lowlands of the Costa, Guinea grass (Panicum maximum Jacq.) is the most
common type in. improved pastures, although elephant grass (Pennisetum purpureum)
is also important. There has been only limited success with mixtures of grasses
and legumes, but the perennial soybean (Glycine wightii) has been found to be
a legume suitable for inclusion with Guinea grass.
32.       Livestock statistics are not reliable but it is to be hoped that,
when published, the 1974 agricultural census will provide a better basis for
herd analysis and planning. The following information is derived from a
report of the USDA-FAS, which accepts the projection made in 1973 by the
JUNAPLA that the national herd of cattle is increasing annually by 2.5%.



ANNEX 1
Page 13
1973            1974
Total number of cattle ('000)                2,580             2,645
Gross annual increase %                          15.39            15.64
Annual slaughter       %                         12.89            13.14
Net annual increase   %                           2.50             2.50
Per capita consumption
of meat and offal   kg                          9.96             9.85
33.       The above projections would imply that in 1974 meat and offal pro-
duction totalled about 69,000 tons. During the same year, milk production is
estimated to have been 279 million liters--equivalent to 43 liters per capita.
Assuming the population growth rate for sheep at 26.2% and annual slaughter
at 24.2%, the 1974 sheep population would have been about 2.06 million head,
and, if the per capita consumption of mutton and lamb and offal continued at
1.2 kg, their total consumption would have been about 8,475 tons in 1974.
The 1974 production estimate for clean wool was about 800 tons. The pig pop-
ulation is reported by JUNAPLA to be increasing at 7.5% a year, which would
indicate a total of 2.35 million head in 1974, of which approximately 42%
would have been slaughtered.
34.       The dairy industry, sheep and pigs are concentrated mainly in the
Sierra while the main beef production areas lie in the Costa and the Oriente.
December 23, 1975



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Crop Areas, Yields and Production
Average                                         Average
PRODUCTS                       UNITS            1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1966-70    1971    1972    1973    1974    1971-1974
CEREALS
1.  Barley              Area/'OOO ha             143      144     135      126      134        136      120      119       93       61          98
Yield kg/ha                -       -        -        -       -        618         -        -       -        -         707
Production '000 t.       77       81       76       78     110         84        69       73      79       56          69
2a. Corn (soft)         Area/'OOO ha               -        -       -      215      211        213      241      250      124      110         181
Yield kg/ha                -       -        -        -       -        728         -        -       -        -         673
Production '000 t.        -        -        -     141      168        155       140     171      100       76         122
2b. Corn (hard)         Area/OOO ha               -        -        -      77       80         79      111      102      141      162         129
Yield kg/ha                -       -        -        -       -      1,165         -        -        -       -       1,088
Production 'OOO t.        -        -        -       81     102         92       121     101      153      186         14u
2.  Corn (total)        Area/'000 ha             267      364      255     292      291        294      352      352      265      272         310
Yield kg/ha                -       -        -        -       -        697         -        -        -       -         844
Production '000 t.       175     228      129     222      270        205       261     272      253      262         262
3.  Rice (milled)       Area/'OOO ha             1ll      114      112       92      87        103        57       91      85      103          84
Yield kg/ha                        -        -        -       -        942         -                 -       -       1,409
Production '000 t.       Ill     111       65       83     117         97        82     105      134      152         118
4.  Wheat                Area/'000 ha              65      80       79      100      76         80        76       56      47       56          59
Yield kg/ha                -       -        -        -       -      1,000         -        -        -       -         936
Production '000 t.        63      79       83       94      81         80        68       51      45       55          55
FIBRES
5.  Abaca                Area/'OOO ha               -       -                 2       2          2         2        3        7       7           5              >F
Yield kg/ha                -       -        -        -       -      2,000         -        -        -       -       1,200          O F
Production '000 t.         -                -        4       4          4         5        4        7       9           6
6.  Cotton (seed         Area/'000 ha              24      24       21       22        9        20         8       14       23      46          23
cotton)           Yield kg/ha                -        -       -        -        -       800         -        -        -        -        934          4
Production '000 t.        18      16       14       24       8         16        11       12       20      42          21
Source:  Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, Quito:  Estimacion de la superficie cosechada y de la produccion agricola del Ecuador 1962-1973
1974
September 8, 1975



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Crop Areas, Yields and Production
Average                                         Average
PRODUCT                         TNITS              1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1966-70    1971    1972    1973    1974    1971-1974
TUBERS AND ROOTS
7.   Cassava             Area/'000 ha                28       27       27      35       35          30        37      41        54      49           45
Yield kg/ha                  -       -        -        -        -      10,633        -        -        -        -      12.370
Production '000 t.        276      323      234      390      371         319      383      277      741      838         560
8.   Potatoes            Area/'000 ha                44       48       49      41       47          46        53       38       44       39          44
Yield kg/ha                  -       -        -        -        -       9,804        -        -        -        -      12,620
Production '000 t.        347      399      511      457      542         451      681      473      539      503         549
0,   Sweet Fotatoes    Area/'000 ha                   3        2        2        3       3            3        2        3        2        2           2
Yield kg/ha                  -       -        -        -        -       2,900        -        -        -        -       3,900
Production '000 t.          8        8        7       11       10           9        7        9        8       11            9
PULSES
10.  Beans               Area/'000 ha                82       79       86       85      82           83       67       62       66       66          65
Yield kg/ha                  -        -       -        -        -         458         -        -       -        -          444
Production '000 t.         36       38       35       38       41          38       30       26       32       28           29
11.  Broad Beans         Area/'000 ha                35       34       34       21      24           29       23       13       17       15          17
Yield kg/ha                 -        -        -        -        -         586         -       -        -        -          706
Production '000 t.         21       20       20       11       15          17       15        9       12       12           12
12.  Lentils             Area/'000 ha                 3        3        2        2        2           2        3        2        4        4           3
Yield kg/ha                  -       -        -        -        -         383        -         -       -        -          390
Production '000 t.          1        1        1        1        1           1        1         1       2        .2           1
13.  Lupins (edible)   Area/'000 ha                   3        3        3        3       4            3        3        3        2        2           2
Yield                        -       -        -        -        -         845         -        -        -       -          553
Production '000 t.          3        2        3        1        3           3         2        2        1        1           1
14.  Peas                Area/'000 ha                31       31       41       23      30           31       23       17       16       14          18       m a
Yield kg/ha                  -        -        -       -        -         581         -        -        -        -         586           X
Production '000 t.         18       18       22       11       21          18       14        9        9        9           10
0
Source:  Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, Quito:  Estimacion  de la superficie cosechada y de la produccion agricola del Ecuador 1962-19n
September 8, 1975



ECULADC)R
SEEDS PROJECTI
Crop Areas, Yields and Production
Average                                               Average
PRODUCT                            UNITS               1966      1967      1968      1969     1970      1966-70      1971      1972      1973      1974      1971- 1974
OIL SEEDS
15.  African Palmi         Area/'000 ha                    -         _-                 -         -                      7         8         9        11            9
Yield kg/ha                                                                                  -         -         -         -        1,629
Production  '000 t.            -         -         -        -         -           -         12        15        13        17            14
16.  Castor Beans          Area/'000 ha                   24       22        16        23        16          20         31        26       46        44            37
Yield kg/ha                    -         -         -         -        -       1,000          -         -         -         -        1,014
Production  '000 t.           25        23         9       24        17          20         35        23        52        39           37
17.  Peanuits              Area/'000 ha                   15       12        14         6         6          11         10        12        15        19           14
Yield kg/ha                    -         -         -         -         -        711          -         -         -         -          886
Production  '000 t            12         0         6                  5           7         10        11        13        17           13
18.  Sesame                Area/'000 ha                    2         2        3         2         3           2          2         3         1         2            2
Yield kg/ha                    -         -         -        -         -         771          -         -         -         -          830
Production  '000 C.            2         1         2        2         2           2          2         2         1         2             2
19.  Soybeans              Area/'000 hi                    -         -        1         1         1           1          1         1         1         3            1
Yield kg/ha                    -         -         -         -        -         948          -         -         -         -        1,318
Production  '000 t.            -         -         1        1         1           1          1         1         2         4             2
MISCELLANEOUS
20.  Pyrethrum             Area/'000 ha                    8         9        9         4         3           7          3         2         1         1            2
Yield kg/ha                    -         -         -         -        -         394           -        -         -         -          420
Production  '000 t.            3         4        4         2         1           3          1         1         1         1             1
21.  Tea                   Area/'000 ha                    -         -        -         1         1           1          2         2         2         2            2
Yield kg/ha                    -         -         -         -        -         684          -         -         -         -       4,125
Production  '000 t.            -         -         -        1         1           1          4         8         9        12            8
22.  Tobacco               Area/'000 ha                    1         2        3         2         2           2          2         1         1         2            2
Yield                          -         -         -         -        -         818          -         -         -         -          907         D 1-
Production '0(0 t.             2         1         1        1         2           2          2         1         1         2             1         a   ><
-  0
Source:   Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, Quito:  Estimacion de la superficie cosechada y de la produccion agricola del Ecuador 1962-197"I
September 8, 1975



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Crop Areas. Yields and Production
Average                                              Average
PRODUCT                       UNITS               1966      1967      1968      1969      1970    1966-70       1971      1972      1973      1974    1971-1974
MAIN EXPORT CROPS
23a.  Banana (Total)  Area/'OOO ha                 187       203       195       190       190         194       181       171       162       152          167
Yield kg/ha                 --                  -         -                 17,691        -         -         -         -       20,132
Production '000 t.       2,744    2,937    3,920    3,870    3,688           3,432    3,512    3,296    3,203    3,397           3,352
23b.  Banana            Area/'O00 ha               164       160       157       148       124         151       111       101        93        92           99
(Export type)   Yield kg/ha                   --       --         --       -         -       13,517        -          -        -          -       21,636
Production '000 t.       1,965    1,812    2,068    2,260    2,098           2,041    2,093    2,088    2,070    2,315           2,142
24.   Cacao             Area/'O00 ha              n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       228       228         228       219       218       213       222         218
Yield kg/ha                -         -         -          -         -          224 2/    -          -         -         -          308
Production '000 t.        n.a.      n.a.      n.a.        48        54          51        49        67        62        91           67
25.   C-offee           Area/'000 ha               218       208       191       215       215         209       215       221       227       232         224
Yield kg/ha                 -         -         -         -         -          306        -         -         -         -           275
Production '000 t.          74        66        63        56        60          64        59        58        52        77          62
26.   Sugarcane         Area/'O0O  ha              113       108       122      n.a.      n.a.         114 3/  n.a.          88        89      101           93 4/
Yield kg/ha                 -         -         -         -         -       76,202 3/     -          -         -        -       63,669 4/
Production '000 t.       9,004    7,528    9,529        n.a.      n.a.       8,687 3/     -      5,576    5,477    -6,647        5,900 4/
1/  National Banana Program, Guayaquil.
2/  1969-70.
3/ 1966-68.
4/ 1972-74.
Source:  Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, Quito,  Estimacion de la superficie cosechada y de la produccion agricola del Ecuador 1962-1973
1974      e
September 8, 1975                                                                                                                                                  M  
-10



ANNEX 1
Table 2
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Farm SDize Distribution, 1968
Farm Size ha             Number of Farms                 Area
000                      '000 ha     %
Less than                 4 470      74.3           709       10.2
5 to 9.9                   69        10.8           466        6.7
10 to 99.9                 84        13.3         2,480       35.8
100 and over               10         1.6         3,282       47.3
Total                   3       100.0          6 937      100.0
Source: Agricultural 9urvey, 1968.
October 3, 1975



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Value and Percentage Distribution by Activities of Loans Provided by Banco Nacional de Fomento
to the Agricultural Sector, 1970-74
1970                   1971                    1972                    1973                     1974
Value       _p         Value                   Value         ,         Valuie         ,         Value       e
S/'OOO1                  S/'OOO-                 S/'OOO                  S/''OOO                  S/'OOO
Crops                        224,293       46.o      253,816       44.1      221,775       38&3      593,391       52.6      1,405,282      53.6
Livestock and Pastures       195,529       40.0      242,934       42.1      278,421       48.1      412,015        36.5       856,621      32.7
Agricultural Machinery         46,996       9.6       46,226        8.0       44,589        7.7       82,100         7.3       259,850       9.9
Land Improvements              21.301       4.4       33.428        5.8       34.638        5.9       41.020         3.6        92.730       3.8
Total                  438.119      100.0      576,404      100.0      579.423      100.0    1,128.526      100.0    2.621.483       100.0
Source: Banco Nacional de Fomento.
September 17, 1975
H1F



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Agricultural Credit P)rovided by Banco Nacional de Fomento
1973                                                          1974
Number                  Average      Total      Average       Number                   Average      Total       Average
of          Total       Value per  Area         Value         of           Total       Value per   Area         Value
Loans       Value       Loan         Financed   per ha        Lo ans         lue       Lodn         Financed   Per ha
S/'000                      ha      S/'OOO                    S/'OOO        S/'ooO         ha       8/1000
Wheat                                  923       23,227       25,165        9,770    2,377         1,249       30,814        24,671       10,171    3,030
Barley                                 218      12,548        57,560        6,956    1,804           404       22,235        55,037        6,845    3,248
Corn                                 2,436      66,889        27,459       29,158    2,294         5,159      181,934        35,265       53,030    3,431
Rice                                 4,735     225,501        47,624       87,729    2,570          6,559     613,422        93,524      iO5,835    5,796
Soybeans                                42       2,293        54,595          506    4,532             85      14,260       167,765        2,652    5,377
Pearuts                                 43       :1,541      '35,837          203    7,591            445      10,379        23,324        2,063    4,983
Ses=ae                                 106        2,666       25,151        1,364    1,955             73       14,018       55,wo4J         720    5,581
Beans                                _            ';1 2.L79   17.56J2     _                            34       9.270        21.359        2.1z    L 338
Sa-total                       os648,6    337,1=1.       39,003     )36,753                  Z 1         8              6           r83s473      '
All other crop loans                 7j5    256.247           332828       71.256    3,596        10.644      518,950        48,755       82.095    6.321
1.  Total for Crops                     16,219      5930391        36,586     208,009    2,853         25,052   1,405,282        56,095      265,568    5,292
Pastures                             1,593      64,033        40,196                               1,888      124,598        65,995
All other livestock loans        .      1        7.282        46.578                              117         732.023        63.220
2.  Total for Livestock and
Pastures                    -        9,064     412,015        45,456                              13,4k07     856,621        63,609
3.. Total for Agricultural
M*,chinery                             778       82,100      105,527                                2,129     259,850       122,053
14. Total for Lan,;
Development                         _ 2 409      41.020      100.293                                  479      99 730       208.205
OveraJj Total                       26,470   1,128,526        42,634                              41,127   2,621,483         63,741
So,urce: Bui3to Nacional de Foner.to, Quito.
September 17, 1975



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG)
Organization Chart
|Agricultural Council       -iNISTER
Technicaf Committee                    Sub-Secretary
n   Bureau of  |   |   General
Planning        |        Coordination               ........|. International Technical Assistance
-  _                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I E RAC   ~
Bureau of                   ___L*                                                                                   I
_ Audit      l        !| Bareau of   |   |Legal AffairBeasuof                        Bureau of
Rural         ~~Forest          Bureau, ofIEH
- elations          Adminitreato n                              Developmei t        Developmen           Marketin     1
t
ura                                                                         Bu reau                                         iLCRM r
.        f ...................                                            . .. .. .. .... .of 
Program for Rice,                              riculture                                                              Livestock
Hard Corn and                                                                                                                                                     ENP
Control of Mills       ,                                                                                                 D
|Sub-Director                                                             SbDrco
rogram of Temperate             -                irect
Cimate Grains                                                                                     :                                                            _
and Pastures                      Technical            Admn         e
|Dvsfation &   ................ Assistance      aSeices             [     v el en        .            Assistance           Services
Cacao Development
am~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rmFr 
Program of Ban         a          nsi                                        rp   D seaed  Foontro an  M    h  Livestock           Animal 
and Tr aCertcation                                       Cr                D         C            .       Management              Breeding
Wvatiees~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nee-iu
Program nf Cott                                                                aboratory
and Fibres              :    II                                              Service                   *     - 
*            '  '    I    ~~~~~~~SoIls   S      Agricultural  I                                      ivestock    L     I    Aia 
-F,ograrn of                            r u     M achinery                                      |Developmentr               Nuito       |
I Cane and           *
| Derivatives        |j
|  Crgrmof f ee|    Plant                                                                                                   |     Animal 
PrCoffee  o                    Health                                                                                          Health
Program for the
Promotion of            .
|Agricultural Companis                                Key: Direct control                                                                                                               0Z
Indirect control                                                                                                                  . World Ban k-15182
Statutory bodies   ________                                                                                  H8,






ANNEX 2
Page 1
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
The Seeds Industry
A. Present Situation
1.        The production of improved seed was started in Ecuador shortly after
the creation of the National Agricultural Research Institute (INIAP) (Chart 1).
Initial efforts were concentrated on the development and introduction of im-
proved varieties of cereals and later other crops were included in the research
program. Basic and registered seed production of various crops was started by
INIAP in the mid-1960s, followed by further stages of multiplication of INIAP
seed by some of the specialized crop programs of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock (MAG), which were also responsible for seed distribution. There
were three main programs involved: (a) the Grain Program, which was respon-
sible for wheat, barley, oats and soft corn; (b) the Rice and Hard Corn
Program; and (c) the Agricultural Diversification Program, which was respon-
sible for oilseeds, including soybeans, peanuts, sesame and castor beans. In
1966, the Seeds Certification Department (DCS) was created and given the re-
sponsibility for regulating certified seed production and the administration
of seed quality control measures on a national scale. The DCS did not become
operational until 1969 when the first seed regulations and standards were
officially prescribed. The introduction of new varieties and basic seed pro-
duction by INIAP increased rapidly between 1962 and 1972 but the growth and
effectiveness of other components of seed programs lagged behind. The DCS
was unable to fulfill its responsibilities because it lacked sufficient auton-
omy and resources. The specialized programs lacked the institutional and
technical capabilities necessary for a well defined and organized system of
seed production and distribution. Furthermore, there was no coordination at
the national level to provide the guidance and direction essential for the
progressive development of a seed program.
2.        A major breakthrough in organized seed production and distribution
took place when the Seed Corporation (EMS) -- a joint enterprise supported by
the Government and private capital -- was established (Chart 2). EMS, created
in 1973, became operational in 1974 as the first seed company in Ecuador. The
company's major activities are the production of certified seed (through con-
tract seed growers), processing, storage, and the distribution of certified
seed, wheat, barley, hard corn, rice and oats. It has been agreed that the
specialized crop programs of MAG will no longer be concerned with seed produc-
tion activities, except those related to oilseeds, still to be handled by the
Agricultural Diversification Program. The Government is, however, considering
whether to transfer the production of seeds of oil crops to EMS or to create
another seed company specifically for this purpose.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Variety Development and Introduction
3.       LIproved varieties for most of the main crops are available from
INIAP. However, the inflow of new ones has been slow. A number of existing
wheat varieties are no longer suitable for seed production and need to be
replaced due to susceptibility to diseases (mainly stem rust) and varietal
mixture. Furthermore, intensified research is needed for the development of
suitable varieties of soft corn, pastures and beans. The current list of
varieties eligible for seed certification and recommended by INIAP is given
in Table 1.
Basic and Registered Seed Production
4.        Basic and registered seed for most of the mjaor crops are produced
by INIAP at four major stations (Santa Catalina, Boliche, Pichilingue and
Portoviejo) (Table 2) in quantities which exceed the present requirements.
Registered seed supplies for wheat and barley are produced under contract
with INIAP by farmers in the Sierra because of the lack of sufficient land on
INIAP stations to grow the range of varieties required for the widely differ-
ing climatological conditions of the country. Contract growing of basic and
registered seed production is not a desirable practice under present circum-
stances in Ecuador because of the technical supervision by trained specialists
needed. Therefore, INIAP requires more land for raising its own basic and
registered seed at suitable altitudes (Table 2).  Since seed production acti-
vities by INIAP have not been subject to adequate quality control in the past,
basic seed for wheat and barley is presently not up to the standard required
and substantial improvements are needed. Current (1975) and projections by
INIAP of production of registered seed for the next two years are given in
Table 3.
Certified Seed Production
5.        Organized production of certified seed was started in 1974 by EMS
when limited quantities of certified seed of wheat, barley, hard corn, rice
and oats were produced by a group of about 40 selected seed growers under
contract with EMS. The program could not cover other crops such as oilseeds,
soft corn, pastures and beans, due mainly to lack of resources as well as
technical and institutional requirements. These growers are well established
and progressive farmers who meet the following criteria, which EMS has set up
as its main guidelines:
(a)  Farm location: ecological zone, accessibility to main roads and
general relation to other farms for the same crops;
(b)  Farmer's competence and reliability;
(c)  Availability of farm machinery such as tractors, combines, and
seeders,
(d)  Farm size and credit rating of the farmer with agricultural credit
entities (mainly BNF); and



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(e) Availability of irrigation facilities (mainly for the Costa)
and seed storage.
Processing and/!Storage
6.        INIAP has three small seed processing plants in Santa Catalina,
Boliche and Pichilingue and another plant is under construction at the
Portoviejo station. Processing facilities of INIAP are capable of handling
all registered seed requirements, with the exception of Santa Catalina where
some supplementary equipment is required. Storage facilities at INIAP
stations are inadequate and should be increased. Processing and storage of
certified seed is the responsibility of EMS. Available processing and stor-
age facilities of EMS are all in the Sierra and are very inadequate. They
consist of five seed cleaners and treaters, located, respectively, in Quito,
Cayambe, Riobamba, Guaranda and Cuenca, and very limited storage space. At
the present, EMS utilizes INIAP processing and storage plants, under contract,
in Boliche and Pichilingue for handling rice and corn. Quantities of certi-
fied seed produced by EMS in 1974 are given in Table 4.
Distribution
7.        Certified seed is distributed by EMS through warehouses located
throughout the major production areas. The main centers for Sierra are the
seed plants in Quito, Cayambe, Riobamba, Guaranda and Cuenca. In addition,
there are 24 stores belonging to Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF) and MAG used
by EMS as seed distribution points for which it pays a charge of about 2% of
sales value. The distribution network in terms of national coverage is fairly
satisfactory and requires only minor improvements. The name and location of
the distribution centers are given in Table 5 and indicated on the map (IBRD
11861).
Prices
8.        There are different sets of prices for each stage of seed produc-
tion; registered seed (INIAP), certified seed produced by contract seed
growers, and processed certified seed sold by EMS. The prices for registered
seed are determined by INIAP based on production costs and in relation to
prices for certified seed. Seed growers' prices are usually commercial prices
at harvest time plus a predetermined premium which for wheat, barley and corn
is 15% and for rice is 30% of the commercial prices.  The prices for certified
seed (processed, bagged and treated) is determined by a special commission
in the Ministry of Finance (Superintendencia de Precios). The seed prices
have been subject to frequent fluctuations in recent years. The prices for
commercial crops, registered and certified seeds for 1975/76 are given in
Annex 7, Table 1. The proposed National Seeds Council would make regular
- at least annual - recommendations to the Superintendencia de Precios,
through the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, on seed price structures
for the following season.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Quality Control
9.        The DCS is the agency responsible for quality control measures of
seed programs and its main act:ivities are field inspection and seed testing
(Chart 3). Crop and seed standards for certified seed, as well as methods
and procedures for crop inspection, are officially prescribed in the General
Regulations that were established in 1969. The standards for certification
cover 12 major crops--wheat, barley, oats, rye, rice, maize, cotton, soybeans,
potatoes, sesame, peanuts, and. beans. There are two seed testing laboratories,
one in Quito and one in Guayaquil.  Both are well equipped to meet present
and near future requirements, but the technical level of staff would require
substantial improvement. There are about 24 technical staff under DCS, of
whom 17 are field inspectors. Proper training of field inspectors and seed
analysts and provision of seed promotion equipment as well as transportation
are the major requirements for the improvement of DCS.
B. Seeds Industry Under the Project
Seed Crops
10.       The project would cover mainly the following crops in the two main
agro-climatical regions, as listed below:
Sierra                                    Costa
Wheat                                     Rice
Barley                                    Hard corn
Soft corn                                 Soybeans
Ryegrass                                  Peanuts
Alfalfa                                   Sesame
Beans                                     Guinea grass
Perennial soybeans
Beans
Consideration was given for the possibilities of including potatoes under
the project due to its importance as a major food crop and also its major
role in the farming system of Sierra. However, it was not found feasible to
cover potatoes, mainly because additional research is needed for the develop-
ment of a proper system for seed storage. Until such a system is developed,
increased and expanded production of potatoes would be unlikely (Annex 1).
Technical Coefficients
11.       A series of technical coefficients has been used for seeding rates,
yields with and without project, and seed processing dockages. Yield assump-
tions under the project and for crops planted with project seed have been



ANNEX 2
Page 5
made on a very conservative basis. The technical coefficients used through-
out this report in calculating production estimates, seed processing outputs
and the like are given in Table 6.
Reference Areas for Project Crops
12.       Considerable efforts were made to determine the existing total
areas and possible trends for the next five years for the crops to be
covered by the project. The mission's best estimates are given in Table 7.
The data presented do not necessarily correspond in all cases with the
statistics published by the Government. The basis for mission estimates has
been a combination of sources which include statistics made available by
different crop programs, information supplied by different agricultural
missions in Ecuador and mission's own investigations during visits to differ-
ent production areas. As illustrated, only areas under rice and soybeans
are expected to increase modestly. In the case of rice, the projected in-
crease is due to the continuous increase in demand and profitability of its
production. Furthermore, the area under rice has shown steady increase for
the past several years. For soybeans, there has been a substantial price
increase by the Government which is intended for expanded production in order
to substitute imports with local production. Production targets, as des-
cribed below, are determined in direct relation to reference areas.
Project Targets for Certified Seed Production and Distribution
13.       Project targets are determined on the basis of expected need for
certified seed supplies in relation to total seed requirements for crops
under consideration on the national scale. Pasture seed production under
the project ts aimed at substituting current imports by local production by
Year 5. The targets are expressed in terms of the estimated percentages
of total seed requirements (except for pasture seeds) as well as correspond-
ing areas to be sown with certified seed (Table 8). The targets are based
on a number of factors, the combination of which results in different ex-
pected targets for different crops. The factors which are considered include
the following:
(a) The economic importance of the crop;
(b) Total production in relation to national requirements;
(c) Farm size and distribution;
(d) Response to certified seed;
(e) Need for increase in productivity;
(f) Seed supply and demand;



ANNEX 2
Page 6
(g) Availability of improved and adapted varieties; and
(h) Past experience.
The target estimates for wheat, hard corn, rice and soybeans are higher (in
percentage terms) than others. In the case of wheat, for example, possibili-
ties for expansion of production areas are quite limited, while increased
production is needed to reduce imports. The most practical and effective
increase would therefore be higher productivity per unit area. Therefore,
more areas are expected to be planted with certified seed in order to obtain
increased production. The provision of certified seed should lead to con-
siderable yield increases. Initially it is expected that the main benefici-
aries will be the larger scale farmer; however, as the credit system becomes
more accessible to small farmers and groups of small farmers, they should
also derive substantial benefit from the project. As is shown in Annex 1,
46% of the wheat and 54% of the barley area harvested in 1974 was from plots
of less than 10 ha. Rice growers are predominantly medium to large size
farmers and they have already experienced much higher production with certified
seed; therefore, about 50% of the area is expected to be planted with certi-
fied seed by Year 5. In the case of soybeans, the program is quite new and
seeds have had to be imported or obtained from INIAP. The number of growers
would be limited and, since certified seed is highly essential for optimum
production, 50% of the area is expected to be planted with it. Beans and
soft corn are usually planted by large numbers of small size farmers spread
over a wide area. These farmers do not have much access to credit or other
means for improved production so it is expected that a smaller portion of the
areas under these crops would be planted with certified seed. The acreages
that can be sown with the target levels of certified seed production are
shown in Table 8b.
National Seeds Council
14.       The National Seed Cotncil (NSC) would be responsible for overall
supervision and coordination for the seed industry, including implementation
of the Seeds Project (Chart 4). It would be created by the Minister of Agri-
culture and be responsible, as the highest authority at the national level,
for all policy matters and related activities concerning seed requirements
for all major crops in the country. A Project Executive rirector under the
NSC would be appointed for the administration and coordination of all project
activities and he would be assisted during the course of the Project by the
Project Technical Adviser.  Details regarding NSC and the Executive Director's
functions are given in Annex 3.
p
National List of Varieties
15.       General.  Variety development and introduction is a continuous
process through which superior new seed varieties are introduced. A well
defined system for the introduction of new varieties is an essential require-
ment for efficient and sound seed programs. All varieties, whether locally



ANNEX 2
Page 7
developed or introduced from outside, must undergo a number of well estab-
lished trials and tests, prior to their release for commercial production.
The internationally accepted system for the release of varieties is their
inclusion in a National List of Varieties which is published by the highest
authority within the public sector concerned with the policy matters of
national seed programs.
16.       Designated Authority.  The NSC would be the only authorized source
for the release of new varieties for commercial crop production through a
National List of Varieties, which would be published annually. The list would
cover all the seed varieties eligible for certified seed production and dis-
tribution. Seed legislation would make it illegal for any agency to intro-
duce, either through importation or local development, any seed variety which
is not submitted to INIAP for evaluation and thereafter to NSC for considera-
tion before it is released. Likewise, it would be illegal for any person to
produce and market seed under the certified label from varieties which are
not included in the National List of Varieties.
17.       Recommended Procedures for Variety Release.  Procedures for variety
evaluation through field trials and other tests are well established within
INIAP and conform with the international standards. All seed varieties
and planting materials would be subject to the required evaluation work by
INIAP prior to submission to the NSC for consideration. This includes all
seed varieties which may be imported into the country. After the completion
of the evaluation work and upon availability of satisfactory results, by
INIAP, the new variety would be submitted to the NSC with the following in-
formation for every recommended variety:
(a) Variety name and species;
(b) Variety characteristics (height, tillering, and such);
(c) Origin;
(d) Number of years (or seasons) tested and locations;
(e) Detailed data on agronomic performance (yield, disease resistance,
and such);
(f)  Comparative data on the performance. of the newly recommended variety
with the existing ones for the same species;
(g) The agrc-climatical and soil requirements; and
(h) Any other relevant infermation.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
18.       The NSC would reviewr the detailed data and recommendations submitted
by the INIAP and would consequently determine the eligibility of the submitted
varieties for inclusion in the National List of Varieties. For a new variety
to be included in the List, it must be superior in one or more characteristics
to the existing varieties of the same species for the same agro-climatical
conditions. The National List of Varieties would be reviewed on an annual
basis and the necessary amendments, if any, would be incorporated.
Registered Seed Production
19.       General.  The project requirements for all classes of seed prior to
csrtified seed class would be produced directly by the INIAP. This would in-
clude breeder seed, basic seed and registered seed according to the estab-
lished classification in EcuadDr. Plant breeders in different experiment
stations would provide the breeder seed for different crops to the seed pro-
ductioi. departments of INIAP, which, in turn, would multiply them for the
production of basic seed in qu.intities according to project requirements.
The basic seed would be furthe:r multiplied to produce the required registered
seed supplies for the production of certified seed. Field production of
basic and registered seed would be carried out in the five INIAP experiment
stations which are distributed' in various ecological zones of the country.
The relevant data for the INIAP experiment stations which would be associated
with the project are given in l'able 2.
20.       Production and Seed Supply Targets.  Registered seed production for
all project crops would be available from Year 1 except for beans, which
would be started in Year 2. Additional work on variety development is being
carried out, and production of basic seed is expected for 1976. Projections
for registered seed requirements of the project are given in Tables 9 and lOa,
respectively. Provision would be made for the purchase of 150 ha of suitable
land in the Sierra for project production needs. In addition, three tractors,
one combine, and two trucks would be provided as supplementary machinery to
INIAP for production of registered seed of wheat and barley under its direct
management.
21.       Registered Seed Processing and Storage.  The INIAP plant in Santa
Catalina would be provided with an additional cleaner, scale and bagging
machine, and the existing seed processing and drying plants would receive
technical improvements prior to the commencement of the project.  Financing
would also be provided for 400 t:ons of storage in Santa Catalina, 100 tons
for Portoviejo and 50 tons for ]Boliche and Pichilingue by the project.
Additional financing would be provided for basic and registered seed testing
equipment in the four major stat:ions.
Certified Seed Production (Contract Growing)
22.       The production of certified seed for most of the major crops would
continue to be undertaken by EMS through selected seed growers in different



ANNEX 2
Page 9
regions of the country. Selection of the growers would be in accordance with
criteria EMS has been following (para 5). Seed growers would be registered
with BNF and EMS and the latter would encourage and promote the formation of
a seed growers' association which would facilitate representation of seed
growers in NSC, more favorable credit lines from BNF, a better quality control
system for production and many other advantages which could be derived from
organized ventures.
23.       Production, Quality Control and Seed Procurement.  EMS would enter
in contracts with the selected growers for the needed certified seed
production of different crops according to the targets established under the
project. Total areas and expected production for each crop and for each
year of the project are given in Table 11. The registered seed stocks needed
for the planting requirements of the given areas would be produced by INIAP
(Table 10) and sold to EMS at cost prices. EMS would, in turn, sell the
registered seed supplies to the growers at cost. Details of crop production
conditions, quality control and the purchase of the seed crops by EMS would
be covered under the terms of contract between EMS and growers. Major pro-
visions of a contract between the EMS and a selected seed grower would call
for the following:
(a) Name, address of the grower and location of the farm;
(b) Name of the crop species and variety(ies) to be grown by the
grower;
(c) Exact area(s) to be planted with the registered seed stocks for the
production of certified seed;
(d)  Sale of the needed registered seed supplies by EMS to the grower
at INIAP prices (transportation costs would be extra);
(e) Agreement by the grower to follow the recommended cultural practices
with regard to seeding rate and method, isolation, fertilization,
insect and disease control, irrigation (if applicable), rogueing,
and other operations needed for optimum production;
(f) Agreement by the grower to have his crop inspected at three differ-
ent stages by an official field inspector, who would advise him
of the needed measures for crop purity and maintenance in conform-
ity with crop certification standards;
(g) Agreement by EMS to provide the grower with technical assistance
with regard to cultural practices outlined under (e);
(h) Agreemsnt by the grower to inform the DCS when the crop was ready
for final field inspection prior to harvest;



ANNEX 2
Page 10
(i) A final field inspection by DCS, which would issue an official
certification report, with copies to the grower and EMS. Com-
pliance with crop certification standards would be the basis for
the purchase of growers' seed crop by EMS;
(j) Supervision of the harvest by EMS, which would provide the bags
for the collection of seed and stocks; and
(k) Purchase of the seed crop by EMS at an agreed premium over and
above the existing commercial prices at the time of harvest. Such
premium at present is 15% for wheat, hard corn, barley, oats and
30% for rice.
24.       Credit for Certified Seed Production.  The BNF would be the main
source of credit for seed growers. The seed grower must be registered with
EMS to be eligible for credit. Present arrangements include credit by BNF
up to 80% of the total investment and operating costs at an interest rate of
9%, with up to seven years of amortization. No provisions would therefore
be made by the project for investment or operating credit for seed growers.
Certified Seed Processing and Storage (EMS)
25.       General.  The production of seed with a high degree of physical
purity and quality would be a major objective of the project. All quanti-
ties of certified seed, produced by contract seed growers, would be properly
processed and stored in three large-scale seed processing and storage centers
that would be established under the project. These centers would be con-
structed for EMS and would consist of processing plants, storage facilities
for seed in bag and bulk, seed testing laboratories and offices. They would
be centrally located in relation to the areas where the bulk of certified
seed would be grown. In addition to processing and storage operations, the
three centers would also function as the main distribution points for EMS
and would be utilized for training purposes in their respective areas.
26.       Geographical Distribution and Locations.  The geographical distri-
bution of seed processing and storage centers would be based on four major
categories of crops and their respective production regions, as shown on the
maps. Two centers would be established for the Sierra region, one which would
serve mainly the provinces of Pichincha, Imbabura, Carchi, Cotopaxi and
Tungurahua where seed growers for wheat, barley and highland pastures would
be located, and one to serve mainly the provinces of Bolivar, Chimborazo,
Canar, Azuay and Loja where contract seed growers for wheat, soft corn and
highland beans would be located. The third center would be established in the
Costa where seed growers for rice, hard corn, beans and oilcrops are located.
Major provinces involved would be Guayas, Los Rios and Manabi. A fourth seed
processing center may be required in the future for oilseed crops, mainly
soybeans, in the province of Manabi. The inclusion of such facilities under
the project was not considered necessary since INIAP has under construction
a seed processing plant at its P'ortoviejo Station with adequate facilities
and capacity to handle the initial project requirements. Furthermore, USAID



ANNEX 2
Page 11
would finance cold storage facilities for oilseeds; therefore, no such
facilities would be financed by the project.
27.       Major Requirements and Specifications.  The establishment of the
three seed centers would involve three distinct and inter-related phases:
(a) designing and construction of the needed buildings; (b) procurement of
machinery and equipment; and (c) installation of equipment and test runs.
Specifications would call for:
(a) One plant of 4 to 5 tons per hour output capacity to be erected
in the Sierra Region for the processing of wheat, barley, alfalfa
and rye grass, with a total of 1,500 tons of storage facilities
(500 tons in bags and 1,000 tons in bulk);
(b) One plant of 2 to 3 tons per hour output capacity to be erected in
the Austral Region for the processing of wheat, soft corn and beans,
with a total storage capacity of 750 tons (250 tons in bags and
500 tons in bulk); and
(c) One plant of 4 to 5 tons per hour capacity to be erected in the
Costa Region for the processing of rice, corn, soybeans, beans,
guinea grass and perennial soybeans, with a total storage capacity
of 1,500 tons (500 tons in bags and 1,000 tons in bulk).
All plants would be of one-story design, with all equipment supported from
the floor area. A detailed list of equipment and corresponding specifications
are given in Annex 4, Table 5. A seed flow chart is shown on Chart 5. Total
seed quantities that could be processed would be about 4,000 to 5,000 tons for
the Sierra and Costa plants and 2,000 to 3,000 tons for the Austral plant.
28.       Processing and Storage Criteria.  Processing and storage operations
(Chart 5) would be conducted between harvest and sowing. Periods available
for processing and storage are given in Chart 6. The design criteria of the
plants would facilitate processing of different types of seeds simultaneously.
Major operations would involve the following:
(a) Weighing and Receiving. Harvested seed stocks would be brought to
the seed processing plants in bags. Trucks would be weighed on a
platform scale and the information recorded for payment to growers
and dockage (mainly discards from cleaning and grading) calculations.
On delivery, the seed may be transferred to storage bins for temporary
storage or immediately put through the processing lines.



ANNEX 2
Page 12
(b) Drying and Conditioning. Most of the harvested seed supplies would
require drying in order to reduce their moisture content to the
desired level for safe storage, which is usually 12 to 14% for most
seeds. The seed plants would be equipped with the needed seed
driers. In case of certain seeds such as barley, corn and alfalfa,
special conditioning of seed would be required before it could be
dried and processed. Such operations involve de-awning barley,
shelling corn and hulling alfalfa. In some cases, seed stocks
would be pre-cleaned before drying in order to remove straws and
other large size contaminants.
(c) Cleaning and Grading. Fine cleaning of all seeds would be by air-
screen cleaners, which are the most widely used machines in seed
plants. After cleaning, different kinds of seeds require special-
ized machinery for grading such as length separators for cereals,
corn grader for corn, and spiral separator for soybeans. The seed
plants would be equipped with all the cleaning and grading machin-
ery necessary for their respective crops.
(d) Treating, Bagging and Labeling. Seed treaters would be provided
for treatment of cleaned and graded seed stocks against diseases
and insects. Final seed would be bagged and labeled, the latter
under the supervision of DCS, through semi-automatic bagger-
weighers.
(e) Seed Storage. Storage of seed would involve several stages:
storage prior to processing (uncleaned) would usually be in storage
bins. Storage bins would be of steel construction, each with 100
tons capacity and equipped with aeration devices as well as a feed-
ing and discharge system, operating with vertical steel elevators
(bucket type) and horizontal belt conveyors. Clean seed would be
stored mainly in bags in properly constructed and ventilated ware-
houses. There would be two 500-ton warehouses, one at the Sierra
plant and one at the Costa plant, and storage for 250 tons at
the Austral plant. Clean seed may also be stored in storage bins
and bagged when needed.
(f) Quality Control. All seed centers would have testing laboratories
to check the quality of seed at all stages of processing. Seed
laboratories would be equipped with devices for purity analysis and
germination and moisture tests. Details of the processing and stor-
age flow as well as the machinery used for each operation are given
in Chart 6.
29.       Criteria for International Tender.  All major requirements for the
establishment of the project seed processing and storage centers wwould be
fulfilled by one or more well experienced firm, which would be selected through
international tender. The major items are as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 13
(a) Detailed design for seed processing flow at the three seed centers;
(b) Detailed list of machinery and equipment according to the agreed
flow design - a suggested list is given in Annex 4, Table 5.
(c) Detailed design for the buildings needed to house the installation
of machinery and equipment.
(d) Detailed design for the warehouses to be attached to the process-
ing plants, as well as the layout design for the storage bins;
(e) Direct supervision of assembly and installation of all the machin-
ery and equipment; and
(f) Conduct of the required test runs to ensure satisfactory operation
of all machinery and the plants at completion.
The construction of the needed buildings would be undertaken by one or more
local engineering firm, which would be selected through tenders. All tech-
nical and operational aspects of international and local tenders for the
establishment of the seed centers would be under the supervision of the proj-
ect management.
30.       Administration and Staffing.  The seed centers would be under the
management and administration of EMS. Existing technical staff of EMS in
seed processing would be further trained and assigned to the new facilities.
Additional staff would be provided for the operation and maintenance of the
centers by EMS. All the technical staff would be provided with specialized
training by the project. The following list of personnel would be assigned
to each center:
Number of Staff
Position                             Sierra    Austral Region          Costa
Plant manager                          1             1                   1
Processing technicians                 2             1                   2
Processing assistants                  3             2                   3
Seed analysts                          2             -/1                 2
Clerks/accountants                     2             1                   2
Laborers (seasonal)                    -----as needed------------
/1   Seed testing for Austral Region would be conducted at the Sierra Center.
Workshop facilities as well as standby generators would be provided to the
plants to ensure uninterrupted operation and maintenance of the plants. De-
tails of procedures, operational manuals, stock keeping records and other



ANNEX 2
Page 14
required operations features would be prepared and adopted under the supervi-
sion of a seed processing and storage consultant who would be assigned to
EMS for an initial period of two years. Schedules of construction and other
relevant activities are given in Annex 5.
31.       Operating Costs and Revenues. The entire administration and opera-
tion of EMS is in direct relation to the scale of processing, storage and
sales of certified seed. Ther-efore, operating costs of the seed processing
center would include all other costs of EMS. Detailed analysis of EMS oper-
ating costs, revenues and cash flow are given in Annex 7.
Seed Distribution and Promotion
32.       General.  Ten new warehouses would be constructed under the project.
Nine would replace old buildings and an additional one would be constructed
in Naranjal (in the Costa). Each warehouse would have a capacity of 100 tons
and estimated investment costs would be $10,000 (SI 250,000), with a foreign
exchange component of 40% (Annex 4, Table 4). Warehouses would be located
to provide an adequate network. for certified seed distribution throughout the
Sierra and Costa. Sites are listed below:
For Sierra                     For Costa
Cayambe                        Babahoyo
Riobamba                       Daule
Loja                           Machala
Portoviejo
Naranjal (additional)
Esmeraldas
Vinces
Farmers would purchase their seed requirements from the nearest warehouses
at EMS wholesale prices, and EMS would pay commission of 1% to the agencies
which own the warehouses (mainly BNF and MAC). Seed distribution warehouses
also distribute fertilizer under the auspices of BNF. Projected quantities
of seed to be distributed by the project over the five-year period are given
in Table 8c. Three trucks would also be financed for EMS to be used for trans-
porting seed stocks.
33.       Seed Promotion.  A promotion and publicity program would be under-
taken by all agencies associated with the project, especially EMS and DCS,
to popularize the use of certified seed. BNF would also play a major role
by making the purchase of certified seed a condition of production loans to
farmers. DCS would establish four promotion centers in cooperation with EMS
in four major production regions (two in the Sierra and two in the Costa).
Seed promotion equipment would be provided by the project and would mainly
consist of mobile audio visual equipment for use in farming communities.
Field days would be organized by EMS on contract seed growers' farms to



ANNEX 2
Page 15
demonstrate the performance of certified seed to neighboring farmers. Various
media such as radio, TV, and agricultural publications would also be utilized
for advertisement and publicity purposes. All distribution centers would be
provided with posters, illustrated pamphlets and other material for distri-
bution to farmers in their respective areas.
Quality Control, Seed Certification and Legislation (DCS)
34.       General.  The overall seed quality control at the national level
would be administered by the DCS through a seed certification scheme. The
legal support for the regulatory work and institutional framework is provided
by existing seed legislation which would be amended to be administered by
the NSC. The DCS would have full autonomy in exercising its regulatory func-
tions over all agencies which would produce, process and distribute or sell
seed, including all seed stocks for import and export.
35.       Organization and Staffing.  The present organizational and staffing
situation of the DCS is given in Chart 3. The status of DCS in relation to
the overall organization of MAG is illustrated in the Chart is Annex 1. Total
technical staff is 24, including 14 field insnectors and four seed analysts.
Ten additional permanent technical staff would be recruited for the expanded
activities under the project. The project would finance the cost of the addi-
tional staff for the project period, and the Government would continue the
needed financing thereafter. Additional staff would account for six new field
inspectors and four new seed analysts (Annex 4, Table 3). The geographical
distribution of DCS is quite satisfactory since most of the major seed produc-
ing provinces are covered by a representative officer (field inspectors). The
greatest need for the improvement of the DCS would be specialized training of
staff at all levels, which would be provided by the project (Annex 3).
Criteria for Seed Quality Control
36.       Field Inspection.  All crops which are intended for production of
basic, registered and certified seed would be subject to field inspection by
the official field inspectors of the DCS. All crops must pass the prescribed
field and crop standards in order to be considered as certified seed classes.
Major factors which are considered during field inspection are the field and
crop history; the origin of the seed used at planting; the isolation of the
field; varietal purity; freedom from pests, diseases and mixtures with seeds
of other crops and weeds. The agencies involved under the project would be
INIAP for the production of basic and registered seed and contract seed grow-
ers for production of certified seed. Total.areas to be field inspected in
different years of the project are given in Tables 10c and llb. For the pro-
duction of registered and certified seed, 20 field inspectors would be working
under the DCS for field inspection of all seed growing areas, including those
under INIAP (about 6,500 ha for Year 5). The project would provide the
vehicles needed for use by the field inspectors since availability of transport
is of prime importance to the conduct of field inspection (Annex 4, Table 3).



ANNEX 2
Page 16
Field and crop standards for certification purposes have been prescribed
already in General Regulation No. 673 issued by the MAG as authorized by
Decree No. 1628. All standards, as well as field inspection techniques and
procedures for the issuance of necessary reports and certificates by DCS,
would be reviewed and revised,, as necessary, by the seed production and certi-
fication consultant of the project, who would advise the NSC accordingly.
37.       Seed Testing.  All seed stocks which are intended for distribution
and/or sale as certified seed (in this case includes basic and registered
seed) would be subject to seed testing at the official laboratories of the
DCS. No seed stock could be labeled as basic, registered or certified unless
it conformed to prescribed seed standards after the completion of seed test-
ing. Seed testing activities would be conducted by the DCS through two
official seed testing laboratcries: one in Quito for the Sierra and one in
Guayaquil for the Costa. The seed laboratories are well equipped for present
requirements but would need additional equipment in order to meet the increased
testing capacities under the project. The project would finance the supple-
mentary equipment required in Years 2 and 3 of the project. Four additional
seed analysts would be recruited for the completion of staff needs at the two
laboratories in Years 2 and 3. All seed analysts (eight) would be provided
with specialized training through the project. Details of investment costs
for these requirements as well as others for the DCS are given in Annex 4,
Table 3. Major activities under seed testing would include:
(a) Sampling, which woul,i be conducted by field inspectors, of all
quantities of seeds of different classes throughout the country
according to prescribed methods and procedures. Seed samples
would be sent to the seed laboratories in Quito and Guayaquil
for the tests;
(b) Moisture testing, which would determine the moisture content of dif-
ferent seed lots;
(c) Purity analysis, for determination of seed purity in relation to
different contaminations;
(d)  Germination tests, which would determine the percentage of seed
viability; and
(e) Others such as pathological test and greenhouse tests (for variety
verification) as may be needed.
Seed testing methods and procedures would be based on those established by
the International Seed Testing Association (ISTA). Seed standards for dif-
ferent crops would be, however, reviewed, and amendments would be recommended,
as necessary, by the seed production and certification consultant of the
project.



ANNEX 2
Page 17
38.       Seed Labeling.  Labeling of seed is one of the most critical
measures for quality control. A well defined and organized system would be
necessary to control the labeling of seed stocks of different classes of in-
spected seed. No seed lot could be labeled as registered or certified unless
it had met all inspection requirements (mainly field inspection and seed
testing). Furthermore, labeling of different classes of certified seed could
be authorized and administrated only by the DCS; therefore, no other agency
would be permitted to issue official seed labels.
39.       There would be three types of labels which would be distinguished
by different colors, e.g., red for basic seed, green for registered seed,
and blue for certified seed. All labels would be printed by the DCS and made
available to INIAP and EMS in quantities required for different classes of
seed. A breakable seal, after being applied to the container, should accompany
every label on every container. An accurate recording of the number of labels
issued, used, and discarded would be kept by DCS and agencies which utilize
them in order to prevent disputes and misuse. All the labels would have the
following information clearly printed on them:
(a) Name of crop species and variety;
(b)  Name of producer (INIAP or EMS);
(c) Year or season of production;
(d) Percentage of moisture and date of the test;
(e) Percentage of pure seed, other varieties, other crops and weeds;
and
(f) Percentage of germination and date of the test.
All labeling operations by different agencies (INIAP and EMS) would be con-
trolled by the DCS, which would also maintain the relevant records. Details
of procedures to be followed would be worked out by the seed production and
certification consultant.
40.       Seed Legislation.  In 1972, Presidential Decree No. 1628 was issued,
-officially authorizing (under Article 15) the formation of DCS and providing
general guidelines for the improvement of seed legislation, with major emphasis
on the responsibilities of INIAP for basic and registered seed production and
of MAG for certified seed production and distribution. No further review and
elaborations have been made; however, the rapid development of the seed industry
has necessitated more detailed and better defined legislation. One of the re-
sponsibilities of the project through NSC would be the preparation of new de-
tailed and suitable seed legislation and for Government consideration and
enactment. The technical director of the project would be responsible for
the preparation of the needed draft. A general guideline for some of the
major categories is given below:



ANNEX 2
Page 18
(a)  Official designation of the NSC as the highest authority in the
Government for the administration and coordination of seed programs
(production, processing and storage, distribution, import and ex-
port, etc.) at the national level;
(b)  Official designation of DCS for the regulatory work concerning seed
quality control over all concerned agencies at the national level;
(c) Official designation of different agencies for research, basic and
registered seed production, certified seed production, and distri-
bution;
(d) Provision of legislative backing for different field crop and seed
standards and their application, which would be prescribed by the
DCS;
(e) Prohibition of production, import and distribution of seed varieties
and planting material which was not be included in the National
List of Varieties;
(f) Official designation of a price fixing agency for different seed
classes;
(g) Provision of penalty charges for the violation of any prescribed
provision; and
(h) Provision of any other relevant statements which would be considered
necessary to regulate seed production, distribution and trade.
December 23, 1975



ANNEX 2
Table 1
ECUADOR
SMEDS PROJECT
Varieties Eligible for Seed Certification in 1975
Species                                 Varieties
Wheat 1/                  Atacazo, Crespo, Ruminahui, Bonza,Amazonas,
Romero 73, Cayambe 73.
Barley ./                 Dorada, Filberck Union
Soft corn a               INIAP 176
Hard corn                 INIAP 515, INIAP 504, INIAP 513, VS 2
Rice                      INIAP2, INIAP 6, IR 8
Rye grass                 Pichincha
Peanuts                   Tarapoto 47-67 D, 48-115 D
Sesame                    Portoviejo 1, Aceitera
Oats                      Santa Catalina, INIAP 67
Potatoes                  Santa Catalina
Cotton                    Coker 41-04, Empire WR 61, Deltapine 16, Del Cerro
Castor beans              Portoviejo 67
1/  Amazonas, Ruminahui and Crespo are to be phased out
and replaced by Romero 73. A new variety of wheat is
expected to be released in 1976.
2/ A new barley variety is expected to be introduced in 1976.
3/ Intensive work is underway to develop new varieties. INIAP 176
has not been very successful.
Source: INIAP and DCS.
October 3, 1975



ECUADOR
SEEDS n RJECT
National Institute of Agricultural Research (INIAP)
Experiment Stations for Basic Seed Production
Area for                          Average
Total     Area for        Seed       Eleva-   ADInual      Relative
Crops under        Area      Research      Production   tion    Rainfall      Humidity
Station                  Cultivation         (HH) (Ha)                   a)        (m)      (mm?          (%)
Santa Catalina           Wheat, barley
oats, rye grass,
potatoes, soft
corn                950         840         U1        2650-3250   1706           79
Boliche                  Rice, soybeans,
cotton, peanuts     151          91           60          17        741          82
Pichilingue              Hard corn, pas-
ture crops, coffee
cocoa              1200        1138           62          75       2327          84
Portoviejo               Cotton, soybeans,
peanuts, sesame,
hard corn, castor      1/
beans                8            55          30                    652          82
Santo Domingo            African palm,
pasture crops,
hard corn           247         147          100         300       4242          88
1/ Does not include about 150 ha out of 400 ha recently allocated to the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock (MAG).
September 9, 1575



ANNEX 2
Table 3
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Production Goals for Registered,Seed of Selected Crops
(1 975-1977 i/
Quantity of
Crop                                 Registered Seed
1975     1976     1977
-___-- tons --------
Wheat                                364      454      545
Barley                                45       68       91
Soft corn                             -        16      227-/
Rice                                 100      114      118
Soybeans                              41       46       50
Hard corn                            109      123      140
Sesame                               1.40     1.80     2.30
Peanuts                               27       37       45
Beans                                1.32     1.34     1.36
1/  Production targets are considerably in excess of national
requirements for the production of certified seed but INIAP
will adjust its production targets to the requirements for
certified seed production.
2/ A major increase in introduction of new varieties is planned.
Source: INIAP
September 9, 1975



ANNEX 2
Table 4
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Certified Seed Distributed by the Seeds Corporation (EMS) in 1974
Crop                                  Quantity
7ton)
Wheat                                   1,350
Barley                                    380
Rice                                    1,200
Hard corn                                 450
Total                           3,380
Source: EMS.
September 9, 1975



ANNEX 2
Table 5
ECUADOR
SEED PROJECT
Existing Seeds Distribution Center i/
Sierra                          Costa
Tulcan     - MAG                Esmeraldas    - BNF
San Gabriel- BNF                Sto. Domingo  - BNF
El Angel   - EMS                Quevedo        - INIAP
Cayambe    -EMS                 Balzar         - BNF
Quito      - EMS                Vinces         - BNF
Latacunga  - EMS                Babahoyo      - BNF
Riobamba   - EMS                Guayaquil     - EMS
Guaranda   - EMS                Daule          - BNF
Canar      - MAG                Machala        - BNF
Cuenca     - MAG                Portoviejo    - BNF
Loja       - EMS                Yaguachi       - EMS
Gozanama   - MAG                Puyo           - BNF
1/  BN? centers also distribute fertilizers.-
Source: EMS
September 9, 1975



CCUADOR
Seeds Project
Selected Technical Coefficients Used in Economic Analysis
Contract Seed Growers                                                                                  Average Commercial Farmer
1             2           3             4             5                6                       7                     a                     9                    lo
Assumed Average
Yield on                                               Yield of all                                Assumed Increased
Farms                   Yield of      National       Farmers using         Assumed Average    Yield due to using           Partition of Yield Increase
Producing                  Cleaned       Average      Certified Seed          Yield of Farmers   Certified Seed and                             Fertilizer and
SeedinI     Certified                  Certified      Yield       and Recoesended           not Using          Recosmended Cultu-    Certified Seed    other Cultural
Ratel'       Seed        aockagei/    Seed          1971-74    Cultural Practices    Certified Seed           ral Practices                Alone3/           Practices
kg/ha         kg/ha           %          kg/ha        kg/ha             kg/ha                  kg/ha                   kg                      kg                  kg
Wheat                                               110         2,000          20          1,600           936            1,300                     940                  360                    18C                 180
Barley                                               90         2,500          25          1,875           707            1.100                     710                  390                    140                 250
Soft corn                                            35         4,00D          60          1 CCC           c/             1,000                     670                  330                    130                 200
hard corn                                            Its        4,000          60          1,600        1,088             1,500                   1,090                  410                    210                 200
RLea                                                 50         4,000          15          3,400        2,429             3,200                   2,400                  800                    600                 200
Soybeans                                             70         1,600          30          1.120        1,318             1,400                   1,200                  200                    140                  60
Peanuts                                              70         1,400          30            980           830            1,100                     830                  270                    200                  70
Sesame                                                4.5       1,200          30            840           886            1,000                     890                  110                    100                  10
Beans                                                50         1,200          30            840          444               500                     400                  100                     60                  40
It Same for both seed growers and copsrrciai producers.
2/ Percentage of field prod-ction that is nout useable as certified seed.  This is removed during seed processing.  From I to 5% is lost during processing.  The balance is sold as comeaercial grain.
3/  This is the incremental yield increase attributable to the use of only certified seed.  The farmer is assumed to use exactly the same cultural practices as reflected in the yields of column 7
of this table.  These estimates are based oil INIAP reports, discussion with INIAP and EMS personnel and prior experience and judgement of the appraisal team,
September 18, 1975



ANNJEX 2
Table 7
EMADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Projections of National Total Areas Under Project Cropsi!
('000 ha)
- -- Project Year --------------
Drop                  0     1      2     3      4      5
Wheat                55    55    55    55    55    55
Bsrley               60    60    60    60    60    60
Soft Corn            75    75    75    75    75    75
Hard Corn)           85    85    85    85    85    85
Rice      32/        95    99   103   1 07   111   115
Soybeans )            8    11    l1    17    19    20
Peanuts              15    15    15    15    15    15
Sesame                2      2     2      2     2      2
Beans                60    60    60    60    60    60
Total          455   462   469   376   482   487
1/ 'xcluding pastures.
7/ Based on two season planting each year.
September 18, 1975



ANNEX 2
Table 8
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJgCT
Project Targets for Certified Seed
_-----------------------Project Year--------------------------
Crop               0            1           2            3            4
a. Percentage of National Total Seed Requirements (%)
Wheat             26           26          30           33           36           40
Barley             8           10          13           16           18           20
Soft corn          -           -            2            4            9           15
Hard corn         33           35          37           39           40           40
Rice              29          34           39           43           47           50
Soybeans           -          19           31           314          41          50
Peanuts            -           5            7           13           16           20
Sesame             -           5           10           15           18           20
Beans              -            -           -            7           10           15
b. Area to be Sown With Certified Seed (ha)
Wheat        14,500       14,500       16,400       18,200       20,000      22,000
Earley        5,000        6,100        7,800        9,400       10,600      12,000
Soft corn        -           -          1,400        2,900        7,100      11,250
Hard corn    28,100       29,700       31,300       32,800       34,000       34,000
Rice         28,000       34,000       40,000       46,000      52,000       57,500
Soybeans         -         2,100        4,300        5,700        7,900      10,000
Peanuts          -            700       1,000        2,000        2,1400      3,000
Sesame           -           100          200          300          350          400
Beans            -           -            -          4,000        6,000       9,000
Total 9      75,600       87,200      102,400      121,300      140,350     159,150
c.  Certified Seed Requirements -/ (ton)
Wheat         1,600        1,600        1,800        2,000        2,200       2,400
Barley          450          550          700          850          950       1,050
Soft corn       -            -             50          100          250         400
Hard corn        450          475         500          525          550          550
Rice          1,400        1,700        2,000        2,300        2,600       2,900
Soybeans        -            150          300          400          550          700
Peanuts          -            50           70          140          170          200
Sesame           -             0.5          1.0          1.4          1.6          1.8
Beans            -           -            -            200          300         450
Pasture
seeds         -            -             20           50           80         120
Total         3,900        4,545.5      5,441        62466.4      7,651.6     8,771.8
I/ Excluding area for pasture seed production.
2/ Final clean and bagged seed (field production less dockage for seed processing).
W/ Rye grass, alfalfa, guinea grass anl perennial soybeans.
.ept.ember 30, 1975



ANNEX 2
Table 9
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Projections for Registered Seed Requirements  1/
(Kg)
------------------Project Year-----------------------
Crop                     0            1          2             I-onward
Wheat                  8,500        9,500       10,500        11,4O0
Barley                 1,700        2,000        2,300         2,400
Soft corn                 25           50          125           200
Hard corn                 50           55           55            55
Rice                     570          665           7h5          830
Soybeans               1,200        1,600        2,200         2,800
Peanuts                  360          720          880         1,030
Sesame                    30           40           50            60
Beans                      -          710        1,070         1,600
Pasture seeds            390          628          947         1,328
Total          12,825       15,968        18,872        21,703
1/ Clean and bagged (field production less processing dockage)
September 18, 1975.



ANNEX 2
Table 10
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Projections of Registered Seed Requirements
--Project Year---
Crop                  0              1             2              3           4-onward
a. Requirements for Clean and Bagged Seed (Ton)
Wheat               110         :23.0          138.0         152.0         165.0
Barley               27          34.0          41.0           46.0          50.0
Soft corn             -           1.1           2.2            5.5           8.8
Hard corn             4.7         5.0            5.3           5.5           5.5
Rice                 25          34.0          39.0           44.0          49.0
Soybeans              9.4        19.0          25.0           35.0          44.0
Peanuts               3.6         5.0           10.0          12.2          14.3
Sesame                2.7 kg      5.4 kg         7.7 kg        8.1 kg       10.0 kg
Beans                 -           -             12.0          18.0          27.0
Pasture seeds 1/    -             4.4            7.1          10.7          15.0
Total        179.7       225.5          279.6         328.9          378.6
b.  Requirements for Field Production (Ton)
Wheat               137.0       154.0          172.0         190.0         206.0
Barley               36.0        47.0          55.0           63.0          66.7
Soft corn             -           2.8            5.7          14.0          22.0
Hard corn            11.8         L2.5          13.8          13.8           13.8
Rice                 29.4        40.0          46.0           52.0          58.0
Soybeans             13.4        27.4          36.5           50.2          64.0
Peanuts               5.2         7.2           14.3          17.5          20.5
Sesame              Trace         8.0 kg       10.6 kg        13.3 kg       16.0 kg
Beans                 -           -             17.0          25.6           38.5
Pasture seeds         -           6.8          10.9           16.5          23.1
Total        232.8       297.7          371.2         442.6          512.6
c.  Requirements for Area of Production (ha)
Wheat                68.0        77.0          86.0           95.0         103.0
Barley               14.4        19.0          22.0           25.0          27.0
Soft corn             -           0.7            1.4           3.5           5.5
Hard corn             3.0         3.1            3.4           3.4            3.4
Rice                  7.5        11.4           13.3          14.9           16.6
Soybeans              8.1        17.0          22.0           31.0          40.0
Peanuts               3.6          ;.1          10.2          12.5          14.7
Sesame                ---------------------Negligible----------------------
Beans                 -                         14.2          21.4          32.0
Pasture seeds         -          2-7.2         43.6           66.0          92.4
Total        104.6       160.5          216.1         272.7          334.6
1/  G;uinea grass, rye grass, alfalfa and perennial soybeans.
September 18, 1975.



ANNEX 2
Table 11
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Projections of Field Recuirements for the nro&e-tion of Certified Seed-/
----Project Year---------------------------
Crop               0           1           2          3           4           5
a.  Requirements for Field Production (Ton)
Wheat            2,000       2,000      2,236       2,510       2,764       3,000
Barley             600         750         945      1,140       1,278       1,418
Soft corn            -           -         126        251         628       1,006
Hard corn          750       1,200      1,250       1,325       1,375       1,375
Rice             1,647       2,030       2,380      2,730       3,080       3,430
Soybeans             -         227        433         571         800       1 ,04
Peanuts              -          71         100        200         243         286
Sesame               -           0.7         1.4         2.0        2.2         2.6
Beans                -           -           -        288         432         648
Pasture seeds        -           -          31         77         123         185
Total       4997.0    6,278.7    7,502.4    9,094.0   10,725.2   12,354.6
b. Requirements for Area of Production (ha)
Wheat            1,000       1,000      1,118       1,255       1,382       1,500
Barley             240         300         378        456         511         567
Soft corn            -           -          32         63         157         251
Hard corn          188         300         313        331         3h4         344
Rice               412         58C         680         780        880         980
Soybean              -         142         271        357         500         628
Peanuts              -          51         71         143         174         204
Sesame               -           0.6         1.2        1.7         1.8         2.2
Beans                -           -           -        240         360         540
Pasture seeds        -           -         124        308         492         740
Total       1,840.o    2,373.6    2,988.2    3,934.7    4,801.8    5,756.2
1/ Projected requirements for clean and bagged certified seed
are given in Table 8c of this Annex.
September 30, 1975.



ANNEX 2
Chart 1
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
National Institute of Agricultural Research (INIAP)
Organization Chart
Coun:il of
Administration
_____ 
Directo- General
Technical Committee                                                                    Advisory Committee
Deputy                                      Administrative
Director General                           Services
|Regional
Deputy Director
Department of
Piehilmng.e                             Santa Catal1 i                                PI-nOCg for
Experiment Station                      Experiment Station                            Eperiment Stations
~~~~~~~~~~~~Experiment StationsCodara   o
SantoIDomino  Austral  |Department of
E.eietS.to                      Experiment Station                      _    Coordin.tion to
(Projected)                                   ,International Projects
Boliche                                                                                    Depai-rneme  of
_  Experiment Station                                                           _      Communicatidns
0 PortoviejW                                                                                    a
Expeiriment Station f
l                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank-15184



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
"EMsemillas"; SEEDS CORPORATION (EMS)
ORGANIZATION CHART
Board of
Directors
General Manager
I Drectol                                                                                                         
Prduction                                                                                            0 Pan aUilOprtons
Seed Processing     |         |Field Production                                                                                              AdministrSative
.   .  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ l                                                        7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Services
Highland Region
Highland                Seed
,. Region                   Analysts
"Seginr.SeaSorg                                                                                                                     Regiuirat Manage"-
'Sierra"                       L      d                  SdLowland Region
Lowland                  Seed                                           ."Costa"
Region"                  Analysts                      Marketing
0*      "Costa"
Lowland          i 
Region            .........................................................                         ............Seed Storage
"Costa"                                                                                    !
Farmers  .Marketing
Key:
Organization                                                                                                                                   Ac
Flow of       *        .-*
Certified Seed
F      inancing   o_
World Bank-15185               N  r)



ANNEX 2
Chart 3
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
SEED CERTIFICATION DEPARTMENT (DCS)
ORGANIZATION AND STAFF CHART
Director of
Seed Certification
Department
KL
| Section Chief        |Section Chief                              l
Technical                            |      Administrative
Services                                    S ervce
__I 
Supervisor                            [      uperv sor                             Office in Charge
Regional Office                             Regional Office                        Seed Testing Laborator
Guayaqul                              [    (uito                                   Quito        .
____  __ I __,*_   .  _
Provincial                                  Provincial                                  Regional
Inspectors                                  Inspectors                                  Analysts
"C6sta" Region                    "Sierra" Region
Esmeraidas  (1)                  Carchi       (i)   Chimborazo  l1)                         "Costa"
Manabi        (1)                Imbabura    ()   Bolivar           (1)                     Guayaquil (1)
Guayas       (1)                 Pichincha    (1)   Cariar          (1)
Los Rios    (1)                  Cotopaxi    (1i    Azuay          (1)
Tungurahua  (1)   Loia            (1)                       "Sierra"
Quito (3)
World Bank - 15183



ANNEY. 2
Chart4
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND OPERATIONAL FLOW CHART
NATIONAL SEED COUNCIL
PROJECT EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
IN IAP
VAIEY  LIST
|  BASIC SEED        u -
| lREGISTERED SEED* -
BNF                                          SEED GROWERS                                                   D i  DCS
CTREDT                                                     SE IED     _II
CREDT    l  __n_ _ ._ _  +          PRODUCTION                     I          1--___ ____  rQUALTY CONTROL|
I                                                      *   MI;  s  _  +  S  _  1l  | P RTO U C T I O N
PROMOTION:]~~~~IO
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I                                                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E I 
i  i                             | PROCESSING &
I                    I    -I-   -   -   -   -                 PRO   IO 
|    |                                 |      ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~DISTRIBUJTION  |--  
L~~~ - -     ---     ---              FARMERS                  _    _    _    __
L_ ----          ----         ----------                                    --       -    --      -
IIPROJECT INSTITUTIONS
--   SEED OPERATION FLOW
_ _I- _  _     SERVICE FLOV
VVo,Id Bank 15179



ANNEX 2
Chart >
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
SEED PROCESSING FLOW CHART
-.A-Aernative Flotr- -                                        M,,m Flome _
s                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Platf-rn  Scale
_                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Recewivig                                 cnot.ake PitS
Temporary Storage       * _
tbulk)               __ t|                                 _
l   l   l    ~~~~~cdi. . .                                                  She~ller, tco n)
|   |   |   |  _"          Cr nditioning           .                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hulle talfalfal
I  I                 III    7
4---4m5 L---                                                                                     .do/ug 
I                      I I_
I  I                    II       _      t          PeCeaigpepnrilpnaao
-    _...  _-                                                                           odngSreBn
Drying & 
Te-perg                       |
L___mmAi, Seen Cleaner
_   m _    m   mm _m _  _  _  _   m__           Fine Cleng                                                 Conveyo-s
r                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Holdfing/Surge 8ins
rC                                       |    ~~~~~~~~~~~Length Sep-rao,
Grdig                                              Spiral SePaator
S4ing              mi_Other Separators
_                         l                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Holdlimg/Surge Bins
I_  mm_                  T-eating          _            I                       Seed Tre-ter
Holdig Bins
S-le
-~~         ~i  ml                              Ia loe
IN_e ghi,,g                                              Convey or         |
Holdmg 8,,rs
Labeliog &
Storage
shipr ing
-       0                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World B-1, -15181



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
CROP SOWING, HARVESTING AND SEED PROCESSING CHART
MONTHS        J       A       S       0      N       D       J       F       M       A       M       J
WHEAT,
BARLEY AND               -       -                                        U
HIGH ALTITUDE
PASTURE
SEEDS
SOFT CORN        -                       - 
RICE AND                                                            1/
HARD CORN                                                        -                                I       -2
SOYBEANS,
PEANUTS,        EU                                                   I
SESAME, AND
LOW ALTITUDE                                        i                                LM kV kV ki  
PASTURE SEEDS
BEANS
HARVESTING
Winter Crop                         *    -E EE    SOWING
2/ Summer Crop                        %kWWkWM%    PROCESSING - STOR AGE
World Bank-15180



ANNEX 3
Page I
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference, Guidelines and Fellowships
A. Draft Terms of Reference for Consultants
General
1.        The Government of icuador (COF) is engaged in the establishment of
a modern seed industry, partially financed with a loan provided by the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank). The project
involves the production, processing and distribution of basic and certified
seeds of corn, rice, oilseeds, barley, beans and pasture seeds on a commer-
cial scale.
2.        The GOE is interested in emploving a team of two full-time con-
sultants, specialized in the seed industry as follows: a team leader who
would hold the position of Technical Adviser of the Seeds Project to be fi-
nanced by the Bank, and also to be the seed processing and storage expert;
and one seed production and seed certification expert.
3.   The consultant selected to serve as the Project's Technical Adviser
would be assigned to the Naticinal Seeds Council (NSC) in Quito to work for
three years in close cooperation with the project Executive Director. The
other consultant would be assigned to the Seed Corporation (EMS) for an
initial period of three years to work mainly with regional directors for
Sierra and Costa plants, respectively, but would also assist the National
Institute of Agricultural Research (INIAP) and the Seeds Certification Depart-
ment (DCS) in project-related activities. Funds for transport, office facil-
ities, secretarial assistance mnd other operational requirements would be
provided jointly by the Projeci: and the Government, the latter being respon-
sible for the local costs of various administrative and operational aspects.
4.        The Technical Adviser would be the main advisor to the Executive
Director on overall project maragement and coordination, which would include
the work of all the participating agencies in the project as well as those
of the other long-term and any short-term consultants. He would assist the
FEecutive Director in preparing progress reports to the Government and the
Bank and would participate in meetings of the NSC. The Technical Adviser in
his role of seed processing and storage consultant and the seed production
and certification consultant woild provide specialized assistance in all
aspects of the project related to their fields, while short-term consultants
would be brought in as needed to deal with special problems associated with



ANNEX 3
Page 2
crops newly introduced for certified seed production such as pastures and
oilcrops; this might include providing specialized training in relevant
topics outside the terms of reference of the long-term consultants.
Qualifications
5.        The candidate for the position of Technical Adviser should be a
senior technician with experience in all matters related to the management
of national seed programs. An overall knowledge of related technical com-
ponents, with particular reference to policy matters and seed legislation,
would be required. A post-graduate university degree in agronomy and seed
technology as well as fluency in English and Spanish would be highly desirable.
He should also have had specialized training and practical experience
in the operation and management of seed processing and storage plants on a
commercial scale. Knowledge of seed plant designs and installations would be
required. A university degree in agricultural engineering or agronomy, with
emphasis on seed technology, as well as fluency in Spanish and English would
be highly desirable.
6.        The seed production and certification consultant should be an ex-
perienced specialist in seed production and quality control of cereals. A
university degree in agronomy and experience in seed production would be re-
quired. Fluency in Spanish and English would be highly desirable.
Duties and Responsibilities
7.        Technical Adviser.  The Technical Adviser of the project would be
directly responsible to the NSC through the Executive Director for the follow-
ing:
(a) review of the existing regulations of activities related to
seeds industry, with specific reference to seed legislation,
and preparation of drafts for consideration by NSC;
(b) preparation of detailed specifications for all tender documents
for seed processing and storage machinery and equipment; evalua-
tion of bids; overall supervision and finalization of inter-
national tenders for procurement of machinery and equipment,
working in close cooperation with the Executive Director and
with all agencies concerned;
(c) review and finalization of building and plant installation and
supervision of construction and plant erection works in coop-
eration with EMS, suppliers of designs and manufacturers;
(d) preparation of seed plant operation manuals;
(e) assisting INIAP in the improvement of its seed processing and
storage operation;



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(f) coordination of the work of other technical assistance
consultants;
(g) preparation and overall supervision of training programs
under the project, including the review and selection of
candidates for project fellowships related to seed processing
and storage;
(h) other advisory services as may be required by the NSC.
8.        Seed Production and Certification Consultant.  This consultant
would be responsible for:
(a) planning and coordinating registered seed and certified seed pro-
duction in close cooperation with INIAP and EMS, and would partici-
pate in field production activities;
(b) providing technical information to seed growers on water management,
pest and disease control, rogueing and other cultural practices;
(c)  supervising harvesting operations by seed growers and INIAP;
(d) reviewing seed certification procedures and standards and preparing
the relevant manual for use by DCS;
(e) training technicians :in crop inspection, seed testing and other
quality control activfties for which DCS is responsible;
(f)  improving the organization of seed testing laboratories and pre-
paring seed testing manuals in accordance with the rules prescribed
by International Seed Testing Associations; and
(g) assisting in the selection of candidates for project fellowships
in the field of seed production and certification.
B.  Terms of Reference for the Project Executive Director
11.       The Project Executive Director, who would be responsible to the
National Seeds Council (NSC), shall have the responsibility for implementa-
tion and execution of the Seeds :'roject and shall have the following specific
duties and powers:
(a) advising NSC on major policy decisions in respect of the project;
(b) executing the project iin accordance with policies and procedures
agreed to by NSC;
(c) cooperating with the management of participating entities towards
accomplishing project cbjectives;



ANNEX 3
Page 4
(d) approving or presenting for NSC approval investment plans prepared
by the participating entities to be financed with project funds.
(e) followingup, supervising and providing technical assistance as he
may deem necessary to insure success of the investments financed to
participating entities under the project;
(f) preparing the annual budget for the Project IJnit and submit it to
the NSC and the Government;
(g) preparing quarterly and annual progress reports for submission to
the NSC for transmittal to the Bank; and
(h) being the liaison between the NSC and the Government, Bank, the
National Development Bank, participating entities and other persons
in relation to project negotiations and any other project sections.
C. Guidelines for the Functions of NSC
12.       The National Seeds Council to be created as an autonomous body of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock would have the following main func-
tions:
(a) advise the Minister of Agriculture and Livestock on seed industry
policy of national significance, including prices policies;
(b) make, and change as necessary, the seed regulations;
(c) review the needs for seed supplies of the various crops in consul-
tation with the pertinent offices of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock and establish the policies for national seed supply
targets for all crops;
(d) review and authorize release of seed varieties and planting
material eligible for seed multiplication and production based on
the recommendation of INIAP and publish a national list of
varieties eligible for certified seed production on an annual basis;
(e) by delegation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock act as
the administrative committee responsible for the administration
and implementation of the Government-Bank Seeds Project; and
(f) coordination of the necessary interrelated activities of the dif-
ferent entities involved in the seed industry.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
D. Project Fellowship Schedules
Subject                         Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Total
No.  m/m   No.  m/m   No.  m/m   No.  m/r
INIAP
Seed multiplication                       2   12      2    6      1    6     5   24
Seed Processing and storage               1    6      2   12      1    6     4   24
Seed quality control                      1    6      1    6      1   12     3   24
TOTAL for INIAP                      4   24      5   24     3   24    12   72
DOS
F'ield inspection                         4   24      4   24      2   12    10   60
Seed testing                              1    6      1    6      1    6      3   16
Seed pathology                            1    6      1    6      -    -      2   12
Seed certification management             1    -      -    -      1    6      2    6
TOTAL for DCS                        7   36      6   36     4   24    17   96
EMS
Seed production                           -    -      1    6      1    6      2   12
Seed processing and storage               2   12      -    -      -    -      2   12
Seed testing                              -    -      1    6      1    6      2   12
TOTAL for EMS                        2   12      2   12      2   12     6   36
GRAND TOTAL                                13   72    13   72       9   60    35  204
December 23, 1975



ANNEX 4
Page 1
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Estimated Project and Foreign Exchange Costs
1.        This annex contains the estimated investment and incremental
operating costs to be incurred by each of the agencies involved in the pro-
ject. Investment cost estimates are shown for each of the three years of
the project.
National Seeds Council (NSC) and Project Unit
2.        The NSC is a new body to be created as part of the project.  Project
administration under the NSC would be handled by a Project Unit headed by the
Executive Director. The establishment and operation of the Project Unit would
require the expenditure of approximately S/ 5.5 million (US$220,000) over the
three years of the project (Table 1). Only S/ 234,000 (about US$9,400) of
foreign exchange would be required. The NSC would have annual recurring
expenditure of S/ 1.7 million to be financed by the Government.
Seed Certification Department (DCS)
3.        Investment and incremental operating costs for the DCS are esti-
mated to be S/ 10.3 million (US$412,000) over the period of the project
(Table 2). The foreign exchange component is S/ 5.3 million (US$212,000)
(51% of total). The major item of expenditure for DCS involves the purchase
of 15 vehicles for use by field inspectors and training fellowships for DCS
personnel. DCS would incur annual operating costs of S/ 2.7 million exclud-
ing contingencies after the project terminates to continue performing the
services initiated under the project. In addition it would be necessary to
replace the vehicles every six years.
National Institute for Agricultural Research (INIAP)
4.        The major expenditure required by INIAP under the project would be
the purchase of additional land suitable for the production of basic and regis-
tered seeds for pasture grasses and some low altitude wheat varieties. The
other items include three tractors, a combine and two trucks for hauling
seed. Six man-years of training of INIAP personnel would also be included.
INIAP is currently involved in registered seed production and has excellent
seed processing equipment available. Thus, not all seed production equipment
has to be provided for by the project. Only a small amount of supplemental
equipment is included in the project. INIAP would require a total incremental
investment of S/ 12.1 million (US$484,000) during the project (Table 3). One
half of this would be for the purchase of additional land. The foreign exchange
component of the INIAP investment would be S/ 5.0 million (US$200,000) (41.5%



ANNEX 4
Page 2
of the total). Continued operation of the equipment and machinery purchased
under the project would require annual expenditures of S/ 702,000 after the
project terminates. In addition, the trucks and farm machinery would be
replaced every six years. It is assumed that the receipts of INIAP from the
sales of registered seed to EMS would be offset by production and processing
costs of the seeds. The registeredi seed production component is thus assumed
to operate at a level of zero net returns, during and after the project,
except for the costs mentioned above.
Seeds Corporation (EMS)
5.        Over fifty percent of total project expenditures would be for the
construction of EMS processing facilities and the further development of EMS.
The disbursement of the investment costs shown in Table 4 assumes that the
SLerra and Costa plants would both be constructed during the first two years
oiF the project. The Austral plant would be constructed during the second
and third year of the project. Detailed costing of the plants are in Table 5.
A total investment of S1 48 million, exclusive of contingencies, (US$1.9
miLllion) is planned for EMS over the three years of the project. Seventy-three
percent of the total is estimated to require foreign exchange since most of the
equipment would have to be imported (Table 5). Recurrent costs, income projec-
tions, and the rate of return to EMS investment are examined in Annex 9.
International Technical Assistance
6.        The project includes S/ 12.7 million (US$506,000) for technical
services, which include two consultant for three years, 24 man-months of
shLort-term consultants, bilingual secretaries, vehicles, office equipment
and operating costs (Table 6). The functions of the consultants and their
locations are discussed in Annex 3.
Total Project Costs
7.        Estimated total project cost and partial estimated costs for each
of the estimated three years of project investment are given in Table 7 and
8, for capital costs and current cOSts, separately. Total baseline cost is
S1 88.5 million (US$3.5 million). ?hysical contingencies of 10% have been
added to the baseline costs, and price contingencies have been added to the
baseline costs plus the physical contingencies. On this basis, the total
project cost, including both physical and price contingencies, would be S/
126.6 million (US$5 million), with a foreign exchange component of 60%,
which amounts to SI 75.6 million (U'3$3 million).
8.        The price contingencies shown in Table 7 account for local and
international price inflation. Relative prices of products purchased under
the project are assumed to remain constant over the period of the project.
The! foreign exchange position of EctLador and the relative rates of inflation
in foreign and local currency do not: require adjustments for shadow exchange
rates.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
9.        The base cost estimates are derived from July 1975 prices.  The
expected date of effectiveness of the project is July 1976. Price contin-
gencies are calculated therefore to adjust for inflation from July 1975 to
the mid-point of the disbursement periods (i.e., January 1977, 1978, and
1979). The assumed rates of inflation for foreign currency are 10.8% in
1975, 8.8% in 1976, 8.0% in 1977 and 7.5% in 1978. 1/ The annual inflation
rates assumed for local currency are 19% in 1975, 17% in 1976, and 16% in
1977 and 1978. The price contingency factors applied for each year are shown
at the bottom of Table 7.
February 25, 1976
1/   Bank Report No. 814 (July 1975), p. 12.



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Investment and Operating Costs of the National Seeds Council
(Project Unit)
-'000 S/-
Unit      No. of    Year    Year    Year    Total        %
Item                       Unit    tlrice      Units        1       2        3               F.E.    Total F.E.
'000 3/                                                        '000 SI  1000 U3$
CAPITAL
Office furniture and Equipment          -        -          -        200       -       -       200       33      65      2.6
Vehicle                                 -       150          1       150       -       -       150       90    135       5.4
Sub-total Capital            -        -          _         350      -        -      350        57    200       8.0
C'u'RRE iNT
Executive Director                 Mnz.-year    560          3       560     560      560   1,680        -       -        -
Administrative Assistant                "       160          3       160      160     160      480       -       -        -
Accountant                              "       128          3       128      128     128      384       _       _        _
Bi'i ngu&l JecrF                                 84          G       168      168     168      504           -            -
3ecretary                                        80          3        80       80      80      240       -       -        -
Clerk                                            4O          3        4W       4b      4d      144       _       _
Messenger                               "        24          3        24       24      24       72       -       _        _
Driver                                           4b          3        46       48      48      144       -       -        -
Operation and Maintenance of
vehicle (25% of purchase price)                                     38       38      38      114       30      34      1.4
Rent for office space                Month        8         36        96       96      96      288       -       -        -
Water and lights                                  1         36        12       12      12       36       -       -        -
Tel.phona                               "                              6       36      36      108       -       -        -
Communication (cables, etc.)            "         1.5       36        18       18      18       54       -       -        -
Travel                                           20         36       240      240     240      720       -       -        -
Office supplies and operation           -        -          -         48       48      48      144       -       -        -
Sub-total Current            --        -         -       1,704   1,704   1,704   5,112          1     34       1.4
TOTAL                        -         -         - ,   ~ 2,054   1,704   1,704   5,462          4    234       9.4 X
December 9, 1975



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Incremental Project Investment and Operating Costs of the Seed Certification Department
-____- -'000 S/-
Unit    No. of    Year    Year    Year    Total        %
Item                       Unit     Price   Units         1       2        3               F.E.     Total F.E.
1000 S/                                                      '000 S/  '00j US$
CAPITAL
Seed Promotion Equipment                  -        50       10       150      150     200      500       do     400         16
Fellowships (outside Ecuador)           1 year    250        8       750      750     500   2,000        90   1,800         72
Local Trai ing  1/                      1 month    10      150       500      500     500   1,500        -       -          -
Vehicles 2                                -       150       15     1,500      750       -    2,2_0       90   2,015         81
Seed Testing Eauipment                    -       250        2        -       250     250      500       90     450         18
Seed Label Printer                        -       150        1       150       -       -       150       90     135          5
Sub-total Capital              -         -       -       3,050   2,400   1,450   6,900        70   4,000        192
CURRENT
Technical Personnel 31                 man-year   192       10         -      960      960   1,920       -       -          -
Operation and Maintenance of
Vehicles (25% of purchase cost)         -        -        -        375      563     563   1,501        30     450         18
Sub-total Current                                          375   1,523   1,523   3,421        13      450        18
TOTAL                                                    3425   3,923   2,973  10,321         51   5,250        210
1/  For field inspectors and growers.
2/ For exclusive use of field inspectors.
3/ Six new field inspectors and four new seed analysts. Three seed inspectors and two seed analysts will be added
in year 2 and also in year 3.  These will be permanent additions to DCS staff.                                              E
Hm  
December 9, 1975                                                                            ~s



ECUADOR
SEED PROJECT
Incremental Project Investment and Training Co0t8 of the
National Institute for Agricultural Research
-  000 S/ ----------
Unit    No. of    Year    Year    Year    Total         %
Item                        Unit        Price   Units        1        2        3               F.E.    Total F.E.
1/                            Wtrrf-/                                                        *00o s/   '000 US
Additional Land -
for Seed Production               ha           40       150       6,000      -       -      6,000      -         -
Seed Storage 2/                     m2            2.5    360          600    300       -        900      40      360       14.4
Tractor -3/                         -           350         3         350    350      350    19                  g,o        8.0
CGimie 31                                       750         1          -       -      750       750      90      675       27.0
Supplementary
Seed Processing
Equipment                                     500         1          -     250      250       500      90      450       18.0
Seed Testing Equipment                          150         4         300    150      150       600      90      540        21.6
Trucks 6                                        375         2                375      375       750      90      675       27.0
Fellowships                         Man-year   250          6         500    500      500    1,500       90    1.350        54.o
Total                                       -          -      7,750  1,925   2,375   12,050        41   5,000   _ 200.0
1/ For basic seed production requirements of project.
2/ 40O tons for Sta. Catalina, 50 tons for Boliche and Pichilingue and 100 tons for Fortoviejo.  Costs
calcli ated on basis of 0,6 t for 1 m2 for area of storage at a cost of S/ 2,500 per m2.
3/ For use in new seed production farms for project.
4,  Additional equipment at Sta. Catalina for project requirementse
i/  Consisting of 1 gerninator, 1 balance and 1 moisture tester to complete the seed laboratories at each station.
5/ For transport of seed from field to processing plant at Sta. Catalina (6-ton trucks).
December 11, 1975



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Summarized Incremental Project Investment and Training Costs of the Seeds Corporation (EMS)
-__________' ooo S/-
IUnit    No. of    Year    Year    Year    Total         %
Item                     Unit        Price   UJnits        1       2        3                F.E.      Total F.E.
1/                        '            '000 s/
Land                                -          -        -        900      300      -      1,200       -        - _
Buildings                         4-           -        -      4,190   5,459    1,276   10,925       So       4,365    174.6
Seed Processing                                                                   ,
Machinery and Equipment          -           -        -     12,13015,o6l    3,684   30,875         88      27,292  1,091.8
Vehicles                           -          150      6         300     300       300       900     90         810      32.4
Trucks                             -          250      3         250     250       250       750     90         675      27.0
Fellowships                     6 months      150      6         300      300      300       900     90         810      32.4
Additional Storage at
Distribution Points              -          250     10       1,000      750      750    2,500      40       1,000      40.0
Total                       -           -       -     19,070  22,420    6,560   48,050               35,000  1,1400.0
l/ Land  costs are S/ 500,000 for Sierra, S/ 400,000 for Costa and S/ 300,000 for Austral.  Land for the
Sierra and Costa plants would be purchased in year 1;  Austral plant in year 2.
Based on the assumption that one-half of the expenses for Sierra and Costa plants would be incurred in
year 1 and the other half in year 2. The expenses for the Austral plant would be split equally between
years 2 and 3.
3/  This is 88 instead of 90 because it includes installation costs.
Y   Includes two grass seed combines at S/ 375,000 each.
March 1, 1976



ECUADOK                                                                                       ANNEX 4
Table 5
SEEDS PiOJECT
Detailed Inve.tent Costt Eor Three (ENS) S-d Procet..ing and Stor-9e Plats
STEKRA PLANT                         AUSTRAL PEANT                           COSTA PLANT
Cot$                                 CoSt                              Coat            lost for 3 Pl.ot.    7.           Total
N.. of Units         $ us           No. of Unit.            u s          No. of Unit.        s us0                    us            F. E.    F. E.
l    LA7r                                          1,000 .2          20 000               700 =          M 2                 1,000 .2         16.000                48 000
TOTAL -FOR LAN
II. BUIL30044
A- A t  Iood. rod rite                                        20,200                               14,000                 "20,000                            54,000            40
-  hochi-ery tover (25312.15)                   300 2           60,000              200             40,000                300 '2         60,000              160,000
-    .torarg boilding (25x16x5)                 400 m2          40.000              200 .2          20,000                400 dm2       40,000               100,000
-  Otyfog tbed                                                 3,000                                3,000                               3,000                 9,000
-  W-rk shop                                                     5,000                -              5,000                  -             3.000               13,000
-  Soed laborotory                                -             10,000                -                   -                 -            10,000               20,000
-   Slo trt,                                      -              2.000                -              2,0OO                  -             2,000                6,000
-  Floor brae for ator-ge bi..                   10             15,000                5              7.500                 10            20,000 1/            42,500
-  Offices                                        -             10,000                -             10,000                  -            10,000               30.000
TOOAL FO/R OCiLOOINCO                                   160.101.5,00                                                             170.000              436,500             40        174,600
ILL. MACH0ERY0 AND EQUIPMENT
A. 0t-JtOOr
-St-r,go bitt (100 toot)                         10            50,000                 5             25,000                 10            5(1,000             125,000            95
A-ratito  equip ts:t                          2              6,000                 1              3,000                  2            6,000                15,000
-      Coiveying oqoip-ent                     200 0           40,000               :20 m           24,000                 60            12,000 2/            76,000
-  Pork lift                                      1             5,000                 1              5,000                  1            5,000                15,000
-  Bit  coo,'ty-c                                 2              2,000                1              1000                  2             2,000                5,000
Vor,1 for Storage                                        103.000                              50.000                               75.000              236.000             95        224,200
3. Prororri or 3d
- Drior (complete with h-ettr
0000g to an .,d accetories)                I             10,000                 1             6,000                  2            20,000               36,000             95
-  Corn  rllor                                 1             3,000                 1              3,000                  2            6,000                12,000
-  Fre-clesner (.ith ryciotes)                    I             10,000                1              7,000                  1           10,000                27,000
-  00-amer                                        1              3,000                1              3,000                  -                 -                6,000
-  AIr--croot cler,-o   (with cycio-et)           2            20,000                 1             10,000                  -                 - 4/            30,000
-  Letgch  -rp-r-nor                              2            12,000                 1              6,000                  2           12,000                30,000
-  Cor, g-rd-r                                    1             6,000                 1              6,000                  1            6,000               1.000
-  Huller-tcari fier Si                           1             3,000                 -                  _         -                          -                3,000
-  Soara 100 s2;aralor                            1            10,000                 -                   -                 1           10,000                20,000
.  Spi-o1  -op-rator 6/                           -                  -                -                  -                  1               800                  800
-         Pn   -p..ttir sepoartor 7/              1              1,000                -                   -                 I            I,000                 2,000
-  S-dol irtoer                                  *2             5,000                 1              2,500                  2            5,000                12.500
-     p:Ior:r-trrbor  (oith  -caLe)               2             6,000                 1              3,000                  2             6,000               15,000
Tr..k  -colr                                  1             10,000                 1             10,000                  1           10,000                30,000
-  hog .Ionsr                                     3              2,400                2              1,600                  3             2,400                6,400
-  iqoipmerrO  i.>. nre too  dutt roOl]rtior      1              7,000                1              7 000                  1             7,000               21 000
-  _ boa tort 8/                               200   9 9/      40,000               150 m           30 000                200 o         40,000               110 000
-  Belt coryor (for -trogo bihin)              120 m           24,000                60             12,000                 60           12,000                48,000
*  Holding ard  r-g,, bin-                       15             9,000                10              3,000                 16            9,600                21,600
-  Rigid rod fl..ibl  rpo.. r                 200              4,000               1)3 m            3,000                200 m          4,000                11,000
-  VT,-rr, diriiblot-ot  -nd rihovs                           10,000                                5,000                  -           10,000                25,000
-  al-or-                                         1                600                1                400                  1               600                1,600
- Tanpr--nar                                  I              1,000                 1              1,000                  1               00                 3 000
Carrot rirorro                 I             ~~~~~~~                      ~      ~~~~~~~1,000  [I1000    1             1,:020               3,000
To     f-or  Eroo            --rro fotipont              198,000                             120.500                              174040               492i900             95        468,255
C. Sed lesting-   -1-                                           10.000                                                                   10 000               20.000             95         19.020
D. a7ne-ato- and  I-rafor-t r                                   25.000                              25,000                               25.000               75.000             95         71.250
E. Sparo Parts 10i                                              16 800                              10.175                               14.220               41.195            95          38,660
IV.  PACKING. FREIG0  T ALD INSlIRANCE IlL                           70.560                              42.735                               59.724               173.019           100        173.019
TOTAL CIF COST FOR
MACHINERY AD EQUIPMNT (l 6 IV)                       423,360                              256.410                             358,344             1,03_8114             96        994,384
' THLE  COSTS
dnlo-birg  -nd loca  O--p-t   12                            17.640                               10.604                              14.9304306311
A , rtIy  -od int Olacn 13, -                               55 400                               30.525                              42.660               123.585            50          61-792
IAN  EIPNsALLT (ICOST F    MACHINEY                      401,400 V27,61                                                          415,935             1,204,954           80        1,064,827
( 0RA00  r,TA1   brolording Land aod B.ildingr)               676,400                              411,119                              601,935            1,689,454             71.5   1,239,427
Il    HigI,-r -rol  oo          -- For "00060" d-, to, hightr 1 bor and  -r-ooport costs.
2,   OnIy req-irdd f-r 6 working bios (2 10 met-r eath.
3/   All proceting  ,quipte-,t co-plrt. with motor and switch-s
4/   0775 hat 2 net rleaners Car Costa pia" t,
5/     , F", alfaLfa and clovrsr.
6/   For -oyb-ans.
7/   For gr---rr
8'   Cr-pLot-  with "easy d-tp" hopptr, belt and buck-tt
0/   RoClt-   It, t.rIo  length on discharg, hight ht9ot(t-g  20  nito  of 10 mtter dis-hsrge
lhigho f-or Sie-rr plar-).
10,  5' af A 0 B + C + D.
IL/  202 ,f A trB 4 C + D I E.
127'  3, of A I B I C + D.
13/  5Llof A + B + C + D + E.
0000" 1, 1971,



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
International Technical Assistance Costs
-------- 1000 S/ ----------
Unit    No. of    Year    Year    Year    Total       %
Item                          Unit      Yrice  Units         1       2       3               F.E.     Total F.E.
'000 S/                                                     logo S/  toga US$
Technical Adviser                     Month     125        36      1,5oo   1,500   1,500   4,500      90      4,050   162.0
Seed Production Expert                 *v       112.5      36      1,350   1,35o   1,35o   4,o5o      90      3,6i45   145.8
Short Term Consultants                 "        112.5      24      1,35o     675      675   2,700     90      2,430    97.2
Bilingual Secretary                   Year       84         3         84      84       84     252      -        -       -
Vehicles                               1        150         3        450     -        -       450     90        405    16.2
Operation and Maintenance
of Vehicles                          -         -          -        112     112     112      336     30        100     4.0
Office Equipment                       -         -          -        126     -        -       126     40         50     2.0
Recurrent Costs of Office              -         -          -         78       79      79     236    30          70     2.8
Total                           -         -          -      5,050   3,800   3,800  12,650    85    10,750   430.0
Februarv 13, 1976



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Annual and Total Project Capital Costs for Participating Entities
('000 Sucres)
Year 1                     Year 2                     Year 3                      Total                  Percent
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Foreign Exchange
National Seeds Council (NSC)        150     200      350        -        -       -         -        -       -        150      200      350          57.1
Seeds Certification
Department (DCS)                 930   2,120   3,050         730   1,670   2,400        440   1,010   1,450    2,100   4,800   6,900              69.6
National Institute for
Agricultural Research (INIAl 6,330   1,420   7,750            80   1,845   1,925        640   1,735   2,375    7,050   5,000  12,050              41.5
Seeds Corporation (EMS)          5,195  13,875  19,070    6,107  16,313  22,420    1,748   4,812   6,560   13,050  35,000  48,050                   72.8
International Technical
Assictance                        755            5,050       532   3,268   3,800        722   3,078   3,800              10,641  12,650           84.1
Sub-total            13,360  21,910  35,270    7,449  23,096  30,545    3,550  10,635  14,185   24,359  55,641  80,000                   69.5
(Project Base Line Cost)
Physical Contingency (10%)       1,336   2,191   3,527         744   2,309   3,054        355   1,063   1,418               5,564   8000            69.6
Sub-total                     14,696  24,101  38,797    8,193  25,405  33,599    3,905  11,698  15,603   26,794  61,205  88,000                  69.5
Local Price Contingency -/         4,114        -    4,114    4,015        -    4,015    2,773        -    2,773   10,902        -   10,902            0.0
Foraign Price Contingency -/           -    3,615   3,615         -    6,097   6,097         -    3,860   3,860         -   13,572  13,572           100.0
GRAND TOTAL                   18,810  27,716  46,526   12,208  31,  711    6 678                               737,696    77 112 474             66.5
1/  Year 1  28/ of base line cost estimate plus physical contingency.
Year 2  49%  "   "  "    "         "       "      "           "
Year 3  71'!.  "   "  "    ""
2/  Year 1  15%      a"                                                                                                                                           ,
Year 2  24%  "   "   "    "        "       "      "           "I
Year 3  33%                 I      I , ,  ,, ,,             N                                                                                                  P
February 25, 1976



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Annual and Total Incremental Recurrent Costs for Participating Entities
('000 Sucres)
Year 1                    Year 2                    Year 3                       Total                  Percent
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total          Foreign Exchange
CE.RRENT                             -_                                               __             _ _ _   _ _ _    _ _ _   _ __ _    _ _ __     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
National Seeds Council (NSC)        1,692       12   1,704    1,693       11   1,704    1,693        11   1,704    5,078       34   5,112             0.7
Seed Certification
Department (DCS)                     325      50     375    1,323      200   1,523    1 323       200   1,523    2 971      450   3 421            13.2
Current Sub-total                 2,017       62   2,079    3,016      211   32        3016       211   3,227    8,049      484   8,533             5.7
(Project Baseline Cost)
Physical Contingency (10%)               202       6      208      302       21     323      302       21     323       806      48      854            5.7
Sub-total                         2,219       68   2,287    3,318      232   3J550    3,318       232   3,550   _8855       532   9,387             5.7
Local Price Contingency I/               621              621    1,625            1,625    2,354            2,354    4,600             4,600            0.0
Foreign Price Contingency 2/            -         10       10                56      56                77       77              143      143          100.0
GRAND TOTAL                       2,840       78   2.918    4 943      288   5 231    5_672       309  ~5981   13j455       675  14  30             4.8
1! Year 1  28% of base line cost plus physical contingencies,
Year 2  49"/c   ''  ''
Year 3  71'!.        ii         *1 %I
2/ Year 1  15%  ,         '    '            ''          II
Year 2  24'!. "  "         "     "     "   ""      zI
Year 3  33%T I    ii    I  II                        Il                                                                                                     (>
December 9, 1975



ANNEX 5
ECUAO)
SEEDS PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative
Bank Fiscal Year          Disbursement          Disbursement at
and Quarter End        During the Quarterz    End of Quarter
Us$1000               US$,000
1977
September 30, 1976            -
December 31, 1976            100                     100
March 30, 1977               200                     300
June 30, 1977                200                     500
1978
September                    300                     800
December                     300                   1,100
March                        300                   1,400
June                         400                   1,800
1979
September                    200                   2,000
December                     200                   2,200
March                         200                  2,h00
June                         200                   2,600
19b0
September                    100                   2,700
December                     100                   2,800
June                         200                   3,000
November 21, 1975



EQUJAOOR
SEEDS PROJECT
INITIAL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
MONTHS AFTER SIGNATURE OF LOAN AGRtEEMENT
ACTIVITY
1    2    3    4    5    6    1    S    9   ~~~~~10   11   12   1  4   15   19   11 1A  9 2         1 2    23   24   25 2    2  26         7           28 3    j5 3                      36
1 B   PROJECT ADMINISTRATION iNSCI
Appon'ri-'t of E-ecut;- D-ecior
Appus---ui ot Tect,ei-1 Ad-ree
Purchase of (aI Vehicles
(hi Off,"ce t,ugp-t ard  uit,
Short-teemCnuseat
2. B   SEEDS CERTIFICATION IDCSI
ApponiM,-T oI ID Tech,,rcai personne,
Purchase of la) Veheecier
(br Seed testing equips,entri
ici S-ed w.,ortnenreuo,  en
Loca! Tian,Ing
Fo,eigir Tean Irg Floee
3. B   BASIC SEED PRODUCTION (INIAP)
La,,d Acq-s ton
C-ns-mcor of Seed Stor",
Purchae, of ial T-k,~ 21
101 Tracure 13, a,d Coenb-
(ci seed teeinog equip-et
Idl Seed proces-9n eq- .So,-t
4. B   SEED PIROCESSING AND DISTRIBUTION IENS)
App"ointmet of Tecifh-ca Adut-r
Nels, Seed Pr,euessn Plants
lxi Prepa,at,ii at De,s g-e Sr d T,ridr,
tbi Tender ixI 5 rd Ccc1 t-rat
Land ACqunistor
Eqeetme,,t nstallatin-
Test rn
Fell opeeati,ne
L-id Acqw,it e
cFul operpeur-
C-nsIruct oii,f,arhok   e
F-tgn T-e,ning Fri,OucfthtP
Match 3, 1976                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WorldI Ba-k  15268IR)



ANNEX 7
Page 1
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Seed Prices
1.        There are different sets of prices for each stage of seed production;
registered seed (INIAP), certified seed produced by contract seed growers, and
finally for certified seed sold by EMS.  The prices for registered seed are
determined by INIAP based on production costs and in relation to prices for
certified seed. Seed growers' prices are usually commercial prices at harvest
time plus a pre-determined premium. The premium for wheat, barley, and corn
is 15% and for rice it is 30% over commercial prices. The prices for certified
seed (processed, bagged and treated) are deter4ned by a special connission in
the Ministry of Finance (Superini:endencia de Precios). The prices for conmer-
cial crops, registered and certified seeds for 1975 are given in Table 1.
2.        Current certified seed prices (1975) do not provide sufficient
margins to support a modern seeds industry. Thus it would be necessary to
raise seed prices from their current level if EMS revenues are to be adequate
to cover the cost of planned investment. The analysis in Annex 9 indicates
that seed prices would have to be raised by about 12% above current levels to
generate adequate revenue to EMS.
:3.       Table 2 shows the projected prices for certified seed.  These would
be the prices required to generate a rate of return of slightly above 12% on
the EMS investment. With the exception of barley prices, these would be 12%
above current prices. Soybean prices are at forecasted levels. The prices
shown for pasture seeds are the current prices of imported seed in Ecuador.
All prices for certified seed prices at EMS plant or other distribution point.
ENS absorbs transportation cost from plants to the distribution points.
Value of Certified Seed to Farmers
4.        Current prices of certifLed seed range from 161% of commercial grain
prices for wheat to 231% for hard corn. This section estimates the value of
certified seed to commercial farmers and thus provides an estimate of the
maximum prices that could be charged for certified seed and still be an
attractive investment to farmers.
5.        Table 6 of Annex 2 provides a summary of technical coefficients
used in the economic analysis of the project. Column 9 of Table 6, Annex 2,
provides an estimate of the yield increase per hectare that a farmer could
expect to obtain if he made no changes in his traditional production prac-
tices other than switch to certified seed. These increases assume the pro-
ducer uses no fertilizer. The only increase in production cost comes from
the higher price the producer would pay for certified seed relative to un-
improved seed.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
6.        The benefits obtained by a producer as a result of using certified
seed rather than unimproved seed are shown in Table 3. For example, a hectare
of wheat planted with certified seed will produce 180 kg more wheat than a
hectare planted with unimproved seed (Column 1). This additional grain has a
market value of S/ 870, net of additional harvest and transport costs (Column
3). At a seeding rate of 110 kg per hectare (Column 4), certified wheat seed
has produced to the farmer an additional income of SI 7.9 per kg   1/ of cer-
tified seed used, as compared to his income when using unimproved wheat seed.
Column 6 shows that the price of certified wheat seed, at the proposed in-
creased price would be S/ 3.37 per kg and Column 10 shows that after deducting
the incremental investment costs per hectare resulting from the use of cer-
tified seed, the farmer would obtain a net incremental benefit of S/ 499 per
hectare. Producers will have an incentive to purchase certified seed rather
than unimproved seed as long as the price difference between certified seed
and commercial grain 2/ is less than the value of the incremental production
generated by the seed. The analysis of Column 10 illustrates that, with the
exception of barley, there is a wide range over which certified seed prices
can be increased and still remain an attractive investment to farmers. The
proposed price increases are well within the estimated incremental value of
seed to producers. No serious problems of acceptance of higher seed prices
are expected if adequate advertising about the merits of certified seed is
provided.
December 23, 1975
1/   Calculated by dividing Column 3 by Column 4.
2/   The price of unimproved seed is assumed to be the price of commercial
grain.



ANNEX 7
Table 1
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Seeds Prices Established
(fo:r the 1975 Campaign)
a) Commercial Grain Prices
S/  quintal    S/  ton    US$/ton
Wheat                         250          5,500      220
Barley                       150           3,300      132
Soft corn                     240          5,280      21
Hard corn                    160           3,520      141
Rice                          190          4,180      167
Soybeans V                    520         ll,440      458
Sesame                        610         13,420      537
Peanuts                      420           9,240      370
Beans                        800          17,600      704
b) Price to Seed Grovers
Wheat                         288          6,336       253
Barley                       173           3,806      152
Soft corn                     276          6,072       243
Hard corn                     184          4,048      162
Rice                          247          5,434       218
-Soybeans                     600          13,200      528
Sesame                        700         15,400      616
Peanuts                      480          10,560      422
Beans                         920         20,240       810
c) Seed Corporation (EMS) Sales Prices for Certified Seed
Wheat                         360          7,920       317
Barley                        300          6,600       264
Soft corn                     400          8,800       352
Hard corn                     330          7,260       290
Rice                          360          7,920      317
Soybeans                      800         17,600       704
Sesame                      1,000         22,000       880
Peanuts                       720         15,840      634
Beans                      1,200          26,400    1,056
1/ Soybean prices are based on official price announced
but actually not paid to farmers due to lower prices
of imported soybean grain.
September 2, 1975



ANNEX 7
Table 2
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Projected Prices for Seeds Corpora ion (EMS)
Sales Price for Certified Seedi
Crops                                      Price of Seed
-s7q        3 s/ton    u $/ton
Wheat                                   403        8,870     355
Barley                                  300       6,600      264
Soft Corn                               448       9,860      394
Hard Corn                               370       8,140      326
Rice                                    403       8,870      355
Soybeans 2/                             485      10,670      427
Sesame                                1,120      24,640      986
Peanuts                                 806       17,732     709
Beans                                               ,70      709
Pasture Seeds                        1,344       29,570   1,183
Alfalfa                             4,000      88,000   3,520
Rye Grass                           2,895      63,690   2,548
White Clover                        4,500       99,000   3,960
Guinea Grass                        4,740     104,2b0   4,171
Perennial Soybeans                  4,725     103,950   4,158
1/ Sales prices necessary to generate sufficient revenue for EMS to cover
its costs and have an acceptable rate of return on investment. These
prices are current (1975) prices, plus 12% for all seeds except barley,
soybeans and pasture seeds.
2/ Reflects expected price drop.
3/ Prevailing import prices.
December 9, 1975



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Incremental Benefits to Farmers as a Result of Using Certified Seed
1             2             3           4               5                 6                     7                    8                   9                  10
Grain Yield        Net                                   Additional Cost of Certified Seed  Incremental Investment Per Hectare  Net Incremental Benefit Resulting
Increase           Farmgate  incremental                   Over Cost of Unimproved Seed                   For Certified Seed                From the Use of Certified Seed
Attributable to  Price of  Income Per    Seeding           At Current    With 12% Price            At Current        With 12%/ Price    With Seeds At   With Jeeds With
Crops         Certified Seed   Grain        Hectare         Rate            Price            Increase               Price              Increase         Current Prices  12% Price Increase
kg/ha 1       SI Ton-/   S/ ha            kg/ha         S/ kg              S/ kg                  S/ ha               S/ ha                S/ ha               S/ ha
(lx2)                                                                  (4x5)              (4x6)                (3-7)                (3-8)
Wheat               180           4,840          870           110           2.42                3.37                 266                371                  604                 499
Barley              140           2,640          369            90           3.30                4.09                 297                368                   72                    14/
Soft orn            13u           4,620          600            35           3.52                4.58                 123                160                  477                 440
Hard corn           210           2,860          600            16           3,74                4.61                  60                 74                  540                 526
Rice                600           3,520        2,112            50           3.74                4.69                 180                235                1,932               1,877
Soybeans            140           6,340          887            70           2.29                3.94                 160                276                  727                 611
Peanuts             200           8,580        1,716            70           6.60                8.50                 462                595                1,254               1,121
Sesame              100          12,760        1,276            45           8.58               11.22                  39                505                1,237                 771
Beans                60          16,940        1,016            50           8.80               11.97                 440                599                  576                 417
1/ Annex 2, Table 6, Column 9.
2/  Commercial grain prices (Annex 7, Table 1) less S/ 660 per ton for harvest and transport cost.
3/ Established grain price expected to be reduced to S/ 7,000 per ton (Annex 7, Table 2).
4/ No price increase is proposed for certified barley seed.
December 10, 1975
Z19



ANNEX 8
Page 1
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Analysis of Financial Returns to Contract Growers of Certified Seed
1.        The project does not involve any investment in seed growing farms.
The farms selected for seed growing would be some of the best farms in the
country as reflected both by level of management and mechanization. No new
equipment would be required for seed growers. Production credit is readily
available to these growers at 9% interest. Certified seed production re-
quires more land preparation, more fertilizer and chemicals, and more labor
than commercial grain production. Thus, production costs per hectare are
higher for seed production than for commercial grain production. But rev-
enues are also higher. EMS pays 15% premium above market price to seed
growers (30% for rice). Also, seed growers can expect about 10% yield in-
crease from registered seed relative to the certified seed that would be
used in commercial grain production.
2.        The question facing a prospective contract seed grower is whether
the added revenues exceed the added costs by an amount sufficient to make a
seed growing contract attractive. The evaluation does not involve a long-
term investment analysis since no long-term investment is required by the
seed grower. The analysis examines the production cost budgets of a typical
seed grower for commercial grain production and for seed production. The
contract seed growing alternative will be attractive to producers if this
rate of return exceeds the cost of capital plus an allowance for risk. The
risks associated with seed production are the same as for commercial grain
production. However, since the investment in production costs is higher for
seed production, the potential losses are greater from seed production than
from commercial grain production.
3.        The budgets are constructed from data published by INIAP, and the
respective programs of MAG and also from conversations with seed growers and
technical personnel of EMS involved with providing technical assistance to
contract seed growers. The budgets are constructed on a per hectare basis
since size of operation is not an important factor. The typical contract
for seed production is 50 ha. Budgets are constructed for wheat, hard corn,
soybeans and rice. Budgets for other crops were not constructed since these
four crops cover the major crops of the Sierra and the Coast. These budgets
are representative of other crops.
Wheat
4.        Table 1 shows the comparison of costs and returns from certified
seed production relative to commercial grain production for wheat. Certified
seed production requires S/ 2,071 more per hectare in production costs than
does commercial grain production. However, wheat seed production also
generates an additional S/ 2,672 of revenue. Thus, the seed producer receives



ANNEX 8
Page 2
a return of 29% for the marginal investment in seed production. This
should be adequate to attract farmers into seed production. This rate of
return is consistent with the statements by wheat seed growers interviewed
that seed production is profitable and they would like to expand their acre-
age under contract. The current 15% price premium for wheat seed appears to
be quite adequate.
Hard Corn
5.        Contract seed growers also receive a 15% price premium above com-
mercial grain prices for hard c:orn. Seed production requires an additional
investment of SI 2,469 per hectare (Table 2) relative to commercial grain
production. However, seed production generates S/ 3,392 of additional rev-
enue per hectare. Thus, the contract seed grower for hard corn receives a
return of 37.0% on his marginal investment cost. These returns are consistent
with the returns from wheat seed production. The 15% price premium also seems
to be adequate for hard corn.
Soybeans
6.        The price premium for soybean seed producers is also 15% above the
commercial price. Seed production requires an addition of SI 2,385 per
hectare to production costs (Table 3). Seed production yields S/ 2,917 per
hectare in added revenue 1/. TLis is a 22.3% return on the marginal invest-
ment. The 15% price premium to seed growers appears to be adequate for soy-
beans.
Rice
7.        Rice seed growers receive a 30% premium above comercial prices.
The extra premium for rice appears to be largely a result of organized
farmers' pressures. EMS representatives indicated that the extra premiums
were required to attract growers. However, the data in Table 4 indicate
that rice seed production is much more profitable to seed growers than is
probably necessary to attract them to seed production. The additional pro-
duction cost of rice seed production is S/ 2,302 per hectare. Incremental
revenue is S/ 6,536 per hectare. This is a 184% rate of return on the
incremental production costs.
8.        The price premium on rice could be reduced to 15%.  Returns from
rice seed production would still be higher than for other crops. Moreover,
substantial reductions in EMS operating costs would be realized. A 15%
premium for rice seed would mean a seed grower price of S/ 219 per qq. The
incremental return per hectare from seed production would be S/ 4,072. This
would be a 76.9% return on the incremental investment. A 15% price premium
should be adequate for rice growers as well as for all other crops.
December 23, 1975
1/ Bank Report 814 (July 1975), p. 29.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Rate of Return for Certified Wheat Seed Production
1             2              3
Commercial           Certified
Unit                     Grain Production   Seed Production         Difference
Cost Item                                       per ha       Unit Price   Units       Cost      Units    Cost            (h-3)
(SI)S_F                        -          T              (SI)
No. of
Land Preparation                                 plowings         160         2       320         4        640         320
Inputs
Seed
Certified                                   qq             403         2.42    975          -       -
Registered                                  qq             450         -        -           2.42  1,089         11L
Fertilizer
Urea                                        qq             359         1        359         2       718         359
10-30-10                                   qq              318         4     1,272         7/2   1,226          954
Chemicals
Fungicide (Diptrex)                         kg             300         1.0      300         2. 0./L2   600      300
Herbicide (2-4-D)                           litre           80         2        160         2       160           -
Labor
Fertilizer application                  man-day             40         2         80         3       120          40
Fungicide application                                       40         1.0       40         2        80          40
Herbicide application                                       70         1         70         1        70           -
Bird control                                                40         -        -           2        80          80
Rogueing                                                    40         -        -           2        80          80
Planting                                                    40         1        40          1        40           -
Harvest Costs
Machine                                     qq              20        40/3      800       44        880          80
Machne cleaningI                                             4         -        -           -         4           4
Bags5                                    bagJqq              8        40        320         -         -        -320
Transport                                     qq               5        40        200        44        220         20
Total of Production Costs/6                                              L,936                7,007       2,071
Revenue Comparisons
Yield                                           qq                        40                   44
Price                                        Sucres/qq                              250                  288
Total Revenue                                                           10,000               12,672       2,672
Net return to land and management                                                   5,06h                5,665         601
Rate of return on ma ginal investment
in seed production -                                                                                              29.0%
/I  Reflects 12% price increase proposed in this report.
/2  Two applications.
/3  Assumed to be 90% of yield with registered seed.
/4  A cost of 200 sucres is charged for the extra cleaning of the combine required for harvesting certified seed.
Since the average seed grower have 50 ha under contract, a charge of 4 sucres per ha is used here.
15  Bags are furnished by EMS to seed growers.  A new jute bag costs 24 sucres.  A bag is assumed to last three years.
/6  Exclusive of land, management and interest costs.  These are the same for both alternatives.
/7  Calculated by dividing increased revenue by increased cost and subtracting 100.  This understates the annual rate
of return since the crop season is only seven months.
December 10, 1975



ANNEX 8
Table 2
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Rate of Return for Certified Hard Corn Seed Production
Commercial           Certified
Unit                    Grain Production    Seed Production         Difference
Cost Item                                       per ha      Unit Price   Units       Cost       Units    Cost           (4_3)
(S/)                  (S/)                 (S/)          (S/)
No. of
Land P'reparation                             plowings          160         2        320          4        640         320
Inputs
Seed
Certified                                 qq             370L1        0.35    130           -       -
Registered                                qq              495         -        -            0.35    174          4L
Fertilizer
Urea                                      qq              359         2        718          3     1,077         359
10-30-10                                  qq             318         -        -            2/2      636         636
Chemicals
Fungicide (Diptrex)                       kg              300         1       300           2       600         300
Insecticide (Sevin)                       kg              160         8     1,280          12     1,920         640
Herbicide (Gesaprim & Layo)               kg              150         2.5     375           2.5     375            -
Labor
Planting                               man-day             70         1         70          1        70            -
Fertilizer application                    "                70         1         70          2       140           70
Fungicide application (Diptrex)                            70         1         70          2       140           70
Insecticide application                                    70         1         70          3       210         140
Herbicide application                                      70         1         70          1         70           -
Bird control                                               70         -       -            4        280         280
Rogeuing                                                   70         -       -             2       140          140
Harvesting                                                 70         8       560           9       630           70
Bags/4                                    bag/qq              8        80L3      640          -        -          -640
Transport                                    qq               5        80        400         88       440           40
Total production costs/                                                 5,073                 7,542       2,L69
Revenue Comparisons
Yield                                                                    80                    88
Price                                                                              160                   184
Total revenue                                                          12,800                16,192       3,392
Net returns to land and management                                                 7,727                 8,65C         923
Rate of return on marginal investment
in seed productioni/                                                                                               37.0%
/1  Reflects 12% price increase proposed in this report.
/2 Two applications.
/3  Assumed to be 90% of yield with registered seed.
/4 Bags are furnished by EMS to seed growers. A new jute bag costs 24 sucres. A bag is assumed to last three years.
/5 Exclusive of land, management and interest costs. These are the same for both alternatives.
/6 Calculated by dividing increased revenue by increased cost and subtracting 100. This understates the annual rate
of return since the crop season is only seven months.
December 10, 1975



ANNEX 8
Table 3
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Rate of Return for Certified Soybean Seed Production
Commercial           Certified
Unit                     Grain Production    Seed Production            Difference
Cost Item                                       per ha      Unit Price    Units       Cost       Units    Cost            (L-3)
(S/)                    (S/)                (SI)            (5/)
No. of
Land Preparation                               plowings           160         2       320          4        640        320
Inputs
Seed
Certified                                 qq               896L1       1.54  1X380           -          -          _
Registered                                qq               980         -          -          1.54  1,509         129
Fertilizer
10-46-0                                   qq               318         1       318           2       636        318
Urea                                      qq               359         0.5      179          1       359        180
Chemicals
Fungicide (Diptrex)                       kg               300         1        300          2       600        300
Insecticide (Sevin)                       kg               160         4        640          912   1,440        800
Herbicide (Gesagard 50%)                  kg               350         2        700          2        700          -
Inoculant (Quimico)                       onz.              30        15       450          15       450           -
Labor
Planting                               man-day             700         1         70          1         70          -
Fertilizer application                    "                 70         1         70          2        140        70
Fungicide application                                       70         1         70          2        140         70
Insecticide application                   "                 70         1         70          2       140         70
Herbicide application                      "                70         1         70          1         70          -
Bird control                                                70         -          -          2        140        140
Rogueing                                                    70         -          -          2        140       140
Harvest Costs
Machine                                   qq                17        31        527         35       595          68
Machine  leaning4                          -                 8         -          -          -          8          8
Bags-5                                  bag/qq               8        3112      248          -          -       248
Transport                                    qq                5        31        155         35        175         20
Total production costsL6                                                 5,567                 7,952      2,385
Revenue Comparisons
Yield                                          qq                         31                    35
Price                                        sucre/qq                               318                   365
Total revenue                                                            9,858                12,775      2,917
Net returns to land and management                                                  L,291                 4,823        532
Rate of return on marWinal investment
in seed production 77                                                                                             22.3%
/I Reflects 12% price increase proposed in this report.
/2 Two applications.
/3 Assumed to be 90% of yield with registered seed.
/4 A cost of 200 sucres is charged for the extra cleaning of the combine required for harvesting certified seed.
Since the average seed grower have 50 ha under contract, a charge of 4 sucres per ha is used here.
/5 Bags are furnished by EMS to seed growers. A new jute bag costs 24 sucres. A bag is assumed to last three years.
/6  Exclusive of land, management and interest costs.  These are the same for both alternatives.
/7 Calculated by dividing increased revenue by increased cost and subtracting 100. This understates the annual rate
of return since the crop season is only seven months.
December 10, 1975



ANNEX 8
Table 4
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Rate of Return for Certified Rice Seed Production
2         4~~~~~~~
Commercial           Certified
Unit                      Grain Production    Seed Production           Difference
Cost Item                                       per ha       Unit Price    Units       Cost       Units    Cost            (-3)
(S/)                    (-St)             -(S/)            (S/O
No. of
Land Plreparation                              plowings            160         2       320          4        640         320
Inptlts
Seed
Certified                                 qq               14031        1.1     43            -          -           _
Registered                                qq                55o02       -          -          1.1     605         162
Fertilizer
Urea                                      qq                359         3      1,077          4     1,436         359
10-46-0                                   qq                318         -          -          2       636         636
Chemicals
Fungicide (Diptrex)                       kg                300         0.75    225           1.5/3   450         225
Insecticide/3 (Sevin)                     kg                160         2        320          3       480         160
;'erbicide (Prepanil)                      litre            100         7        600          8        800         200
Labor
Seeding and reseeding                  man-day               70         8        560          8       560            -
Transplanting                                                70        15        105         15        105           -
Fertilizer application                     "                 70         1         70          2        140          70
Fungicide application                     "                  70         1         70          2        140          70
Insecticide application                   "                  70         2        140          3       210           70
Herbicide application                                        70         1         70          1         70          70
Blird control                             "                  70         5        350         10        700         350
Rogusing                                  "                  70         -          -          2        140         140
Harvest Cost
Combine                                   qq                 17        80L4   1,360          88     1,496          136
Machine cleaning/5                         -4                           -          -          -          4           4
Bags/6                                  bag/qq                8        80        640          -          -       -640
Transport                                    qq                 5        80        400         88        440          40
Total production costs/7                                                  6,750                 9,052       2,302
Revenue Comparisons
Yield                                          qq                          80                    88
Price                                        sucre/qq                                190                   247
Total revenue                                                            15,200                21,736       6,536
Net retuirns to land and management                                                  8,150                12,684       L,23t
Rate of return on marginal investment
in seed production/1 6L%
/1  Reflects suggested 12% price increase.
/2  INIAP-6
/3  Two applications.
/4  Assumed to be 90% of yield with registered seed.
/5  A cost of 200 sucres is charged for the extra cleaniing of the combine required for harvesting certified seed.
Since the average seed grower has 50 ha under contract a charge of 4 sucres per ha is used here.
/6  Bags are furnished by EMS to seed growers.  A new jute bag costs 24 sucres and is expected to last three years.
J7  Exclusive of land, management and interest costs.  Also excludes irrigation costs that vary with weather but are
same for both crops.
/8  Calculated by dividing increased revenue by increased cost and subtracting 100.  This understates the annual rate
of return since the crop season is only six months.
December 10, 1975



ANNEX 9
Page 1
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Analysis and Financial Projections for the Seeds Corporation (EMS)
1.        The construction of three seed processing plants for EMS would
account for about half of total project expenditures. Revenues from the sale
of certified seed and from the sale of dockage would provide EMS with revenue
to finance the required investment. EMS would be the only agency involved in
the project which would depend on its own revenues. The increased costs of
other agencies would represent increases in Government expenditures.
2.        The project goals for certified seed sales by EMS are set out in
Annex 2, Table 8. These output projections and the current prices (1975/76)
for grain and seed (Annex 7, Table 1) provide the initial basic revenue proj-
ections for EMS. With the exception of soybeans, the commercial grain prices
are assumed to be reasonable projections of prices (constant dollars) over
the life of the project. Local markets should be able to absorb expanded pro-
duction generated by the project without any severe downward pressure on
prices. It is assumed that expanded barley production would be for new malting
varieties to be released by INIAP, which would allow current prices to be
maintained. The Government is attempting to establish soybean reference
prices at levels well above world market prices, but there is no evidence that
soybeans are actually moving at these prices. The price of soybeans used in
estimating project cost and revenue flows is taken from Bank projections 1/
of world prices. The analysis assumes that these prices would become effec-
tive immediately, but this would lead to an underestimate of EMS revenues and
costs if the price in Ecuador remains above the level used. Thus, the EMS
cash flows are conservative estimates if the price does not fall to the pro-
jected level since it has the effect of reducing revenues more than costs.
Projected Purchases of Seed from Contract Growers
3.        Table 1 shows the quantities and value of purchases of seed from
contract growers assumed in the analysis. Seed purchases are assumed to
achieve the target by Year 5 and continue at that level thereafter.
Projected Sales of Certified Seed and Dockage by EMS
4.        Sales of certified seed and dockage are the source of revenues for
EMS. Project seed sales are shown in Table 2. From 15% to 60% (by weight)
1/ Report 814, July 1975, p. 29. The prices of S/ 318 per qq of commercial
soybeans, SI 365 per qq to contract growers, and S/ 485 per qq for
certified seed are used in calculating costs and returns for EMS and
in calculating project costs and benefits.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
of the grain purchased from seed growers is dockage not marketed as certified
seed (Annex 2, Table 6), but sold at commercial grain prices. Also, from 1%
to 5% (by weight) of the seed purchased from contract growers is foreign
material or is lost in processing. Projected revenues from sale of dockage
(less waste) are shown in Table 3.
Projected Operating Expenses of EMS
5.        Projected annual operating expenses of EMS, shown in Table 4, are
assumed to remain at Year 5 levels for the remaining years of the analysis.
The proposed loan to EMS is for capital investment only, with working capital
to be obtained in the local capital market at an interest rate of 9% (now at
1% interest) in quantities sufficient to cover its needs. Interest on work-
ing capital is thus included as an operating cost since working capital is
a purchased input in the same way that labor is a purchased input and these
costs must be covered before funds can be allocated for payment of long-term
credit.
Projected Return on Investment
6.             Table 5 shows EMS's projected stream of income and costs.  It
seems clear from this analysis that the planned long-term investment by EMS
would not be economically justified at current levels of certified seed prices.
Thus, if the investment is to be made, there are at least two alternatives--
the Government could subsidize EMS to compensate for the projected operating
losses and also pay for the investment, or the price of certified seed could
be raised. The value of certified seed to farmers is adequate to accommodate
an immediate sizable price increase (Annex 7, Tables 1 and 2).
7.             Net returns to capital under 10%, 12% and 15% increases in the
price of certified seed are analyzed in Table 5. Dockage sales remain the
same in each case since prices at which dockage is sold are not affected.
A 10% price increase generates an 8.15% rate of return, a 12% price increase
produces a rate of return of slightly above 12%, and a 15% price increase
produces a 17.25% rate of return.
8.             Annex 7, Table 3, shows the price excess of certified seed above
commercial grains prices implied by the price increases.  With the exception
of barley, these spreads are less than the marginal value of certified seed
estimated in Annex 7, Table 3.  Thus, a price increase of 12% would mean that
certified seed would still be priced well below its value to farmers (i.e.,
their marginal value product).  Barley will probably have to be excluded from
the price increases.
Cash Flow
9.             The projected cash flow for EMS, with a 12% increase in certified
seed prices, is shown in Table 6A, and with a 15% increase in said prices is
shown in Table 6B.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
10.       In the cash-flow projections for EMS (Tables 6-A and 6-B) it has
been assumed that all items would be equally affected by ihflation by using
1975 prices throughout the projections. This assumption would not be valid
for EMS' long-term loan repayment, which would be paid in current Sucres.
Therefore, the cash position for EMS would be more favorable than shown in
Tables 6-A and 6-B.
Balance Sheet
11.       Table 7 shows the condensed Balance Sheet of EMS as of December 31,
1974.
February 23, 1976



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Projected Purchases of Field Production by the Seeds Corporation (EMS)
Without Project                   Year 1                      Year 2                      Year 3                       Year 4                       Year 5
Price 2-   Quantity       Value        Quantity       Value        Quantity       Value       Quantity        Value         Quantity       Value        Quantity        Value
s/ton        tons        S/ '000         tons        S/ '000         tons        S/ '000         tons        S/ '000          tons        S/ '000         tons         S/  000
Wheat                    6,336        2,000        12,672         2,000        12,672        2,236         14,167        2,510         15,903         2,764         17,513         3,000         19,008
Barley                   3,806          600         2,284           750         2,855           945         3,597        1,140          4,339         1,278          4,864         1,418          5,397
Soft corn                6,072           -             -             -             -            126           765          251          1,524            628         3.813         !,006          6,108
Hard corn                4.048          750         3,036         1,200         4,858         1,250         5,060        1,325          5,364          1,375         5,566         1,375          5,566
Rice                     5,434        1,647         8,950        2,030         11,031        2,380         12,933        2,730         14,835         3,080         16,737         3,430         18,639
Soybeans                 8,303           -             -            227         1,885           433         3,595          571         4,741             800         6,642         1,004          8,336
Peanuts                 10,560           -             -             71           750           100         1,056          200          2,112            243         2,566           286          3,020
Sesame                  15,400           -             -              0.7          11             1.4          22             2            31              2.2           34             2.6          40
Beans                   20,240           -             -             -             -             -             -           288          5,829           432          8,744           648         13,116
Pasture seeds           46,200           -             -             -             -             31         1,432           77          3,557            123         5,683           185          8,547
TOTAL                           4,997         26,942        6,278.7      34,062         7,502.4      42,627         9,094        58,235         10,725.2       72,162       12,354.6       87,777
1/ Quantities from Annex 2, Tabie lla.
2/ Prices from Annex 7, Table 1, Section b.
December 10, 1975



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Projected Sales of Clean and Bagged Certified Seed by the Seeds Corporation (EMS) 1/
2/      Without Project                  Year 1                     Year 2                     Year 3                      Year 4                     Year 5
Price       Quantity       Value       Quantity       Value       Quantity       Value       Quantity       Value       Quantity       Value        Quantity       Value
s/ton         tons        S/ '000        tons        S/ '000        tons        S/ '000        tons        S/ '000        tons        S/ '000         tons        S/ '000
Wheat                    7,920       1,600        12,672        1,600        12,672        1,800        14,256        2,000        15,840          2,200        17,424        2,400        19,008
Barley                   6,600         450         2,970          550         3,630          700         4,620          850         5,610            950         6,270        1,050         6,930
Soft corn                8,800          -             -            -             -            50           440          100            880           250         2,200          400         3,520
Hard corn                7,260         450         3,267          475         3,449          500         3,630          525         3,812            550         3,993          550         3,993
Rice                     7,920       1,400        11,088        1,700        13,464        2,000        15,840        2,300        18,216          2,600        20,592        2,900        22,968
Soybeans                10,670          -             -           150         1,601          300         3,201          400         4,268            550         5,869          700         7,469
Peanuts                 15,840          -             -            50         792             70         1,109          140         2,218            170         2,693          200         3,168
Sesame                  22,000          -             -             0.5          11            1            22             1.4          31             1.6          35            1.8          40
Beans                   26,400          -             -            -             -            -             -           200         5,280            300         7,920          450        11,880
Pasture seeds           90,200          -             -            -             -            20         1,804           50         4,510             80         7,216          120        10,824
TOTAL                          3,900        29,997        4,525.5      35,619         5,441        44,922        6,566.4      60,665         7,561.6      74,213        8,771.8       89,800
1/ Quantities from Annex 2, Table 8c.
2/  Prices from Annex 7, Table 1, Section C.
- ta
December 10, 1975



ECllADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Projected Sales of Dockage by the Seeds Corporationi (EMS) -
Without Project                    Year 1                      Year 2                       Year 3                      Year 4                       Year 5
priceZ/   Quantity           luti Valuean-t                                          a Quantity Value Quxantiity  Value      Quant-ity .~.  ~ i.L  ZL.    Q~i ~ 2~.
s/ton        tons        S/ '000         tons         S/ '000         tons        SV l000         tons         SV '000         tons         S/ '000         tons         S/ 1000
Wheat                5,500          380          2,090          380          2,090           425         2,338           477          2,624           525          2,888           570          3,135
Barley               3,300          144            475           180           594           227            749          274            904           307          1,013           340          1,122
Soft corn            5,280           -              -            -              -             74            391          148            781           5/1          1,959           594          3,136
Hard1 mmn            3,520          222            781          708          2,492           738         2,598           782          2,753           811          2,855           811          2,855
Rice                 4,180          181            756          223            932           262         1,095           300          1,254           339          1,417           377          1,576
Soybeans             6,996           -              -            57            399           108            756          143          1,000           200          1,399           251          1,755
Peanuts              9,240           -                           18            166            25            231           50            462            61            564            72            665
Sesame              13,420           -              -              0.2           3             0.4            5             0.5            7            0.6             8            0.7            9
Beans               17,600         _         -                    -             -             -              -             72           127           108            190           162            285
TOTAL                         927          4,102         1,566.2       6,676         1,859.4        8,163         2,246.5       9,912         2,722.6       12,293         3,l77.7
I/  The balarnce of the difference between quantities purchased by EMS and quantities sold by EMS is processing loss due to foreign material, etc.  These losses are 11. of
purchase weight for wheat, barley, soft corn, and hard corn; 4% for rice and 51. for soybeans, peanuts, sesame, and beans.  Dockage from pasture seed has no market
value.
2/ Prices for dockage are the same prices for commercial grain, Annex 7, Table 1, Section a.
December 10, 1975 l
,.yzt



ANNEX 9
ECUADOR                                   Table 4
SEEDS PROJECT
Projected Annual Operating Costs of the Seeds Corporation (EMS)
(S/ '000)
Without    ----------------- Year ------------------
Project       1        2         3        4         5
Administrative personnel cost                  3,900      3,900    3,900    3,900    3,900    3,900
Operating personnel and services 1/            1,900      1,900    1,995    2,095    2,199    2,309
Operation and maintenan57 of
processing equipment -                         150        150      465    1,082    1,232    1,232
Bags 3/                                        1,030      1,195    1,431    1,720    2,000    2,284
Chemicals 4/                                   1,030      1,195    1,431    1,720    2,000    2,284
Building Maintenance 5/                           50         50        50       50       335      335
Operation and maintenance of vehicles 6/          35        165       305      445       445      445
Office supplies and utilities 7/                 580        580      590       600       610      620
Payment to IN V P for use of processing
facilities -                                   792        792      792        -         -        -
Sub-total                           9,467      9,927   10,959   11,612   12,721   13,409
Purchase of grain from seed growers                                  2 34,062   42,627   58,235   72,162   87,777
Sub-total                          36,409    43,989   53,58i   69,847   84,883  101,186
Interest on short-term credit 9/                 29010/  1,980    2,398    3,104    3,664    4,193
TOTAL OPERATING COST               36,699    45,969   55,984   72,951   88,547  105,379
1/  Increased at 5% per year until year 5.
2/  5% investment cost in seed processing equipment.  Charge for year 1 is for the operation
of existing equipment.
3/  Twenty-two paper bags and 22 jute bags per ton of seed sold.  Paper bags costs are 8 sucres
per bag. Jute bags cost 24 sucres new and are assumed to be used six times.
4/  264 sucres per ton if seed sold.
5/  5% of building cost.  The charges for year 1, 2, 3, and for existing facilities.
6/  25% of purchase price of vehicles.
7/ 10% of 1 + 2.
8/ 330 sucres per ton for 2,400 tons in each of the first two years.
9/  9% on 1/2 of processing costs plus seed purchases.
10/ Before the project EMS obtained money at 1% from BNF to finance purchases from seed growers.
Interests costs without project reflect this. This credit subsidy is being terminated at
the beginning of year 1 of project.
December 10, 1975



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Streams of Costs and Revenue to the Seeds Corporation (EMS) at Alternative Levels of Sales Prices for Certified Seed 4'
Without                                                                Year
Project         1             2              3             4              5             6              7             8              9           10-20
Cash Outflow
Investment                                       -        20,975        24,659          7,206                          -             605            605            605           -               -
Operating Cost 2-                             36,699      45969         55.997         72.990        88,703        105,739       105,739        105,739       105 739        105,739        105 739
Total Cash Outflow                         36,699      66,944        80,656         80,196        88,797       105,739        106,344       106,344        106,344        105,739        105,739
Cash lnflow at Current Seed Prices
Seed Sales                                    29,997      35,619        44,922         60,665        74,213         89,800        89,800         89,800        89,800         89,800          89,800
Dockage Sales                                              6676        8.163            9,912        12,293         14.539        14539                        14,539         14,539          14,539
Total Cash Inflow                          34,099      42,295        53,085         70,577        86,506       104,339        104,339       104,339        104,339        104,399        104,339
Net Returns to Investment Capital                (2,600)   (24,649)       (27,571)       (9,619)        (2,291)       (1,400)        (2,005)       (2,005)        (2,005)        (1,400)        (1,400)
Total Ca6i lTnflow with 102
Increase in Seed Prices 3/                                 45,857        57,397         76,193        93,206        112,237       112,237        112,237       112,237        112,237         112,237
Net Returns to Investment Capital                           (21,087)      (23,259)       (4,003)         4,409         6,498          5,893         5,893          5,893         6,498           6,498
Total Cash Inflow with 12/,
Increase in Seed Prices 3/                                 46,569         58,255        77,316         94,546       113,816       113,816        113,816       113,816        113,816         113,816
Net Returns to Investment Capital                           (20,375)      (22,401)        (2,880)       (5,749)        8,077          7,472         7,472          7,472          8,077          8,077
Total Cash Inflow with 15%
Increase in Seed Prices 3/                                 47,638         59,553        79,000         96,556       116,185       116,185        116,185       116,185        116,185         116,185
Net Returns to Investment Capital                           (19,306)      (21,103)       (1,196)         7,759        10,446          9,841         9,841          9,841        10,446          10,446
1/ Base cost estimate plus 107, physical contingency.
2/  Allows for replacement of vehicles every 6 years.  Includes interest on operating capital
3/  On all seeds except barley, soybeans and pasture seeds.  Pasture seeds are priced at current import prices throughout.
4/ All costs and revenues are in constant monetary terms. This means that it has been assumed that inflation will affect
costs and sales pTices in the same way.
December 12, 1975
n-IZ
I Da



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Projected Cash Flow for Seed Corporation (EMS), Assuming 12% Increase for Certified Seed Prices
(1,000 Sucres)
Year
1        2         3        4         5        6         7         8         9       10        11        12
I. CASH INFLOW
1/
A.  Long Term Loan                           15,262   17,942    5,244         -         -         -        -         -         -        -         _
2/
B.  EMS Investment Capital                    5,713    6,717    1,962         -         _         _        _         _
C.  Short Term Credit
for Purchase of Seed 3from Growers      34,062   42,627   58,235   72,162   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777
for Operating Costs _/                   9,927   10,872   11,444   11,444   10,508    9,246    7,927    6,549    5,109    3,604    2,031              387
D.  Revenue from S,Ole of Seed
and Dockage -_                          46,569   58,255   77,316   94,546  113,816  113,816  113,816  113,816  113,816  113,816  113,816  113,816
E.  Cash Balance from Previous Year               -        87       168    1,277    2,901    4.163    5,482    6,860    8,300    9,805   11,378   13.022
TOTAL CASH INFLOW                 111.533  136,500  154,369  179,429  215,002  215f 002  215,002  215,002  215.002  215,002  215.002  215,002
II. CASH OUTFLOW
A.  Investment                               20,975   24,659    7,206          -        -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -
B. Working Capital
Seed Purchases                          34,062   42,627   58,235   72,162   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777
Operating costs (exclusive
of interest)                           9,927   10,959   11,612   12,721   13,409   13,409   13,409   13,409   13.409   13,409   13,409   13,409
Interest on Short Term Loans 5/          1,980    2,407    3,136    3,762    4,423    4,366    4,307    4,245    4,180    4,112    4,041    3,967
C. Loan Repayment
Short Term yprincipal)                  43,989   53,499   69,679   83,606   98,285   97,023   95,704   94,326   92,886   91,381   89,808   88,164
Long Term 6 (principal and
interest)                                687    2.181    3,224    4.277    6,945    6,945    6,945    6,945    6.945    6.945    6,945    6,945
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOW                111,620  136.332  153.092  176,528  210X839  209,520  208,142  206,702  205.197  203,624  201,980  200.262
ENO OF YEAR CASH BALANCE-                         87      168    1,277    2,901    4,163    5,482    6,860    8,300    9,805   11,378   13,022   14,740
1/   Base line FE cost, less consultanits, plus 10% physical contingencies.
1/   Base line local cost, less consultants, plus 10% physical contingencies.
2/   Cash balance from previous year is used to gradually reduce loan for operating costs to zero.
4/   Based on 12 percent price increase from current levels for all seeds except barley, soybeans, and pasture seeds.                                        Xx
5/   9% interest on 1/2 of short term loan since money is used for only 6 months.                                                                           c,
S/   Twelve year loan at 9% interest with four year grace period on principal payment.
7/   Debt service payments in the above table are presented in real terms since all entries are in July 1975 prices.  The debt
service, of course, is payable in nominal terms and, due to inflation, will be more easily handled than appears from this
table; the above shows the "worst case" from the sub-borrower's viewpoint.
February 23, 1976



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Projected Cash Flow for Seed Corpsration (EMS). Asuming 15% Increase for Certified Seed Prices
(1,000 Sucres)
Year
1        2         3        4         5         6        7         8         9        10       11        12
I.  CASH INFLOW
A. Long Term Loanl                            15,262   17,942    5,244        -        -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -
2/
B.  EMS Investment Capital-                    5,713    6,717    1,962        -        -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -
C. Short Term Credit
for Purchase of Seed from Growers       34,062   42,627   58,235   72,162   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777
for Operating Costs -'                   9,927    9,977    9,211    7,246    3,294          -         -
D. Revenue from O1e of Seed
and Dockage -                           47,638   59,553   79,000   96,556  116,185  116,185  116,185  116,185  116,185  116,185  116,185  116,185
E.  Cash Balance fromn Previous Year        _    -        982    2.401   -5475   10.115  1j4069   18.173   22.277   26,381   30Q4A8    34.589   38.693
TOTAL CASH INFLOW                 12i,602  137,796  156,053  181.439  217,371  218,031  222.135  226.239  230.343  234447  238.551  242.655
11.  CASll OUTFLOW
A.  investment                                20,975   24,659    7,206            -         -         -         -        -         -         -             -
D. Working Capital
Seed Purchases                          34,062   42,627   58,235   72,162   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777
Operating costs (exclusive
of interest)                  g        9,927   10,959   11,612   12,721   13,409   13,409   13,409   13,409   13,409   13,409   13,409   13,409
Interest on Short Term Loans 5           1,980    2,367    3,035    3,573    4,098    3,950    3,950    3,950    3,950    3,950    3,950    3,950
C. Loan Repayment
Short Term. principal)                  43,989   52,604   67,446   79,408   91,073   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777   87,777
Long Term 6  (principal and
interest)                                 687    2,181    3,224    3,460    6,945    6,945    6,945    6,945    6.945    6,945    6.945    6.945
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOW                1119620  135,397  150,578  171,324  203,302  199,858  199,858  199,858  199,858  199,858  199.858  199.858
END OF YEAR CAShI BALANCE -                     982    2,401    5,475   10,115   14,069   18,173   22,277   26,381   30,485   34,589   38,693   42,797
1/  Base line FE cost, less consultants, plus 10% physical contingencies.
2/  Base line local cost, less consultants, plus 10% physical contingencies.
3/ Cash balance from previous year is used to gradually reduce loan for operating costs to zero.
4/ Based on 15 percent price increase from current levels for all seeds except barley, soybeans, and pasture seeds,
5/  97, interest on 1/2 of short term loan since money is used for only 6 months.
6/ Twelve year loan at 9/ interest with four year grace period on principal payment.
7/  Debt service payments in the above table are presented in real terms since all entries are in July 1975 prices.  The                                  HI
debt service, of course, is payable in nominal terms and, due to inflation, will be more easily handled than appears
from this table; the above shows the "worst case" from the ab-borrower's viewpoint.
February 23, 1976                                                                                                                                         w



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
SEED CORPORATION (EMS) BALANCE SHEET AS OF DEC. 31, 1974 (condensed)
('000 Sucres)
1.  CURRENT ASSETS                                                                                        CURRENT LIABILITIES
Cash in hand                                                           343.4                          Banking operations                               16,115.8
Bank deposits, bonds and others                                      8,223.3                          Accounts payable                                    672.0
Accounts receivable                                                  2,965.4                          Social Security contributions withheld               39.2
Other current assets                                                   577.5                          Social benefits to employees                        149.3
Other obligations related to personnel              173.6
Inventories:                                                                                          Dividends to be distributed (15%)                   224.5        17,374.4
Unprocessed products and inputs                         5,442.7
Processed products                                      2,969.8      8,412.5       20,522.1
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                                       17,374.4
2. FIXED ASSETS
Non-depreciable:
Imports in transit                                        546.9
Land and construction in process                         1,175.5     1,722.4                          CAPITAL
Depreciable:       original worth   Depreciation        Present                                       Equity                          6,941.5
Plant equipment,                     cummulative        worth                                         less capital not paid in            75.0          6,866.5
furniture, machinery,
vehicles, bags and
containers            2,181.8           381.7           1,800.1      1,800.1        3,522.5           Profit present financial year                     1,272.6         8,139.1
3.  DEFERRED CHARGES  Original Worth   Depreciation         Present
cumulative         worth
Facilities, etc.      1,763.6           294.9           1,468.6                     1,468.6
TOTAL ASSETS                                                                       25,513.2           TOTAL LIABILITIES & CAPITAL                                      25.513-5
(Original figures have been rounded)
- De
X4 >C



ANNEX 10
Page 1
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Econoimic Evaluation
Financial Benefit
1.        The quantifiable benefits of this project would be generated by
the increases in yields that farmers could expect by switching from unim-
proved seed to certified seed. The recommended and most coummon practice is
for the farmer to combine the use of certified seed with the use of ferti-
lizers. If a farmer was not using fertilizers with unimproved seed, he will
experience dramatic yield increases when he begins to use both certified
seed and fertilizers. However, not all of these yield increases can be attri-
buted to the introduction of certified seed. A large part of these increases
are due to the use of the fertilizers. Since the project does not have a
fertilizer component, an attempt: has been made to estimate the yield increases
that may be attributed only to the use of certified seed. The estimated
yield increments shown in Column 9 of Table 6, Annex 2, represent the judg-
ment of the mission to estimate conservatively the yield increases due to
seed alone. The yield increments are considered obtainable by adding no new
inputs or costs to the production process other than replacing the use of
unimproved seed by certified seed. These yield increments are multiplied by
the increase in area planted of the respective crops relative to the area
expected without the project to obtain an estimate of the increase in national
production attributable to the project (Table 1). By the fifth year of the
project the area of crops sown with improved seed is expected to have increased
by 83,500 ha, from 68,600 ha without the project, to 152,100 ha with the project,
and this should lead to an additional annual production of 25,300 tons of the
various crops.
2.        The gross value of the increased production is estimated by multi-
plying the projected price of each product (less harvesting cost) by the
amount produced. iNot all this value can be considered as a benefit of the
project. When a farmer switches to certified seed, he pays a higher price
for seed than previously. His increased price per unit of seed purchased
is measured by the price of certil-ied seed minus the price of commercial
grain (Column 1, Table 2). This is multiplied by the sales of certified
seed each year in excess of sales expected without the project to obtain an
estimate of increased seed expenditures attributable to the project (Table 2).
3.        As a result of the project, the sales prices of certified seeds may
have to be increased about 12% above current levels (Annex 7 and 9); thus,
an allowance has been made for the increased prices of seed being purchased
without the project. To account for this, a 12% increase for EMS sales of



ANNEX 10
Page 2
certified seed produced since one year before the project is added to the above
cost estimates to obtain projected seed expenditure increases generated by the
project. These estimates are shown in Table 2.
4.        Net project financial benefits are obtained by subtracting increased
seeds expenditures generated by the project from the gross value of increased
production. These estimates are shown in Table 3.
Project Costs
5.        The investment and recurrent costs for each of the agencies over
a 20-year period is shown in Table 4.
0
Flow of Project Benefits
6.        Table 4 shows that the benefits of the project would be quite high
relative to the investment costs. On the basis of these figures the economic
rate of return is 48% for a 20-year period. Every effort has been made to ob-
tain conservative estimates of production increases due to the project. How-
ever, if the estimated benefits are reduced by 50%, the economic rate of
return would be 16.5%, and if the costs were increased by 50% the economic
rate of return would be 27.6%. Thus, the project would be economically jus-
tified even if the benefits were considerably below those estimated here or
if costs were considerably higher.
Project Cash Flow
7.        The projected cash flow for the project is shown in Table 5.
December 23, 1975



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Incremental Quantity of Productior Cenerated bv the Project
Increased
Production   Tncrra-.  of Ares Sown with Certified S-ed2/ and the Tncremental Produc ion with Certified Seed Relative to Last Year Without Proiect
per Hectare              Year 1                        Year 2                        Year 2                        Year 4                  Year 5 and Beyond
due to                  Increased                    Increased                    Increase<                     Increased                     Increased
Certified                 Area                         Area                         Area                          Area                          Area
Crop                Seed-.           Planted       Production    Planted         Production    Planted         Production    Planted         Production    Planted         Production
kg             ha            tons            ha            tons            ha            tons            ha            tons            ha            tons
Wieat                   180                0              0          1,900            342          3,700           666           5,500            990          7,500         1,350
Barley                  140           1,100             154          2,800            392          4,400           616           5,600            784          7,000            980
Soft corn               130               0               0          1,400            182          2,900           377           7,100           973          11 goo         I AC)
Hard corn               210           1,600             336          3,200            672          4,700           987           5,900         1,239           5,900         1,239
Rice                    600           6,000           3,600         12,000         7,200          18,000        10,800          24,000        14,400          29,500        17,700
So;y~'oesr.             140           2,100             294          4,300            602          5,700            798          7,900         1,106          10,00e'        1,400
Pean,:ts                200             700             140          1,000            200          2,000           400           2,400           480           3,000           600
Sesame                  100             100              10            200             20            300            30             350            35             400            40
Beans                    60                0              0              0              0          4,000           240           6,000           360           9,000           540
Total                            11,600          4,534          26,800         9,499         45,700         14,919         64,750         20,317         83,500        2..311
1/  Actual increases in production should be higher than this because the usual practice will be to combine certified seed with th; added use of fertilizer.  The
increases shown here are due only to the use of certified seed (see Annex 2, Table 6).
2/  The increase in area planted with certified seed over the area planted with certified seed in year 0.
D b 1
December 13, 1975 



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Incremental Exoenditure by Farmers for Seed under the Project
1
Amount by Which
Certified Seed
Price will Exceed                            Increased Sales of Certified Seeds over Lest Year Without the Project
Commercial Price
Crop                                of Product 1'                  Year 1                     Year 2                     Year 3                     Year 4                Year 5 and Bevond
S/ton             tons      '000 sucres      tons     '000 sucres       tons     '000 sucres       tons     '000 sucres       tons      '000 sucres
Wheat                                    3,370              200            674         400         1,348          600         2,022          800          2,696       1,040          3,505
Barley                                   3,300              150           495         300            990         400          1,320         500          1,650          605          1,996
Soft corn                                4,580               50            229         100           458         250          1,145          400         1,832          440          2,015
Hard corn                                4,620               25            116          50           231           75           347           75            347         130            600
Rice                                     4,690              300         1,407          600         2,814          900         4,221       1,200          5,268        1,490          6,988
Soybeans                                 3,680              150           552          250           920         400          1,472          550          2,024         620          2,281
Peanuts                                  8,492               20            170          90            764         120         1,019          150          1,274         170          1,444
Sesame                                  11,220                0.5            6           0.9           10           1.1           13           1.3           15           1.5           17
Beans                                   11.970                0              0         200         2,394          300         3,591          450         5,386          495          5t925
Sub-total                         -                895.5        3,649       1,990.9       9,929        3,046.1       15,149       3,046.3       20,492       4,991.5       24,771
Additional cost of seed
production by EMS                                                        3,242                      3-,242                     3,242                      3,242                      3,242
Seed Expenditure Increases
Generated by Project                                                    6,891                     13,171                     18,391                 .   23,734                      28,013
1/ After price of certified seed is increased by 12'!. above current prices.
December 13, 1975
to 



ANNEX 10
Table 3
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Incremental Net Benefits Generated by Project
('000 Sucres)
Value of Increased Production Generated by Project-1/
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5 Onward
Wheat                                 0      1,659      3,230     4,801       6,548
Barley                              408      1,038      1,632     2,077       2,597
Soft Corn                             0        842      1,745     4,273       6,769
Hard Corn                           968      1,928      2,832     3,555       3,555
Rice                             12,708    25,416    38,124    50,832        62,481
Soybeans                          1,866      3,820      5,064     7,019       8,844
Peanuts                           1,,87      2,554     5,108      6,129       7,662
Sesame                               86        171        258       300         343
Beans                                 0          0     4,068      6,102       9,153
Total Gross Value
of Increased Production          17,819    37,428    62,061    85,088    107,952
Less, Increased Seed
Expenditures Generated
by Project                        6,891    13,171    18,391    23,734        2d,013
Net: Project Benefits            10,927    24,257    43,670    61,354        79,939
1/ Calculated by multiplying the increased production generated by the project
(Table 1) by the commercial price of grain (Table 2) less 650 sucres per ton
to account for added harvest costs.
2/ With 12% increase in certified seeds prices.
December 13, 1975



ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Financial Rate of Return
Streams of Costs and Benefits of the Project
('000 Sucres)
Project Year
1           2          3         4         5         6         7         8         9       10-20
Cash Outlays1/
National Seed Council (NSC)
Investment Costs2/                                        385                                                   165
Recurrent Costs                                         1,875       1,875      1,875    1,875    1,875    1,875    1,875    1,875    1,875    1,875
Seed Certification Department (SCD)
Investment Costs2!                                      3,355       2,640      1,595                         1,650        825
Recurrent Costs                                           413       1,675      1,675    1,675    1,675    1,675    1,675    1,675    1,675    1,675
National Agricultural Research Institute (INIAP)
Investment Costs2/                                      8,525       2,118      2,613                            385       798    1,623                  702
Recurrent Costs                                                                  702        702       702       702       702       702       702
Seed Corporation (EMS)
Investment Costs_7                                     20,975      24,662      7,216
Recurrent Costs                                         9,927      10,959    11,612   12,721   13,409   14,014   14,014   14,014   13,409   13,409
Technical Assistance                                         6,050       5,417      2,447
Total Project Costs                                        51,505       49,346    29,375   16,973   17,661   20,466   19,889   19,889   17,661   17,661
Benefits Generated by Project                              10,927       24,257    43,670   61,354   79,939   79,939   79,939   79,939   79,939   79,939
Excess of Benefits over Project Costs                     (40,578)    (25,089)    13,935   44,381   62,278   59,473   60,050   60,050   62,278   62,278
Financial Rate of Return: 48%
R
1/  Includes 10% physical contingencies.                                                                                                                               CD
2/  Includes replacement of vehicles and farm machinery every 6th year.                                                                                                4 
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 5
ECUADOR
SEEDS PROJECT
Project Cash Flow
(1,000 Sucres)
-------------- y e a r ---------------
1        2         3        4       5-10
I. CASH INFLOW
A. Loan 1J                                   12,262   33,885   13,526    2,106          _
B. Loan Payments by EMS.2.                      687    2,181    3,224    3,460    6,945
C. Government Contribution
Through Agency Budgets ./                12,390        68    5,521    3,433    3,433
Other Appropriations Ut                  11,464        _                 431    2,740
TOTAL CASH INFLOW                  36,803   36,134   22,271    9,430   13,11d
II. CASH OUTFLOW
A. Investment
Loan to EMS 2/                           15,262   17,942    5,244 4                _
National Seeds Council                      3b5        -        -         -        -
Seed Certification Department             3,355    2,640    1,595         -        -
INIAP                                     8,525    2,118    2,613         -        -
Technical Assistance                      6,050    5,417    2,447         -        -
B. Recurrent Costs
National Sseds Council                    1,875    1,875    1,875    1,075    1,875
Seed Ce,tification Department               413    1,675    1,675    1,675    1,075
INIAP                                        -         -       702       702      702
C. Loan Payment 5-                              936    2,653    4,614    5,178    8,866
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOW                36,603   34,520   20.765    9,430   13,118
CASH BALANCE                                  -0-       1,614    1,506    -0-       -0-
1/  Disbursements are calculated as year I = 50% of FE component of year 1 investment;
year 2 = remainder of year 1 FE investment plus 75% of year 2 FE investment; year 3 =
balance of year 2 FE investment plus 75% of year 3 FE investment; year 4 - balance of loan.
2/ See Annex 7, Table 6 for projected cash flow of EMS.
3/ Incremental budget expenditures for SCD and INIAP.
Short fall of inflow relative to outflow.
Interest only is charged for first four years, 3,% on disbursed amount plus 0.75% on
undisbursed balance. Beginning in year 5 the loan is amortized over eleven years.
December 23, 1975



IBRD 11860
SI,                            I                                                            I                    NOVEMBER 1975
%2'     S1-                           80'                            79+  t    $     - sK-rSo      78-79-  A
MA          -             \                                          TO
ECUADOR                                                                  2                                         E  N
SEEDS PROJECT                                        /                  f                        '-                                               '-
P'ROOUCTIOA AREAS FOR CERTIF#ED SEED                ,                 A.                      \                     I      -    '1
O     WHEAT, BARLEY & UPLAND PASTURE\S                                                                  . 
o     SOFT CORN  B 8EANS                                    ,                          _BARRA
o     HARD CORN & RICE
o  DILSEEDS & LOW LAND PASTU RES                           >-,O.6R4 
-    PAVED ROADS
-       GRAVEL ROADS
EARTH ROADS
-4--+-+I  RAILROADS
THESIERRA(BASED ONOm-COR) TBoUo
RIVERS
-  -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~0w.
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
*~~~~~~~~-o                                                                                 1                                            Ai,-hG n , (:  
4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o,
5"4nta  ~    ~     c Eln                ur                   
G Y4V-/CGrBU2 ' |
S.i-te '  .-
ECUADOR ~        ~        .4GUYAU
'     SOUTH                                        PERU                                               I ,*,) 4j
0b)'7            ,     0           '                                                  29RW"-nP             V
3-                                              o O                                         0    -            6"
2,0  4p   6p   a'0  1(0 R.s
KILOMETERS                                   BO                            79'     A17
_________________                                              I         -,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7






IBRD 11861
t~~~                            ~~~~~~~~~~~                                       ~       ~     ~~~~~~ I~ -       t, :  NOVEMBEER t97L
82'                           81                            8Qi79S                                                        8'
-Cs
vEAtOA.t --  C           -v     T-C0        O L M     I A
r                                                eSMERAitDA>,/  O\0ncX               %                  \>    ~ ~~~~~~ MED LN '-
ECUADOR                                   ~O\                                                                      ULA
SEEEDS PROJECT                                                                    A'r L
-   SIEPOCESSI42G CENTERS:                               %L |i
A            *'-K                                       >/*,               ,_rev>,                      -A       J     -d         8at   .5.,
EXISTMGIINMAPI                                                                                         At-         ARRA
SEED tofSTRI BTIONCENTERS;                                       rO ,  
*     PRPSE ADDTIONAt STORES                                                                                                                  To Logo A-rio
*     EXISllNG
O,
PAVED RtOADS                                                                                  ITO
(RAVEL ROADS 
EARTH ROADS                                                                                              I
t RAILROADS
THESIERRA (EASEDONO )omCONTOUR)                               * .F-
RtVERS$
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                           CI,one       / 1     o
                     Soco             to 
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
r - Mo, />>_f /unfn >oR UNG~~~~~~~~~~~~cp,Amba
PlocoG.ilopo                              3'=-  Faagv  i:   g    ,   > ~   Vino
>  - tQ | \~~~~~~~~~~~~ooPlt6n                 CohjV0'  DAMA hd
-4        cES4 >           (.
KILOMETERS , fBZ azuotkienih 2 
4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
1. OoreItoa on ( ctA 'S doon              4(                       Ii47e< 18
thttt r_donen.o to rr Sr rn _ ,na b y tIn          '@ 4
lXdftJil*.rdEr                          7    r~~~~~-    ,ytOtrrP'<    Goonzanat \           ; 
I1                                    of           i-j                                                          G. B             ./  .f
R.- iAmulza $                         {            f=F   
MAArEOP         \                                                                     I1:                                 r'L                    K
SOU0iTH                                                                     .    Gh,f                Y'          .                                         5
\;  At KERIC    E     5                       P  E R U                                        dM                                 P
to~~~~~~~~~~~
Or                                                                                                           K Or,.  4   cd  j  r,>^
1g. 0ooowtMR
~~I C  R                                                               zmb.~~~~~~    ~   N
t                  Sl-                           80                    >'    7a~~~~~~~~~~SO  <              78                              1
,,  E   I  I                 i  -i .7                      I



