Document of
The World Banlk
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24412
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-41590)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF DEM160 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FOR AN
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
06/25/2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 25, 2002)
Currency Unit = Croatian Kuna (HRK)
HRK 7.493 = US$ 1
US$.133 = HRK I
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRA                         Bank Rehabilitation Agency
CAS                         Country Assistance Strategy
CPF                         Croatian Privatization Fund
DT                          Deutsche Telecom
FSOE                        Former Socially-owned Enterprises
HEP                         Croatian Electricity Company
HNB                         National Bank of Croatia
HPT                         Croatian Post and Telecommunication Company
BP                          Croatian Post
HT                          Croatian Telecommunication Company
HZ                          Croatian Railways
IMF                         International Monetary Fund
INA                         Croatian Oil Company
ORESE                       Office for Restructuring and Economics of State-owned Enteprises
PE                          Public Enterprises
TAL-1                       Technical Assistance Loan in Support of Enterprise and Financial
Sector Reform
TAL-2                       Technical Assistance Loan for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for
Private Sector Development
SAL                         Structural Adjustment Loan
Vice President:  Johannes Linn
Country Director:  Andrew Vorkink
Sector Director:  Paul Siegelbaum
Task Manager:    Albert Martinez



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CROATIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   6
6. Sustainability                                                                       8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     10
9. Partner Comments                                                                    11
10. Additional Information                                                            13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



Project ID: P008327                                      Project Name: EFSAL
Team Leader: Albert Martinez                             TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 27, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: EFSAL                                         L/C/TF Number: SCL-41590
Country/Department: CROATIA                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: FS - Financial Sector Development
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   10/17/1994                             Effective: 11/05/1997         11/05/1997
Appraisal:  02/01/1995                               MTR:
Approval:  05/13/1997                              Closing: 06/30/1999         12/31/2001
Borrower/lnipleinenting Agency: REPUBLIC OF CROATIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                            Johannes Linn
Countrv Manager:     Andrew Vorkink                            Michel Noel
Sector Manager:      Yasuo Izumi                               Michel Noel
Team Leader at ICR:  Albert Martinez                           Olivier Godron
ICR Primary Author:  Albert Martinez; Rachid
Benmessaoud
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entrv:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Timne:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The EFSAL was designed to support the Government of Croatia in implementing
structural reforms in the enterprise and banking         sectors.   The operation was closely
coordinated with the three-year Extended Arrangement of the IMF, which was approved on



March 12, 1997. The EFSAL aimed at strengthening Croatia's medium-term macroeconomic
framework and the underpinning structual reforms in the fiscal area and in the enterpnse and
financial sectors. The specific objectives of the enterprise and financial sector program included:
(a) the accelerated privatization of the former socially-owed enterprises (FSOEs); (b) the
restructuring and privatization of public enterprises; (c) the rehabilitation and privatization of the
banking system; and (d). the establishment of key elements of the -enabling environment for
enhanced corporate and bank governance.
The EFSAL was responsive- to and supportve of the Government's program of the
enterprise and financial sector reforms (the 'program") as envisioned in its Letter of
Development Policy (LDP) of March 17, 1997 and as articulated in the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) of April 4,1995. The Croatian Govermnent and the Bank recognized
that essential structural reforms had to be implemented to revive growth and maintain a stable
macroeconomic framework. As a result, the Bank supported the underlying -reforms of the
Government's economic program through the EFSAL-the latter was the centerpiece of and was
fully consistent with the CAS discussions on April 20, 1995.
The EFSAL objectives were clear, comprehensive, and appropriate in the Croata
country context at that time. While difficult and ambitious, the objectives supported by the
EFSAL were essential for Croatia to reap fully the major potential benefits of the economic
program described in the CAS.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no revision of the original objectives of the EFSAL.
3.3 Original Components:
Privatization of Former Socially-Owned Enterprises (FSOEs). The EFSAL supported a
new privatization strategy, embodied in a new Privatization Law adopted in Parliament in March
1996, which called for the divestiture of virtually all FSOEs and the minority stakes held by the
Croatian Privatization Fund (CPF) in privatized enterprises by the end of 1999. Under the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's social ownership system, ownership rights belonged' to
the "society" which meant that there was no clearly identified owner. Under the 1991 Law on the
Transformation of Socially-owned Enterprises, these enterprises were converted to joint stock
companies and either sold to employees, allocated to the Pension Fund which managed the
pay-as-you-go pension scheme, or transferred to the CPF for privatization. The Government was
to improve the privatization schemes to ensure rapid divestiture and promotion of strong
corporate governance in privatized firms.
Restructuring and Privadzation of Public Enterprises (PEs). The Public Enterprises
were 10 very large enterprises operating in the infrastructure and energy sectors excluded from
the 1991 Law on Transformation. A separate program component covering the PEs aimed mainly
at improving efficiency, restructuring and partially privatizing the four large PEs-HEP
(electricity), INA (gas and oil), former HPT (post and telecommunications) and HZ (railways).
The three goals of the program with the PEs were: (a) privatization of a significant portion of the
- 2 -



PEs within a two to three year time frame; (b) privatization of the non-core assets of the PEs; and
(c) improved governance of the PEs to reduce losses. The privatization of the PEs required
substantial preparatory work, including restructuring of existing operations such as the unbundling
of the electricity and telecommunications companies, and the establishment of a regulatory
regime. Loss containment measures were also to be. put in place pending privatization to be
monitored by a newly established Office for the Restructuring and Economics of State-owned
Enterprises (ORESE).
Rehabilitation and Privatization of Problem Banks and Enterprises. This component
of the program aimed at restructuring the banking system, including-the rehabilitation of several of
the largest banks which were faced with solvency, liquidity, and non-perfonming loan problems.
An enterprise work-out scheme was to be implemented involving the Bank Rehabilitation Agency
and the Croatian Privatization Fund. In addition, the 13 enterprises covered by the Law on the
Rehabilitation of Selected Enterprises were to be privatized or liquidated.' (The Law on the
Rehabilitation of Selected Enterprises required selected debtor companies and the relevant line
ministry to put together a restructuring plan which essentially relieved the covered enterprises of
debt. While the law had broad criteria - mainly defining the strategic nature - for selecting
enterprises, the Government limited the application of the law tol3 enterprises, including the large
steel mill and five shipyards.) Finally, the problem banks were to be privatized following the
restructuring of its loan portfolio.
Incentive Framework for Enterprises and Banks. In addition to privatization, the
program called for improvements in the legal and institutional framework under which enterprises
and banks were to operate. These measures included passage of labor and bankruptcy legislation,
development of securities markets including the enactment of relevant legislation, modernization
of banking legislation and regulation, and establishment of a deposit insurance scheme. The
program also included measures to improve the capacity of institutions responsible for banldng
supervision, capital market surveillance, and deposit insurance.
Macroeconomic Framework and Fiscal Support to Structural Reforms. The project
estimated the fiscal costs of the program, mainly in the costs of bank re-capitalization. The
maintenance of a macroeconomic framework to ensure continued stabilization was a precondition
for the success of the program.
3.4 Revised Components:
There were no revisions in the original components of the EFSAL.
3. S Quality at Entry:
The coverage of the EFSAL was comprehensive, requiring institutional changes and
reform actions on multiple fronts to be implemented within a relatively short period of time.
The level of detail and specificity of the policy reform matrix was adequate and deemed necessary
to establish a road map and clarify the Govemment's reform program. The EFSAL conditions for
second tranche release focused on outcomes, rather than interim steps, and in retrospect, they
were flexible and could be fulfilled in different ways. The disbursement in two tranches was
designed to match the phasing of reforms and link with reform performance. As important, the
-3 -



preparation and implementation of the EFSAL benefited from the Technical Assistance Project in
Support of Enterprise and Financial Sector Reform (TAL-1) which was in place about one year
earlier than the EFSAL approval. The program was also subsequently supported by a second
technical assistance loan (TAL-2), a capital markets project, a railway modernization project, and
a court and bankruptcy administration project.
However, the EFSAL did not adequately identify implementation risk arising from
lack of commitmentfrom some parts of government andfrom the sheer complexity of certain
reform components. In retrospect, the design was unrealistic as to the speed with which the
reforms were expected to be completed given the limited Government capacity, their demanding
institutional restructuring content, and the resistance of certain key personnel in some ministries
and agencies to reform. As important, there were significant political risks which delayed project
implementation that should have been highlighted in the MoP. In addition, the project design
could have benefited from additional initiatives, including: (a) an effective communications
strategy of the Government to inform the public and build consensus within sector institutions
targeted by the restructuring program under the EFSAL; and (b) an assessment of and program
for mitigating the social impact of the reform program. An accompanying social mitigation
project would have addressed the social issues arising from the wide ranging enterprise reforms.
The delays in program implementaton resulted in serious consideration of
cancellation of the second tranche. The Bank discussed with the new (current) Government
options for exiting the EFSAL during discussions in June 2000 - at that time, there was
uncertainty about the completion of several second tranche conditions. However, the new
Government wanted to use the EFSAL to push its program which was consistent with several of
the second tranche conditions, primarily in the areas of energy and railway reforms as well as the
privatization of INA and HT. A commitment from the new Government accelerated the stalled
reforms eventually completing all but one of the second tranche conditions. Nonetheless, without
the entry of the new Government, there would been a high probability of second tranche
cancellation.
Given the above considerations, the Quality at Entry is given an Unsatisfactory Rating.
However, it should be noted that the EFSAL was prepared under difficult circumstances in
Croatia at that time. Nonetheless, implementation risk, which turned out to be significant, should
have been highlighted.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The EFSAL objectives were broadly achieved, though not within the projected period,
and the outcomes of the EFSAL operadon are assessed as satisfactory, despite one partially
completed conditionality. This overall assessment arises from both the perspective of the
eventual implementation of the underpinning reforms of the enterprise and financial sectors as well
as the achievement of the broader objectives of medium-term macroeconomic stabilization and
growth. Specifically, the Govemment was able to divest most of the non-infrastructure assets of
FSOEs, privatize most of the banking system after a major restructuring effort, establish the
- 4 -



enabling framework for regulation and private provision of energy and telecommunications
services, restructure public enterprises, privatize the telecommunications company, and begin the
process of privatizing INA and HEP. However, one of the second tranche conditions was only
partially fulfilled, since adverse world market conditions prevented the disposition of the
shipyards. A Board waiver was requested and granted to release the second tranche.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Privatization of Former SociallyOwned Enterprises.  The Govemment has made
significant progress in privatizing the FSOEs. The Croatian Privatization Fund (CPF) privatized
about 85 percent of the shares of FSOEs in its portfolio, and is expected to complete its
privatization mandate by end-2003. The mass privatization program has also been satisfactorily
implemented with the participation of seven Privatization Investment Funds through which most
voucher holders made their investments in the enterprise sector. In 2000, the Governnent made
significant improvements in the methods of privatization to accelerate the process, improve
transparency, and ensure corporate governance. Many enterprises that were not in the original
program for privatization, mainly those in the tourism and agriculture sectors, are now being sold
by CPF.
Restructuring and Privatization of Public Enterprises (PEs). The Government has also
made significant headway in the restructuring and privatization of PEs, though progress was
variable across the sector enterprises.  After the split of HPT into post (HP) and
telecommunications (HT) in January 1999, the privatization of the HT company to Deutsche
Telecom (DT) was completed in October 2001. The legal and regulatory framework enabling the
privatization of the oil and gas company (INA) and the electricity company (HEP) has been put in
place, including the establishment of separate regulatory authority for energy and
telecommunications. With the completion of the restructuring of INA and the initiation of the
unbundling of HEP, the Government has begun the process of privatization of these companies.
A Strategy for the Restructuring and Modernization of the Croatian Railways (HZ) was approved
by the Parliament and is currently under implementation.
Rehabilitation and Privatization of Problem Banks and Enterprises. The major
problem banks were taken over by the BRA which carved out the bad loans from the banks'
portfolios and either transferred the enterprises to CPF for privatization or initiated insolvency
proceedings to liquidate the assets. With the exception of one bank which is currently in the
process of privatization, BRA has successfully privatized the banks under its portfolio such that
the assets of the banking system are now about 85 percent owned by foreign financial institutions.
The commercial banking system is currently adequately capitalized and relatively liquid. In
addition, out of the 13 enterprises covered by the Law on the Restructuring of Selected
Enterprises, eight were either liquidated or privatized, the exceptions being the shipyards.
Incentive Framework for Enterprises and Banks.   Under the program, a new
Bankruptcy Law and a new Labor Law were passed to improve restructuring and exit of
enterprises as well as to eliminate constraints to lay-offs. These were good beginnings of
insolvency and labor reforms, although in retrospect, these laws exhibited certain weaknesses that
are currently being corrected through legislative amendments.  The legal and regulatory
- 5-



framework for banking is basically in place, and the supervision capacity of the Croatian National
Bank (HNB) has been considerably strengthened. However, a recent review by the Bank and the
Fund has identified certain areas of the banking legislation that need improvement, and these are
being addressed by draft legislation being considered by Parliament. A deposit insurance scheme
is currently in place. With the privatization of 85 percent of the banking system to foreign
financial institutions and the implementation of other reforms, banking system performance has
improved and stability established.
Macroeconomic Framework and Fiscal Support to Structural Reforms. The IMF
approved a three-year Extended Arrangement in March 1997 and a Stand-By Anrangement in
March 2001. The FY98 budget incorporated provisions ensuring adequate fiscal support to the
structural reforms.
The achievement of the above outputs is considered satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of retnrn:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated modest due the delays in the
establishment of some of the institutions. The project was instrumental in establishing the
regulatory agencies in telecommunications and energy and the institution responsible for deposit
insurance, as well as in strengthening the agencies responsible for bank supervision and bank
rehabilitation. To support the institutional strengthening of these institutions, the Bank approved
the Technical Assistance Project in Support of Enterprise and Financial Sector Reform (TAL-1) in
1996, followed by the Technical Assistance Project for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for.
Private Sector Development (TAL-2) in 1999. However, the establishment of the energy
regulatory office was much delayed and continues to require substantial technical assistance. In
addition, the plan to establish a single regulatory agency covering the utilities did not materialize
due to the pressure to establish a telecommunications regulatory commission when HT was being
privatized.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Adverse conditions in the world shipyard industry delayed the privatization of Croatia's
shipyards. At the time the loan was approved, there were expressions of interest in Croatia's
shipyards from foreign - mainly European - investors. However, the market shortly became
characterized by overcapacity with intense competition coming from Korean and Japanese
builders. Nonetheless, even with the favorable market conditions at the time of the loan design,
privatizing all of the Croatia's shipyards by second tranche was unrealistic.
- 6-



Political conditions affected the timing of implementation. Delays in parliamentary
approval of enabling legislation for the unbundling of HPT into Posts and Telecom affected the
privatization timetable for telecommunications. Furthermore, during the period leading up to the
end-1999 elections, many critical actions required for the second tranche did not exhibit any
significant progress.
The Kosovo crisis had a significant adverse impact on the economy, and the Russian
crisis affected the ability of the Government to borrow in international markets.- The
privatization program, especially the sale of the large enterprises and the commercial banks, was
affected by these developments as investor sentiment cooled.
S.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Prior to July 2000, delays in several components of the reforms were attributable to
slow Government decision making and actions. This is especially the case in the regulation of
utilities, where more decisive action could have been undertaken to move the reforms forward.
There were delays in the submission of draft energy legislation to the Parliament, in the the
approval of restructuring plans of large enterprises such as INA and HPT, in the unbundling of
HEP, and in the privatization of the PEs.
A mixed performance in structural reforms exacerbated the worsening economic
conditions in 1998/99, which led to distress in the banking sector. Expansionary fiscal and
incomes policies became unsustainable during the economic slowdown in 1998, with the fiscal
deficit increasing from 2.5 percent of GDP in 1998 to 8 percent in 1999, when the GDP
contracted by 0.4 percent. The tightening of monetary policies resulted in the emergence of
problems in a significant part of the banking system.
After the new Government decided against cancelling the EFSAL in mid-2000, there
was a revival of the stalled reform components. The new Government made a concerted effort
to meet the EFSAL second tranche conditionalities starting the second half of 2000, with the
commitments made at the top levels of Government effectively communicated to the
implementing ministries and agencies. This resulted in immediate action on the uncompleted
actions at all levels. The Government also effectively made its case to the Parliament on the
necessity of energy reforms and the passage of required legislation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Not applicable
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The Government made adequate provisions in the budget to ensure thefinancing of
restructuring costs.



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated likely since the probability of reversal of most of the program
components is low. The privatization program covering the FSOEs and the state owned
commercial banks, which was preceded by the restructuring actions required by the loan, is
basically completed. The regulatory framework for utilities is now in place, paving the way for
private sector investment, although the regulatory institutions would benefit from greater
strengthening. The privatization of the telecommunications company is also completed, and the
process for privatizing INA has begun the with announcement of a tender for a portion of its
equity. The plan for the unbundling and privatization of the electricity monopoly company has
been completed and investment bankers/accounting firns are about to be hired to implement the
privatization strategy. With the exception of the shipyards, the other distressed companies
identified in the program are either privatized or liquidated. The Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL) approved in 2001 supports further improvements in the framework for enterprise
operations while the railway modernization loan would assist in the restructuring of this sector.
Other supporting technical and investment loans mentioned earlier support the continued
implementation of the EFSAL reforms, further ensuring sustainability.  Finally, Croatia's
commitment and progress towards EU membership offers further evidence that the reforms
achieved by the EFSAL are likely to be sustained.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The EFSAL addressed the critical reforms needed for Croatia to move from
stabilization to growth. The linkages between enterprise and financial sector reforms were well
developed in the loan design. The program supported by the EFSAL was consistent with the
CAS at that time. As important, the EFSAL was preceded by a technical assistance loan (TAL-1)
which assisted in the preparatory work and the design of the reforms. This is considered to be
best practice.
In retrospect, the EFSAL was too optimistic with respect to implementation capacity
and commitment of the Government and the related agencies. The energy reforms suffered
delays soon after the loan was approved, despite the substantial preparatory work. The loan
condition that all the shipyards and the large steel mill were going to be privatized was unrealistic
given the political resistance to and the size of the undertaking. In addition, a lack of precision in
the EFSAL legal documents deprived the Bank of a clear mandate to monitor the pace and the
method of privatization.
-8 -



7.2 Supervision:
The loan was well supervised, with regular discussions with the authorities on the key
issues. The Bank tearn spent considerable efforts to keep the dialogue going, advise on reform
practices, and support a renewed impetus to reform program by the current Government. In
addition, the supervision work helped in the coordination between TAL-1 and the EFSAL reform
implementation. Furthermore, a second technical assistance loan (TAL-2) provided additional
support to reform implementation. The supervision efforts ensured the availability of budget
financing for the costs of restructuring, particularly the rehabilitation of banks.
7.3 Overall Bank perfonnance:
The overall Bank performance was satisfactory given the positive outcomes and the
high probability of sustainability of the reforms. While the loan design could have taken into
account the high implementation risk, the loan was well prepared, including the use of a technical
assistance loan to support both preparation and implementation. Supervision was able to bring
the loan to a successful conclusion, despite difficult macroeconomic and, political conditions.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower made substantial preparatory work on the program and the loan. The
preparatory work was supported by TAL-1, and included: the blueprint for energy reforms;
advisory services for restructuring and privatization of banks and PEs including financial review
and internal audits; studies on the utility regulatory options; and design of the voucher
privatization program.
7.5 Government implementation performnance:
The Government implementation performance prior to mid-2000 was mixed The
change of Government in 1998 did slow down the process of reform, as the new (1998)
Governent took some time to build its own position and belatedly endorse the full extent of the
reform program. The rehabilitation of banks and their subsequent privatization progressed despite
difficulties in the macroeconomic environment. The privatization program was successfully
implemented. However, the Government could have moved faster on the energy and railway
reforms, the restructuring and privatization of the other PEs, and the liquidation of the steel
company (the largest of the 13 distressed enterprises).
Government implementation performance with respect to the utilities reform and the
privatization of the PEs improved after mid-2000 and was satisfatory. The new (2000)
Govemment successfully pushed the uncompleted EFSAL reforms forward, including the
privatization of the telecommunications company, the establishment of the regulatory framework
for energy and telecommunications, and the closure of the steel company.
The overall Government implementation performance is rated as satisfatory, due
mainly to the success of the current Government in completing almost all of the second
-9-



tranche conditions. This rating should note, however, that the performance of the previous
Governments is unsatisfactory.
7.6 Imnplementing Agency:
Not applicable
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
The overall Borrower performance was satisfactory given the positive outcome and high
probability of sustainability of the reforms. As noted above, the implementation prior to
mid-2000 was mixed and generally unsatisfactory, and thereafter the Government performance
improved to eventually result in a successful project. The commitment of the new Government to
the fulfillment of the second tranche conditions is particularly noteworthy, given that it was given
the option to exit from the EFSAL and that it had approved a TAL-2 to further support reform
implementation.
8. Lessons Learned
The use of technical assistance to support both preparation and implementation is
crucial especially in complex operations such as the EFSAL. It would have been almost
impossible to design the reforms at the preparation stage without TAL-1. Given the lack of
institutional capacity on the part of the Government, the technical assistance and investment loans
cited above were important accompanying operations to the EFSAL.
The EFSAL would have benefited from a well crafted communications strategy and a
supporting social sector operation. The EFSAL reforms were wide ranging, affecting most of
the population. The communication of the reforms and their benefits to both the population as
well as to all Govermment offices and agencies involved would have improved implementation. In
addition, the social consequences' of the reform would have benefited from greater analysis and
perhaps a supporting operation to alleviate the impact on the vulnerable groups.
The coverage and importance of the EFSAL reforms requires a coordination
mechanism that is also able to signal to all levels of government the importance of the refornL
Using the council of ministers, or a sub-group within the council, as the coordination mechanism,
supported by technical assistance, is one model that has worked in at least one other ECA country
with similar reforms. This may mitigate the risk of lack of commitment of certain parts of the
government and will likely improve implementation.
The nature of the program, the time period involved for implementation, and the
uncertain environment make a programmatic approach more appropriate. The EFSAL, with
its defined multi-year program, could have served as the first of a series of loans. A second and
third EFSALs could have been follow-up operations, whose triggers would have been defined in
the first EFSAL. This approach takes into account the multi-year nature, the importance of
institution building, and the difficult environment of the program, which would require a certain
flexibility in design.
-10-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agencY:
In reference to the draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) dated May 28, 2002, I
would like to inform you that the Ministry of Finance has distributed the draft version of the ICR
and received some comments.
In general, there is a positive view expressed by all institutions involved in the
implementation of the Project. Considering the circumstances, the Project was completed with a
satisfactory outcome. We agree that both the Bank and the borrower performance could be rated
as satisfactory as well. The main objectives of the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment
Loan (EFSAL) were fulfilled and planned effects achieved. As it was the first structural
adjustment operation approved to the Republic of Croatia it could be argued that it was designed
as too optimistic in respect to the implementation capacity and that the objectives were set as too
ambitious and comprehensive to be implemented within the relatively short period of time.
Your qualification of "a lack of consensus on reforms" and "the resistance of sector
management and staff to reform", should be additionally explained rather with an uncertainty
regarding the fiscal and social impact of the wide proposed financial and enterprise sector reform
programs. The fact is that EFSAL was not accompanied with a parallel social mitigation program
that could address such issues.
Some comments received suggest that additional text could be included. Namely, in
section 4.2. "Public Enterprise Privatization and Reform" regarding the privatization of the INA
to add that "the Government has begun the process of privatization of INA with announcement of
a tender for a portion of its equity (25% + 1 share)". Also in section 5.1 ("Factors Outside the
Control of Government or Implementing Agency") in reference to the text on the Croatia's
shipyards additional text should be inserted, such as that "the Government of the Republic of
Croatia is making efforts to privatize its shipyards (Kraljevica, Brodotrogir, Uljanik and
Remontno brodogradiliste Sibenik) and offer them to the strategic investor".



Regarding the comments received from the Borrower agencies involved in the
implementation of the Project, the State Agency for Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation
would like to be included in the part B of the Form of the Borrower Contribution (The
borrower's own performance) that "during the rehabilitation and privatization of the banks some
problems in regard to the supervision were identified, although without any actions
accompanied". In addition "that the lack of the adequate legislation caused relatively slow
liquidation and bankruptcy process of some banks". The Agency believes that some specialized
agencies involved in the supervision of the bank system and introduction of an appropriate
additional legislation would improve the system of the bank supervision fully.
I would like to take this opportunity to express our highest appreciation for the overall
Bank contribution and the Project Task managers for their assistance and advise in implementing
critical measures and actions of financial and enterprise sector reform in Croatia.
Finally, we agree that the Croatia' s progress towards EU membership offers further
evidence that the reforms achieved by the EFSAL are likely to be sustained.
Yours sincerely,
Assistant Finance Minister
Josip Kulisic
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/priv'ate sector):
Not applicable
- 12 -



10. Additional Information
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
CROATIAN PRIVATIZATION FUND
Class: 943-01/02-01/1388
Ref. No.: 563-01-01/08-2002-2
Zagreb,
June 11, 2002
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
For the attention of
Mr. Josip Kuli§iw, Assistant Minister
Katan6iweva 5
10000 Zagreb
Re: EFSAL loan ("Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, EFSAL")
Statement
In connection with your request dated May 28, 2002 for the comment of the Croatian
Privatization Fund on the WB's drafted "Implementation Completion Report" regarding
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSA), please be informed that the Croatian
Privatization fund has no observation to the same.
Sincerely yours,
Deputy President:
Kresimir Stareevia
- 13 -



REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
MINISTRY OF THE ECONOMY
10000 Zagreb, Ulica grada Vukovara 78
Phone: (01) 6106113
Fax: (01) 61 09 113
Class: 307-01/01-02/
Ref. No.: 526-04-00-04
June 7, 2002
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
International Financial Institutions and
European Integration Administration Office
Josip Kulisiae, Assistant Minister
Katan6iweva 5
10000 Zagreb
Re: Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Final draft report
This is to inform you that the above mentioned report, particularly the key indicators matrix, are
correct and that this Administration has no observations to it, notably in the section regarding
activities of this Administration in the energy sector.
Sincerely yours,
Assistant Minister:
Roman Nota
-14 -



REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
MINISTRY OF THE ECONOMY
10000 Zagreb
Ulica grada Vukovara 78
Class: 403-01/02-01/55
Ref. No.: 526-01-02-1
Zagreb,
June 10, 2002
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Josip Kulisin, Assistant Minister
ZAGREB
Re: Comment on the final draft report of
The World Bank regarding EFSAL loan
We have two observations to the WB's draft report, which we consider very important in that
they define the efforts of the Croatian government regarding privatization projects.
1.    Point 4.2. "Outputs by Components"; section "Public Enterprise Privatization and
Reform". I think it is very important to add that the state government has proposed and the
Parliament has passed Privatization Acts for INA and HEP. The Acts precisely specify
privatization model for these two big companies. This section should be supplemented with the
fact that privatization of INA has started already in May 2002 by the tender for acquisition of
25%+ 1 INA shares, which is compliant with INA Privatization Act.
HEP Privatization Act has created preconditions for the process to start within very short
upon government's decision to privatize it.
2.    Point 5.1. "Factors Outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency"
discusses privatization of the Croatian shipyards. It must be supplemented with the fact that the
state government will not change its decision about starting privatization of Kraljevica,
Brodotrogir, Uljanik and Remontno brodogradiliste Sibenik through the Croatian Privatization
Fund within very short. This has not been initiated so far because of the balance sheet of these
shipyards being such that to any strategic investor it was not very probable.
For the Assistant Minister:
Goran Krmpotin
- 15 -



CROATIAN STATE RAILWAYS
Office of the President of the Management Board
Zagreb, Mihanovieeva 12
10001 Zagreb
P. 0. Box 971
Phone: 01/457 76 02; 01/378 33 00
Fax: 01/378 33 26
e-mail: hrvatske.zeljeznice(ihz.hinet.hr
Ref: 15.-298
Zagreb,
June 4, 2002
MINISTRY OF FINANCE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
Josip Kulisiae, Assistant Minister
Fax: 4922 598
Dear Sirs,
Re: Opinion about final draft of the World Bank's report-
EFSAL
We confirm with thanks the receipt your letter dated May 28, 2002 requesting us to comment the
attached WB's draft report on the EFSAL ("Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment").
To our opinion the draft is generally correct about the planned and undertaken activities of the
Croatian State Railways.
As for the attached questionnaire (point A) aimed at assessing preparatory activities, soundness of
goals, project implementation and overall success, due to scarcity of information about
preparations, goals and changes in other sectors, it is very difficult for Croatian State Railways
(H2) to make the assessment. The same applies to HZ assessment of project's efficiency at
preparatory and implementation steps (points B and C) both for the borrower and the Bank.
Thank you for your co-operation.
Sincerely yours,
- 16 -



Management Board
President:
Marijan Drempetie, B. C. S.
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
MINISTRY OF MARITIME AFFAIRS,
TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS
Post and Telecommunications Administration Office
Prisavlje 14
10000 Zagreb
Phone: 01/616 91 11; 011/616 91 10
Fax: 01/619 66 62
Reg. No.: 3277097
Zagreb,
June 4, 2002
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
For the attention of the
Josip Kulisie, Assistant Minister
Fax: 492 25 98
Dear Mr. Kulisie,
Re: final draft report of the World Bank
EFSAL
Opinion
In connection with your request dated May 28, 2002 please be informed that the Ministry of
Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications has no objections to the final draft report of the
World Bank on EFSAL ("Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment") in the section regarding
its responsibility about post and telecommunication.
As regards your request to complete the attached questionnaire, Annex 2 of the report (Borrower
Contribution"), please note that in post and telecommunication, being within responsibility of this
Ministry, we have no potential users of the funds provided by the WB's EFSAL. Therefore, we
have not completed the said questionnaire.
Kind regards,
Assistant Minister - Head
Ante Dodig, B. E. E.
- 17 -



DAB
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA. STATE AGENCY FOR DEPOSIT
INSURANCE AND BANK REHABILITATION
Comment on the final draft of the World Bank's report on EFSAL
State Agency for Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation (DAB) has no particular observation
or comment on the project goals, plan of its accomplishment and its accomplishment. We think
that the project goals are equal t those of the Croatian government.
In project realization, particularly as regards banking sector, DAB has been active and successfill
in banks' rehabilitation, restructuring of their loan portfolio, and privatization of rehabilitated
banks.
During rehabilitation of the banking sector, we recorded some issues related to monitoring of
banking operations, and in timely and preventive measures of the responsible institutions against
crisis in the respective banks.
Liquidation and bankruptcy procedures of these banks had also been inefficient and slow,
attributable to inadequate statutory provisions.
Engagement of other specialized institutions in the control and monitoring of banking operations
and in passing new acts (e. g. Act on Banks' Bankruptcy) would significantly improve safety of
the banking system.
DAB has no comment or observations to engaging the World Bank in preparation and monitoring
of the project accomplishment.
Director:
Marijan Marinko Filipovie, M. Sc.
Zagreb, June 7, 2002
CNB OPINION ABOUT THE WORLD BANK'S FINAL DRAFT REPORT ON EFSAL*
The WB's report on EFSAL mostly relates to the issues beyond the domain of HNB (Croatian
National Bank). In several points, however, it addresses banking sector and the HNB itself.
-18-



Generally, the report is acceptable, although from the perspective of the HNB some minor
corrections might be welcome.
Annex 1, p. 3: It is about various preliminary groundwork/accomplishments related to the
program in the banking sector and supervision. This, apparently, old text that has been only partly
updated requires full updating, primarily in the following points:
*     The issues related to Istarska banka were resolved long time ago. This bank now normally
operates. Present tense in the whole text should be replaced by perfect. I think the whole
discussion about this bank can be made shorter.
*     Rijeeka, Splitska and Privredna banks had successful performance both in the year 2000
and 2001.
*     Abbreviations CNB and NBC, denoting one and the same term, also show that the text
has not been updated (in the first part of the text used are English and Croatian abbreviations
BRA and DAB, respectively).
* The document does not have any indication as to when it was written, except for two dates when it was faxed
from one office to another (June 14 from Governor's office and June 17 from Ministry of Finance, respectively)
- 19 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
.T   _:.7;  L  -       -           -..PS; aiIaSR f ..R Ib   t  4A.t9;lti1                   E    slridute
Assessment of the success in          HT - privatizabon of 51% completed    HZ - Implementation of restructuring has
implementation of the restructuring plans of  HZ - restructuring strategy approved by  begun with the reduction of staff
the selected public enterprises.      Parliament                            HEP - unbundling of HEP is being
HEP - enabling legistration for restructuring implemented and privatization advisers being
and privatizatlon approved            hired
INA - non-core assets divested       INA - privatization process has begun
Containment of losses of the selected public PEs have a combined operating surplus  PEs have a combined operating surplus
enterprises at 1.5% of GDP in 1997 and 1%
in 1998.
Substantial completion of the privatization of INA, which accounts for the majority of  CPF is offering for sale the non-core assets
non-core assets of the selected public  combined non-core assets of the PEs, has  of HEP and HZ
enterprises (INA).                    completed the divestment of its non-core
assets.
HEP and HZ have unbundled the non-core
assets which are being privatized by CPF
Privatization of at least 20% of the aggregate 51% of HT have been sold to Deutsch  Privatization of INA has commenced and
share capital of the selected public  Telecom accounting for 20% of aggregate  HEP is being unbundled in preparation for
enterprises.                          share capital of selected public enterprises  privatization
Establishment of the regulatory framework  This has been completed.         This has been completed.
and a regulatory authority for public utilities.
Output Indicators:
:  i-4 --Indlu at       . - M .  | -  .   P- i jectwnwllast PSR     .           Actual/Uatest Estimate  --
End of project
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost b Cor onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
i l Ia                 i     w    of.,~~~~~~wi
95.00           95.00
Total Baseline Cost                                   95.00           95.00
Total Project Costs              95.00
Total Financing Required               95.00          95.00
-21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
() Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identfflcatfon/Preparation
May 1994                    14    1 Mission Leader
2 Economists
4 Enterprise Specialists
4 Banking Specialists
2 Social Sector Specialists
I Tax Specialist
October 1994                10   I Mission Leader
3 Economist
3 Enterprise Specialists
3 Banking Specialists
Appraisal/Negotiation
March 1995                   9    1 Mission Leader/Economist
I Economist
3 Enterprise Specialists
2 Banking Specialists
2 Operations Specialists
December 1995                6    1 Mission Leader/Economist
I Economist
2 Enteprise Specialists
2 Banking Specialists
April 1996                   2    1 Economist
I Social Sector Specialist
July 1996                    1    1 Economist
December 1996                1    1 Economist
March 1997                   2    1 Economist
I Enterprise Specialist
Supervision
December 1997                3    1 FSD Specialist                   S             S
I Financial Analyst
I Operations Analyst
June 1998                    4    1 Sector Leader                    S             S
I FSD Specialist
I Financial Analyst
I Economist
November 1998                5   2 FSD Specialists                   S             S
I Financial Analyst
2 Economists
June 1999                    5   2 FSD Specialists                   S             S
I PSD Specialist
I Regulatory Specialist
I Economist
October 1999                 2    1 FSD Specialist                   S             S
I PSD Specialist
June 2000                    2    1 FSD Specialist                   U             S
- 23 -



1 Energy Specialist
October 2000                4   1 PSD/FSD Sepcialist               S            S
1 Energy Specialist
1 Telecom Specialist
1 Operations Officer
June 2001                   3    1 PSD/FSD Specialist              S             S
1 Energy Sepcialist
1 Operations Officer
ICR
May 2002                    3    1 FSD/PSD Specialist              S             S
1 Energy Specialist
1 Operations Officer
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimhate
No. Staff weeks              US$ cooo)
Identification/Preparation                                          898
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision                                                         556
ICR                                                                  22
Total                                                              1476
-24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
E Macro policies                      OH OSU*M        ON O NA
FI Sector Policies                    O H  O SU O M   O N O NA
LI Physical                           OH .OSUOM O N        * NA
O Financial                           OH   OSUOM      ON * NA
L Institutional Development           0 H  O SU * M   0 N 0 NA
LI Environmental                      O H  OSUOM O N       * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction             O H OSUOM       O N  * NA
L Gender                        OH   OSUOM      O N  * NA
I Other (Please specify)        O H O SU O M    O N  * NA
L Private sector development          0 H O SU 0 M 0 N 0 NA
L Public sector management            0 H  O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
LIOther (Please specify)              OH OSUOM ON          O NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
O Lending                                          OHS OS OU OHU
E Supervision                                      OHS OS       O U   O HU
O Overall                                          OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
Ol Preparation                                     OHS OS       OU    O HU
El Government implementation performance           O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
El Implementation agency performance               O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
El Overall                                         OHS OS       O U   O HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan President's Report
Loan Agreement
Request for Board Waiver and Release of Second Tranche
Aide Memoires
Project Supervision Reports
TAL-1 and TAL-2 Project Documents
Matrix of Key Performance Indicators
Specific Actions Taken to Meet Second Tranche Conditions Specified in Schedule 3 of the
Loan Agreement
|COMPONENT ITRANCHE RELEASE CONDITIONS                                                              STATUS
Privatizatlon of  Privatization of at least 50 (fifty) percent of  As of December 31, 1994, the nominal value of the share capital held by CPF was DM6.6
Formally          FSOEs shared capitil owned by CPF as of      biflion. As of June 29, 2001, the book value of share capital was about DM1.0 billion,
State-Owned       December 31, 1994                            about 15 percent of the end-1994 vahle. The privatization target of 50o was met when the
Enterprises                                                    CPF rsidual portfolio fell to less that DM3.3 billion in book value.
(FSOEs)
Satisfactory implementation of the mass     The mass privatization program was carried out during the period 1996-98 and has been
privatization program                       completed. There were several voucher based auctions that involved the privatization of 471
companies with voucher holders participating mainly through the seven Privatization
Investrent Funds.
Privatizatlon of  Privatization of 13 (thirteen) enterprises    This condition was parially fulfilled because of global market conditions which developed
Formally          restuctred under the provisions of the        after the Loan was negotiated and which have made it impossible to privatze all of the 13
State-Owned       Borrower's Law on the Rehabilitation of Selected  enterprises. Specifically, eight enterprise have been either privatized or placed under
Enterprises       Enterprises of August 7, 1995 (official Gazette,  bankruptcy procedures. For the five remaining enterprises, which are the shipyards, the sale
(FSOEs)           56/95)                                        of one shipyard-Krijevica-is underway; however the privatization of the remaining four
shipyards will not be feasible for the foreseeable future, mainly because of global market
conditions, but in the context of Croatia's overall privatization program, which is
progressing satisfactorily, the sale of these shipyards is not significant
-27-



COMPONENT          TRANCHE RELEASE CONDITIONS                                                  STATUS
Re    cturing      Appointment of advisors for privatization of  . Privatization advisors appointed: Schroders for HPT; Deutsche
and Privatzation   INA, HEP and HPT; and privatization of at least  Bank/PriceWaterhouseCoopers for iNA; and Norton Rose/NERA/Paribas for HEP
of Public          20 (twenty) percent of the aggregate share  * Sales of 51% of HT to Deutsche Telecom brought the privatized share of the aggregate
EnterprIses        capital of INA,HEP and HPT.                 capital of INA, HEP and HPT to 20 percent
* Privatization Act for INA Oil and HEP approved on March 19 and 25, 2002, respectively.
Enactment of regulations providing an adequate  * Telecommunications Law enacted in July 1999; energy legislation enacted in July 2001
regulatory framework for provision of public  comprising one core energy law and four auxiliary laws for electricity market, gas market,
services in the electricity and            oil products, and energy regulation.
telecommunications sectors by private entities;  Two separate regulatory authorities established: (i) one for telecommunications,
and establishment of a regulatory authority in  comprising the Croatian Institute of Telecommunications (January 2000) and the
these sectors.                              Telecommunications Council (July 2000); and (ii) the Croatian Energy Regulatory
Council (July 2001)
Submission to the Bank of satisfactory evidence   * Regulatoryframework - established. Conducive for competition (including
that: (i) restructuring of iNA has been    third-party access-TPA), and private sector participation, and broadly
substantially completed, (ii) reorganization of  consistent with EU energy directives.
HEP and HPT has been completed; and (iii) a  * INA (oil & gas) - Substantially completed. 62% of oil transmission and 100%
restructuring plan for HZ, satisfactory to the  of gas transmission businesses were divested to the State in two separate
Bank, has started to be implemented         companies (JANAF and PLINACRO, respectively), allowing TPA. Remaining
core businesses are legally and financially separated. Further restructuring plan
is underway to reduce losses in refining business, rationalize retail business and
address staff redundancy.
* HEP (electricity) - Reorganization underway. Electricity Act sets a timetable
for HEP unbundling. Assets, liabilities and staff are being allocated to each of the
successor companies already legally established. A new Independent System and
Market Operator company was created.
* HPT (post and telecommunications) - Reorganiation Completed. Two
separate companies (HP-post and HT-telecommunications) established, of which
one (HT) has been privatized.
* HZ (railways) - Restructuring underway. A Strategy for the Restructuring and
Modernization of the Croatian Railways, satisfactory to the Bank, was approved
by the Parliament on and is being implemented under the Bank-financed Railway
Modermization Project
Substantial completion of privatization of the  This conditionality requiring the privatization of HRK2.95 billion non-core assets of
non-core activities of Public Enterprises   Public Enterprises was substantially completed. Specifically, iNA and HT complied with
this condition, whereas both HEP and HZ are implementing plans for the privatization of
their non-core activities in accordance with existing legislation.
* INA. iNA had divested a total of HRK3.6 billion of non-core assets, exceeding
the amount required by the conditionality for all PEs.
* HT. With the sale of 51 percent of HT to Deutsche Telecom, HT's non-core
assets can be considered privatized.
* HEP. District heating, gas distribution, and telecommunications activities were
registered as separate subsidiaries in preparation for their evenual privatization.
Other non-core assets, including recreation facilities, were transferred to CPF,
which has initiated their subsequent privatization.
* HZ. A restructuring plan of non-core assets was implemented, which resulted in
the establishment and incorporation of 7 non-core subsidiaries (covering
recreation facilities, wagon cleaning, fire/security, printing, and maintenance of
railway tracks and rolling stocks), in preparation of their privatization. HZ's real
estates valued at Euro5O min were transferred to CPF, and privatization proceeds
will support HT restructuring.
Submission to the Bank of satisfactory evidence  The cash operating losses (cash operating expenditures net of depreciation less operating
that the operating cash losses of Public    revenues net of subsidies received) equivalent to 0.9 percent of GDP in 1997 have been
Enterprises have been limited to one (1) percent  turned around, and the ten public enterprises produced a combined operating surplus of 2.2
of the Borrower's gross national product (GNP)  percent of GDP in 1999, 1.9 percent in 2000, and a surplus is projected for 2001. The
and have been financed from the Borrower's  Ministry of Finance has certified that the losses were financed from State budget and from
budget                                     the equity of the enterprises that generated the losses.
- 28 -



| COMPONENT I TRANCHE RELEASE CONDITIONS                                                       STATUS
Rehabilitation    Issuance of the tender for privatization of  In December 1999, 66.3 percent ownership of Privredna Banka Zagreb was sold to Banco
and Privatizatlon  Privredna Banka Zagreb and privatization of at  Credito D'Italia. Out of the five banks whose shares were held by BRA at end-1996, four
of Problem Banks  least one-third of the aggregate share capital of  banks (Privredna Banka Zagreb, Splitska Banka, and Rijecka Banka) accounting for more
and Enterprises   the commercial banks owned by BRA as of   than 90 percent of total aggregate paid in capital of the five banks were privatized.
December 31, 1996                         International tender for the remaining bank has been issued.
Submission to the Bank of satisfactory evidence  The resolution of the non performing loan problems of the three banks was completed in
that BRA and three major commercial banks:  1998. These banks were privatized and in 2000 showed positive net income in their audited
Privredna Banka Zagreb, Splitska Banka and  financial statements.
Rijecka Banka, have effectively resolved their
non-performing loans
Incentive         Submission to the Bank of satisfactory evidence  The conditionality was premised on the banks being state owned. Not only were the extemal
Framework for     that, upon carrying out of an external audit of  audits of the banks carried out, but the banks were also privatized and are currently subject
Enterprises and   Rijecka Banka, Splitska Banka and Privredna  to HNB regulation and supervision. The banks showed positive net incomes for 2000 and
Banks             Banka Zagreb in accordance with the temis of  2001.
reference agreed with the Bank, their operational
restrcturing has been substantially completed.
Carrying out of an extemal audit of Istarska  T'is conditionality was premised on the bank being state owned. Istarska Banka has been
Banka in accordance with the terms of reference  privatized and is currently subject to HNB regulation and supervision. Istarska Banka
agreed with the Bank and reaching an      currently operates as a normal bank and meets HNB regulatons.
agreement with the Bank on a restructuring plan
for Istarska Banka, if such a plan is requested by
the Bank upon review of the audit reporn
Submission to the Bank of satisfactory evidence  All of the relevant regulations have been issued by the HNB and are available both in the
that commercial banks have effectively    Official Gazette and at the HNB website (www.hnb.hr). The HNB has been ensuring that
implemented the HNB regulations on interest  the commercial banks implement the abovementioned regulations through both on-site and
suspension and reversal, determination of bank  off-site supervision.
capital and debt classification and provisioning;
and issuance by NBC of prudential and
accounting regulations satisfactory to the Bank.
Completion of ajoint review with the Bank of the The joint Bank-Fund Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) mission in
supervisory capacity of HNB and, if requested by  September2001 made an assessment of the compliance by the HNB with the
the Bank after said review, submission to the Bark Basle Core Principles for Effective Banking Supervision. The findings indicate
of an action plan to reflect the recommnendations of that the most important principles have been observed or broadly observed. The
said review.                              HNB has also implemented its institutional development plan covering
Banking Control and Supervision and continues to improve its supervisory and
prudential enforcement capacity.
Submission to the Bank of an action plan,  The Law on State Agency for Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation was passed in
satisfactory to the Bank, regarding the   1997 and the Board of the Agency issued a Bylaw on Deposit Insurance in 1997. In the
introduction of deposit insurance in the banking  course of 1999 and 2000, the Government made substantial payouts to depositors in failed
sector.                                   banks using the new system, which was prior action for the ongoing Standby Arrangement.
FIscal Costs of   Submission to the Bank of satisfictory evidence  The MoF has submitted a certification and documentation on the amount allocated in the
the Program       that adequate allocations have been made in the  1998 budget covering the restructuring program. HRK348 billion was allocated in 1998 for
Borrower's 1998 budget in support of the  the rehabilitation program of which HRK 306 billion was spent on repayment of principal
Program.                                  and interest on State Bank Rehabilitation Agency bonds. These amounts were adequate.
- 29 -






r MAGING
Report No.:       24412
Type:    ICR



