Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6844 HR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF DEM160 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
April 9, 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Unit of currency: Croatian Kuna (HRK)
Period Average Exchange Rate:
(per one US$)
1994   1995  1996  Dec./1996
5.99   5.23   5.43    5.54
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRA          Bank Rehabilitation Agency
CMEA         Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
CPF          Croatian Privatization Fund
DEM          Deutsche Marks
DFI          Direct Foreign Investment
EFSAL        Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FIAS         Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FSOEs        Formerly Socially-owned Enterprises
FY           Fiscal Year
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
INA          Industrija Nafte d.d. (Croatian oil conglomerate)
HC           Hrvatske Ceste (Croatian Road Company)
HEP           Hrvatska Elektroprivredna (Croatian Electricity Company)
HPT           Hrvatska Posta i Telekomunikacije (Croatian Post and Telecommunication Company)
HZ            Hrvatske Zeljeznice (Croatian Railways)
IMF          International Monetary Fund
MoP          Ministry of Privatization
NBC          National Bank of Croatia
ORESE        Office for Restructuring and Economics of State-owned Enterprises
PEs          Public Enterprises
PSAL          Public Sector Adjustment Loan
SCL          Single Currency Loan
SFRY         Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
TAL          Technical Assistance Loan
ULC          Unit Labor Cost
UNPAs        United Nations Protected Areas
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President       Johannes Linn, ECA
Acting Director      Hans Apitz, EC2
Division Chief       Michel Noel, EC2CO
Task Manager         Olivier Godron, EC2CO



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CROATIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN SUMMARY ..............i
INTRODUCTION ..............I
1. BACKGROUND .............................,....,..,,..,,..,..,..,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,...........,,..,,..
11. PROGRESS AND ISSUES WITH ENTERPRISE AND BANK REFORM .....................................5
A.    Ownership and Governance Issues .................  ........................................5
B.     Soft Budget Constraints .........................................................B8
C.    The Banking System Crisis ......................................................... 10
111. THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM ..........................................................  11
A.  Medium-term Macroeconomic Framework                         .II
B.    Privatization of Former Socially-owned Enterprises .12
C.    Public Enterprise Privatization and Reform .15
D.    Rehabilitation and Privatization of Problem Banks/Enterprises .17
E.     Incentive Framework for Enterprises and Banks .21
F.  Fiscal Costs of the Program .23
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN ....................              ..24
A. Loan Amount and Borrower .24
B.  Loan Design and Components .24
C.  Lending and Administrative Arangements .24
D.  Release of Funds and Disbursements.                                            25
E. Accounts and Audits .25
F.   Environmental Assessment Requirements .25
G. Benefits and Risks .25
V. RECOMMENDATION ................... 26
ANNEXES
1.     Statistical Tables and Figures
II.    Letter of Development Policy
Ill.    Matrix of Key Policy Actions
SCHEDULES
A.    Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
B.     Status of Bank Operations
C.    Country at a Glance
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



List of Boxes
Box 1: Croatia at a Glance ................................................                                                                         lI
Box 2: Five Years for a 'Normalization' .................................................2
Box 3: Enterprise Privatization  in Croatia .................................................6
Box 4: Croatia's Banking System  ................................................ 10
List of Tables
Table 1: Croatia: Main Economic Indicators .................................................3
Table 2: Distribution  of the Share Capital of FSOEs .................................................7
Table 3: Main Monetary and Credit Aggregates ................................................                                                     II
Table 4: A Medium-Term Scenario ................................................                                                                  12
Table 5: Croatia - Fiscal Costs of Enterprise and Bank Restructuring ................................................  24
List of Graphs
Supply Side Indicators in Selected Central European Economies:
Graph  1: Industrial Productivity (1989=100) .................................................4
Graph 2: Industrial Employment (1989=100) .................................................4
Graph 3: Industrial Output (1989=100) .................................................4
Graph 4: Exports of Goods in Current US$ (1992=100) ................................................4
Graph 5: Real Wages (1989=100) .................................................4
Graph 6: Real ULC (1989=100) .................................................4



REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan Summary
Borrower:                   Republic of Croatia
Beneficiaries:              Not applicable
Amount:                     DEM160 million (US$95 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard interest rate for LIBOR-based Single Currency (SCL) Loan in
Deutsche Marks (DEM), with a maturity of up to 15 years with 5 years
grace period for the level repayment of principal.
Conuiitmnent Fee:           0.75 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Objectives and Description:   The principal objective of the proposed loan is to support Croatia's
efforts to implement effective reform of its enterprise and banking
sectors. The loan would provide fast-disbursing funds for balance of
payment assistance in support of the Government's reform program. The
Government, in cooperation with the Bank and the IMF, would aim at
maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework within which essential
structural reforms can be implemented.  The main elements of the
enterprise and financial sector reform  program  include:  (i) the
accelerated privatization of the former socially-owned enterprises; (ii)
the restructuring and privatization of public enterprises;  (iii) the
rehabilitation and privatization of the banking system; (iv) key elements
of the enabling environment for enhanced corporate and bank
governance; and (v) the fiscal measures in support of the above reforms.
Benefits and Risks:         The loan would support the achievement of a major breakthrough in
Croatia's enterprise and banking sector reform, that also constitutes a key
condition to the maintenance of monetary and fiscal stability, and to the
resumption of sustained growth. The loan would support an accelerated
program of enterprise privatization, including the large public utilities,
that would yield efficiency gains in the economy and spur growth. By
supporting enterprise restructuring, including the rapid reduction of their
losses, the loan would also help free resources for projects of much
higher returns, and bring about lower levels of interest rates. It would,
finally, support a program of bank reform, including privatization and the
overhaul of the incentive framework, designed to preserve financial
discipline, and to ensure that Croatia's scarce resources are effectively
allocated to the most dynamic enterprises.



- ii -
The risks affecting the implementation of the reform program are
twofold.  First, competing claims on the budget, on account of
reconstruction, demobilization, and the resettlement of displaced persons,
could lead the Government to under-provide for the fiscal costs of bank
and  enterprise  restructuring.   Under such  circumstances, fiscal
constraints could lead to a 'gradualist' reform scenario implying a loss of
credibility, the recurrence of financial troubles in parts of the banking
and the enterprise sectors and, ultimately, higher costs to the budget.
This risk is mitigated by the loan conditionality and by the development
of a comprehensive program of public sector reforms, including
expenditure reallocation across spending programs, to be supported by
the recently approved Extended Arrangement with the IMF and the
proposed PSAL. The second risk, partly related to the fiscal issue, is the
possibility of a loss of macroeconomic control that would result from
excessive wage awards, leading to a loss of competitiveness, external
imbalances and the resumption of inflation. Under the IMF Extended
Arrangement, the Government has committed to implement policies that
have been designed to prevent such macroeconomic imbalances from
developing. Among these are the containment of wage increases in the
public sector, the improvement of fiscal management and institutions, and
the continuation of a stringent monetary management.
Disbursements:              The loan will be released in two equal tranches of DEM80 million
(US$47.5 million equivalent). The second tranche will be released upon
satisfaction of the conditions detailed in Annex 3. Release of the second
tranche is expected to follow disbursement of the first tranche by
approximately eighteen months.
Rate of Return:             Not applicable
Poverty Category:           Not applicable
Appraisal Report:           Not applicable
Project ID Number:          8327



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
INTRODUCTION
1.     I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Enterprise and
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL) to the Republic of Croatia in the amount of DEM160 mnillion
to support a comprehensive program of enterprise and financial sector reforms. The loan would be at the
Bank's standard amortization term, grace period, and interest rate for LIBOR-based single currency loans
with an expected disbursernent of 0-3 years, and would be disbursed in two equal tranches of DEM80
million.
I. BACKGROUND
2.     The Republic of Croatia (see key features in             B  1: Coi at a lc
<   ' '   -   '       SA'AN                    ~~~~~~~~~~~Box. 1 Croatia at a G:lance  .- -: ............'  
Box 1) joined the Bank in February 1993, as a
successor State to the Socialist Federal Republic of    Economy: second richest republic of the former.SFR,
Yugoslavia (SFRY). Eight Bank loans have been    apercapita income equiYaienttoUS$3,70,and GDPof
approved since then, for a total of about US$420     about LS 1   .   (19)    uut    st   '.-
manufacturing . 30%. (major sub-sectorsmhpyrs
million. The proposed EFSAL, which is the first    textiles, oil. chemicals, and agroindustrwes), agri --tur.
adjustment operation in Croatia, is the centerpiece of    10%,. services 6p%. Exports and imports of o
the country assistance strategy (CAS) discussed by   services total about 90% of GDP. An increasing p .i,.'
the Executive Directors on April 20, 1995 (Report    tade (70 rcent) is wt Weste  conomies.
No. 14088-HR).  The EFSAL contributes to the         Political system: the Constitution of 1990 estlish.es.
strategy by supporting the Government's efforts to   Croatia as a Republic. The president, elected for: five
restructure and privatize state-owned banks and      year-s  appoitsias. the  Prime Minister . i   key
Governunent official's. The Parliament, electdfrfu
enterprises.                                         years, comprises a I6wer and an upper house
administration inclides municipalities and disti,t -
Stabilization and Recovery                           Terdtoiy: 56;500 km. NeighborsP Slovenia, y,
Federal Republic of. Yugoslavia (FRY), and l osia-
3.     Croatia  has  successfully  overcome  the    Herzegovina. Adriatic coastline of more the;1:,000.
multiple shocks experienced as a result of the    kin.
circumstances of independence (Box 2) and the war    Population: 4.8 rmillion. (latest census 1991), Vit cludg
situation that ensued, including: the collapse of the  a Serb minority (11% before the war)...
former Yugoslavia and the dernise of the Council of
Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) trading
arrangements; the loss of control over strategic portions of the territory; extensive destruction inflicted to
the capital stock, particularly infrastructure; and large inflows of refugees and displacement of Croatian
populations. This exceptional combination of supply and demand shocks led, during 1991-93, to a sharp
recession, pressures on the fiscal and external accounts, and an acceleration of the inflation inherited from.
the forner SFRY (Table 1).
4.     Against these formidable odds, recent economic performance has been impressive. Fiscal and
external imbalances were eliminated by the end of 1993, allowing the Govermnent to launch a decisive



2
:Box 2: Five Years for a 'Normalization'
From war to .peace. Croatia declared independence from: the -SFRY in June: 19911 as did Slovenia. The Government was
immediately confronteti with the-de facto seion of°e Croatian Serb minority (1 I percent of pre-independence population),
in areas close to thei border with the :Republic dofBosnia and 4erzegovina and to: the FRY. Although these territories were
designated as four UVnited: Nations Protected Areas (UNPA:in  January 1992, they remained the theater of sporadic hostilities
-until the 'Washington  ements' of March 1994, which provided'for a cease-fire with the Croat Serb leaders. It was not until
mid-1995, however, that the Government regained control:ovewrthreelofthe four UNPAs through militarymeans. As to the last
UNPA (Eastern Slavonia), an-agreement concluded on the side 'of the: Daytn ngotiations on Bosnia calls for return to
Croatian rule after a transitional period under international administration,. which is. expected:to end in mid- 1997.
Economic reintegration. :The resolution: of the :terr.itorial issue, and' the returnmto peace in:the region, have improved Croatia's
economic prospects, although: the: serious challenge'of reconstruction remains -to be fully ]addressed. The main surface
communicationklinjcs within.the country, between north and south, and eastand west, arenow reestablished after four years of
interruption. Tourism inflows, which had dropped tobiOpercent ofthevpre-warlevels -up to,10Opercent of GDP.--are on their
way to*recovery. .:And: the resettlement of 200,000 displaced Croats -: 4 percent of'the population-has started. The'main
challenge lies in the magnitude of the reconstruction7 needs, once estimated: at 70 percent of GDP by Croatian officials, and
certainly equivalent to 20-25 percent of GDP for,'core'oprograms such as key infrastructure links and the housing stock.
Regaining access to international financial markets.- -Croatia has now -successfully regained faccess to the international
financial markets, a prospect that seemed: remote at the time of independence. In 1991, the country lost access o its notionalI
share of the Federation's foreign exhangereserves,. which were: kept by Belgde Croatia:had to suspend debt:service to most.
creditors, particul'arly theIParisand -the London, Clubs. :':Because. of te accumulation of arrears, and' te legal and practical
obstacles :encountered in alloting :the: forer ,Yugoslava'is foreig d,e.bt to itssuccessor States,: Croatia was virtually isolated:
from internaional:financial markets at a critical juncture.. Notle exceptions werethe Interrational Financial institutions, once.
m- ebership was achieved:in 1993. The situation improved dramatically starting in:1995 ::An agrement was.reached with the.
Paris Club creditors .on Mrch2i2 1995, pavfng the way for-bil ateralareements, someofwhich are still in the process of being
finalizds. NegotiatioDns: wth the  Lndonilub were more ao  bcau   ofe'eral' and jint liability' clas  but were
concluded jin MMay 1.9969;6 n' 1996, Croatia successfully" l anched two initialpublic offerinngsin the: London: Stock Exchange
-(one enteprsep :oneb ank). nliate 1.996, it also'otaie E an investefnt grade  ing   m three internatiral 'ig  ie
and proceededwith is first euroodissue.: The stiatus -'the-'frmer SPIRYs intemational reserves,:estimat  at about US$5
billion equivalent at the :time of independen'pe, is:.still-.under discussion, :underthe auspices of    nternational Conference on
Former 'YugsaIa'
attack on the inflation front. The exchange rate-based package of October 1993 was fully successful in
stabilizing prices, whose annual increase has not exceeded 4 percent for three consecutive years, as well as
the exchange rate. Growth, which resumed at a modest speed in 1994-95, accelerated to 6 percent in 1996
and is expected to continue at the same pace in 1997. The credibility of recent macroeconomic policies is
demonstrated by a marked modification of the public's expectations, leading to increases in money demand,
reverse currency substitution, and a steady build up of National Bank of Croatia's (NBC) foreign exchange
reserves (Table 1).
Is the Recent Growth Sustainable?
5.      Welcome as it is, the recent recovery of GDP does not imply that Croatia has entered a cycle of
sustained growth. Specific factors, the start of reconstruction and the recovery of tourism, have been the
principal reasons for this outcome. And investrnent and savings levels have deteriorated or continued to
stagnate during the recent years. To this point, Croatia's supply response experience has been less
impressive than that of other successful transition economies' and differs from  it in two very substantial
aspects: productivity recovered much less and later, and real wages recovered much faster (Graphs I and
I       Many of these economies also experienced a sequence of deep recession and macroeconomic imbalances, followed by
stabilization. Once stabilization was achieved, however, the successful reformers were able to gradually enter a virtuous cycle of
recovery of output and productivity, supporting increases in real wages, national savings, and investment.



3
5). Productivity gains in Croatia were not limited by the lack of adjustment in employment, but rather by
the sluggishness of output (Graphs 2 and 3). Industrial output has not yet recovered in any meaningful
way, except for the sectors linked to the reconstruction effort, and export performance has been
disappointing (Graph 4). In this context, the strong recovery of real wages and consumption has resulted
in a deterioration of national savings and external accounts which creates, in turn, serious constraints for
future growth: while unused capacities and efficiency gains can support an initial economic recovery, as
was the case in 1996, there is little doubt that Croatia's savings and investment levels will have to
increase well above their current levels -- 9 and 16 percent of GDP, respectively, in 1996 -- if long-term
growth is to materialize.
Table 1: Croatia: Main Economic Indicators
t991    192      193      1194  1X6  f_
Real Sector
Real GDP growth (at market prices)                  -18.9   -2.1     -2.5      6.0       2.6       5.5
Real GDP growth (at factor costs)                   -17.3   -9.0     -3.5      0.5       2.3       5.0
Growth of industrial output                         -28.5   -14.6    -6.0      -2.6      0.3       3.1
National savings (percentage of GDP)                0.5     22.2      15.3     14.3      4.5       9.0
Investment (percentage of GDP)                      11.3    13.8      14.4     13.6      14.0      16.0
External Sector
Merchandise exports (US$ growth)                    -18.1   3971    -15.1    9.1         8.7       -2.6
Merchandise imports (US$ growth)                    -26.2   16.5 '    4.6      12.1      43.6      3.7
Current account (percentage of GDP)                 -4.8    8.3       0.9      0.7       -9.5      -7.0
Total gross reserves *                                ..    0.1       0.8      1.7       2.2       2.6
Fiscal Sector (consolidated Central Government)
Expenditures (percent of GDP)                       39.0    37.2      32.6     41.8      46.7      47.3
Balance (percent of GDP)                            -5.2    -4.0     -0.8      1.5       -0.9     -0.5
Monetary Sector
Retail prices (e.o.p.), percentage increase         249.5   937.3    1149.7  -3.0        3.7       3.4
Broad money, percentage increase                            -35.4    -17.8    77.8       36.2      42.6
* In months' imports G&S, central bank only
Note: 1) Starting in 1992, data include trade with former Yugoslavia, mainly Slovenia
Source: CBS, NBC, and World Bank estimates.
6.      Why has not Croatia yet experienced the virtuous circle observed in other transition economies?
Beyond the specific constraints resulting from the war-like situation that prevailed until 1995, the answer
is twofold. First, the size and the structure of Croatian public finances have contributed to depress
savings and dampen growth. War-related, and social expenditure have not only propelled public
expenditure to high levels -- close to 50 percent of GDP -- but crowded out investment programs, and
contributed to delay the full overhaul of a distortionary tax system. Second, Croatia has been slower
than other transition countries at implementing some of the microeconomic reforms that have, elsewhere,
improved allocative efficiency and generated 'quick' productivity gains. This issue is discussed in more
depth in the next section.



4
Supply Side Indicators in Selected Central European Economies
Graph 1: Industrial productivity                                   Graph 2: Industrial employment
(1989= 100)                                                        (1989 = 100)
100 
130
90
110                                                       CZE 80 ;-CZE
- - SLK                                                             -O--SLK
-0-POL
--POL        70HU
90                                                  -HUN                                                                  NOCRO
-'*CRO          60
50        I            I                   I
1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996                      1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996
(6 months)                                                          (6 months)
Graph 3: Industrial output                                   Graph 4: Exports of Goods in Current US$
(1989 = 100)                                                         (1992=100)
110                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~200
1001 
175
--CZE                                                           -O CZE
80      1       9        2         19                     SLK       150      -9-- SLK
70 --O-- POL                                                                                                            -HUN
-HUN   125                                                          -CR
60                                                   -*(--CRO                                                           -I-R
50                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~100
40        I     I      I      I     I75
1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996                       1992       1993       1994       1995       1996
(6 months)      I
Graph 5: Real wages                                                   Graph 6: Real ULC
110               ~~~(1989 =100)                              10(1 989 = 100)
100 
120
90                                                                  10
80                                                  --O--CZE        100CZ
-0-- SLK                                                             -3SL
70                                                  -0-<-POL         80                                                 -O     O
-HUN                                                                      HU
60                                                   -    CR                                                             -     CR
60
50
40                                                                   4
1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996                       1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996
(6 months)                                                              (6
CZE - Czech Republic; SLK - Slovakia; POL - Poland; HUN - Hungary; CR0 - Croatia



5
II. PROGRESS AND ISSUES WITH ENTERPRISE AND BANK REFORM
7.      Croatia's disappointing supply response is associated with three microeconomic factors. First,
the least efficient enterprises remain in the public sector and have not been induced to adjust to the new
market conditions by their owner. Second, these enterprises have often been allowed to operate under
'soft budget constraints', particularly those resulting from their cross-ownership links with the banking
system. Finally, the banking system has become an obstacle to growth in its own right: non-performing
loans to troubled enterprises have artificially inflated demand for credit, and contributed to raising the
level of interest rates, and to limiting the availability of credit for sounder borrowers.
A.      Ownership and Governance Issues
8.      Croatia's enterprise sector underwent profound transformations during the past five years: the
newly established ('new') private enterprises and privatized enterprises have grown to account each for
broadly one-third of sales and employment, shrinking commensurately the share of publicly-owned
enterprises (Annex I, Fig. 3.1 and 3.2). This remarkable evolution is due to two parallel developments,
almost of equal importance. First, the full liberalization of entry requirements, after independence, unleashed
an impressive growth of new private enterprises. By December 1995, their number had increased six-fold (to
56,000 units), and their share in enterprise sales and employment reached 38 and 23 percent, respectively.
Second, the Croatian authorities have been successful at moving away from the so-called 'social ownership'2,
and advancing enterprise privatization. Under the Law on the Transformation of Socially-owned Enterprises
('the Transfonnation Law') of 1991, they have privatized about half (in terms of employment or sales) of the
enterprises inherited from the former Yugoslavia (Box 3 and Annex I, Table 5). Croatia's enterprise sector is
now comprised of three subsets of roughly equal weight: state-owned, privatized and 'new' enterprises.
9.      While overall enterprise performance has been mediocre, it has also been very uneven across
these three segments. Private enterprises fared considerably better than publicly-owned enterprises, by
most available measures: profitability (Annex I, Fig. 3.3 and 3.4), sales per capita (Fig. 3.5), and growth
in real sales (Fig. 3.6). Within private enterprises, the performance of privatized companies was less
impressive than that of the 'new' private enterprises. This may reflect, in part, scattered ownership
structures and the slow emergence of a strong governance after privatization3. Yet, the performance of
privatized enterprises contrasts sharply with that of publicly-owned enterprises which, for instance,
account for an overwhelming share of corporate losses4. Of course, the strong correlation between
enterprise ownership and performance does not imply one-way causality. Many enterprises remain
publicly-owned because they were less attractive to private investors in the first instance. Obstacles to
their divestiture include, for instance, obsolete or oversized facilities, excess employment, and the loss of
2       Under the former SFRY's 'social ownership' system, ownership rights belonged to the 'society', that is, to no clearly
identified owner. In practice, day-to-day management was entrusted to 'Boards of Associated Labor', a combination of
employees and managers.
3       Past privatization policies resulted in a very high degree of popular ownership (Box 3, and Annex Table 5), with
640,000 small shareholders purchasing about two-thirds of the shares sold by the State. As a result, the ownership of privatized
enterprises is extremely dispersed, and may be less profit-oriented than that of strategic investors would be. This currently
dispersed ownership need not remain as a long-term obstacle to enterprise governance, however, provided an adequate securities
market framework is established, and ownership structures are allowed to evolve over time.
4       In the aggregate, i.e., after consolidation of loss-making and profit-making enterprises, corporate losses totalled 4 and
6 percent of GDP in 1994 and 1995, respectively. Gross losses (loss-makers only) stood at 7 and 10 percent of GDP,
respectively. The analysis of losses by ownership status of enterprises indicates that these losses are overwhelmingly
concentrated in publicly-owned enterprises (Annex 1, Fig. 3.3 to 3.6).



6
traditional markets. Yet, the evidence is that public ownership did little to induce these enterprises to
adjust to the new market conditions, as discussed below.
Box 3: Enterprise Privatization in Croatia
Croatia has been successful at moving away from social ownership and at advancing privatization. The Law on the
Transformation of Socia lly-owned Enterprises of 1991 (the 'Transformation Law'), covered most enterprises (about 2,800), with
the significant exception .of I10 large infrastructure and utilities enterprises which :came under ditect State ownership and of
municipal public services. The enterprises covered by the Transformation Law were given one year to transform into joint-
stock companies and, at their Option, to submit a privatization plan. In this first round of privatization, employees had priority
rights for subscribing 0up to DEM20,000 worth of shares each at a discount and wi  the option of deferred payments (at that
time,0 up to five years).^ The discount, 20 percent plus one percent per year of service, reached 40 percent on average. Of the
shares.unsold:after this first stage, one-third was allocated to the Pension Fund. The remaining two-thirds were transferred to a
Government agency, the Croatian Privatization Fund, for privatization through other methods: tenders for large blocks of shares
or negotiatcd dcals with large investors; auctions of small packages: of shares for cash or for frozen foreign exchange deposits;
and swaps by which enterprise creditors could convert their claims into shares.
Virtuallyt all the enterprisest covered by the Transformation Law have been commercialized (2,550 out of 2,800, the other
enterprises being generally located in the occupied territories). As of February 1997, 2,424 or 95 percent of them had been
privatized :(of which 1,417 fuilly-privatized). The share capital of the privatized enterprises represents 90 percent of the share
capital of pnivatizeable enterprses (see Annex 1, Table 61. Because the State retains minority stakes in 1,007 enterprises,
however, the share capital effectively held by private owners is lower, 56 percent of the aggregate. Text Table 2 shows that, of
these :56 percent, 37.5 percent were purchased by small shareholders and employees during the first round of privatization.
Subsequenitly, 8 percent were purchased through debt-to-equity swaps by enterprise creditors, mostly banks. Another 7 percent
were purchased in exchange for citizens' frozen foreign exchange deposits (see main text, pam. I1:). And only a small fraction
(3.? percent) was divested through auctions on the stock market or trade deals. The Pension Fund holds 17.7 percent of the
shares of the former socially-ownzetd enterprises, and the Croatian Pnrvatization Fund 26.1 percent.
Unfinished privatization agenda
10.     The State still owns about one-third of the enterprise sector and large minority stakes in some
1,100 privatized enterprises, for three reasons. First, a group of 10 very large enterprises operating in the
infrastructure and energy sectors was excluded, by design, from the initial scope of privatization
policies5. Instead of falling under the Transformation Law  (see Box 3), these enterprises came under
direct State ownership. In this report, we call them 'public enterprises' (PEs), to differentiate them from
the enterprises covered by the Transformation Law, not yet privatized, which we call 'former socially-
owned  enterprises' (FSOEs).   Second, the Transformation  Law's emphasis on employee buy-outs
facilitated the privatization of the smaller, rather than larger, FSOEs . Third, the privatization of these
larger FSOEs slowed down after insiders had exhausted their priority rights, because the 'second-round'
privatization methods, tenders or auctions carried out through the Stock Exchange, did not prove very
effective. There were, in turn, several reasons for this slowdown. Tenders and auctions have been
hampered by the insistence on high floor prices based on improper valuation methods, and by the
underdevelopment of Croatia's capital markets. No efforts have been made to break up the largest of the
remaining enterprises into smaller, self contained units that might be more easily privatized. This
5       These enterprises account for about 10 percent of sales and employment in the enterprise sector and include, in particular:
INA, a large oil conglomerate and the largest Croatian enterprise; the electricity company (HEP); the railways company (HZ); and
the post and telecommunication company (HPT). Among the reasons for delaying the privatization of these enterprises were their
large size and complex structures; the existence of natural monopolies, requiring adequate regulation prior to privatization; the
damages suffered by many of them during the 1991 war; and the unsettled status of Croatia's foreign debt, much of which is owed by
these enterprises.
6       As an illustration, the economic weight of the 270 companies in which the State retained majority ownership at the end
of 1995, was quite significant: 40 percent of the 'privatizeable equity' and 30 percent of employment (Annex 1, Table 6).



7
particularly hampered, for example, the privatization of the vertically-integrated agriculture enterprises, the
'agrokombinats'. And the operating procedures and capabilities of the Government agency in charge of
sales (the Croatian Privatization Fund) were insufficient to deal with the residual privatization cases.
11.    On a more positive note, the authorities allowed, starting in early 1994, holders of 'frozen'
foreign exchange deposits7 to use them  towards the purchase of FSOE shares. This scheme was very
successful because it helped circumvent price-setting rigidities: a secondary market for foreign exchange
deposits developed, between depositors facing liquidity problems and individuals or entities willing to
purchase enterprise shares at lower than official prices. These swaps contributed to a large extent to the
results of 'second-stage' privatization so far (about US$1,300 million out of total sales of US$1,500
million), and reduced public debt commensurately.
Lack of owner-led restructuring
12.    The State as an owner has                      Table 2: Distribution of the Share Capital
done little to improve the performance          of Former Socially-owned Enterprises* (February 1997)
of the enterprises remaining under its                                            DEM billion    Distribution
control.  As regards FSOEs, a first  Initial equity stock                              24.8          100%
reason for this lack of involvement   Small shareholders and employees                 9.3          37.5%
has been that the shares that were not   Left in CPF portfolio                         6.5          26.1%
sold in the first round were divided    Transferred to Pension Fund                    4.4          17.7%
among two holders: two-thirds went   Debt to equity swaps (mostly bank claims)         2.0           7.9%
to  the  Croatian  Privatization  Fund    Sales for frozen foreign exchange deposits    1.8          7.1%
(CPF), and one third to the Pension    Sales for cash on the stock market              0.5           2.1%
Fund which manages the public pay-   Other                                             0.4           1.6%
Fsyoundwhi   manages theme. public hp     Enterprises covered by the Transformation Law (excluding 'public enterprises')
as-you-go pension scheme. The
Pension Fund, pending a decision as  Source: Croatian Privatization Fund (CPF)
to the purposes for which to use its
equity portfolio°, has been acting as a sleeping partner.  The CPF has a privatization, rather than a
management or restructuring mandate, and is not equipped to tackle the many enterprises left in its
portfolio. Although it has appointed representatives on corporate supervisory boards, the evidence is that
of a virtual lack of monitoring, let alone supervision of operations or inducements to restructure. The
situation is hardly better for the 10 PEs. In 1993, the Government established a small unit dedicated to
the supervision of PEs, the Office for Restructuring and Economics of State-owned Enterprises
(ORESE). ORESE's achievements, a closer monitoring of the PEs' performance and the alignment of
.9
their corporate structures with that of other joint-stock companies9, were not negligible, but fell short of
improving performance significantly.
7       Like in many former socialist economies, foreign exchange deposits of banks had to be surrendered before independence
to the Central Bank (National Bank of Yugoslavia) for domestic money. Devaluations of the domestic currency resulted in an asset-
liability mismatch. When a run on foreign exchange deposits started in 1991, Croatia 'froze' them. Banks were provided with
foreign exchange-denominated counterpart claims on the State, repayable in 10 years. Foreign exchange deposits will become
available to their holders as and when these claims are repaid.
s       The Transformation Law does not specify the use of the assets transferred to the Pension Fund. The Government has
expressed the intention to privatize them to fund the transition costs of a fundamental reform of the pension system, including
the creation of a second, fully-funded 'pillar'.
9       In 1993-94, the Parliament adopted a set of laws on public enterprises, that the ORESE was instrumental in preparing. As
a result of these laws: (i) INA was corporatized in 1993; the Govemment was authorized to sell up to 25 percent of its equity without
further Parlianentary approval; (ii) the Railways company was corporatized, and responsibility for infrastructure, as opposed to
operation, was transferred to the Govemment; also, the concession of some transport services to private operators, and the



8
13.    These institutional weaknesses have been compounded by the size and complexity of the
enterprises left in State hands and the clout of their managers. In the larger public enterprises, INA and,
to a lesser extent, the electricity and railways companies, the combination of intricate corporate
structures and of technically complex lines of business makes effective monitoring a challenging
endeavor. But many other businesses were also organized as large conglomerates, for instance in the
tourism, agriculture, and heavy engineering sectors, where one single enterprise typically owns clusters
of 10-20 units.  One frequent result, besides the weakening of competition, is extensive cross-
subsidization within group structures, and soft budget constraints on loss-making units.
The State 's conflicting objectives
14.    Not only is the State ill-equipped to force the restructuring of its enterprises, but it has, more
often than not, delayed it for fear of increasing unemployment levels in Croatia. It is Government policy,
not just the rigid labor legislation of former Yugoslavia, which has 'discouraged' enterprises from
adjusting their labor force as much as was needed. Enterprises were, indeed, able to shed redundant
labor in 1990-91, under the structural reforms promoted by the last Government of former Yugoslavia.
Registered unemployment increased rapidly during that period to 13 percent of the workforce, i.e., close
to its current level of 14 percent (see Annex I, Table 4). By contrast, the unemployment rate remained
more stable over the 1992-96 period, suggesting that enterprises were, by and large, allowed to shed
labor only to the extent that open unemployment would not increase significantly. However significant,
the reduction of employment levels since 1991 appears to have been driven by the possibility of
absorbing redundant workers elsewhere, rather than  by what was economically  desirable.   The
'absorption' channels have mainly been: enrollments in the army, early retirements, and withdrawals
from the workforce, particularly as a result of the war in 1991-92. The experience of the past suggests
10
that the adoption of a new Labor Law in 1995, necessary as it was  , will not by itself lead public
enterprises to reduce their workforce to the levels necessary for their restructuring. What is needed is a
hard budget constraint, which has been absent, and the establishment of a temporary but adequate social
safety net for redundant workers.
B.      Soft Budget Constraints
Legal and Institutional Framework
15.    One key way in which to bring about efficiency and market-based behavior in enterprises is to
enforce strict financial discipline. In mature market economies, bankruptcy is the central mechanism
that is used for helping financially distressed companies pass through rough times and recover or exit the
marketplace. Croatia recently replaced the ineffective bankruptcy legislation inherited from former
Yugoslavia , but the institution and skills base required to enforce the new legislation are still weak.
privatization of non-core activities of the railways company, has become possible; (iii) the electricity company was commercialized,
and the State authorized to sell up to 25 percent of the shares without further Parliamentary approval; the entry of new private sector
operators in the generation and distribution of electricity was also authorized. Finally, a draft Law separating postal services
(remaining State-owned) from telecommunications (to be privatized) has been prepared and submitted to Parliament.
'0      The new Law on labor relations of 1995 introduces, among other important provisions that make it comparable to market
economy legislations, the concept of economic redundancy.
I I     The old legislation was pretty inflexible and only foresaw the possibility of voluntary (in case of solvency) or court-led (in
case of insolvency) liquidation of an enterprise's assets, as opposed to court-supervised restructuring and protection from creditors.
For this reason, the law was not well-used in practice, except as a labor-shedding device by companies which could not declare
redundancies due to a highly protective labor law. Companies would declare bankruptcy, end the juridical status of the company, let
workers go, reconstitute the company as another legal entity and then rehire only the workers the company needed. A new



9
Besides, a critical condition for exit mechanisms to function is that creditors or debtors have the
incentive to use them. In Croatia, this incentive had been seriously weakened by Government attempts at
bailing out troubled enterprises, and by the cross-ownership links between troubled enterprises and a
group of banks.
Government Bail-outs
16.    In addition to lack of experience, the credibility of bankruptcy as an exit mechanism has been
seriously weakened by several Government attempts at resolving enterprise crises, that are akin to
outright bail outs. The first was the so-called 'big bonds' scheme, whereby the Government issued, in
1991, US$1 billion worth of its bonds, or 6-7 percent of GDP, to public enterprises in financial difficulty.
Enterprises passed on these bonds to banks in lieu of loan repayment. The condition required in
exchange for the bonds, the implementation of restructuring plans, was never implemented, partly
because Croatia entered into independence and the war period at that time.
17.    More recently, in late 1995, Croatia also passed the Law on the Rehabilitation of Selected
12
Enterprises (LRSE), relating to the insolvency of the large debt-ridden public enterprises  . Whereas the
LRSE requires the debtor company and the line ministry to put together a restructuring plan, it mostly
spells out the conditions whereby enterprises will be relieved of their debt, i.e., a mandatory debt-equity
swap in which creditors, including the banks, will become the new owners of the debtor company, or
receive CPF-held shares in other companies. As a result, the LRSE suffers from the same flaws as the
'big bonds' scheme, namely, that debtor-led rehabilitation plans are rarely successful and that the law
provides the debtor with free reign to stall for time while loss-making continues. The other major danger
of the law is that it denies creditors' rights, including those of secured and foreign creditors, and therefore
that it can deal a serious blow to investors' and lenders' confidence in the security of financial transitions.
Bank-Enterprise Nexus
18.    The other key factor that undermined financial discipline in Croatia has been the widespread
collusion between enterprises and banks. As in most transition countries, banks have preferred to extend
new loans, or roll over old ones, to their troubled customers in order to keep them afloat, rather than let
them go bankrupt and have to recognize their own losses or insolvency. Unlike in most other transition
countries, however, it was all the more difficult for banks to enforce financial discipline in that they were
themselves owned by their customers, a peculiarity of the former Yugoslav system. Most banks dating
from pre-independence, which still dominate the banking system (Box 4), were controlled until recently
by enterprises, which sat on their supervisory and management boards. This ownership structure has led
to related-party lending, mounting non-performing portfolios, and insolvency in four banks which
account for half of the banking system's assets: Privredna Banka Zagreb (PBZ), which accounts for 25
percent of the banking system's assets; and three smaller, regional banks: Rijecka Banka, Splitska
Banka, and Slavonska Banka. A review of the 24 enterprises that recorded the largest losses in 1994-95
indicates that practically all of them are shareholders of one or several of these banks and often belong to
the group of the 10 largest shareholders. Entire loss-making sectors, such as the shipyards, have well-
known ownership links with the banking sector.
bankruptcy Law was adopted by Parliament in April 1996, and came into force in 1997. Based on the new German legislation, the
new Law is much more flexible than the former SFRY's one, and introduces, in particular, court-supervised reorganization of
enterprises.
12     While the LRSE uses broad and unstated criteria to define the eligible companies ('companies of importance to the
Republic with respect to its defense or strategic needs, or that are indispensable to the functioning of other companies, and the life
and work of citizens'), the Government limited its application to 13 enterprises.



10
Box 4: Croatia's Banking System
The Croatian financial system was spared some of the flaws commonly encountered in command economies. CToatia
does not have any Ispecialized banks and moved'to a two-tier commercial banking system in the early sixties, much earlier than
other transition countries. Most of the 20-odd commercial banks established before independence (out of 54 today) have been
operating 'commercially' for several decades, including in Western countries, and have developed reasonably good banking
skills. Despite the large number of banks in operation, however, competition remains limited. The two largest banks - and
only nationwide networks -Privredna Banka and Zagrebacka Banka, account each for about 25 percent of the banking system's
assets. The next four second-tier banks represent another 20 percent. The other banks, including about 30 banks privately-
establishedafter independence, are smaller in size. In addition, non-bank intermediation is underdeveloped, with only a few,
small-size insurance companies and an infant Stock Exchange.
C.      The Banking System Crisis
19.    Croatia's banking system has become, in its own right, a major obstacle to investment and growth:
real lending rates have been hovering around a high 20 percent p.a. during the past three years, and scarce
access to credit is cited by many Croatian enterprises as a key constraint to their development. Contrary to
what is argued in some Croatian circles, this situation has little to do with the tight monetary policy
implemented by the NBC. Admittedly, the banking system has considerably increased its claims on the
foreign sector (Table 3), as a result of capital inflows in a stable exchange rate context: by 10 percent of GDP
during 1994-96. But the extent of the recent remonetization, combined with sound fiscal policies'3, also left
considerable room for credit expansion: credit to the economy increased even faster than the foreign assets of
the banking system, by 18 percent of GDP during the last three years; the pace of credit growth has slowed
down since 1993, but was still 12 percent in 1996, i.e., faster than nominal GDP growth.
20.     What then caused the credit crunch? The available evidence suggests that the allocative role of the
banking system has been severely affected by the extent of the losses in the enterprise sector. The profitability
and financial condition of the four troubled banks, has been severely impaired by their mounting non-
performing loans. As observed in other transition countries, the main problem posed by bank insolvency of
systemic proportions is its impact on incentives: troubled banks cannot impose financial discipline on their
borrowers and force their restructuring or liquidation without recognizing their own predicament. This leads
them to bail out troubled borrowers by rolling over past due loans, capitalizing interest, or even increasing their
exposure. Although troubled banks have been prohibited by the NBC to increase nominal credit to some large
loss-makers, the measure was not effective enough. The targeted loss-makers accounted for a decreasing share
of enterprise losses'4 and, in any event, have been able to circumvent credit limits through interenterprise
credit, including cross-financing within a same group. As a result, the cash losses of enterprises very much
contributed to artificially increasing the demand for credit, to crowding out sound borrowers, and to pushing
interest rates up.
13      Budget deficits remained low and were financed externally; in addition, the Government reduced its debt to the
banking system through amortization.
14      25 percent of total losses in 1994 and only 10 percent in 1995.



11
Table 3: Main Monetary and Credit Aggregates
1994              1995          1996
real increase
Net Foreign Assets          1192.5%             52.2%        105.3%
Domestic Credit               12.0%              8.5%          2.4%
- Government                -15.5%              -6.5%       -19.1%
- Economy                    36.6%             16.7%         12.0%
Money                         77.8%             36.2%         37.8%
- Domestic                   90.2%             16.9%         29.1%
- FX Currency                67.2%             54.9%         44.2%
Other (net liabilities)       -0.4%              -3.3%       -10.3%
increase as % of GDP
Net Foreign Assets            3.4%               1.7%          4.9%
Domestic Credit               5.7%               4.0%          1.2%
- Government                 -3.5%              -1.1%        -2.8%
- Economy                     9.1%              5.1%          4.0%
Money                          9.1%              6.8%          9.0%
- Domestic                    4.9%              1.6%          2.9%
- FX Currency                4.3%               5.3%          6.1%
Other (net liabilities)       -0.1%              -1.1%        -3.0%
1II. THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM
A.    Medium-term Macroeconomic Framework
21.    Although initial success at stabilization and recovery has been achieved, the Government
acknowledges that structural reforms, both on the fiscal and supply sides, must proceed rapidly in order for
growth to be sustained and for macroeconomic imbalances, particularly on the external front, to be avoided.
How can Croatia achieve the growth rates of 5-6 percent p.a. or higher targeted in our medium-term
scenario (Table 4) in a sustainable manner? Within the next 3-4 years, Croatia must achieve three
objectives. First, investment levels of at least 25 percent of GDP -- of which about 20 percent of GDP by
the private sector -- must be achieved, in order to support productivity gains and improve external
competitiveness. Second, if private sector-led investment is to become the main engine of long-term
growth, the microeconomic foundations of such growth will have to be restored: improving governance
and performnance in enterprises and the intermediation system will be key to reducing the level of interest
rates, stimulating investment demand, and maximizing the efficiency of future investment decisions.
Finally, Croatia will have to finance internally a large part of its investment effort, if external debt levels
and current account deficits are to be contained to sustainable levels. This scenario implies that national
savings will have to increase significantly, to at least 20 percent of GDP.
22.    This target is challenging, given the recent deterioration in the savings rate. It can be met,
however, if Croatia manages to spur enough of a short-term recovery, i.e., repeat the recent GDP growth
rates of 5-6 percent p.a., and at the same time, to contain the growth of domestic consumption to about
half that of GDP for 3-4 years. The implementation of microeconomic reforms will help achieve this
dual objective by reducing the dissavings of loss-making enterprises, reinforcing wage discipline, and
improving the allocation of existing resources: this could increase national savings by 4-5 percent of
GDP and also foster short-term growth. Microeconomic reforms need to be complemented, however, by
a comprehensive public finance strategy aimed at the same objectives. Over the medium-term, Croatia
should foster savings through a significant reduction of public expenditure, to around 40 percent of GDP,



12
which will also facilitate the completion of the tax system reform. For this outcome to materialize, Croatia
will need not only to phase out war-related expenditure -- 4-5 percent of GDP -- but also to contain the
increase of other spending programs, particularly health and pension expenditure, to well under the growth
rate of GDP.
Table 4: A Medium-Term Scenario
7: 7 7 T 7   :  i;  --107:    INS -9  1995  !2000    2001  200204
Real Sector
Growth of GDP                              5.5%     5.5%      5.5%      5.5%      5.5%      5.5%
Growth of consumption                      2.2%     2.2%      2.9%      1.8%      4.1%      4.7%
Public investment/GDP                      7.0%     7.0%      6.0%      5.1%      4.9%      4.6%
Private investment/GDP                     11.4%    12.4%     14.2%     17.5%     18.2%     19.3%
National savings/GDP                       12.4%    15.0%     16.9%     19.6%     20.3%     20.9%
Public Sector
Tax revenues/GDP                           44.7%    44.8%     42.6%     40.6%     39.8%     38.0%
Government deficit/GDP                     3.0%     3.0%      3.0%      2.3%      1.7%      1.4%
External Sector
Current account balance/GDP                -6.0%    -4.4%     -3.3%     -3.0%     -2.8%    -2.7%
External debt/GDP                          27.5%    29.0%     29.3%     28.9%     27.9%     25.8%
Central bank reserves (months imports)     2.9      3.1       3.3       3.4       3.4       3.4
Source: World Bank
23.    Croatia's medium-term macroeconomic framework, and the structural reforms in the fiscal sector
and in the enterprise and financial sectors which underpin it, are embodied in a three-year Extended
Arrangement that was approved by the Executive Directors of the IMF on March 12, 1997. The program of
structural reforms was closely coordinated with and is expected to be supported by the Bank. As part of the
preparation of a proposed Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL), the Bank is assisting the Government in
its efforts to restructure public expenditures towards more productive uses, to contain the increase of social
expenditure and transfers, to modernize the tax system, and ultimately to reduce significantly the size of
public finance. The Government's program of enterprise and financial sector reforms ('the Program')
would be supported by the proposed EFSAL. The Program includes the accelerated privatization of FSOEs
(see section B); the restructuring and privatization of PEs (section C); the rehabilitation and privatization of
the banking system (section D); key elements of the enabling environment for enhanced corporate and bank
governance (section E); and the fiscal measures in support of the above reforms (section F). Some of the
reform program's technical assistance requirements are being financed under a Technical Assistance Loan
(TAL), approved by the Executive Directors on March 26, 1996.
B.     Privatization of Former Socially-owned Enterprises
24.    Recognizing the need to introduce remedial measures to complete the privatization process, the
Croatian authorities have developed a new privatization strategy. This strategy calls for the divestiture of
virtually all FSOEs and the minority stakes held by the CPF in privatized enterprises by the end of 1999. It
also envisions, in the same time frame, the rapid privatization of the larger part of the public enterprise
sector (section C). The new privatization strategy is embodied in a new Privatization Law that was adopted
by the Parliament in March 1996, which complements and amends the Transformation Law of 1991.



13
25.    With respect to FSOEs, the privatization strategy rests on four sets of policy measures: (i) a
'mapping' of privatization, with a view to clearly assign different subsets of enterprises to different
privatization routes; (ii) additional privatization methods, particularly a voucher privatization scheme; (iii)
improvements to existing privatization methods, tenders and auctions; (iv) a new distribution of decision-
making responsibilities. While the privatization strategy has the rapid divestiture of State assets as an
overriding objective, it also seeks to promote strong corporate governance along the way. Greater emphasis
on trade deals than in the past, and the role assigned to investment funds in voucher privatization are means
to achieve this objective. So are the Government's policies aiming at developing capital markets, which are
described later in this Report (Section E).
'Mapping' of Privatization
26.    To avoid later confusion and possible stalemate on the scope of each privatization method, the
Government has carried out a 'mapping' of privatization, distinguishing which enterprises can be more
efficiently and expeditiously divested through the different privatization methods. The shares of FSOEs
still held by the CPF have been divided into four subsets: (i) majority or large blocks of shares in a group of
about 30 medium to large-size enterprises most attractive to strategic investors, particularly foreign
investors (e.g., export-oriented enterprises and those operating in the hotel and tourism sectors), have been
set aside; they are being, or will be, offered under tenders and, when appropriate, direct trade deals; the
value of this subset of shares accounts for about 10-15 percent of the CPF residual portfolio; (ii) another
batch of majority or large minority stakes in 250 enterprises will be disposed of through the new voucher
privatization scheme; the value of this subset of shares accounts for about 75 percent of the CPF residual
portfolio; (iii) the CPF shares in 70 large troubled enterprises will be transferred to the Bank Rehabilitation
Agency (BRA), in the context of the rehabilitation of selected banks (see section D); and (iv) all remaining
enterprises, or blocks of shares, will be privatized through improvement of existing methods
(auction/tenders with market-clearing prices).
Additional Privatization Methods
27.    While improving the auction/tender mechanisms already used, the Government intends to diversify
privatization methods, essentially with the implementation of a voucher privatization scheme, and to place
greater emphasis on trade deals and direct foreign investment.
28.    Voucher privatization. The voucher privatization scheme approved by the Parliament is expected
to result in the divestiture of the larger part of CPF's portfolio. It entails the free distribution of about
DEM5 billion worth of vouchers, or 75 percent of CPF's residual share portfolio, to three categories of the
adult population: (i) refugees and persons displaced by the war; (ii) disabled war veterans and their
15
families, as well as those of missing persons; and (iii) former political prisoners . The assets earmarked
for the voucher privatization scheme have been set aside, and their list has already been published. In
addition to this first round of voucher privatization the Government intends to implement, in the course of
1998, a second round under the provisions of the recently-enacted Law on Croatian War Veterans and Their
Families (December 1996). The assets to be distributed under this second round would entail mostly shares
of PEs.
15     An estimated 350,000 beneficiaries will receive vouchers of a nominal value of about DEM7,000, on average. The
nominal value of the shares earmarked for the scheme is therefore about two times higher than that of the vouchers, reflecting the
economic downtum of 1990-93 and its impact on the market value of CPF's portfolio.



14
29.    The Privatization Law provides that individuals eligible for the voucher privatization scheme will
be able to exchange their vouchers either directly for enterprise shares, or for shares in Investment Funds,
which will in turn exchange vouchers for enterprise shares. In order to limit the possible shortcomings of a
dispersed ownership structure for enterprise governance and for secondary capital markets, the authorities
intend to encourage the participation of privately-managed Investment Funds, including foreign ones, to the
voucher scheme through three sets of measures. First, in order to attract high-quality Fund managers, the
Government will restrict the number of Investment Funds tentatively to four or five, in order for them to
reach a critical size and enjoy reasonably good profitability prospects. The selection of Fund managers will
take place through bidding or a licensing procedure, using criteria such as prior relevant experience,
professional and ethical standards, and the willingness of Funds to invest some of their own resources in the
managed portfolio. Second, the Government will allow for a reasonably long period of 'consolidation' of
ownership into the Investment Funds, and will ensure that Investment Funds are able and prepared to
participate in the voucher-share exchange process at the same time as individuals. Finally, Investment
Funds will be encouraged to exercise an effective role in enterprise governance, through the following
steps: (i) the maximum gercentage of shares that can be held by a Fund in a single enterprise will be
increased to 30 percent 6;  (ii) corporate governance and enterprise restructuring objectives will be
introduced in the selection criteria for Investment Fund managers; and (iii) adequate incentives, such as
success fees based on improved enterprise performance or capital gains, will be built into the Funds'
compensation structure. The final design of the scheme is being prepared by the Ministry of Privatization,
with the assistance of consultants financed under the Bank's TAL. Implementation of the voucher
privatization scheme is expected to start with the registration of eligible participants around May 1997.
Bidding for shares would start in the last quarter of 1997 and the implementation of the scheme would be
completed by mid- 1998 (condition of second tranche release).
30.    Trade deals. In the case of enterprises with the best financial standing and market prospects, the
Government is keen to sell controlling stakes to strategic investors. With the recent improvements in the
regional security situation, and the investment grade rating recently received by the Republic of Croatia
from three reputable international rating agencies, the Government would like to achieve, in particular, a
critical mass of transactions with foreign investors. A recent study by the Foreign Investment Advisory
Services (FIAS) concluded that the Croatian environment was generally conducive to foreign investment,
and recommended additional measures, such as the creation of an Investment Promotion Agency, which
have been implemented. Following the selection of enterprises slated for trade deals, the Government will
actively promote sales abroad through different means, such as well-focused promotion campaigns, and the
use of specialized advisors. It intends to conclude at least 25 large trade deals by the end of 1998.
Improving Existing Privatization Schemes
31.    The authorities will keep using the existing privatization methods to sell some of the enterprises
held by the CPF and have therefore improved these methods. First and foremost, the main issue of the rigid
valuation of enterprises and floor price setting was addressed by the new Privatization Law. The reference
price at which CPF will initially propose enterprises for sale is the latest book value, i.e., a more realistic
estimate than under the previous legislation. The new Law further empowers the CPF to adjust the selling
price to actual market conditions, that is, to sell at below the reference price.  In the future, the
Government's intention is to use these new provisions systematically and to allow prices to clear the market
as a matter of policy.
16     From 10 percent, the limit applicable to general-purpose Investment Funds.



15
32.    Second, the Government has increased the flexibility of payment methods for shares, so as to
improve market liquidity and stimulate demand. The new Privatization Law extended from five to twenty
years the period under which shares can be paid in installments by individuals, while maintaining specific
and attractive discounts for early cash payments. In addition, the option to pay for enterprise shares with
frozen foreign exchange deposits will not only be kept in use but extended to all enterprises, thus providing
additional flexibility to the price determination mechanism.
33.    Finally, the CPF will also endeavor to break up large conglomerates under its majority control, such
as tourism companies and agrokombinats, into smaller units that can be more easily privatized. Outside
experts will be hired to help design such break-up programs.
Decision-making Responsibilities
34.    The main shortcomings of the previous decision-making procedure are addressed by the new
Privatization Law, as well as by the establishment of a new Ministry of Privatization (MoP) in early 1995.
The MoP is now directly responsible for the two largest privatization programs, i.e., the sale of PEs and the
implementation of the voucher privatization scheme. For those FSOEs that will not fall under voucher
privatization, the new Law also streamlines decision-making as follows: (i) below US$2 million equivalent
of nominal value of share capital, the CPF management has sole responsibility; (ii) between US$2 and 20
million equivalent, decisions are made by a new Board of Directors, established by a separate law in
November 1996 reorganizing the CPF; and (iii) above US$20 million equivalent, decisions are made by the
Council of Ministers, upon proposal made by the MoP. As a result of these modifications, CPF's old
supervisory board will no longer be involved in operational decision-making and will act in a monitoring
capacity only.
Privatization Targets for FSOEs
35.    These new, or modified, privatization methods are expected to accelerate privatization in a
considerable manner. By mid-1998 the Government intends to have divested at least the equivalent of 50
percent of the shares that were held by the CPF at end-1994 (see Annex 1, Table 6), including large trade
deals concerning at least 25 enterprises. This target is likely to be exceeded by a large margin if the voucher
privatization scheme is implemented in a timely fashion, as it is expected. By the end of 1999, the
Government expects to have sold virtually all the CPF portfolio of FSOEs, as well as its minority stakes in
privatized enterprises. By then, the CPF would therefore have no 'raison d'etre' and would be dissolved.
The privatization of at least 50 percent of the shares held by the CPF at end-i 994 is a condition of second
tranche release.
C.    Public Enterprise Privatization and Reform
36.    With respect to PEs, the Program includes three main objectives. First, the Government envisions
the privatization of the larger part of the PE sector, including INA, telecommunications, and the production
and distribution of electricity, within a two to three year time frame. The privatization of these large
enterprises will start around mid-1998, after the enactment of the enabling legislation, the legal and
financial separation of the businesses to be sold, and the establishment of a regulatory framework conducive
to competition and to the entry of private sector operators. Other PEs, or parts of PEs, that would remain
publicly-owned in the near term include the railways, the postal service, the transmission of electricity, and
smaller entities such as the broadcasting company and the official Gazette. Second, the Government has
identified and slated for privatization the non-core assets of all PEs, including real estate, irrespective of



16
whether or not these enterprises are themselves earmarked for privatization. Third, the Government will
continue to reinforce its control over PEs and to reduce their losses.
37.    Privatization. As mentioned, the sale of the largest PEs through initial public offerings and/or to
strategic investors requires the enactment of the enabling legislation, the implementation of reorganization
measures and, especially in the electricity and telecommunications areas, the establishment of a regulatory
framework and regulatory bodies conducive to competition and private sector participation (see para. 40).
This part of the sale process will therefore not start until the first half of 1998. It will be conducted with the
assistance of reputable privatization advisers, such as the international investment bank already hired by the
INA group. Even before strategic privatization or public offerings are conducted, the Government expects
to have been able to divest 20-25 percent of the share capital of those PEs slated for privatization, through
the implementation of its second voucher privatization scheme (para. 28). Sales to the public or to strategic
investors would allow the Government to privatize, in the aggregate, at least another 25-30 percent of the
PEs' capital by the end of 1999. The divestiture of at least 20 percent of the share capital of INA, HEP, and
HPT, and the appointment of privatization advisers for INA, and the electricity and telecommunications
sectors, is a condition of second tranche release.
38.    Pre-privatization measures. The Government is implementing the preparatory measures that will
lead to the privatization of the larger PEs, that is, INA and the electricity and telecommunications
companies.
39.    As regards INA, a set of strategic studies was recently completed, including a review of the
hydrocarbon supply chain, of the petrochemical business, including fertilizers of refineries and of the
distribution network. Based on these studies' findings, INA's supervisory board and the Government have
approved the blueprint of a comprehensive restructuring program which includes the following key actions:
(i) the closing down or significant downsizing of selected group facilities, including in the petrochemical,
refinery, and storage sectors; (ii) the divestiture of all non-core assets; (iii) the reduction of the group's
workforce, by at least 30 percent of current levels; and (iv) the assumption by the State of part of the INA
group's debt, in exchange for non-core assets of 1NA in an equivalent amount (see para. 41). This
restructuring plan is being finalized with the assistance of a reputable international investment bank, which
has already been hired and will also develop a full-fledged privatization strategy for the group. The
implementation of INA 's restructuring plan is a condition of second tranche release.
40.    With respect to the electricity and the telecommunications sectors, the Government's intention is
not only to seek privatization, but to do so in a way that maximizes efficiency gains through enhanced
competition. In the case of the electricity sector, a Government blueprint, adopted in March 1997, calls for
a 'vertical' separation of the company into generation, transmission and distribution activities, as well as for
the 'horizontal' separation of generation and distribution into a number of competing companies, which will
be privatized independently. The blueprint also foresees the establishment of a regulatory framework and
of a regulatory authority, which will establish tariff-setting rules and regulate the access of independent
producers and distributors to the electricity transmission network. In the telecommunications sector, the
policy measures planned by the Government include the separation of postal and telecommunication
activities, which are currently carried out by the same company, and the opening of the telecommunication
sector to competition under a regulatory framework similar to that contemplated for the electricity sector.
The reorganization, including the legal separation of the electricity and the telecommunications companies,
as well as the establishment of a regulatory framework, and of regulatory authorities are a condition of
second tranche release.



17
41.    Sale of non-core Assets. The list of non-core assets of INA and the other key PEs represents a total
value of about US$600 million equivalent, and includes activities such as hotels, tourism, engineering and
consulting, minority shares in various industrial joint-ventures or banks, maintenance departments and
social assets. INA's non-core assets, which account for 80 percent of the total, have already been
surrendered by the company to the Government, in the context of lNA's financial restructuring and will be
divested either through trade deals or under the voucher privatization scheme. The non-core assets of other
PEs will be sold either directly by these companies or through the CPF. The divestiture of the non-core
assets of all PEs is a condition ofsecond tranche release.
42.    Governance and loss containment. The Government's monitoring of and control over PEs has
improved significantly since 1993, thanks to the establishment of the ORESE (para. 12). The ORESE
enhanced the Government assessment of the PEs financial performance, by imposing proper external
audits, and monitoring financial indicators, including cash-flows, on a regular basis.  It was also
instrumental in preparing, over a short time period, the set of laws commercializing PEs and paving the way
for their privatization. In order to overview effectively the upcoming reorganization and privatization of
PEs, the Government intends to ensure that ORESE's capabilities are not only maintained but reinforced,
mainly by expanding its staffing and the use of external assistance. The implementation of such measures,
which are financed partly by the Bank's TAL, is well underway.
43.    Under the Program, the Government will continue to tighten the financial discipline imposed on
PEs. A key step towards this objective has been the clarification of the status of their debt to the Paris and
London Clubs, made possible by two recent developments: the debt apportionment and rescheduling
agreements concluded with the Paris and London Clubs, and the decisions to rehabilitate the banks,
essentially PBZ, that channeled most of these borrowings. As part of the bank rehabilitation program
(section D), those foreign exchange loans that cannot be serviced in full will be removed from the troubled
banks' balance sheets and transferred to the BRA, which will exercise its creditors' rights in lieu of the banks
(see para. 53). As to the loans remaining on the banks' books, the Government is committed to exercise its
ownership rights on PEs to ensure that they be serviced in full and in a timely fashion.
44.    With respect to the two public enterprises that continue to incur cash operating losses17, the
Government already took some measures, initial restructuring and tariff increases, that allowed a reduction
of these losses from 2.2 percent of GDP in 1994 to 1.5 percent in 1996. For 1997, the Government will
ensure that PE losses do not exceed this level, and are financed in a transparent manner out of budgetary
subsidies. Further reduction of the PE losses, from 1.5 to I percent of GDP, will be sought in 1998; these
losses will continue to be financed from the budget. This reduction will be mainly achieved through the
initial implementation of a restructuring plan for the railways company, based on the recommendations of a
strategic study of Croatian railways, recently completed by foreign consultants. The reduction of public
enterprise losses to I percent of GDP, their transparentfinancingfrom the State budget, the adoption of the
restructuring plan for the Railways Company, and the start of its implementation are conditions of second
tranche release.
D.    Rehabilitation and Privatization of Problem Banks and Enterprises
45.    The Government's Program aims to place the banking system under a sound incentive framework
that will avoid the recurrence of the present problems and enable it to channel new flows of resources to a
wider segment of sound borrowers at a lower cost. Achieving this objective will require simultaneous
17Essentially the railways company (90 percent of total PE losses), due to the loss of international traffic through the former
SFRY, which accounted for two-thirds of total before the war; and, to a much lesser extent, the shipping company.



18
action on two fronts. First, the Government has determined that the least-cost approach to the issue of the
four troubled banks is their rehabilitation, followed by their privatization. Second, troubled enterprises,
which are at the origin of the banks' current problems, will be effectively restructured when they have good
profitability prospects, or liquidated. The legislation underpinning bank and enterprise reform was enacted
by the Croatian Parliament in June 1994. It establishes the BRA as the focal point of bank and enterprise
restructuring.
Bank Rehabilitation
1 8
46.    Scope. Diagnostic studies of the nine largest Croatian banks , conducted in 1995, pointed to five
banks (PBZ; Slavonska Banka; Splitska Banka; Rijecka Banka; and Istarska Banka) that raised problems, to
various degrees, in terms of their governance framework, their level of solvency and their liquidity. Since
the time the studies were carried out, the financial condition and liquidity of the smallest of these banks,
Istarska Banka, improved to the point that rehabilitation appears to be no longer necessary at this stage. The
Government will, however, continue to closely monitor the performance of this bank and hold joint
discussions with the Bank, by mid-1998, in order to determine whether the turnaround of Istarska Banka is
durable or whether further action is needed. The joint review of Istarska Banka, the completion of an
external audit, and agreement with the Bank on a restructuring plan, if deemed necessary, is a condition of
second tranche release.
47.    Rehabilitation decisions The four other banks, Slavonska Banka, Splitska Banka, Rijecka Banka,
and PBZ, have all entered the process of rehabilitation, albeit at different times. The methods of
rehabilitation have also been tailored to bank-specific situations, particularly their degree of insolvency and
their size:
(a)    The financial rehabilitation of Slavonska Banka, the least troubled bank, was completed in July
1995. The BRA took a 35 percent ownership stake in the bank, through a capital increase, and
helped improve the bank's liquidity by repurchasing about US$20 million worth of big bonds at a
discount. In exchange for this financial restructuring, Slavonska Banka committed to implementing
a set of prudent business policies and to improving the composition of its asset portfolio (loan
restructuring and divestiture of equity holdings). It also allowed the BRA to exercise special
supervisory powers, by granting to BRA shares a veto right on key lending and corporate decisions.
(b)    The decision to rehabilitate Splitska Banka and Rijecka Banka was made on February 15, 1996. As
the losses of these two banks, after proper provisioning for problem loans, exceeded their share
capital, the previous shareholders entirely lost their equity.  In application of the Bank
Rehabilitation Legislation, the Government also suspended the two banks' corporate bodies, and
placed them under direct BRA control. This period of direct control ended with the recapitalization
by the BRA of the two banks, to about 8 percent of risk-weighted assets, which was carried out in
December 1996 (Rijecka Banka) and March 1997 (Splitska Banka). The BRA, however, continues
to actively spur and supervise the operational restructuring of the two banks (para. 48), through the
following means. First, as the sole owner of Rijecka and Splitska Banka, the BRA appoints all five
members of the supervisory boards. Until these banks are privatized, a majority of supervisory
board members will be Government representatives, including the Director of the BRA who will
chair the boards. Other supervisory board members will be selected based on their ability to pursue
exclusively the objective of restoring the banks' financial condition and profitability. In particular,
representatives of enterprises which are not servicing their bank debts or which used to be
Is     Accounting for 85 percent of the banking system's assets.



19
significant bank shareholders'9 are not eligible. Second, the new statutes of Rijecka and Splitska
Banka vest their supervisory boards with the authority to approve not only budgets and business
plans, but any financial commitment in excess of 5 percent of the share capital, or bringing total
exposure to a single customer over 5 percent of the share capital.
(c)    The decision to rehabilitate PBZ, which was made on December 5, 1996, included three major
elements which pave the way for the credible restructuring and privatization of the bank: (i) the
reduction of the equity of the former shareholders, mainly INA and other publicly-owned
enterprises, by 80 percent, as a result of the additional need for loan provisions; (ii) the suspension
of the functions of PBZ's corporate bodies, its transfer under direct BRA control, and the
appointment of a new management; and (iii) a significant downsizing of the bank's loan portfolio,
by some 40 percent, through the transfer to the BRA of US$750 million of non-performing assets,
and the assumption of an equivalent amount of liabilities to the Paris and London Clubs.
Considering the large size of PBZ and the depth of operational restructuring required, the BRA
intends to maintain PBZ under its direct control until PBZ's operational restructuring is completed.
48.    Operational Restructuring. The BRA will use its authority under the Bank Rehabilitation Law or
its ownership rights to carry out the operational restructuring of the troubled banks until they can be
privatized. Operational restructuring will be conducted so as to ensure that, on a sustainable basis, banks be
operated in a sound manner and restore adequate operating cash flow and profitability. While Slavonska
Banka has already gone a long way towards meeting these objectives, more remains to be done in the case
of Rijecka Banka, Splitska Banka, and PBZ. Appropriate restructuring plans, as well as prudent credit and
investment policies, were already adopted by Splitska and Rijecka Banka (March 1997). PBZ, whose
rehabilitation started later, has invited reputable international consultants/banks to submit bids to assist in
the preparation of its restructuring plan, which is expected to be adopted by the BRA by end-September
1997. By mid-1998, all three banks are expected to have substantially completed their operational
restructuring, including a reduction of their operating costs by at least one-third. At that time, they will
undergo a new round of externally commissioned diagnostic studies with a view to assessing their
performance against planned targets. The satisfactory implementation of the three banks' restructuring
plans, as evidenced by diagnostic studies, is a condition of second tranche release.
49.    Transfer of Assets to the BRA. A major obstacle to the privatization of the troubled banks is the
presence, on their balance sheets, of non-performing loans to or shares in large or locally important troubled
enterprises. So would be the task of working out these assets. Such assets have therefore been carved out
of the banks' balance sheets and transferred to the BRA, which will be directly responsible for their
resolution, through the restructuring, or partial or total liquidation, of the debtor enterprises. The enterprises
concerned by this transfer of assets are relatively few in number - about 70 - but account for about two-
thirds of the value of the troubled banks' non-performing assets. The assets encompassed by this carve-out
include all loans rated 'E' (i.e., 'loss') by the auditors which performed the diagnostic studies or by the BRA
under its own review. The BRA may carve out additional assets from the banks' balance sheets at a later
stage, essentially if this proves desirable in the context of their privatization.
50.    A particular issue arises from the implementation of the LRSE (see para. 17). As mentioned, this
particular piece of legislation was intended to enable the restructuring of a limited number of troubled
enterprises, pending the enactment of new bankruptcy legislation. While restructuring plans for these
19     Those enterprises which owned more than 10 percent of the banks' share capital before the beginning of their
rehabilitation.



20
enterprises have now been adopted, the Government is aware that the loss of creditor status under this
scheme, combined with the enterprises' scattered and mostly public new ownership structure, may result in
less stringent oversight than under creditor-led restructuring. The Government is therefore committed to
ensuring that all shares owned by public enterprises or agencies be divested to the private sector by mid-
1998. Since the new bankruptcy legislation is now in force (para. 59), the Government will refrain from
further use of the provisions of the LRSE. The privatization of the enterprises restructured under the LRSE
is a condition of second tranche release.
Bank Privatization
51.    The Government's intention is to transfer the ownership of all troubled banks to the private sector
as soon as possible, following the initial carve out of assets, and initial progress towards operational
restructuring. As a matter of policy, the BRA intends to attract strategic investors such as reputable foreign
banks, by offering them majority or controlling stakes in the banks. The balance of the shares held by the
BRA could be sold to the public, either through initial public offerings, or by extending to BRA-owned
bank shares the possibility of converting frozen foreign currency deposits into shares, along the lines of the
scheme already in place for CPF-owned enterprise shares (para. 11). Because of the banks' history,
however, prospective ownership of non-financial enterprises will be severely restricted to no more than 10
percent of the capital for a single shareholder, and to more than 15 percent of the capital in the aggregate.
In addition, enterprises having borrowed from a bank to be privatized and in default on their interest or
principal payments will not be eligible to purchase bank shares. By mid-1998, the Government plans to
have privatized at least one-third of the aggregate share capital of the troubled banks, and to have issued a
tender for the privatization of the largest troubled bank, PBZ. By the end of 1999 at the latest, all troubled
banks would have been fully privatized. The issuance of the PBZprivatization tender, and the achievement
of the overall privatization targets, are conditions of second tranche release.
Enterprise Work-outs
52.    As a matter of principle, restructuring of enterprises will be led by their creditors under the
provisions of the new bankruptcy legislation, as is the general rule in market economies. Because of the
large overlap between the universe of problem enterprises and the bad loan portfolio of troubled banks, the
focal point of enterprise restructuring will be the BRA, either as a direct creditor of enterprises or as the
manager or owner of troubled banks.
53.    The Bank Rehabilitation legislation broadly describes the BRA's responsibilities in the area of
enterprise restructuring. These responsibilities are further defined in the BRA's policies, which were
adopted by its Board in March 1997. By mid-1998, the BRA will have effectively taken action on each of
these assets, through one or a combination of the following outcomes: (i) foreclosure on collateral; (ii) sale
of its claims on or shares in the enterprise; (iii) initiation of a bankruptcy procedure; or (iv) agreement
among creditors to reschedule the enterprise's debt obligations, based on a restructuring plan, under the new
provisions of the bankruptcy legislation. The BRA's policies, and the choice between alternative asset
resolution routes, will be guided by the overriding objective of maximizing the net present value of the
assets it manages. The 10 first such assets will have been resolved by May 1997; another 10 by July 1997;
another 10 by October 1997; and another 20 by December 1997. Debtor enterprises will have no access to
any financing from the BRA, or from BRA-owned or BRA-controlled banks, unless agreement has been
reached on an operational and debt restructuring plan, as per item (iv) above. To facilitate the BRA's work,
the Government will require the CPF and other Government-controlled entities to transfer to the BRA their
holdings of shares or voting rights, if any, in problem enterprises being dealt with by the BRA. This
measure will limit conflicts of interest between owners and creditors, and reinforce the BRA's ability to



21
negotiate restructuring plans and/or sell enterprise assets. The resolution of all BRA-managed assets, as per
actions described in items (i) through (iv) above, is a condition of second tranche release.
54.    As a matter of principle, the BRA will actively manage troubled assets itself and will under no
circumstances contract this task to banks undergoing rehabilitation or which are majority-owned by the
BRA. It may, however, contract out the work-out of selected problem assets externally to consulting or
asset management companies. However, the power to issue guidelines for restructuring, to approve lending
facilities for enterprises undergoing restructuring, and to make final decisions as to the future of troubled
enterprises will be retained by the BRA.
55.    Non-performing loans that have not been carved out by the BRA will remain on the banks' balance
sheets. The debtor enterprises treated in this manner are expected to be smaller in size, thus making
workouts a more manageable problem for the banks. Banks would therefore be required to work them out
themselves under the BRA's policies and supervision, until the time they are privatized. To effectively
carry out such activities, banks will be required by the BRA to establish work-out departments. Specific
arrangements for banks to work-out their problem loans are covered by the asset management policies
adopted by the BRA's Board. The resolution, by troubled banks, of the troubled assets that have not been
transferred to the BRA is a condition of second tranche release
56.   Institutional arrangements for the BRA. As the BRA will be performing a central role in bank and
enterprise restructuring and privatization, the Government will have it operate under a proper incentive and
institutional framework. With respect to incentives, the BRA's enterprise restructuring activities will take
place within a three-year time frame, and will be conducted under a hard-budget constraint. As a rule, the
funding requirements of the enterprises undergoing restructuring will have to be financed out of BRA's
collection on problem assets. In order to meet start-up liquidity requirements, however, the BRA may have
access to a temporary budgetary loan facility, which will be collateralized with its assets.
57.    As to the institutional framework, the BRA is administered by a Board reporting to the Government
and managed by a Director. The Board is chaired by the Prime Minister and includes senior Government
and NBC officials. BRA's management was appointed in mid-1996 and includes, in addition to the
Managing Director, four high-level professionals in charge of bank supervision, asset management, legal
matters, and administration/accounting, respectively.   Second-tier staffing currently  includes 15
professionals and is being increased to 25. The BRA will also make extensive use of foreign technical
assistance, the requirements for which have been defined in close coordination with the World Bank. The
Bank's TAL helps fund part of these requirements.
E.    Incentive Framework for Enterprises and Banks
58.   In addition to ownership transformation, one of the key objectives of the Program, the Government
believes it is of utmost importance to enhance the overall incentive framework for enterprises and banks, by
improving the legal and institutional framework under which they operate. The measures intended, or
already taken, include the enactment of enabling legislation for enterprise restructuring, the development of
the securities market, the improvement of prudential regulations and supervision of banks, the establishment
of a deposit insurance scheme, and the timely servicing of Government debt.
59.    Legal Frameworkfor Enterprise Restructuring. In addition to the Bank Rehabilitation Legislation,
two major legislative refonns supporting enterprise restructuring have been adopted. First, the Parliament
approved, in early 1995, a new Labor Law that facilitates layoffs in the case of economic redundancy, an
option which was previously time consuming and expensive. The new rules are in essence similar to those



22
used in market economies. Second, a new and overhauled Bankruptcy legislation was enacted in early
1996. Among other provisions, this legislation provides for the possibility of court-supervised agreements
between enterprises and their creditors in the context of a bankruptcy procedure.
60.    Development of the Securities Markets. The Stock Exchange was established in 1991, but has been
operating for some time without any comprehensive regulatory framework, nor regulatory body, and has
served so far mainly as a channel for the CPF's efforts to divest its shares of non-privatized enterprises. The
Government is keen on developing the securities market as a vehicle to mobilize equity from investors,
including foreigners, and as a way to reinforce corporate governance. The first step towards this objective
was the enactment of a new Securities Law, and a Law on Investment Funds in December 1995. Additional
measures will include: (i) establishment of a full-fledged Securities and Exchange Commission, following
the recent appointment of commissioners; (ii) setting up a modern, centralized securities registry with safe
procedures for transfer/settlement; this effort is directly supported by the Bank's Capital Markets
Development Loan; (iii) stimulation of the equity market through public offerings of a few selected
companies; and (iv) the development of institutional investors, particularly the new pension funds to be
established as part of the planned pension system reform.
61.    With regard to pension reform, the Government will ensure that the shares transferred in the past to
the Pension Funds will not be used to finance the existing pay-as-you-go system. The value of this portfolio
will be preserved to help fund, in due time, the transition to the new pension system.  Pending
implementation of this reform, the investment activities of the pay-as-you-go system will be transferred to
separately-managed investment funds. These funds may seek the assistance of reputable foreign fund
managers, thus achieving better isolation from the existing system and promoting more transparent and
dynamic portfolio management.
62.    Prudential regulations and bank supervision. The modernization of banking legislation was
launched in 1992-93 with the adoption of a new Law on the NBC, and a new Banking Law. These laws
established a legal framework that is comparable to that of market economies for governing banking
activities, and fully empowered the NBC to regulate and supervise banks. Building on this early efforts, the
NBC adopted or improved a number of prudential guidelines, most importantly those governing capital
adequacy, large exposures, management of the foreign currency risk, as well as limits for investments in
equity shares and property.
63.    Despite the progress already made in improving prudential regulations, the supervisory authorities
are aware of remaining shortcomings, that they are addressing in two stages. They already introduced a
new regulation limiting bank aggregate lending to their significant shareholders (i.e., owning over 5 percent
of the share capital) to no more than 30 percent of the bank's share capital. In addition, other regulations
were modified in March 1997, bringing to European Union banking standards the following rules: (i)
interest suspension and reversal, in order to prevent the overstatement of income; (ii) determination of bank
capital, currently defined too comprehensively; and (iii) debt classification and provisioning, which are
now based not only on overdues but also on the creditworthiness of the debtor itself. Banks will be required
to comply effectively with these new regulations by the end of 1997 (condition of second tranche release).
64.    By mid-1998, the NBC will implement a second round of reforms that will complete the
harmonization of the Croatian regulatory and prudential framework with that of the European Union
(condition of second tranche release). These reforms, which will be agreed upon with the Bank, are
scheduled to include: (i) the strengthening of licensing procedures, including for savings banks, and the
review of minimum entry capital requirements; (ii) the improvement of bank corporate governance
(especially the role of fit and proper directors and management, and the mandatory establishment of audit



23
committees and internal auditors); (iii) depending on the findings of on a joint review with the World Bank,
the tightening of rules applicable to the management of liquidity (local and foreign currency), interest rate,
and currency risks; and (iv) the enhancement of the role and responsibilities of external auditors in the area
of bank supervision.
65.   In addition to the revision of prudential and accounting rules, the NBC is undertaking an ambitious
effort to improve its supervisory capabilities, until recently limited in terms of human resources and
fragmented among several units within the Central Bank. The lack of consolidated information and
capability to manipulate information for sensitivity analysis purposes implied, in particular, that very little
effective off-site supervision and analysis could be performed.
66.    NBC's program to strengthen its supervisory capacities covers both off-site and on-site supervision
and relies on senior advice, training, and increased human resources. Regarding senior advice, a US-
trained, Croatian-speaking resident advisor, as well as a policy advisor, were recently hired with the support
of USAID. Their work program includes: (i) the overhaul of off-site supervision procedures (data
collection, financial and ratio analyses); (ii) the development of an early warning system; (iii) the refocusing
of on-site examination to safety and soundness concerns, as opposed to pure compliance with laws; and (iv)
the definition and implementation of a training program for the staff of the supervision Department. In
addition, 30 additional staff members were hired in 1996, resulting in a threefold increase in the capacity of
the supervision department. NBC is in the process of hiring an additional 15 supervisory staff. It also
intends to monitor closely, in cooperation with the Bank, the implementation of this ambitious institutional
development program, and to adopt further measures by mid-1998, if necessary (condition of second
tranche release).
67.    Deposit insurance. The Bank Rehabilitation legislation provides for a deposit insurance scheme to
be established under BRA management. The BRA intends to develop this scheme in the course of 1997 as
a way of ensuring a smooth resolution of possible bank failures in the future. Agreement with the Bank on
the features of deposit insurance and the time of its introduction is a condition of second tranche release.
68.    Servicing of Government debt. Fiscal constraints led the Government, in 1995-96, to reschedule
bilaterally the principal and interest installments falling due on the Treasury's foreign exchange bonds,
which had been issued to banks in 1991 as counterpart assets to their frozen foreign exchange deposits. The
Government recognizes that such practices are detrimental to the development of capital markets and to a
sound incentive framework for the banking system's operation. It is therefore committed to making all
future principal and interest payments in cash, and according to the initial schedule of obligations. Any
refinancing of these obligations will take place only through the auctioning of domestic securities, or
external borrowing.
F.     Fiscal Costs of the Program
69.    The fiscal costs associated with the implementation of the reform program are estimated to reach
close to 3 percent of GDP p.a. during 1997-98, and then to decrease progressively (see Table 5). They
include three components: (i) the costs of bank recapitalization; (ii) the service of foreign debt assumed
from, or that cannot be serviced by, debtor enterprises; and (iii) additional funding for the social safety
net (unemployment benefits, severance payments, etc.) to cushion the effects of enterprise restructuring.
The FY97 costs of bank recapitalization have been adequately provided for in the current budget.
Adequate fiscal support to bank and enterprise restructuring in the FY98 budget is a condition of second
tranche release.



24
Table 5: Croatia - Fiscal costs of Enterprise and Bank Restructuring
in percent of GDP
1996     1997       t998         1999      2000     2001
Total costs                               3.3%      4.7%      4.4%       3.8%     3.6%      3.0%
Measures already in force                 1.9%      1.8%      1.6%       1.5%     1.4%      1.3%
Big Bonds                                0.3%      0.3%      0.2%       0.2%     0.2%      0.2%
FX Bonds                                 1.6%      1.5%      1.4%       1.3%     1.2%      1.1%
Incremental costs                         1.4%      2.9%      2.8%       2.3%     2.2%      1.7%
Bank Restructuring                       0.4%      0.7%      0.3%       0.3%     0.3%      0.3%
Foreign debt service (Paris and London Clubs)  0.5%  1.4%    1.1%       0.6%     0.7%      0.6%
Social safety net                        0.5%      0.9%       1.4%      1.5%     1.2%      0.8%
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.    Loan Amount and Borrower
70.    The proposed Bank loan, in the amount of DEM160 million (US$95 million equivalent), will be
the first Bank-financed adjustment operation made to the Republic of Croatia. The loan will be a
LIBOR-based Single Currency Loan, with a maturity of up to 15 years with 5 years grace period for the
level repayment of principal.
B.     Loan Design and Components
71.    The principal objective of the proposed loan is to provide timely and responsive support to
Croatia's efforts to implement effective reform of its enterprise and financial sectors. The Loan would
provide fast-disbursing funds for balance of payment assistance in support of the Government's reform
program. The Government, in cooperation with the Bank and the IMF, will aim at maintaining a stable
macroeconomic framework within which essential structural reforms can be implemented.
72.    The main elements of the reform program include: (i) improved governance over, reduction of
losses of, and privatization of, public enterprises; (ii) privatization of former socially-owned enterprises;
and (iii) reform of the banking sector including bank restructuring, enhancement of the regulatory
framework for banking, and bank privatization. The program links these three elements in such a way as
to solve inherited problems in the enterprise and banking sectors, drive the process of enterprise sector
restructuring through enterprise privatization and liquidation, reform the financial system and help
ensure sustainability of these reforms.
C.    Lending and Administrative Arrangements
73.    The Ministry of Finance will administer the loan in close coordination with the NBC.



25
D.    Release of Funds and Disbursements
74.   It is proposed that the loan be disbursed in two equal tranches of DEM80 million. The first
tranche will be eligible for disbursement upon effectiveness of the loan. The second tranche would be
eligible for disbursement upon satisfaction of the proposed conditions of tranche release, as detailed in
the attached Matrix of Key Policy Actions (Annex III). Loan tranches are expected to be approximately
eighteen months apart. The proposed closing date for the loan would be June 30, 1999.
75.    The Government will open an account in the NBC. Upon notification of tranche release for each
tranche, proceeds of the loan will be deposited by the Bank in this account at the request of the
Government. If after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible purposes
(i.e., to finance items imported from non-member countries, or goods and services in the standard
negative list), the Bank will require the Government to either: (i) return that amount to the account for
use for eligible purposes; or (ii) refund the amount directly to the Bank in which case the Bank will
cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan.
E.    Accounts and Audits
76.    Although routine audits of the accounts will not be required, the Bank reserves the right to
require it.
F.     Environmental Assessment Requirements
77.   In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.00,
Annex A), the proposed operation has been placed in category "C" and does not require an
environmental assessment.
G.    Benefits and Risks
78.    The loan would support the achievement of a major breakthrough in Croatia's enterprise and
banking sector reform, that also constitutes a key condition to the maintenance of the hard-won monetary
stability, and to the resumption of sustained growth. The loan would support an accelerated program of
enterprise privatization, including the large utilities, that would yield efficiency gains in the economy
and spur growth. By supporting enterprise restructuring, including the rapid reduction of their losses, the
loan would help free resources for projects of much higher returns and bring about lower levels of
interest rates. Finally, it would support a program of bank reform, including privatization and the
overhaul of the incentive framework, designed to preserve financial discipline and to ensure that
Croatia's scarce resources are effectively allocated to the most dynamic enterprises.
79.    The risks affecting the implementation of the reform program are twofold. First, competing
claims on the budget, on account of reconstruction, demobilization, and the resettlement of displaced
persons, could lead the Government to underprovide for the fiscal costs of bank and enterprise
restructuring. Fiscal constraint could therefore lead to a 'gradualist' reform scenario implying a loss of
credibility, the recurrence of financial troubles in parts of the banking and the enterprise sectors and,
ultimately, higher costs to the budget. This risk is mitigated by the development of a comprehensive
program of public sector reforms, including expenditure reallocation across spending programs, being
supported by the recently approved Extended Arrangement (March 12, 1997) with the IMF and the
proposed PSAL. The second risk, partly related to the fiscal issue, is the possibility of a loss of
macroeconomic control that would result from excessive wage awards, leading to a loss of



26
competitiveness, external imbalances and the resumption of inflation.  Under the IMF Extended
Arrangement, the Government has committed, in addition to a continued effort in structural reforms, to
implement policies that have been designed to prevent macroeconomic imbalances from developing.
Among these are the containment of wage increases to large public enterprises (i.e., public utilities), the
improvement of fiscal management and its institutions, and the continuation of a stringent monetary
management.
V. RECOMMENDATION
80.   1 am satisfied that the proposed loan will comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and
recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
Attachments:
Washington, D.C.
April 9, 1997



Table 1. Main Economic Variables 1996-2005: Base Scenario
1996    1997    1998    1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
(percentage change)
Real GDP                                  5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5
Inflation (GDP deflator)                  3.2    4.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0
(in percent of GDP)
Consumption                              94.4   90.2    87.4   85.3   82.5   81.7   81.1    81.0   80.7   80.4
Fixed Investment                         16.0   18.4   19.4   20.2   22.6   23.1   23.5   23.6   23.7   23.8
Gross Domestic Savings                    5.6    9.8    12.6   14.7   17.5   18.3   18.9   19.0   19.3    19.6
Gross National Savings                    9.0    12.4    15.0   16.9   19.6   20.3   20.8   20.8   20.9   21.0
Foreign Savings                           7.0    6.0    4.4    3.3    3.0    2.8    2.7    2.8    2.8    2.8
Foreign Direct Investment                 1.6    2.0      2.4    2.8    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    2.9    2.9
Current Account Balance                  -7.0   -6.0    -4.4   -3.3   -3.0   -2.8   -2.7   -2.8   -2.8    -2.8
External Debt                            25.1    27.5    29.0   29.3   28.9   27.9   26.8   25.9   25.1    24.3
Debt Service                              3.0    3.5      3.9    3.9    4.6    5.0    5.2    5.3    5.3    5.1
Debt Service / Total Exports              6.5     7.4    8.0    7.9    9.2    10.0   10.5   10.7   10.7    10.4
Foreign Reserves / Imports of GNFS        2.6    2.9    3.1    3.3    3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4
(in percent of GDP)
General Government Revenues              47.1    47.4   47.3   45.0   42.8   41.8   40.8   39.9   39.8    39.6
o/w Tax Revenues                        46.0   44.7   44.8   42.6   40.6   39.8   38.9   38.0   37.9   37.8
General Government Expenditures          47.9   50.5    50.3   48.0   45.1   43.4   42.2   41.1    40.9   40.7
General Govemment Overall Balance        -0.8   -3.0   -3.0   -3.0   -2.3   -1.7   -1.4   -1.2   -1.2   -1.1
GDP( US$mn.)                           18,929  20,373  21,949  23,692  25,572  27,580  29,746  32,082  34,601  37,318
Source: World Bank Staff Projections



28
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 9
FIGURE 1
Croatia: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators
Graph 1.1: Real GOP and Industrial Output (1990-1996)                         Graph 1.2: Output, Employment and Productivity In the
125
95
115
50                                                                          1/0   99    1119    /259   19    }4S9    /699
90 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~9
85
~T75                                                                         85
*70                                                                          7
65                                                                          65
60                                                                          55
55                                                                         4 
50                                                                           1/90  9/90  5191  1/92  9/92  5/93  1/94  9/94  5/95  1/96  9/96
1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      1996                                 -            n .   .
I-lndustrial Prod-u-ctiGn
------nIndustrial Output                                            w| -inlndustrial employment
- GDP                                                             L   -      Industrial productivity
Graph 1.3: ProductIvity, Real Wages and Unit Labor                              Graph 1.4: Inflation and Monetary Aggregates
Costs In the Industrial Sector                             1170%                                                          40%
135                                                                      970%                                                           30%
115     9    5770%                                                                                                                      25
+  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .o                                                                     1~~~~~~~~~~~~~5%2
C 95                                                                  C                  1
+~~~~~~
r  370%                                                          20
55                                                                        370  
10%
39j7 45 170% 
Is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
1/90  9/9  5/91  1/92  9/92  5/93  1/94  9/94  5/95  1/96  9/96          -3%0%
1991      1992       1993       1994      1995       1996
'+lndustrial productiwity                                                    Ann' ual CI increase ('I)
- real wages                                                              -   Broad money (% of GDP)
Unit labor costs in industry                                                       D )Kuna money ( m o oGDP)
Graph 1.6: Evolution of Exchange Rate,                                 Graph 1.6: Merchandise Exports and Imports (in
Current Dollars)
4+5
2.1                                                                         8000
4
129                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7000
0                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.5 
7                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6000
I~                                                           3
J 3                                                                     S4000
1. 15        23000
119 £V2
E
0.7                                                          0.5            100
0.5                                                          0                 0
2/92   8/92   2/93   8/93   2J94   a/94   2/95   8/5                         1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  11995  1996
- Realeffective exchange rate (based onPPI)-   Dollar exports
- Kunas per DM                                                                            0-Dollar imports



29
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 9
FIGURE 2
Croatia: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators
Graph 2.1: Consolidated Central                       Graph 2.2: Consolidated Central
Govemment                               Government Overall Balance (% of GDP)
Expenditure (% of GDP)                  I        1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
50.0                                                     2.0
45.0                                                     1.0                                    ___
40.0 _.0    *
35.0           -                 U         -              00
30.0 _                                         --
25.0 _       _                     _.0
20.0                                                    -2.0                                  _  -   _  _2_
1.0                             U                          -3.0-
10.0 - _                                                         _             _
15.0                                                  4-.0 -                 l
100  m  m  m      m      m              ~~~~-5.0                 ________
0.0
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996          -6.0-
i ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~              ~ ~ .  _________ ________
Graph 2.3: Current Account Balance                    Graph 2.4 Gross Reserves of the
10.0  (% of GDP)                              (in  Central Bank
______________of  __GDP)    __(in__months of imports)
8.0                                                3.0
6.0  -                                             2.5   - _ _ __  _  __  _  __   _ _    _    _-l
4.0-
2.0  __*_                                          2.0
0.0                        -                       1.5
-640                                   - _                                        E      u105  *
-2.0 1
-6.0                                               0.5                            E
=80.0  _  _   _   _   _   _  _   _   _     _ _      0.0EE
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996             1991    1992    1993    1994    1995



30
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 9
Table 2: Croatia - Central Government Budgetary Operations
(in percent of GDP)
1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      1996
Revenue and grants                               15.7      21.2      20.3      28.4      29.6      30.4
Revenue                                        15.7      21.2      20.3       28.4      29.5      30.4
Current revenue                               15.7      20.8      20.0      28.0      28.9      29.3
Tax revenue                                  15.5      19.1      18.9      27.4      28.0      27.6
Non-tax revenue                              0.2        1.7       1.1       0.7       0.8       1.7
Capital revenue                               0.0       0.4       0.2        0.4       0.6       1.1
Grants                                          0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.1       0.0
Expenditure and net lending                      20.2      21.4      20.1      27.8      30.3      30.5
Expenditure                                    20.2      21.4      20.1      27.4       30.1      30.0
Current expenditure                          19.5       19.8      18.5     24.8       27.0      25.1
Expenditure on goods and services           15.2      15.1      14.6      20.1      21.9      19.0
o/w. Wages and salaries                    5.2       3.7       4.6        7.7       8.9       8.1
Interest payments                            0.1       0.8       0.5       1.5       1.5       1.2
Domestic                                   0.1       0.8       0.5       1.3       1.0       0.9
External                                   0.0       0.0       0.0       0.2       0.5       0.3
Subsidies and other current transfers        4.2       3.9       3.4       3.2       3.6       4.9
Subsidies                                                                 2.1       1.9       2.0
Current transfers                                                         1.2       1.6       2.9
Capital expenditure                            0.7       1.7       1.6       2.6       3.2       4.9
Lending minus repayments                          0.0       0.0       0.0       0.4       0.2       0.5
Central budget current balance (excl. curr. grants)  -3.8   1O        1.5       3.2       1.9       4.2
Central budget current balance 1/                -3.8       1.0       1.5       3.2       2.0       4.2
Central budget overall balance 1/                -4.5      -0.3       0.2       0.6       -0.8      -0.1
Memo Items
Extrabudgetary funds balance I/                  -0.6      -3.7      -0.9       0.8       -0.2      -0.4
Consolidated central government balance          -5.2      -4.0      -0.8       1.5       -0.9      -0.5
Source: Ministry of Finance and World Bank estimates
Notes: 1/ Before consolidation



Table 3. External Financing Requirements (1996-2005): Base Scenario
(In millions of U.S. dollars)
1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Requirements                               2009    2013    1831    1684    1871    1926    2141    2380    2551    2698
Current Account Deficit                    1323    1220     965      779     772     764      803     903     975    1047
Amortization Payments                       354     388     475      480     692      857    1016    1142    1227    1276
Gross Reserve Build Up                      332     405     390      425     407     306      321     334     349      374
Financing                                  2009    2013    1831    1684    1871    1926    2141    2380    2551    2698
Foreign Direct Investment                   300     410     520      652     755     815      880     950    1010    1075
Medium and Long Term
Disbursement                               710    1005    1032      938    1044    1045    1202    1360    1482    1569
Official Creditors                      357      706     761     755      705     676     682      680     680     680
o/w IBRD                               190     337      352     277     230      186     163     160      160     160
Private Creditors                       352      299     271      184     339     369     520      680     802     889
Other Net"                                  999     598     279       94      73      66       59      69      59       54
Source: World Bank Staff Projections
1/ Includes: net short term borrowing, IMF, capital n.e.i., changes in reserve
assets of the commercial banks and errors & omissions.
o0 m



Table 4: Trends in the Labor Market
(end of period data)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...  ..............  ..9"..... ..
In thousand
Population 20-59, 20-55             2,462   2,452   2,453    2,459    2,466    2,468       6
Recorded Employment                  1,956   1,826   1,657    1,645    1,591    1,542    -414
Government                          341    409    395        418     401      475      135
defense and interior               75    159    161        184     167      238      163
other                             266    250    234       234      235      237      -28
Non-Government                     1,241   1,051    904      832     826      750    -491
- Industry                          561    462    398        385     368      348    -213
- Other                            1,054    955    863       842     822      719    -335
Recorded Unemployment                 196    283    261        243     248      249       54
Changes in Labor Demand                     (129)  (170)    (12)    (54)    (49)   (414)                                      s
Changes in Labor Supply                      (42)  (192)    (29)    (49)    (48)   (360)
- New Entrants                               38      36       35       33       33      175
- Retirements                               (76)   (49)    (44)    (34)    (20)   (224)
- Other (displaced, left the country,        (4)  (179)    (20)    (48)    (60)   (311)
withdrew from labor force)
Increase in Unemployment                       88    (22)    (18)        4        2       54
In % of Population 20-59,20-55
active                            87.4%   86.0%   78.2%    76.8%    74.6%    72.6%
- employed                        79.4%   74.5%   67.5%    66.9%    64.5%    62.5%
- unemployed                       7.9%   11.6%   10.6%    9.9%    10.0%    10.1%
Unemployment as a % of active        9.1%   13.4%   13.6%    12.9%    13.5%    13.9%
Source: CBS and World Bank staff estimates
>~



Table 5: Selected Enterprise Indicators by Ownership Status
(end-1995)
Numbers          Distribution of                 Average by Enterprise                % of Capital Held by
...........                        ......~4es . .: te  m)Eu~yeq:Eut   :f&hle  Pvt . $to.....1 hae
.. . . ...                                                                             ...   ..  ........  ......   ...  ........| a
..........                                                                      ........   .. ..  : "'''' "'"'"' ....'"":'""
Not covered by the         814         24.0%        18.5%        508        216        n.a.         0           0%           0%
Transformation Law
10 large utilities         10          13.9%       14.2%        503.3      10,199    1,344.0                   0%            0%
other (local utilities, etc)  804      10.1%       4.3%          5.0        91         n.a.        0.0         0%            0%
Covered by the            2,956        52.1%       41.4%          11        129        n.a         213          n.a          n.a
Transformation Law*
still publicly-owned       672         20.2%        13.1%        6.9        220        n.a.
non commercialized      402         5.1%         3.3%         2.9        92         n.a.                    0%            0%
commercialized          270         15.2%        9.8%        12.9        411        23.5       349.9        20%           16%
privatized                2,284        31.9%       28.3%         4.4        102         5.0       213.2        65%           50%
majority privatized    1,142        16.0%       14.2%         4.4        102        .5         340.9        61%          44%
fully privatized       1,145        20.2%       17.7%         5.5        129        1.4        85.9         94%          87%
Privately established    55,850        23.9%       40.1%         0.3         3         n.a.        n.a         100%         100%
Grand Total              59,620       100.0%       100.0%        520        348        n.a         n.a          n.a          n.a
* Enterprises earmarked for mandatory commercialization, and privatization
Source: Croatian Privatization Fund, and World Bank estimates
°j X
so0 _



34
ANNEX I
Page 8 of 9
Table 6: Privatization of Former Socially-owned Enterprises
1991      1994       199s      1996
(end of period)
Total number of enterprises                             2,452     2,452      2,557     2,548
Less than 50% privatized                           2,452        386       270       124
More than 50%, less than 100%, privatized            -          921      1,142     1,007
100% privatized                                      -        1,145     1,145      1,417
Total share capital (DEM billion)                        23.6       23.7      24.4       22.9
Less than 50% privatized                             23.6        9.4       8.9        1.9
More than 50%, less than 100%, privatized             0.0       12.2      13.5       17.4
100% privatized                                       0.0        2.0       2.0       3.6
Of which:
CPF-held share capital 1/                                      8.1        7.6       6.5
Less than 50% privatized                                     5.2       4.5       1.3
More than 50%, less than 100%, privatized                    2.9       3.1       5.1
100% privatized                                              n.a.      n.a.      n.a.
CPF holdings as percentage of total share capital            34.4%     31.1%     28.3%
Less than 50% privatized                                  55.2%     50.5%     71.2%
More than 50%/o, less than 100%, privatized               24.1%     23.0%     29.4%
Source: Croatian Privatization Fund (CPF)
1/ The divestiture of at least 50% of the CPF-held share capital as of end-1994
is a condition of second tranche release



35
ANNEX I
Page 9 of 9
FIGURE 3
Croatia: Selected Indicators of Privatization and Enterprise Performance by Ownership Structure
100%               Graph 3.1: Distribution of Sales                                              Graph 3.2: DIstribution of Employment
90%                                                                              90%
80%                                                                              80%
70%                                                                               70%
60%                                                                             j60%
1990      1991       1992       19903
050
40%                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~40%
6 404
30%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
30%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
20%
10%
10%                                                                             -1
0%                                                                                       1990       1991       1992       1993       1994       1995
1990      1991       1992       1993       1994       1995
O Public Sector      OMajorky Public                                              OPublic Sector        OMajority Pubic
C  Majority Private  U Fully Privatized                                             13Majority Prvat     *Fully Privated
* New Private        *                                                             New  Private
Graph 3.3: 1994 Pre-Tax Results                                                      Graph 3.4: 1995 Pro-Tax Results
4                                                                                  4
2     Aggregate                                       Loss-mhlkem
2     Aggregate                                        Loss-makers
0
(L 0                                                                 a. ~~~~~~U   iProfit-makers
Profit-makers                                         -2
Fj                             _                               _                  Ce 0 4
-6
-6                                                                                 -6
-8                                                                                -10
-10                                                                                -1 2 
O Public Sector       OMajority Public                                               O Public Sector      0 Majority Public
tMajority Private        Fully Privatized                                               Majority Prvate   e Fully Privatized
*New Private          §Total                                                         U New Prvate         §Total
Graph 3.6: Sales per Employee                                                    Graph 3.6: Changes In Real Sales
450000                                                                                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
0 65
400000
350000                                                                              0.55       .....
p300000                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.45  
'~250000 
o, 035       ...
.5150000                                                                           2 0.25        .....
100000                                                                                         .....
0 15
50000
0                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.05
1994                            1995
* Public Sector      O Majority Public                        -0                                                  4-
O New Private
U Majority Private   E Fully Privatized                                                     8Ottrer
* New Private        §Average                                                               O All enterprises






37
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 22
U,
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
10000 ZAGREB
KATAN I tEVA 5
Zagreb, March 17, 1997
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Washington, DC, United States of America
Dear Mr. President,
l.    We are writing this Letter on behalf of the Government of the Republic of
Croatia and the National Bank of Croatia (NBC) to describe the Government's
program which aims at simultaneous restructuring of troubled public banks and
enterprises, and their privatization ('the Program'), and to request from the World Bank
an Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL), in the amount of DEM
160 million, to support the execution of this Program. The key measures that we are
intending to take under the Program are summarized in a Matrix of Policy Actions
which is attached to, and integral part of, this Letter. The measures we plan to take in
the context of the Program are fully embedded in our fiscal projections and macro-
economic program for the period 1997-99, which forms the basis of an Extended
Arrangement with the IMF. The Extended Arrangement is expected to be approved by
the IMF Board on March 12, 1997.



38
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 22
I. Introduction
2.    Croatia has successfully overcome the multiple shocks experienced as a result
of the circumstances of independence, and the war situation that ensued, including:
the collapse of the former Yugoslavia and CMEA markets; the loss of control over
strategic portions of the territory; extensive destruction inflicted to the capital stock,
particularly infrastructure; and large inflows of refugees and displacement of Croatian
populations. This exceptional combination of supply and demand shocks translated
into a sharp recession, pressures on the fiscal and external accounts, and an
acceleration of the inflation inherited from the former Yugoslavia.
3.    Despite these formidable odds, economic performance has been impressive.
Fiscal and external imbalances were eliminated in less than two years, allowing the
Government to launch a decisive attack on the inflation front. Our policy package of
October 1993 was fully successful in stabilizing prices, whose annual increase has not
exceeded 4 percent for three consecutive years, as well as the exchange rate. The
credibility of our macroeconomic policies was further demonstrated by a marked
modification of the public's expectations, leading to increases in money demand,
reverse currency substitution, and a steady build up of NBC's foreign exchange
reserves.
4.    In contrast with this stabilization, real sector developments have been
somewhat more mixed. Growth resumed in 1994, although at a modest pace, initially.
It accelerated markedly in 1996, as GDP grew by an estimated 6 percent. Although we
expect this growth rate to be repeated in 1997, we remain concerned about the
sustainability of growth in the medium-run. The recent output performance was
largely led by the recovery of selected sectors, such as tourism and construction,
which will run its course sooner or later. In other, large segments of the enterprise
sector, output failed to respond to recent increases in domestic and foreign
consumption, in spite of large unused capacities. At the same time, the combination of
low productivity levels and wage increases was deteriorating enterprise profitability.
These developments are worrisome, and point to the need for many Croatian
enterprises to adjust to the loss of their former markets, and increase labor and capital
productivity.
5.    Enterprise performance, however, varied widely across different subgroups,
and in a way that was closely correlated to ownership structures. The emerging private
sector and, to a lesser extent, the enterprises that were privatized since 1991, made a
positive contribution to output growth and profitability. By contrast, the enterprises
remaining under State control did poorly, on average, and contributed to hold back
Croatia's overall economic performance. While recognizing that private, profit-
maximizing entities have generally been more effective than the State as enterprise
owners, we want to point to another key source of inefficiency in the State-owned
enterprise sector. Our banking system, although opened to new entrants since 1991,
remains dominated by a small number of large institutions dating back to pre-
independence times. Many of these banks were owned by enterprises, and engaged in
widespread related party lending. Loans to related parties often became non-
performing ones, either because the enterprise ownership of these banks contributed to



39
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 22
poor lending decisions in the first instance, and/or because these banks had no
incentives to impose financial discipline on their customers/owners. Mounting non-
performing portfolios have, in turn, caused insolvency and illiquidity in parts of our of
banking system, starved sounder enterprises from credit, and contributed to drive real
lending rates to very high levels.
6.    To sustain stabilization and boost recovery, the Government of the Republic of
Croatia has resolved to accelerate the pace of structural reforms in the banking and
enterprise sectors, with a view to increasing productivity and allocative efficiency at
the microeconomic level. Among our main objectives are the development of private
sector presence in the economy, and the improvement in the overall incentive system,
particularly through a better-functioning intermediation system. The recent
improvements in the regional situation constitute a favorable background for the
implementation of our Program, as they will help cushion its fiscal and social costs,
and provide new opportunities for Croatian economic agents.
XI. Progress and Issues with Enterprise and Financial Sector Reform
A.    The Enterprise Sector
7.    In former Yugoslavia, most enterprises were organized under the so-called
'social ownership' system. This system assigned enterprise ownership to the society at
large, while day-to-day management decisions were assumed by managers and
employees. While this system shared many characteristics of market economies, in
particular decentralized pricing and investment decisions, it lacked effective
governance mechanisms. This, together with the enterprise ownership of most banks,
resulted in loose financial discipline, excessive wage pressures, and poor investment
decisions that led former Yugoslavia to stagnation and inflation at the end of the '80s.
Despite the prominence of the socially-owned sector, the private sector was permitted
to play a notable role, especially in small scale agriculture, retailing and tourism. This
private sector presence in the economy was substantially reinforced after Croatia's
independence, as entry policies were fully liberalized, and significant progress was
made towards the privatization of the socially-owned sector. As a result, the private
sector now generates over 50 percent of the value added by the enterprise sector.
Ownership Transformation
8.    Under  the  privatization  strategy  developed  immediately  following
independence, socially-owned enterprises were divided into two groups. 10 large
infrastructure and utilities companies came under direct State ownership with the
designation of 'public enterprises' (PEs). These enterprises account for about 10
percent of GDP, and 12 percent of employment in the enterprise sector. They include,
in particular: INA, the biggest Croatian enterprise, a large oil conglomerate,
diversified in chemical products, tourism, and other activities; HEP, the electricity
company; HZ, the railways company; HPT, the post and telecommunications
company; and smaller entities in the forest, shipping, broadcasting, publishing, and



40
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 22
*water sectors. Unlike the other socially-owned enterprises, PEs were not, initially,
included in our privatization program because they raised specific issues. The major
PEs are very large entities with complex corporate structures, some in a
uncomfortable financial situation and in need of significant restructuring. In the case
of natural monopolies, such as electricity or telecommunications, we also believed
that it was essential to establish a carefully designed regulatory framework as part of
the privatization process.
9.     All other socially-owned enterprises fell under the Law on the Transformation
of Socially-owned Enterprises of 1991 (the Transformation Law), which called for a
two-stage transformation process. During the so-called 'first stage', socially-owned
enterprises were given a deadline to submit to the Croatian Privatization Fund (CPF),
a Government agency, their requests for commercialization, together with their own
privatization plans, if any. In this first stage, a strong emphasis was placed on a wide
participation by the enterprises' workers and the population at large. Employees and
the population were awarded preferential rights for share subscription with significant
discounts (averaging between 40 and 50 percent of the value of the shares purchased,
and about US$ 5,000 per person) and the option to pay for their purchases over a five-
year period. The shares of enterprises not privatized under this first stage were
transferred to the Croatian Pension Funds (one-third) and to the CPF (two-thirds). The
latter was required, under the Transformation Law, to divest its residual holdings
through a variety of methods, including auctions on the Zagreb Exchange, tenders
open also to foreign investors, and direct trade deals (the so-called 'second-stage' of
transformation).
10.   Significant progress was achieved under the Transformation Law. As of
November 1996, about 2,550 of 2,750 socially-owned enterprises, or 93 percent of the
initial numbers, had been commercialized. 2,450 enterprises, or 89 percent of the
initial numbers, had been fully or majority-privatized. These privatized enterprises
account for about 75 percent of the nominal value of the equity of privatizable
companies. It is worth noting that our privatization model has led to a widespread
participation of the population, with about 650,000 citizens having acquired shares in
more than 2,000 enterprises - thereby implementing a form of mass privatization. By
mid-1997, the first stage of transformation will have been completed by all
enterprises', and there will be no socially-owned enterprises left, although the CPF
will still hold the majority of shares in about 150-200 enterprises2. We refer to these
enterprises as formerly socially-owned enterprises (FSOEs), although they are
formally State owned, to distinguish them from public enterprises. In addition, the
CPF will still own minority, but sometimes large, stakes in another 1,300 enterprises.
I      Most of the 200-odd enterprises that were not commercialized in November 1996 are located
in territories that were not controlled by the Government until 1995. They have now entered the process
of commercialization.
2      1 10 enterprises whose privatization was not completed in November 1996, plus an unknown
fraction of the 200 enterprises that had not been commercialized at that date.



41
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 22
Unfinished Agenda
11.   The concentration of enterprise problems within Government-controlled
enterprises, both PEs and FSOEs, points to the need to complete the privatization
process, and to what we view as the shortcomings of the methods used until recently.
12.   The first and major such shortcoming lies, as we already pointed out, in the
fact that PEs have been left outside the scope of privatization until recently. This issue
is addressed by our new privatization strategy (see para 23 below). With respect to
FSOEs, while the results of the privatization program to date are far from being
negligible, a series of problems have become evident. The 'second-phase' privatization
methods, in particular, have not proved as effective as was initially hoped, and the
CPF is experiencing difficulties in divesting the FSOEs left in its portfolio.
13.   Among the identified shortcomings comes first the problem of the reference
price initially used to sell FSOEs, which overestimated the value of many enterprises.
This reference price was rigidly used as a value below which the CPF was generally
reluctant to sell in auctions and trade deals, thereby frustrating demand for shares at
prices reflecting the market. Second, there is the issue of conglomerates, which the
first phase of the program commercialized as one enterprises, failing thus to break
them in smaller self-contained enterprises that are easier to privatize. Third, the CPF's
capabilities and operating procedures became insufficient to deal with the residual
privatization cases; the decision-making process was cumbersome, as every single
decision had to made by a Board comprised of many outsiders with limited
privatization-related functions or experience. Fourth, the privatization program lacked
a comprehensive and sustained efforts to attract foreign investors, beginning with a
thorough identification of enterprises likely to attract such investors. Fifth, tenders or
auctions through the Zagreb Stock exchange have been hampered by the limited
development of capital markets, including the lack of safe and modem procedures to
record property rights and settle transactions. Finally, a more intensive campaign of
education of the population on privatization matters, including the legal principles of
shareholding and governance of commercial code companies, would have increased
the population's adhesion to privatization and dispelled criticism on the alleged lack of
transparency of part of the process. Stronger public relation would also have improved
the perception of the Croatian privatization programs abroad.
14.   We partly addressed the most critical of these issues, the overvaluation of
enterprises, by allowing holders of foreign exchange deposits, that had been frozen
following a post-independence liquidity crisis in 1991, to use them towards the
purchase of enterprise shares. The scheme had the advantage not only of
circumventing price-setting rigidities, but of reducing the public debt, and proved to
be quite popular Since the beginning of its implementation in early 1994, it generated
total sales of about US$1,300 million equivalent, contributing significantly to the
sales completed under the second stage of privatization.



42
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 22
B.    The Financial Sector
15.   Like the enterprise sector, the Croatian financial system was spared some of
the flaws commonly encountered in command economies. Croatia does not have any
specialized banks, and moved to a two-tier commercial banking system in the early
sixties, much earlier than most other transition countries. Most of the 25-odd
commercial banks established before independence (out of 55 today) have been
operating 'commercially' for several decades, including with Western countries, and
have developed reasonably good banking skills. Unfortunately, other, more severe,
problems were inherited from the former Yugoslavia. Many banks have been
operating, until recently, under a flawed incentive framework inherited from the
former Yugoslavia, mainly perverse ownership structures that have resulted in
portfolio problems. This was compounded by incomplete Government attempts at
protecting the banks' balance sheets, which ultimately resulted in financial repression.
As a result, serious financial imbalances have developed in the banking system,
particularly in five problem banks. These imbalances, in turn, led to high lending rates
and distortions in credit allocation, which seriously hamper the banking system's
ability to contribute to private sector-led growth in Croatia.
Incentive Framework
16.   Ownership structure and bank performance. Under former Yugoslavia, banks
were typically owned by socially-owned enterprises, which would sit on their
governing bodies, supervisory boards and management boards. This ownership
structure led to widespread related-party lending, particularly in the case of five of the
bigger banks that were controlled by large and influential enterprises. An estimated
35-40 percent of the banking system's aggregate loan portfolio involved loans to
shareholders or related parties, and this proportion is much higher in the five troubled
banks. It was 80 percent in Privredna Banka Zagreb, the capital of which was
controlled, until recently, by some of the largest public enterprises. Among the larger
banks, only Zagrebacka Banka was spared the worst effects of this system because its
shareholders were a diversified group of small enterprises, none of them important
enough (their stakes were no more than 2-3 percent of total capital) to skew lending
decisions. The majority of this bank's share capital is now privately owned.
17.   Transactions with shareholders were closely related to loan portfolio problems
that the banking system, mainly the five troubled banks, were now experiencing. At
end-95, Croatian banks were carrying on their books about US$2.5 billion worth of
foreign currency loans - 20 percent of their total assets, that were funded by external
borrowings. A large part of these loans was not serviced by end-borrowers, mainly the
troubled public enterprises (INA, HEP, and HZ). Some loss-making CPF-owned
enterprises such as the shipyards also benefited. As regards the balance of the loan
portfolio, which was funded out of the banks' own resources, as much as 30 percent
on average (about 10 percent of total assets) was estimated to be non-performing,
with, again, this proportion being much higher in the five problem banks (this
estimate takes into account bad loans that have been converted into equity).



43
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 22
18.   Financial repression. The banks' ability to operate along market lines was
further impaired, by two factors whose effects on the banks are akin to financial
repression. First, the status of large foreign exchange claims on the Government, that
are held by banks as the counterpart claim to their frozen foreign exchange deposits,
was unclear. This balance sheet item - US$2 billion or about 15 percent of bank assets
- was at best a pass-through activity generating no income for banks; in addition,
budgetary constraints led the Treasury, in 1995 and early 1996, to reschedule the
repayment of interest and principal on several occasions. Second, several banks
carried on their books the so-called 'big bonds', i.e., Treasury bonds issued in 1991 to
troubled enterprises, and used by them to repay bank loans. These bonds, which
accounted for about 7 percent of total assets, did not carry market terms and entailed a
potential loss for banks.
Financial Imbalances
19.   As a result of related party lending and financial repression, the Croatian
banking system was plagued with an extremely high proportion of problem assets,
either non-market claims on the Government, or non-performing loans. At end-95,
this proportion was 35 percent in the case of the sounder banks, reached 60 percent for
the four smaller troubled banks, and was in excess of 80 percent for Privredna Banka.
Although some bank liabilities, including capital and reserves, did not bear interest
either (e.g., banks were not servicing their external debt), the ratio of interest-bearing
liabilities to interest-earning assets was extremely high (1,1.6, and 1.9 for the sound
banks, the five troubled banks, and Privredna Banka, respectively). As a result, the
banks funding and operating costs, as well as their profit margin when existing, had to
be bome by a narrow base of 'active' assets (i.e., sound borrowers): real lending rates
stand at about 20 percent, a level that entails a high level of cross-subsidization, from
relatively good quality borrowers to bad ones and to the Government, and is evidently
incompatible with any sustained recovery of the economy in the medium-term.
20.   In addition to high lending costs, the large volume of non-market assets
severely impaired the banking system's ability to service the needs of the economy, in
at least two ways. First, little financing was available for the needs of the emerging
private sector, because: (i) the rotation of 'old' assets was extremely slow, limiting the
banks' ability to reallocate financial resources from less to more profitable- and
efficient- uses; and (ii) in the absence of a systematic workout of problem loans, part
of the 'new' resources flowing into the banking system were used to capitalize interest
or even to increase the exposure to illiquid customers.
Problem banks.
21.   Although almost all pre-independence banks were affected by at least some of
the problems discussed above, five banks, accounting for about 50 percent of the
banking system's assets, were the most severely affected. The key problem bank was
Privredna Banka Zagreb (PBZ), which was heavily handicapped by its ownership and
lending links to public enterprises. Over 50 percent of its capital was held by public
enterprises, of which about 40 percent by INA and HEP alone. Some 80 percent of its
loan portfolio was exposed to problem enterprises, particularly its two main



44
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 22
shareholders. Alone, PBZ accounted for two-thirds of the entire foreign debt
channelled through the banking system, which, in turn, made up about half of its
balance sheet. The four other banks (Slavonska Banka, Splitska Banka, Rijecka Banka
and Istarska Banka) exhibited similar ownership and financial patterns at the regional
level. Together, these five problem banks held 84 percent of the banking system's
foreign borrowings/loans; 72 percent of the big bonds; and 46 percent of the claims
that were the counterpart of frozen foreign exchange deposits.
III. Our Reform Program
22. Our objective of private sector-led growth requires not only the acceleration of
enterprise privatization, but well-functioning financial intermediaries. However, a
large part of the banking system's problems lies in the losses incurred by its main
borrowers. Thus, addressing only capital adequacy and incentive issues in the
financial sector, without eradicating the root of the enterprise sector's losses, is
unlikely to bring more than temporary relief. We are therefore determined to address
jointly the problems in the financial sector and the enterprise sector, and to sever the
ownership links between the two. Our program envisions the accelerated privatization
of FSOEs, the restructuring and privatization of public enterprises, the rehabilitation
and privatization of the banking system, and the strengthening of the enabling
environment, in order to enhance corporate and bank governance.
A.    Privatization of Former Socially-owned Enterprises
23.   Recognizing the need to introduce remedial measures to complete the
privatization process, we have developed a new privatization strategy. This strategy
calls for the divestiture of virtually all FSOEs, and the minority stakes held by the
CPF in privatized enterprises, by the end of 1999. It also envisions, in the same time
frame, the rapid privatization of the larger part of the public enterprise sector (section
B, below). Our privatization strategy is embodied in a new Privatization Law that was
adopted by our Parliament in March 1996, and which complements and amends the
Transformation Law of 1991.
24.   With respect to FSOEs, our privatization strategy rests on four sets of policy
measures: (i) a 'mapping' of privatization, with a view to clearly assign different
subsets of enterprises to different privatization routes; (ii) additional privatization
methods, particularly a voucher privatization scheme; (iii) improvements to existing
privatization methods, tenders and auctions; (iv) a new distribution of decision-
making responsibilities. These measures, as well as their intended results in terms of
quantitative targets, are detailed below.
'Mapping' ofprivatization
25.   To avoid later confusion on the scope of each privatization method, and
possible stalemate, we have carried out a 'mapping' of privatization, distinguishing
which enterprises can be more efficiently and expeditiously divested through the
different privatization methods. The shares of FSOEs still held by the CPF have been
divided in four subsets: (i) majority, or large, blocks of shares in a group of about 30



45
ANNEX If
Page 9 of 22
medium- to large-size enterprises most attractive to strategic investors, particularly
foreign investors (e.g., export-oriented enterprises, and those operating in the hotel
and tourism sectors), have been set aside; they are being, or will be, offered under
tenders and, when appropriate, direct trade deals; the value of this subset of shares
accounts for about 10-15 percent of the CPF residual portfolio; (ii) another batch of
majority, or large minority stakes in 250 enterprises will be disposed of through our
proposed voucher privatization scheme; the value of this subset of shares accounts for
about 60 percent of the CPF residual portfolio; (iii) the CPF shares in 50 large
troubled enterprises will be transferred to the Bank Rehabilitation Agency, in the
context of the rehabilitation of selected banks (see section C, below); and (iv) all
remaining enterprises, or blocks of shares, will be privatized through improved
existing methods (auction/tenders with market-clearing prices).
Additional Privatization Methods
26.   While improving the auction/tender mechanisms already used, we intend to
diversify privatization methods, essentially with the implementation of a new, large
scale, voucher privatization scheme, and place greater emphasis on trade deals and
direct foreign investment (DFI).
27.   Voucher privatization. The voucher privatization scheme approved by
Parliament entails a free distribution of vouchers to three categories of the adult
population: (i) refugees and persons displaced by the war; (ii) disabled war veterans
and their families, as well as those of missing persons; and (iii) former political
prisoners. These persons will, on average, receive vouchers in an amount of about
DEM7,000 equivalent, depending on the category. The eligible population, estimated
at around 350,000 persons, would therefore receive about DEM2.45 billion worth of
vouchers. In order to satisfy these entitlements, we have set aside assets of an
equivalent amount, on a market value basis, and published their list. Because of the
economic downturn of 1990-93, the nominal value of these assets exceeds
significantly their market value. Therefore, the list of assets includes in addition to the
shares from the CPF portfolio already mentioned, blocks of shares of INA.
28.   The Privatization Law  provides that individuals eligible to the voucher
privatization scheme will be able to exchange their vouchers either directly for
enterprise shares, or for shares in Investment Funds, which will in turn exchange
vouchers for enterprise shares. In order to limit the possible shortcomings of a
dispersed ownership structure for enterprise governance, and for secondary capital
markets, we will endeavor to encourage the active participation of professionally- and
privately-managed closed-end Investment Funds, including foreign ones, to the
voucher scheme through three sets of measures. First, in order to attract high-quality
Fund managers, we will restrict the number of Funds to 3 or 4, so that profitability
prospects can be reasonably good, and will select Fund managers through bidding, or
a licensing procedure, using tight criteria. Second, in order to ensure neutrality
between 'direct' holding of shares, and holding through Investment Funds, we will
allow for a reasonably long period of 'consolidation' of ownership into the Investment
Funds, and ensure that Investment Funds be able and prepared to participate to the
voucher-share exchange process at the same time as individuals. Finally, we will
encourage Investment Funds to exercise an effective role in enterprise governance,



46
ANNEX II
Page IOof22
through the following steps: (i) for Investment Funds participating to the voucher
privatization scheme, we will repeal, or increase significantly, the legal provision
restricting Investment Funds from purchasing more than 10 percent of an enterprise's
share capital; (ii) we will introduce corporate governance, and enterprise restructuring,
objectives in the selection criteria for Investment Fund managers; and (iii) we will
build adequate incentives, such as success fees based on improved enterprise
performance or capital gains, in the Investment Funds' compensation structure. The
final design of the scheme is being prepared by the Ministry of Privatization, with the
assistance of consultants financed under the World Bank's Technical Assistance Loan.
Implementation of the voucher privatization scheme is expected to start with the
registration of eligible participants around May 1997; bidding for shares would start in
the last quarter of 1997 and the scheme would be completed by mid-1998. In addition
to this first round of voucher privatization we will implement, in the course of 1998, a
second round based under the provisions of the Law of December 1996 on Croatian
War Veterans and Their Families. This Law calls for the free distribution, to these
categories, of shares in CPF's residual portfolio and, especially, of public enterprises.
29.   Trade deals. In the case of enterprises with the best financial standing and
market prospects, we are keen to sell controlling stakes to strategic investors. With the
recent improvements in the regional security situation, we would like to achieve, in
particular, a critical mass of transactions with foreign investors. A recent study, by
Foreign Investment Advisory Services (FIAS), concluded that the Croatian
environment was generally conducive to foreign investment, and recommended
additional measures, such as the creation of an Investment Promotion Agency, which
have been implemented. Following the selection of enterprises slated for trade deals,
we will actively promote sales abroad through different means, such as well-focussed
promotion campaigns, and the use of specialized advisors. We also expect foreign
investment to be encouraged by the investment grade rating (BBB minus) recently
received by the Republic of Croatia from three reputable international rating agencies.
Improving Existing Privatization Schemes
30.   As explained above, we will keep using the existing privatization methods to
sell some of the enterprises held by the CPF, and are therefore keen to enhance their
effectiveness through a series of improvements. First and foremost, the key issue of
rigid valuation of enterprises and floor price setting (which affects not only small and
medium enterprise privatization but also large trade deals) was addressed by the new
privatization Law. The reference price at which CPF will initially propose enterprises
for sale is the latest book value, i.e., a more realistic estimate than under the previous
legislation. The new Law further empowers the CPF to adjust the selling price to
actual market conditions, i.e., to sell at below the reference price. In the future, it is
our intention to use systematically these new provisions, and to allow prices to clear
the market as a matter of policy.
31.   Second, we are improving further the flexibility of payment methods for
shares, so as to improve market liquidity and stimulate demand. The new privatization
Law extended from five to twenty years the period under which shares can be paid in
installments by individuals, while maintaining specific and attractive discounts for
early cash payments. In addition, the option to pay for enterprise shares with frozen



47
ANNEX Il
Page 11 of 22
foreign exchange deposits will be not only kept in use, but extended to all enterprises,
thus providing additional flexibility to the price determination mechanism.
32.   Finally, the CPF will also endeavor to break up large conglomerates under its
majority control, such as tourism companies or agrokombinats, into smaller units that
can be more easily privatized. Outside experts will be hired to help design such break-
up programs.
Decision making Responsibilities
33.   The main shortcomings of the previous decision-making procedure are
addressed by the new Privatization Law, as well as by the establishment of a new
Ministry of Privatization (MoP) in early 1995. The MoP is directly responsible for the
two largest privatization programs, i.e., the sale of PEs and the implementation of the
voucher privatization scheme. For FSOEs that do not fall under voucher privatization,
the new Law also streamlines decision-making as follows: (i) below Kuna 10 million
of nominal value of share capital, the CPF management is responsible; (ii) between
Kuna 10 and Kuna 100 million equivalent, decisions are made by a new Board of
Directors, established by separate Law of November 1996 reorganizing the CPF; and
(iii) above Kuna 100 million, decisions are made by the Govermnent, upon proposal
made by the MoP. As a result of these modifications, CPF's old supervisory board will
no longer be involved in operational decision-making but will focus on overall
monitoring.
Privatization targets for FSOEs
34.   Our new, or modified, privatization methods are expected to accelerate
privatization in a considerable manner. By mid-1998 we would have divested at least
the equivalent of 40 percent of the shares that were held by the CPF at end-1994; this
would include large trade deals concerning at least 25 enterprises. By the end of 1999,
we expect to have sold virtually all the portfolio of FSOEs, and of minority stakes in
privatized enterprises, of the CPF. By then, the CPF would therefore have no 'raison
d'etre' and would be dissolved.
B. Public Enterprise Privatization and Reform
35.   Our program for public enterprises includes three main objectives. First, we
envision the privatization of the larger part of the public enterprise sector, including
INA, the telecommunications, and the production and distribution of electricity,
within a two to three year time frame. The privatization of these large enterprises will
start around mid-1998, after the enactment of the enabling legislation, the legal and
financial separation of the businesses to be sold, and the establishment of a regulatory
framework conducive to competition, and to the entry of private sector operators.
Other PEs, or parts of PEs, that would remain publicly-owned in the near term include
the railways, the postal service, the transmission of electricity, and smaller entities
such as the broadcasting company or the official Gazette. Second, we have identified,
and slated for privatization, the non-core assets, including real estate, of all public
enterprises, i.e., irrespective of whether or not these enterprises are themselves



48
ANNEX 11
Page 12 of 22
earmarked for privatization. Third, we will carry on, across-the-board, the work
already undertaken during the past years, towards improving the governance, and
further reducing the losses, of public enterprises.
36.   Privatization. As mentioned above, the sale of our largest PEs to the public,
and/or to strategic investors, requires the enactment of the enabling legislation, the
implementation of reorganization measures and, especially in the electricity and
telecommunications areas, the establishment of a regulatory framework, and
regulatory bodies, conducive to private sector participation. This part of the sale
process would therefore not start until mid- 1998. By then, however, we expect to have
already been able to divest a first tranche of those PEs slated for privatization,
arnounting to at least 20 to 25 percent of their share capital, through the
implementation of our two voucher privatization schemes. The process of selling to
the public and/or to strategic investors would allow us to privatize, in the aggregate,
another 25-30 percent of the PEs' capital by the end of 1999.
37.   Pre-privatization measures. We have already started to implement the
preparatory measures that will lead to the privatization of the larger public enterprises.
38.   The  most complex  of these  enterprises, INA, requires  a  drastic
reorganization/restructuring plan, in order to concentrate and downsize the group to its
core activities, close down or divest others, and restore its financial viability, among
other things through debt restructuring. Sales of non-core assets (such as hotels and
other tourism assets) will be carried out. Strategic and financial partners will be
sought to enter in joint ventures for core activities. An overriding consideration will
be to allow the group to develop its key oil and gas activities, but without any direct or
indirect government subsidies, while restoring its financial situation and make it
attractive for early privatization.
39.   Following the completion of a consolidated accounting audit of the group,
INA had external consultants carry out a set of strategic studies, including a review of
the hydrocarbon supply chain; of the petrochemical business, including fertilizers; of
refineries; and of the distribution network. Based on these studies' findings, we have
approved the blueprint of a comprehensive restructuring program presented by INA's
Supervisory Board, which includes the key following actions: (i) the closing down, or
significant downsizing, of selected group facilities, including in the petrochemical,
refinery, and storage sectors; (ii) the divestiture of all non-core assets; (iii) the
reduction of the group's workforce, by at least 30 percent of current levels; and (iv) a
significant restructuring of the group's current debt. This restructuring plan is being
finalized with the assistance of a reputable international investment bank, which will
also develop a full-fledged privatization strategy for the group. INA will have
substantially implemented it by mid-1998.
40.   In order to complete the restructuring of INA by mid-1998, and minimize the
fiscal costs to be incurred by the budget, we will: (i) ensure that the reduction of the
workforce is effectively carried out, and be accompanied by adequate 'social safety
net' measures that will cushion social consequences (such as severance payments, or
loans for business startups); (ii) strive to offset the fiscal costs of INA restructuring,
such as the possible assumption of part of INA's debt by the Bank Rehabilitation



49
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 22
Agency (BRA, see section C), with a simultaneous transfer to this Agency of an
equivalent amount of non-core assets currently held by INA, towards their divestiture.
41.   With respect to HEP and HPT, studies were also completed recently, that
cover both their reorganization into coherent activity lines, and the establishment of
the regulatory framework needed to allow the entry of private sector operators. As
regards reorganization, the separation of HEP into three lines of activity, production,
transmission and distribution, was already authorized by the Law of 1994 that
transformed HEP into a joint-stock company. A similar draft Law providing for the
separation of postal and telecommunication activities will be submitted to our
Parliament at the latest by June 1997. We have approved the blueprint of a detailed
plan for the legal separation of HEP's activities, and its partial privatization. The
reorganization of HEP and HPT will be completed by the end of 1997. This is also the
target date for the enactment of a legislation establishing a regulatory framework, and
the creation of a regulatory authority, needed to govern the private provision of public
services. The regulatory framework will regulate tariff-setting for electricity and
telecommunication services, rules of access of private operators to the publicly-owned
infrastructure network, and the settlement of disputes involving private operators.
Advisers for the privatizations of HEP and HPT will be hired at the latest by the first
quarter of 1998.
42.   Sale of non-core Assets. The list of non-core assets of INA and the other key
PEs represents a total value of about US$600 million equivalent, and includes
activities such as hotels, tourism, engineering and consulting, minority shares in
various industrial joint-ventures or banks, maintenance departments and social assets.
By the end of June 1997, these assets will have been transferred, for sale, either to the
BRA or the CPF. The BRA will receive, in any case, INA's non-core assets, as part of
the restructuring package recently decided for PBZ (see Section C). Whether
implemented by the BRA or the CPF, the sale of non-core assets will start
immediately following their transfer to these agencies, and we expect it to be
substantially completed by mid-1998 (condition of second tranche release).
43.   Governance and loss containment. The governance of PEs has dramatically
improved, since 1993, thanks to the establishment of a small administrative unit
reporting directly to the Government level, the Office for Restructuring and
Economics of State-owned Enterprises (ORESE). The ORESE can already boast
significant achievements. First, it radically enhanced the Governnent assessment of
the PE's financial performance, by imposing proper external audits, and monitoring
financial indicators, including cash-flows, on a regular basis. Second, ORESE was
instrumental in preparing, over a short time period, the set of laws commercializing
PEs, and paving the way for their privatization. In the future, we will ensure that
ORESE's capabilities be not only maintained but reinforced, mainly by expanding its
staffing and the use of external assistance. The implementation of such measures,
which are financed partly by the World Bank's Technical Assistance Loan, is well
underway.
44.   Under our program, we will continue to tighten the financial discipline
imposed on PEs. A key step towards this objective will be the clarification of the
status of their debt to the Paris and London Clubs, which is now made possible by two



50
ANNEX 11
Page 14 of 22
recent developments: the debt apportionment and rescheduling agreements concluded
with the Paris and London clubs, and the decisions to rehabilitate the banks,
essentially PBZ, that had channeled most of these borrowings. As part of our plans for
bank rehabilitation (see, below, section C), those foreign exchange loans that cannot
be serviced in full will be removed from the troubled banks' balance sheets, and
transferred to the BRA, which will exercise its creditors' rights in lieu of the banks. As
to the loans remaining on the banks' books, we will exercise our ownership rights on
PEs to ensure that they be serviced in full, and in a timely fashion.
45.   With respect to the two public enterprises that continue to incur cash operating
losses before servicing of the external debt (HZ and the shipping company), we
already took some measures, initial restructuring and tariff increases, that allowed a
reduction of these losses from 2.2 percent of GDP in 1994 to 1.5 percent in 1996. For
1997, we will ensure that the public enterprise losses do not exceed this level, and be
financed in a transparent manner, out of budgetary subsidies. For 1998, we will seek
further reduction of the public enterprise losses, from 1.5 to 1 percent of GDP, to be
financed from the budget (condition of second tranche release). Such reduction will be
mainly achieved through the initial implementation of a plan providing for the
restructuring of the operations of the railways company (adoption of the plan
condition of second tranche release). This plan will build on the recommendations of
a strategic study of our railways company, which was recently completed by foreign
consultants.
C.    Rehabilitation and Privatization of Problem Banks/Enterprises
46.   Our program aims to place the banking system under a sound incentive
framework that will avoid the recurrence of the present problems, and enable it to
channel new flows of resources to a wider segment of sound borrowers, at a lower
cost. Achieving this objective will require simultaneous action on two fronts. First, we
will resolve the issue of the most troubled banks, by rehabilitating them, and selling
them to new, more effective owners. Second, we will ensure that troubled enterprises,
which are at the origin of the banks' current problems, be effectively restructured
when they have good profitability prospects, or liquidated. The legislation enabling
underpinning our bank and enterprise reform program was enacted by the Croatian
Parliament in June 1994.
Bank Rehabilitation
47.   Scope. We commissioned in 1995 diagnostic studies that cover nine of the
largest Croatian banks accounting for 85 percent of the banking system's assets, and
which were performed by international firms different from the banks' regular
auditors. Based on these studies, we had identified five banks (PBZ; Slavonska
Banka; Splitska Banka; Rijecka Banka; and Istarska Banka) accounting for about 50
percent of the banking systems' assets, that raised, to various degrees, problems in
terms of their governance framework, their level of solvency and their liquidity.
48.   Rehabilitation decisions. Since the time the audits were carried out, the
financial condition and liquidity of Istarska Banka improved significantly, to the point



51
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 22
that rehabilitation appears to be no longer necessary, at least in the short-term. We
will, however, keep monitoring closely the performance of this bank, on a regular
basis. By mid-1998, we will hold joint discussions with the Bank, with a view to
determining whether or not any restructuring measures are needed. This joint review
will be based on the findings of an external audit of Istarska Banka as of December
1997, to be carried out by auditors; and as per terms of reference, acceptable to the
Bank. As to the four other banks, Slavonska Banka, Splitska Banka, Rijecka Banka,
and Privredna Banka, we already decided to rehabilitate them. Although the Bank
Rehabilitation Legislation provided a common framework to the four decisions made
to date, the legal process of rehabilitation was tailored to bank-specific situations, as
follows:
(a)   The financial rehabilitation of Slavonska Banka, the least troubled of the five
banks, was completed in July 1995. The BRA took a 35 percent ownership
stake in the bank, through a capital increase, and helped improve the bank's
liquidity by repurchasing about US$20 million's worth of big bonds at a
discount. In exchange for this financial restructuring, Slavonska Banka
committed to implementing a set of prudent business policies, and improving
the composition of its asset portfolio (loan restructuring and divestiture of
equity holdings). It also allowed the BRA to exercise special supervisory
powers, by granting to BRA shares a veto right on key lending and corporate
decisions.
(b)   The decisions to rehabilitate Splitska Banka and Rijecka Banka were made by
two Government Decrees of February 15, 1996. In each of these two banks,
the potential losses written-off exceeded the share capital, resulting in the
previous shareholders losing their equity entirely. In application of our Bank
Rehabilitation Legislation, the rehabilitation decisions also led to the
suspension of these banks' governing bodies, and to their direct control by the
BRA, through BRA-appointed managers. They also called for a later
recapitalization of the two banks, to about 8 percent of risk weighted assets.
This recapitalization was completed in December 1996 for Rijecka Banka, and
will be carried out shortly in the case of Splitska Banka. As a result of this
recapitalization, both banks will be operating under the control of their regular
governing bodies, as opposed to under direct control of the BRA. The BRA,
however, as the owner of 100 percent of their shares, will continue actively to
spur and supervise the operational restructuring of both banks, most of which
remains to be done (see para 49 below). We will ensure that the BRA achieves
such restructuring, through our representatives on its Board. The BRA, in
particular, will appoint its Director, and as many Government representatives
as needed to retain majority control over the banks' supervisory boards until
these two banks are privatized. It will also ensure that other supervisory board
members pursue exclusively the objective of restoring the banks' financial
condition and profitability. In particular, no supervisory board member will
represent an enterprise which is not servicing its debt to the banks, or which
owned more than 10 percent of the share capital of the banks prior to the
decision to rehabilitate them. In addition, the new statutes of Rijecka and
Splitska Banka will require that all important or strategic decisions be



52
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 22
approved by the supervisory boards, in the light of an opinion expressed by the
Director of the BRA.
(c)   The decision to rehabilitate PBZ was made on December 5, 1996. It mandated
writeoffs of potential losses, that resulted in the previous shareholders' equity
being reduced to 20 percent of previous levels. After recapitalization by the
BRA, the old shareholders' equity will be further reduced to about 10 percent
of PBZ's share capital. The decision also calls for about US$750 million of
assets, net of provisions, and an approximately equivalent amount of liabilities
to the Paris and London clubs, to be transferred to the BRA. The bulk of the
assets to be transferred are loans to INA. The functions of PBZ's governing
bodies were suspended, and a new manager was appointed. Unlike in the case
of Splitska and Rijecka Banka, we intend to maintain PBZ under direct BRA
control until its operational restructuring is completed (see para 49 below).
49.   Operational Restructuring. The BRA will use its authority under the Bank
Rehabilitation Law, or its ownership rights, to carry out the operational restructuring
of the troubled banks pending their privatization. Operational restructuring will be
conducted so as to ensure that, on a sustainable basis, banks be operated in a sound
manner, and restore positive operating cash flow, and profitability. While Slavonska
Banka has gone a long way towards meeting these objectives, much remains to be
done in the case of Rijecka Banka, Splitska Banka, and PBZ. These three banks will
need, in particular, to reduce their operating costs by a significant margin, at least one-
third. We will therefore take the following steps. First, by the end of February 1997,
Splitska Banka and Rijecka Banka will adopt a restructuring plan and a set of prudent
banking policies, including credit and investment policies, acceptable to the Bank;
Second, PBZ will prepare, by end-September 1997, a comprehensive restructuring
plan agreeable to the Bank, and as per the terms of reference agreed upon with the
World Bank. This plan will be prepared with the assistance of an international
reputable external adviser which will be selected through the tender offer that we
already issued. Third, we will closely monitor the implementation of these plans, with
a view to ensuring that the three banks' operational restructuring is substantially
completed by mid-1998. And fourth, we will have external auditors assess, by end-
September 1998 and as per terms of reference agreed upon with the World Bank, the
three banks', as well as Slavonska Banka's, progress towards implementing the agreed
policies.
50.   Transfer of Assets to the BRA. A major obstacle to the privatization of the
troubled banks is the presence, on their balance sheets, of non-performing loans to, or
shares in, large or locally important troubled enterprises. So would be the task to work
out these assets. Such assets were therefore carved out from the banks' balance sheets
and transferred to the BRA, which will be directly responsible for their resolution,
through the restructuring, or partial or total liquidation, of the debtor enterprises.The
enterprises concerned by this transfer of assets are relatively few in numbers - about
70 - but account for about two-thirds of the value of the troubled banks' non-
performing assets.
51.   The list of assets concerned by this carve-out includes all loans rated 'E' (or
'loss' by the auditors which performed the diagnostic studies, or by the BRA under its



53
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 22
own review. In addition, the BRA will carve out from the banks' balance sheets loans
rated 'D', or higher than 'D', and shares, to the extent this appears necessary to the
sound operation of banks; to their privatization to the resolution of these non-
perforning assets, or to compliance with NBC's prudential regulations. Such loans
may include, in particular, part of PBZ's residual exposure to INA, as it stands after
implementation of the Decree of December 5, 1996. The carve out may take place
through a purchase and assumption transaction, whereby the BRA will also assume a
matching amount of PBZ's liabilities.
52.   A particular issue arises from the implementation of the so-called 'Law on the
Rehabilitation of Selected Enterprises (LRSE) of 1995. This ad hoc piece of
legislation was intended to enable us start the urgent restructuring of 13 troubled
enterprises, pending the enactment of our new bankruptcy legislation. It provided, in
particular, for the systematic and mandatory conversion of these enterprises' debt into
equity. We are aware that, under this scheme, the loss of creditor status, combined
with the enterprises' scattered and, to a large extent, public, new ownership structure,
may result in a restructuring framework much less stringent than under our new
bankruptcy procedure, which was enacted since then. We will therefore endeavor to
mitigate this risk by ensuring that all shares owned by public enterprises or agencies
will be divested to the private sector by mid-1998. As the new bankruptcy legislation
has now been adopted by Parliament, we will refrain from using the provisions of the
Law on the Restructuring of Selected Enterprises any further, and will limit its scope
to the 13 enterprises currently targeted.
Bank privatization.
53.   Our intention is to transfer the ownership of all troubled banks to the private
sector as soon as possible. Because of the banks' history, non-financial enterprises will
be severely restricted from the prospective ownership, to no more than 10 percent of
the capital for a single shareholder, and no more than 15 percent of the capital in the
aggregate. In addition, enterprises having borrowed from a bank to be privatized, and
in default on their interest or principal payments, will not be eligible to purchase
shares of the bank. Bank privatization will be one of BRA's immediate objectives,
following the initial carve out of assets, and the beginning of operational restructuring.
As a matter of policy, the BRA will seek to attract strategic investors such as
reputable foreign banks, or international financial organizations, by offering them
majority, or controlling, stakes in the banks. The balance of the shares held by the
BRA could be sold to the public, either through initial public offerings, or by
extending to BRA-owned bank shares the possibility of converting frozen foreign
currency deposits into shares, along the lines of the scheme already in place for CPF-
owned enterprise shares. By mid- 1998, we will have issued a tender to privatize PBZ.
We will also have privatized at least one-third of the aggregate share capital of banks
owned by the BRA as of end-December 1996. By the end of 1999, all troubled banks
would have been privatized.
Enterprise Work-outs
54.   As a matter of principle, enterprise restructuring will be led by their creditors
under the provisions of our new bankruptcy legislation, as is the general rule in market



54
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 22
economies. Because of the large overlap between the universe of problem enterprises,
and the bad loan portfolio of our troubled banks, the focal point of enterprise
restructuring will be the BRA, either as a direct creditor of enterprises, or as the
manager or owner of troubled banks.
55.   The Bank Rehabilitation legislation broadly describes BRA's responsibilities
in the area of enterprise restructuring. These responsibilities are further defined in
BRA's policies, which were recently adopted by its Board. By mid-1998, the BRA
will have effectively taken action on each of these assets, through one, or a
combination, of the following outcomes: (i) foreclosure on collateral; (ii) sale of its
claims on, or shares in, the enterprise; (iii) initiation of a bankruptcy procedure; or (iv)
agreement among creditors to reschedule the enterprise's debt obligations, based on a
restructuring plan, under the new provisions of our bankruptcy legislation. The 10 first
such assets will have been resolved by May 1997; another 10 by July 1997; another 10
by October 1997; and another 20 by December 1997. Debtor enterprises will have no
access to any financing from the BRA, or from BRA-owned or BRA-controlled bank,
unless agreement has been reached on an operational and debt restructuring plan, as
per item (iv) above. To facilitate BRA's work, the Government will require the CPF
and other Government-controlled entities to transfer to the BRA their holdings of
shares, or voting rights, if any, of problem enterprises being dealt with by BRA. This
measure will limit conflicts of interest between owners and creditors, and reinforce
BRA's ability to negotiate restructuring plans and/or sell enterprise assets.
56.   Non-performing loans that have not been carved out by BRA will remain on
the banks' balance sheets. The debtor enterprises treated in this manner are expected to
be smaller in size, thus making workouts a more manageable problems for the banks.
Banks would therefore be required to work them out themselves under BRA policies
and supervision, until the time they are privatized. To effectively carry out such
activities, banks will be required by BRA to establish work-out departments. Specific
arrangements for banks to work-out their problem loans are covered by the asset
management policies adopted by BRA's Board. We expect troubled banks to have
resolved, by mid-1998, all their troubled assets, in the same way as the BRA will
have.
57.   As a matter of principle, BRA will actively manage troubled assets itself, and
will under no circumstances contract this task to banks undergoing rehabilitation, or
which are majority-owned by the BRA. It may, however, contract out the work-out of
selected problem assets externally, to consulting or asset management companies.
However, the power to issue guidelines for restructuring, to approve lending facilities
for enterprises undergoing restructuring, and to make final decisions as to the future of
troubled enterprises, will be retained by the BRA.
58.   Institutional arrangements for the BRA. As BRA will be performing a central
role in bank and enterprise restructuring and privatization, we want to ensure that it
operates under a proper incentive and institutional framework. With respect to
incentives, BRA's enterprise restructuring activities will take place within a three-year
time frame, and under a hard-budget constraint. BRA's funding requirements will
have to be met out of collection on problem assets, or the sale of good assets
purchased from troubled banks or enterprises, or transferred from the Government. In



55
ANNEX II
Page 19 of 22
order to meet BRA's start-up liquidity requirements, however, BRA will have access
to a temporary budgetary loan facility, which will be collateralized with BRA's assets.
59.   As to the institutional framework, the Bank Rehabilitation Legislation
provides that BRA is administered by a Board reporting to the Government, and
managed by a Director. The Board is chaired by the Prime Minister himself, and
includes senior Government and NBC officials. BRA's management was appointed in
mid-1996 and includes, in addition to the Managing Director, and four high-level
professionals in charge of bank supervision, asset management, legal matters, and
administration/accounting, respectively. Second-tier staffing currently includes 15
professionals, and will be increased to 25. The BRA will also make extensive use of
foreign technical assistance, the requirements for which have been defined in close
coordination with the World Bank. The Technical Assistance Loan was designed to
help fund part of these requirements.
D.   Incentive Framework for Enterprises and Banks
60.  In addition to ownership transformation, as one of the key objectives of the
reform program, we believe it is of utmost importance to enhance the overall incentive
framework for enterprises and banks, by improving the legal and institutional
framework under which they operate. The measures that we are planning to take
include the enactment of enabling legislation for enterprise restructuring, the
development of the securities market, the improvement of prudential regulations and
supervision for banks, the establishment of a deposit insurance scheme, and the timely
servicing of Government debt.
61.   Legal Framework for Enterprise Restructuring. In addition to our Bank
Rehabilitation Legislation, two major legislative reforms have been finalized, in direct
support of enterprise restructuring. First, our Parliament adopted, in early 1995, a new
Labor Law that facilitates layoffs in the case of economic redundancy, an option
which was previously lengthy and expensive. The new rules are in essence along the
lines of those used in market economies. Second, a new and overhauled Bankruptcy
legislation was enacted in early 1996. Among other provisions, this legislation opens
the possibility of court-supervised agreements between enterprises and their creditors
in the context of a bankruptcy procedure.
62.   Development of the Securities Markets. The Stock Exchange was established
in 1991, but has been operating for some time without any comprehensive regulatory
framework, nor regulatory body, and has served so far mainly as a channel for the
CPF's efforts to divest its shares of non-privatized enterprises. We are keen on
developing the securities market as a vehicle for mobilization of equity from
investors, including foreigners, and reinforcing corporate governance. The first step
towards this objective was the enactment of a new Securities Law, and a Law on
Investment Funds in December 1995. Additional measures will include: (i) the
establishment of a full-fledged Securities and Exchange Commission, following the
recent appointment of commissioners; (ii) the setting up a modern, centralized,
securities registry with safe procedures for transfer/settlement; this effort is directly
supported by the World Bank's Capital Markets Development Loan; (iii) the



56
ANNEX II
Page 20 of 22
stimulation of the equity market through public offerings of a few selected companies;
and (iv) the development of institutional investors, particularly the new pension funds
to be established as part of the planned pension system reform.
63.   As regards pension reform, we will ensure that the shares transferred in the
past to the existing pay-as-you-go system will not be used to finance current benefits.
Instead, the value of this portfolio will be preserved to help fund, in due time, the
transition to the new pension system. Pending implementation of this reform, the
investment activities of the pay-as-you-go system will be transferred to separately-
managed investment funds. These funds may seek the assistance of reputable foreign
fund managers, thus achieving better isolation from the basic pay-as-you-go system,
and promoting more transparent and dynamic portfolio management.
64.   Prudential regulations and bank supervision. The modernization of banking
legislation was launched in 1992-93 with the adoption of a new Law on the National
Bank of Croatia, and a new Banking Law. These Laws established a legal framework
comparable to that of market economies for governing banking activities, and fully
empowered the NBC to regulate and supervise banks. Building on this early efforts,
NBC adopted or improved a number of prudential guidelines, most importantly those
governing capital adequacy, large exposures, management of the foreign currency
risk, as well as limits for investments in equity shares and property.
65.   Despite the progress already made in improving prudential regulations, the
supervisory authorities are aware of a remaining shortcomings, that they are planning
to address in two stages. They already introduced a new regulation limiting bank
aggregate lending to their significant shareholders (i.e., owning over 10 percent of the
share capital) to no more than 5 percent of the bank's share capital. This rule was
recently tightened, to lower from 10 to 5 percent of share capital the threshold
applicable to bank shareholders. In addition, other regulations were recently modified,
bringing to European Union banking standards the following rules: (i) interest
suspension and reversal, in order to prevent overstatement of income; (ii)
determination of bank capital, currently defined too comprehensively; and (iii) debt
classification and provisioning (to be based not only on overdues but also on the
quality of the debtor itself). We will ensure that banks effectively comply with these
new regulations by the end of 1997.
66.   By mid-1998, NBC will implement a second round of reforms that will
complete the harmonization of the Croatian regulatory and prudential framework with
that of the European Union. These reforms will be discussed with the World Bank and
will include, tentatively: (i) the strengthening of licensing procedures, including for
savings banks, and the review of minimum entry capital requirements; (ii) the
improvement of bank corporate governance (especially the role of fit and proper
directors and management, and the mandatory establishment of audit committees and
internal auditors); (iii) depending on the findings of on a joint review with the World
Bank, the tightening of rules applicable to the management of liquidity (local and
foreign currency), interest rate, and currency risk management; (iv) the enhancement
of the role and responsibilities of external auditors in the area of bank supervision;
and (v) limits on enterprise ownership of all, including sound, banks.



57
ANNEX II
Page 21 of 22
67.   In addition to the revision of prudential and accounting rules, the NBC is
undertaking an ambitious effort to improve its supervisory capabilities, until recently
limited in terms of human resources, and fragmented among several units within the
Central Bank. In addition, the current lack of consolidated information and capability
to manipulate information for sensitivity analysis purposes, implies that very little
effective off-site supervision and analysis, can be performed.
68.    NBC's program to strengthen its supervisory capacities cover both off-site and
on-site supervision, and relies on senior advice, training, and increased human
resources. Regarding senior advice, a US-trained, Croatian-speaking resident advisor,
as well as a policy advisor, were recently hired with the support of USAID. Their
work program includes: (i) the overhaul of off-site supervision procedures (data
collection, financial and ratio analyses); (ii) the development of an early warning
system; (iii) the refocusing of on-site examination to safety and soundness concerns,
as opposed to pure compliance with laws; and (iv) the definition and implementation
of a training program for the staff of the supervision Department. In addition, 30
additional staff members were hired in 1996, resulting in a threefold increase in the
capacity of the supervision department. NBC is in the process of hiring an additional
15 supervisory staff. It also intends to monitor closely, in cooperation with the World
Bank, the implementation of this ambitious institutional development program, and to
carry out a joint review by mid-I 998. If needed, the NBC will agree with the World
Bank on an action plan to remedy any identified shortcoming.
69.   Deposit insurance scheme. The Bank Rehabilitation legislation provides for a
deposit insurance scheme to be established under BRA management. We intend to
implement this scheme in the course of 1997, as a way of ensuring a smooth
resolution of possible bank failures in the future. We will discuss with the World
Bank, and agree on, the features of deposit insurance and the time of its introduction.
70.   Servicing of Government debt. Fiscal constraints led us, in 1995-96, to
reschedule bilaterally the principal and interest installments falling due on the
Treasury's foreign exchange bonds, which had been issued to banks in 1991 as
counterpart assets to their frozen foreign exchange deposits. We deem these practices
to be detrimental to the development of capital markets, and of a sound incentive
framework for the banking system's operation. We are therefore committed to making
all future principal and interest payments in cash, and according to the initial schedule
of our obligations. We would seek any refinancing of these obligations only through
the auctioning of domestic securities, or external borrowing.
E. Fiscal Costs of the Program
71.   The incremental fiscal costs associated with the implementation of the
Program include three components: (i) the costs of bank recapitalization; (ii) the
service of foreign debt assumed from, or that cannot be serviced by, debtor
enterprises; and (iii) social safety net costs deriving from the restructuring of
enterprises, particularly layoffs. These costs are expected to range between 1.5 and 2
percent of GDP p.a. during 1997-99, and then decrease progressively. For FY97, the
costs of bank recapitalization, and of external debt servicing, have been fully provided



58
ANNEX II
Page 22 of 22
for in the current budget. For FY98, the fiscal costs of our Program may be
significantly in excess of the current year's, particularly on account of the social safety
net. We are committed to fund fully the costs of our reform program in the FY98
budget, and will agree with the World Bank on the necessary commitments before the
budget is finalized and submitted to Parliament.
Sincerely Yours,
MINISTRY OF EBEHALF OF THE GOVERNMENT
7,?ka, *nis rof Finance
NATIONAL BANK OF CROATIA
Marko Skreb, Governor
.bA4,,' fit U J3W



REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
MATRIX OF KEY POLICY ACTIONS
AREAS                                           ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                                           SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE
I. BANK / ENTERPRISE      1) Institutional Set-up
RESTRUCTURING
- BRA staffing essentially completed, and technical assistance in place.
- Adoption, by BRA's Board, of BRA policies with respect to: li) resolution of troubled
assets; (ii) bank restructuring; and (iii) bank privatization. Adoption, by BRA's Board, of
uniform policies to be followed by the banks undergoing rehabilitation with respect to: (i)
credit and investment decisions; and (ii) resolution of troubled assets.
21 Bank Problem Resolution
- Diagnostic studies of 9 banks, including the two largest ones, completed.       - External audit of Istarska Banka completed,
and agreement with the Bank on restructuring
measures, if needed.
- Decision to rehabilitate four troubled banks, including PBZ, made and published.
Adequate provisions for bad loans set aside, and equity adjusted accordingly.
- Adoption of restructuring plans, including the resolution of troubled assets, and of sound   - Implementation of restructuring plans by the
credit end investment policies, by Splitska Banka and Rijecka Banka. Terms of reference    three troubled banks, as evidenced by external
for the restructuring of PBZ adopted. Issuance, by PBZ, of a tender to select a reputable    audits.
external adviser to assist in the preparation of its restructuring plan.
- Privatization of at least one-third of the
aggregate share capital of banks owned by the
BRA at end-December 1996. Issuance of a
tender to privatize PBZ.
31 Enterprise Restructurina
a) Public Enterprises: see separate section below
b) Other Enterprises:
- Transfer of at least 70 troubled bank loans to the BRA completed.               - Resolution of troubled assets by the BRA, and
by banks, completed.
- Full privatization  of the  13  enterprises
restructured under the Law on the Restructuring
of Selected Enterprises.
0



AREAS                                             ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                                          SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE
II. LEGAL AND             1) Bank SuDervision
REGULATORY
FRAMEWORK                 - Core prudential regulations (lending to related parties, capital adequacy rule) and accounting    - Effective bank compliance with revised
standards (principles of loan classification and provisioning; and of interest recognition and  regulatory/accounting  rules; revision  and
suspense) revised to conform to EU standards.                                         modification of non-core rules completed.
- Agreement with the Bank on the features
of, and an action plan to introduce, a
deposit insurance scheme.
- Agreement with the Bank on measures to
strengthen the bank supervision function in
NBC.
2) Bankruptcv Leaislation
-Adoption of a now bankruptcy legislation allowing enterprise debt restructuring through                                                oh
court-supervised creditors' agreements.
31 Labor Redundancy
- Adoption of a new Labor Law eliminating previous constraints to, and the costs of, layoffs
for economic redundancy.
Ill. PRIVATIZATION OF     11 Institutional Framework
SOCIALLY-OWNED
ENTERPRISES               - Establishment of the Ministry of Privatization with its core staffing.
- Adoption by the Parliament of the Law reorganizing the CPF.
2) Taroets and Strateov
- Privatization of 10% of the share capital of enterprises held by the Croatian Privatization  - Privatization of at least 50% of the share
Fund at end December 1994.                                                            capital of enterprises owned by CPF as of
end 1994 (including at least 25 trade deals).
- Enactment of the new Privatization law, establishing a voucher privatization scheme, and  - Implementation of the voucher privatization
improving existing methods (elimination of floor prices in auctions). Publication of the list of  scheme.
shares earmarked for the voucher privatization scheme.



AREAS                                            ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                                           SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE
IV. PUBLIC ENTERPRISES   1) Loss Containment
- Government commitment to contain public enterprise losses to 1.5% of GDP in 1997, and to   -  1997  and  1998  losses  effectively
finance them from the budget. Commitment to reduce losses further in 1998, to 1 % of GDP,   contained  to  1.5%  and  1%  of GDP,
and to finance them from the FY98 budget.                                            respectively, and financed out of budgetary
resources.  Agreement with the Bank on
further reduction of losses in 1999, and
appropriation of equivalent subsidies in FY99
budget.
2) Privatization and Restructuring
- Agreement with the Bank on a list of privatizable non-core assets of public enterprises, for a   - Substantial completion of the privatization
nominal value of approximately US$600 million.                                       of non-core assets.
- Organizational audits and strategic studies for key public enterprises (INA, HZ, HEP, HPT)  - HZ restructuring plan adopted and its
completed.                                                                           implementation begun.   Restructuring  of
INA, and  reorganization    of HEP/HPT
- Government approval of: (i) the blueprint of a detailed plan for the legal separation of HEP  completed. Advisers for the privatization of
activities and its partial privatization, presented by its supervisory board; (ii) the blueprint of a    INA, HEP and the telecommunications hired.
comprehensive restructuring and privatization plan of the INA group, presented by its  Divestiture of at least 20% of the core of
supervisory board.                                                                    INA,   HEP   and   telecommunications
completed.
3) Reculation
- Government commitment to establish a regulatory framework, and a regulatory authority,  - Establishment of the regulatory framework,
governing the private provision of public services in the electricity and telecommunications  and of the regulatory authority.
sectors.
V. MACRO-ECONOMIC         - Agreement on a medium-term macroeconomic framework, supported by a three-year       -  Compliance  with  the  medium-term
FRAMEWORK                 Extended Arrangement with the IMF (approved on March 12, 1997).                       macroeconomic framework.
- Adoption of the FY97 budget, providing adequate support to the structural reforms.  - Adoption of the FY98 budget, providing
adequate fiscal support to the structural
Ireforms.
m:\croatia\efsal\grey\grey.mtx
w X






63
SCHEDULE A
Page I of I
CROATIA
ENTERPRISE FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
1.    Time taken to prepare:                  27 months
2.    Project prepared by:                    Government with IBRD assistance
3.    Identification mission:                 October 1994
4.    Appraisal mission:                      March 1995
5.    Negotiations:                           January 1997
6.    Planned Board Presentation:             May 6, 1997
7.    Planned effectiveness:                  May 1997
8.    Expected second tranche release:        December 1998
9.    Relevant SAR:                           n.a.






Run Date:    3/31/97
Data as of:   3/31/97
Status of Bank Group Operations in Croatia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Original arnount in USS millions                  between expected
Project        Loan or      Fiscd                                                                                                                                  and actual
ID          Credit No.     Year                Borrower                         Purpose                      IBRD           IDA   Cancellations  Undisbursed   disbursements
Number of Closed Loans/Credits: I
Active Loans
HR-PE-8334        LA1 190      1997    GOVT. OF CROATIA                 COASTAL FOREST RECON                      42.00                                     42.00
HR-PEA4457        L41040        1997    REPUBLIC OF CROATIA             EMER. TRNSPIMINE CL.                      102.00                                    90.14
H4R-PE40142       L39990        1996    REPUBLIC OF CROATIA             CAPITAL MARKET DEV.                        9.50                                      8.05              -0.44
HR-PE-40830       L39890        1996    REPUBLIC OF CROATIA             TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                       5.00                                      2.95              -2.05
HR-PE-S335        L39S80       1996    REPUBLIC OF CROATIA              FARMER SUPPORT SERVI                      17.00                                     16.50              1.3S
HR-PE-8329        138690       1995    REPUBLC OF CROATIA               HIGHWAY SECTOR                            80.00                                     38.26             -9.20
HR-PE-39450       L38430        1995    REPUBLIC OF CROATIA             HEALTH PROJECT                            40.00                                     19.26              7.40
HR-PE-8328        L37600       1994    REPUBLIC OF CROATIA              EMERGENCY RECONSTRUC                     12S.00                                     17.23             11.83
HR-PE-39002       £30690        1989    ISTRAN WW & PULA WW             ISTRIA WS                                 28.00                                     15.97             16.97
TOTAL                                                                                                          451.50         0.00           0.00       250.36              25.89
Active Loans                    Closed Loans                        Total
Total disbursed (IBRD and IDA)                                       188.27                            2.91                        191.18
Of which repaid                                                      7.00                            2.90                         9.90
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                                       444.50                            0.02                       444.52
Amount sold                                                            0.00                            0.00                         0.00
Of which repaid                                                      0.00                            0.00                         0.00
Total undisbursed                                                    250.36                            0.00                       250.36
.                .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data are updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Run date:    3/31/97
Croatia - Statement of IFC Investments
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                                                  Disbursed
IFC                                                       IFC
FYApproval        Company                               Loan       Equity        Quasi       Partic                Loan       Equity        Quasi       Partic
There is no existing portfolio for this country.
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan       Equity       Quasi        Partic
1996              T.S. BANKA D.D.                       0.00         1.50         0.00         0.00
Total Pending Commitment:             0.00         1.50         0.00        0.00
cn



67
SCHEDULE C
Croatia at a glance                                                                  Page I of 2
Europe & Upper-
POVERlY and SCJAL                                          Central middle-
Croatia     Asia  income      Developmentdiamond
Population mid-1995 (mIllions)                       4.8      488      442
GNP per capita 1S9 (US$ -                         3280      2,240   4,300
GNP 1995(biftons VS$)                               15.7    1,093    1,901                  Life expectancy
Average annual grovwth, 1990-5 
Population (%)                                       0.0       0.4      1.7
Labor force (A)                                     .0. 1      0.6     2.1    GNP                                Gross
Most recent estImate (latest year avalatble since 1989)                        per                             primary
Portn . headotUnt index PA ofpopufation)              ..                       capita                        enrollment
Urban population (1° o total popuation)              54        65       74
Life ectancyatbirtl(yea)w                            73        88       69
Infant mortality (por 1,000 Jve births)              10        23       36
Child nulnutrition (% of chikrn undi                 ..                ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe vter f' of population)                 ..        ..      86
Illiteracy (% odpopulation age 15*)                   3                 I$t3
Gross primary enTbirrnent (% of school-ae population)  73      97      107          -Croatia
Mnale                                           -                                    Upper-middle-income group
femaie                                              ..       97
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1994     1995    1996
2 Econom ic ratios'
GDP (bIllionsVS$)                                   14.2      18.1    19.1
Gross domestic InvestentIGDP                        13.8      14.0    16.0              Openness of economy
Export of goods and non-actor services!GDP          46.1      40.3    39.4
Gross domestic savings/l DP                         12.2       1.4      5.0
Gross national svirtga/GDP                          13.9       4.5      9.0
CurrentaccountbalancaGfP                             0.7      -9.5    -7.0    Savings                     nvestment
Interestpayrnentb/GDP                                1.5       1.8      1.8
Total debUGDP                                       21.8      21 3    253
Total debt servicelexports                           8.2       9.8     9.9
Prese-nt value fdeWGDP                                                                      Indebtedness
Present value of debtWexports
1994    1995      1996 1997-04
(average annualgrowth)                                                              -Croatia
GOP                                         0.8      2.3      55       5 5            Upper-middle-income group
GNP per capita                              1.2      2.6       5.8      5.5
Sxports d goods and nfs                    14.8      9.9       4.4     S 8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1994      1995    1996     1
(% of GDP)                                                                      Growvth rates of output and investment /%O
Agriculture                                         13.2      12.4    12.2
Industry                                            25.7      23.8    23.7        20
Manufacturing                                     19.6      19.3    19.3        10i
Services                                            61 1      63.8    64.1         o_-                          -/
10   s   91    s3    4  s
Private consumption                                 60 4      65.7    64 1        -20 -
General government consumption                      27.6      32.9    33.0                   -GDI   -GDP
Imports of goods and non-factor services            47.7      52.9    50 0
1994     1995    1996    [
(average annual growth)                                                          Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                         -2.5       0.3     2.0
Industry                                            -2.5       0.0      31        50
Manufacturing                                     -2.5       0 3      31
Services                                             2.1       3.7     3.8          o -  -
5o  91  9    93  54  ss  94
Private consumption                                  3 5      12 8     2.5        50
General government consumption                      19.0      22.8    17.8
Gross domestic investment                           -1.0      15.6    18.0
Imports of goods and non-factor services            15.0      38.9     2.1               -Exports   4rImporns
Gross national product                               1.2       2.6     5 8
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds showfour key indicators in Croatia compared wth its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond wilt
be incomplete.
In current US$.



68
SCHEDULE C
Page 2 of 2
Croatia
PRiCES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1994      1996    1996
Domestic prices                                                                    Inflation (%)
(O change)
Consumer prices                                       97.5       2.0      3.5    20C
Implicit GDP defiator                                 99.4       7.1       4.0    iD 4
Government finance                                                                 0o
(% of GOP)                                                                                90  91  92  93  94  95  95
Current revenue                                       46.6      50.4     50.8
Currentbudgetbetance                                   5.2       2.7      4.7               -GDPdef.  ^ CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                1.7       -0.9    *0.8
TRADE
(millions US$)                                       1994       1996     1906      Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                                  4,260     4,633    4,512
Capital goods                                        732       778        ..        erm
Chemicals                                            543       814
Manufactures                                       3,189      3,497
Total imports (cif)                                  5,229     7,510    7,788         L100d
Food                                                 573       872                  2,.
Fuel and energy                                      589       871        ..0
Capitalgoods                                       1,367      2,009                      89 90 91 92 93 94 95 9s
Export price index (1987=100)
Import price index (1987-100)                                                                 0 Exports a Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1994      1995    1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
Exports of goods and nonfactor services              6,553     7,202    7,520
Imports of goods and non-factor services             6,784     9,466    9,552     10
Resource balance                                     .231    -2,264   -2,032
Net factor income                                     -125       -93      -50      5
Net current transfers                                 459        e46      818      0
93  93  91  92  93  9493 3
Current account balance,                                                            -.
before official transfers                            103    -1,712   -1,263    .10
Financing items (net)                                  8s5     2,202    1,680
Changes in net reserves                              -789       -490    -418
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)                  1,405     1,895    2,313
Conversion rate (local/USS)                            6.0       5.2      5.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1994      1995    1996
(millions US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                 3,067     3,571    4,692            Composition of total debt, 1995
IBRD                                                 84        117      197                      (mill.USS)
IDA                                                    0         0        0
Total debt service                                    304        452      s66                       G  A
IBRD                                                 37         27       26                      429197    c
IDA                                                   0          0        0                          n
Composition of net resource flove                                                                              262
Official grants                                       0          0        0
Official creditors                                   61         77       84
Private creditors                                    79        327      433                F
Foreign direct investment                            98         81      298              2342                 E
Foreign direct investment            98        ~~~     ~~~~~~81  298                         1271
Portfolio equity                                      0          0        0
World Bank program
Commitments                                         128        120      134
Disbursements                                          1        50      105       A- IBRD                      E - Bateral
Principal repayments                                 29         20       18       B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Prhate
Not flosa                                           -28         29       89       C - NAF                     G - Short-term
Interest payments                                      8         7       10
Net transfers                                        -36        22       79
International Economics Department                                                                                    4/3/97






IMAGING
Report No.:   P     6844   HR
Type:     PR



