Report No. PIC2030
Project Name                       Croatia-Enterprise and Financial (@)
Sector Adjustment Loan
Region                             Europe and Central Asia
Sector                             Non-sectoral
Project ID                         HRPA8327
Borrower                           Government of Croatia
Implementing Agency                Ministry of Finance
Katanciceva 5, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia
Tel:    385-1-459-1300
Fax:    385-1-432-789
Environment Category               U
Date This PID Prepared             June 9, 1997
Date Initial PID Prepared          February 16, 1995
Appraisal Date                     March 1995
Board Date                         May 13, 1997
Country and Sector Background (for SECALS)
1.      Croatia declared independence from the former Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY) in June 1991. The resolution
of the territorial issue, that followed independence, and the
return to peace in the region, have improved Croatia's economic
prospects, although a sustained effort of reconstruction and
economic transformation remains ahead.
2.      As opposed to most Central Europe economies, this system
inherited from the former SFRY did not rely on central planning,
and imposed limited distortions to prices, external trade and
microeconomic decisions. It did rely, however, on a fundamentally
flawed incentive system of 'social ownership' of enterprises --
effectively that of managers and employees -- and enterprise
ownership of banks, and resulted in chronic wage pressures, poor
allocation of resources, and soft budget constraints.
3.      The 'social ownership' system assigned enterprise ownership
to the society at large, while day-to-day management decisions were
assumed by managers and employees. While this system shared many
characteristics of market economies, in particular decentralized
pricing and investment decisions, it lacked effective governance
mechanisms. This, together with the enterprise ownership of most
banks, resulted in loose financial discipline and poor investment
decisions that led former SFRY to stagnation and inflation at the
end of the eighties.
4.      The Croatian financial system was spared many of the flaws
commonly encountered in command economies. Croatia does not have



any specialized bank, and moved to a two-tier commercial banking
system in the early sixties. Most of the 25 commercial banks
established before independence (out of about 60 today) have been
operating 'commercially' for several decades, and have developed
reasonably good banking skills. However, the financial system also
inherited severe shortcomings from the former SFRY system,
including: (i) an ownership structure of banks -- mostly made up of
socially-owned enterprises -- combined with weak regulations and
supervision, that has resulted in widespread related party lending
and loose financial discipline; (ii) a high degree of banking
system concentration; and (iii) underdeveloped non-bank intermediation.
The Country's Adjustment Program
5. Croatia has successfully overcome the multiple shocks
experienced as a result of the circumstances that followed
independence and the war situation that ensued, including: the
collapse of the former SFRY and the demise of the CMEA trading
arrangements; the loss of control over strategic portions of the
territory; extensive destruction inflicted to the capital stock,
particularly infrastructure; and large inflows of refugees and
displacement of Croatian populations. This exceptional combination
of supply and demand shocks led, during 1991-93, to a sharp
recession, pressures on the fiscal and external accounts, and an
acceleration of the inflation inherited from the former SFRY.
6       Against these formidable odds, recent economic performance
has been impressive. Fiscal and external imbalances were eliminated
by the end of 1993, allowing the Government to launch a decisive
attack on the inflation front. The exchange rate-based package of
October 1993 was fully successful in stabilizing prices, whose
annual increase has not exceeded 4 percent for three consecutive
years, as well as the exchange rate. Growth, which resumed at a
modest speed in 1994-95, accelerated to about 5t in 1996.
The Proposed Loan/Credit
7       The proposed loan of DEM160 million will be disbursed in two
tranches and will conform to the usual procurement procedures for
such operations in line with World Bank guidelines.
8       The principal objective of this loan is to provide timely and
responsive support to Croatia's efforts to implement effective
reform and privatization of its enterprise and banking sectors. The
loan would provide fast-disbursing funds for balance of payment
assistance in support of the Government's reform program. The main
elements of this program include: (i) the privatization of the
remaining former socially-owned enterprises; (ii) the restructuring
and privatization of public enterprises; (iii) the rehabilitation
and privatization of the banking system; and (iv) key elements of
the enabling environment for enhanced corporate and bank
governance. The Government, in cooperation with the Bank and the
IMF, would aim at maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework
within which essential structural reforms can be implemented.
- 2 -



9       The privatization of the remaining former socially-owned
enterprises will involve: (i) a 'mapping' of privatization
assigning enterprises to alternative privatization routes; (ii)
inclusion of additional privatization methods (i.e. voucher
privatization) and improving existing ones; and (iii) a new
distribution of decision making responsibilities. The privatization
strategy seeks not only to divest virtually all the remaining
former socially-owned enterprises and the minority stakes held by
the Croatian Privatization Fund, but also to promote strong
corporate governance.
10      The reform and privatization of public enterprises includes:
(i) increased Government control over public enterprises to reduce
their losses; (ii) identification for divestiture of the non-core
assets of public enterprises; (iii) privatization of the larger
part of the public enterprises sector, including oil and gas,
telecommunication and the production and distribution of
electricity; and (iv) establishment of a regulatory framework
conducive to competition and to the entry of private sector operators.
11      Actions related to the banking sector involve the
rehabilitation and later privatization of the four troubled banks
and the restructuring and/or liquidation (depending on their
profitability prospects) of enterprises that are at the origin of
the banks' current problems.
12      The Government (Ministry of Finance, Dept. of Foreign
Relations) will administer the fast-disbursing funds. The World
Bank will monitor implementation, with the help of monitoring
reports and procedures agreed with the Government and supervision missions.
Benefits and Risks
13.     The loan would support the achievement of a major
breakthrough in Croatia's enterprise and banking sector reform,
that also constitutes a key condition to the maintenance of
monetary and fiscal stability, and to the resumption of sustained
growth. The loan would support an accelerated program of enterprise
privatization, including the large public utilities, that would
yield efficiency gains in the economy and spur growth. It would,
finally, support a program of bank reform, including privatization
and the overhaul of the incentive framework, designed to preserve
financial discipline.
14.     The risks affecting the implementation of the reform program
are twofold. First, competing claims on the budget, primarily on
account of reconstruction, could lead the Government to under-
provide for the fiscal costs of bank and enterprise restructuring.
This risk is mitigated by the loan conditionality and by the
development of a comprehensive program of public sector reforms,
including expenditure reallocation across spending programs, to be
supported by the recently approved Extended Arrangement with the
IMF, as well as undergoing policy dialog with Government
authorities on a newly proposed Public Sector Adjustment Loan from
the Bank. The second risk, partly related to the fiscal issue, is
- 3-



the possibility of macroeconomic imbalances that could result from
excessive wage awards, leading to a loss of competitiveness, and
the resumption of inflation.
Contact Point:           Gerardo Corrochano, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-3568
Fax No.:   (202) 477-1692
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 13, 1997.
- 4 -



