Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4159 HR
Loan Agreement
(Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 4, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4159 HR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 4, 1997, between the REPUBLIC OF CROATIA (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received a letter dated March 17, 1997 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower's enterprise and financial sectors  (hereinafter 
called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995,  (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble
       to the Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”;
Page  2
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise 
       agree, withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency 
       of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan 
       Agreement.”
(c)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(d)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If: (a) the 
       right of the borrower to make withdrawals from the Deposit Account 
       shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a 
       continuous period of thirty days; or (b) at any time, the Bank 
       determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the
       Loan will not be required to finance the Projects’ costs to be financed
       out of the proceeds of the Loan; or (c) at any time, the Bank
       determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the
       proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged
       in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan
       during the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the
       Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the
       Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of
       expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have
       been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan; or (d) at
       any time, the Bank determines that the procurement of any contract to
       be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the
       procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and
       establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract
       which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
       proceeds of the Loan; or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the
       Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, the Bank may, by
       notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make
       withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon giving such notice, such
       amount of the Loan shall be canceled.”
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
       such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
       and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
       report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
       request, on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to
       the Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of
       their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
       accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan"; and
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“BRA” means the Bank Rehabilitation Agency, established pursuant to the 
Law on the State Agency for Savings Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation of June 
3, 1994 (Official Gazette, 44/94);
(b)
“CPF” means the Croatian Privatization Fund, established pursuant to the 
Law on Croatian Privatization Fund of December 4, 1992 (Official Gazette, 84/92);
(c)
“Deutsche Mark” and “DEM” each means the lawful currency of the Federal 
Republic of Germany;
(d)
“Deposit Account” means a deposit account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement;
(e)
“FSOEs’ means formerly socially-owned enterprises as this term is defined 
in the Law on Transformation of Socially-Owned Enterprises, dated February 5, 1991 
(Official Gazette, Nos. 19/91, 83/92, 94/93, 2/94, 9/95);
Page  3
(f)
“HEP” means the Croatian Electricity Company established pursuant to the 
Law on Electricity of 1990 (Official Gazette, Nos. 31/90, 47/90, 61/91, 26/93, 78/94);
(g)
“HPT” means the Croatian Post and Telecommunications Company established 
pursuant to the Law on Foundation of the Public Enterprise for Post and 
Telecommunications Sectors of 1990 (Official Gazette, Nos. 42/90, 57/90, 61/91, 54/92, 
109/93);
(h)
“H(” means the Croatian Railways Company established pursuant to the Law 
on Croatian Railways of 1994 (Official Gazette, No. 53/94);
(i)
“INA” means the Croatian Petroleum Company established pursuant to the 
Law on Foundation of the Public Enterprise INA - Industry of Oil of 1990 (Official 
Gazette, Nos. 42/90, 61/91) and reorganized pursuant to the Law on Abolishing the Law 
on Foundation of INA - Industry of Oil of 1990 (Official Gazette, No. 60/93);
(j)
“NBC” means the National Bank of Croatia, established pursuant to the Law 
on the National Bank of Croatia of November 4, 1992 (Official Gazette, Nos. 74/92, 
26/93, 79/93);
(k)
“Public Enterprises” means large infrastructure and utilities companies 
with the direct state ownership, which include:  INA, HEP, HPT, H(, HRT (Croatian 
Radio-Television Company), HC (Croatian Roads Company), H( (Croatian Forests Company), 
Narodne Novine (Croatian Official Gazette), Jadrolinija (Croatian Shipping Company) 
and Plovput (Lighthouses Company).
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred sixty million Deutsche Marks (DEM 160,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from 
the Loan Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
request  for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Deutsche Marks on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank.  All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into such 
Deposit account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure excluded pursuant to the 
provisions of said Schedule 1, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
(i) deposit into the Deposit Account referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of DEM 80,000,000 unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of 
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to 
the Bank: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program; (ii) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been 
taken; and (iii) that the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework is consistent with 
the objectives of the Program. If, after said exchange of views, the Bank shall have 
given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not 
satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have 
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by 
notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
Page  4
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and
                    including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
                    the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and
                    after the initial period, each period from and including 
                    an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next
                    following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in
                    Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest period, the 
                    London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
                    Deutsche Marks for value the first day of such Interest 
                    Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, 
                    for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next
                    preceding the first day of such Interest Period, as 
                    reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
                    percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A)
                    one half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
                    the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, 
                    below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
                    other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
                    of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof 
                    allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or 
                    portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
                    reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
                    percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of the changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
December 15 and June 15 in each year.
Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
Page  5
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six months after the date of the Bank's request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Katan(i(eva 5
10000 Zagreb
Croatia
Telex:
862-21215
862-28133
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
Page  6
By /s/ Miomir 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Hans Apitz
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia 
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02(c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank shall have financed or agreed to 
finance under another loan; 
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
--
Alcoholic beverages
121
--
Tobacco, unmanufactured, 
tobacco refuse
122
--
Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
--
Radioactive and
associated materials
667
--
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked 
or worked
718
       718.7
Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), nonirradiated for
nuclear reactors
728
      728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
      897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths' or 
silversmiths' wares (including 
Page  7
set gems)
971
--
Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose or for 
luxury consumption; and
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
       Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due 
(expressed in Deutsche Marks)*
On each December 15 and June 15
beginning December 15, 2002
through December 15, 2011
8,000,000
on June 15, 2012
8,000,000
_____________________________
*  The amount in Deutsche Marks to be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) 
of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
1.
Privatization of at least 50 (fifty) percent of FSOEs’ share capital owned by 
CPF as of  December 31, 1994.
2.
Appointment of advisors for privatization of INA, HEP and HPT; and privatization 
of at least 20 (twenty) percent of the aggregate share capital of INA, HEP  and HPT.
3.
Satisfactory implementation of the mass privatization program.
4.
Privatization of 13 (thirteen) enterprises restructured under the provisions of 
the Borrower’s Law on the Rehabilitation of Selected Enterprises of August 7, 1995 
Page  8
(Official Gazette, 56/95).
5.
Enactment of regulations providing an adequate regulatory framework for 
provision of public services in the electricity and telecommunications sectors by 
private entities; and establishment of  a regulatory authority in these sectors.
6.
Submission to the Bank of satisfactory evidence that: (i) restructuring of INA 
has been substantially completed; (ii) reorganization of HEP and HPT has been 
completed; and (iii) a restructuring plan for H(, satisfactory to the Bank, has 
started to be implemented.
7.
Substantial completion of privatization of the non-core activities of Public 
Enterprises.
8.
Submission to the Bank of satisfactory evidence that the operating cash losses 
of Public Enterprises  have been limited to one (1) percent of the Borrower’s gross 
national product (GNP) and have been financed from the Borrower’s budget.
9.
Submission to the Bank of satisfactory evidence that adequate allocations have 
been made in the Borrower’s 1998 budget in support of the Program.
10.
Issuance of the tender for privatization of Privredna Banka Zagreb and 
privatization of at least one-third of the aggregate share capital of the commercial 
banks owned by BRA as of December 31, 1996.
11.
Submission to the Bank of satisfactory evidence that BRA and three major 
commercial banks:  Privredna Banka Zagreb, Splitska Banka and Rijecka Banka, have 
effectively resolved their non-performing loans .
12.
Submission to the Bank of satisfactory evidence that, upon carrying out of an 
external audit of Rijecka Banka, Splitska Banka and Privredna Banka Zagreb in 
accordance with the terms of reference agreed with the Bank, their operational 
restructuring has been substantially completed.
13.
Carrying out of an external audit of  Istarska Banka in accordance with the 
terms of reference agreed with the Bank and reaching an agreement with the Bank on a 
restructuring plan for Istarska Banka, if such a plan is requested by the Bank upon 
review of the audit report.
14.
Submission to the Bank of satisfactory evidence that commercial banks have 
effectively implemented the NBC regulations on interest suspension and reversal, 
determination of bank capital and debt classification and provisioning; and issuance 
by NBC of prudential and accounting regulations satisfactory to the Bank.
15.
Completion of a joint review with the Bank of the supervisory capacity of NBC 
and, if requested by the Bank after said review, submission to the Bank of an action 
plan to reflect the recommendations of said review.
16.
Submission to the Bank of an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, regarding 
the introduction of deposit insurance in the banking sector. 
