Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4430-GH 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Sixth Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 13, 2008 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4430-GH 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated June 13, 2008, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF GHANA (
“Recipient”) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose 
of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions 
which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-
economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to sixty million eight 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 60,800,000) (variously,
 “Credit” and 
“Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
2.06.  
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension shall be that a situation has arisen which shall make 
it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is its Minister responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Minister for Finance and Economic Planning  
 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning  
 
P.O. Box MB40 
 
Accra, Ghana  
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
ECONOMICON 
2205 MIFAEP GH 
233-21-667069 
Accra 
 
 
      
 
 
233-21-663854 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Accra, Republic of Ghana, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
By 
/s/ 
Kwadwo 
Baah-Wiredu 
    
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By 
/s/ 
Ishac 
Diwan 
     
 Authorized 
Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
The Recipient has: 
1. 
developed a customized ease of doing business survey to measure progress on private sector 
development reforms, including information on the time required to register new businesses, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 22 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
2. 
approved through Cabinet a f
inancial framework for the Recipient’s Forestry Commission to 
ensure predictable funding for the Forestry Commission and transparency and accountability in 
financial management, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 36 of the Letter of 
Development Policy; 
3. 
continued to improve the national gross primary enrolment rates in academic year 2006-2007 
with no deterioration in the national gender parity index, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 42 of the Letter of Development Policy;   
4. 
increased the per student expenditure on public primary education to US$101 in 2006, 
compared to US$90 in 2005, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 55 of the Letter of 
Development Policy;  
5. 
increased the utilization of insecticide treated bed nets by children under 5 years to 21.9 percent 
and reduced malaria case fatality to 2.1, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 65 of 
the Letter of Development Policy; 
6. 
increased health spending to accelerate progress toward the Millennium Development Goals by 
increasing in absolute terms the spending on item three of the health budget (services), in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 70 of the Letter of Development Policy;   
7. 
adopted a new national water policy, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 78 of the 
Letter of Development Policy; 
8. 
formulated a comprehensive decentralization policy, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 92 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
9. 
continued the implementation of the Government’s computer-based accounting and information 
system with the deployment of two additional modules (cash management and accounts 
receivable) to selected pilot ministries, departments and agencies, bringing the total modules 
deployed up to five, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 104 of the Letter of 
Development Policy; 
10. 
realigned treasuries at six pilot ministries (Ministry of Health, Ministry of Education, Sports 
and Science, Ministry of Transportation, Ministry of Food and Agriculture, Ministry of Lands, 
Page  7
6
Forestry and Mines, and Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Environment) 
with the establishment of a sub-consolidated funds bank account to cover the management of 
other public funds including internally generated funds and donor funds, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 104 of the Letter of Development Policy; and 
11. 
continued to ensure that the provisions of the Recipient’s Public Procurement Act are fully 
implemented and applied by using the Recipient’s Public Procurement Board’s public 
procurement monitoring and evaluation assessment covering 200 public entities, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 104 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
60,800,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
60,800,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
the withdrawal of the Single Tranche from the Financing Account shall be 
deposited by the Association into an account designated by the Recipient and 
acceptable to the Association; and 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon the deposit of the Single Tranche  
of the Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for  
in the Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable 
 
to the Association. 
D. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the account and the recording of the amount of the Financing into the 
Recipient’s budget management system
 
referred to in Part C of this Section 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and  
Page  8
7
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the said account 
and recording of the amount of the Financing into the budget management 
system, and their audit, as the Association shall reasonably request. 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2009. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the 
Credit repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each June 1 and December 1: 
 
commencing December 1, 2018 to and including June 1, 2028 
1% 
commencing December 1, 2028 to and including June 1, 2048 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
Section I. Definitions 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
Page  11
10 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party); 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient  
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
2. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through  
October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
3. 
“Letter of Development Policy” means the letter from the Recipient to the Association 
dated April 29, 2008 declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program 
during its execution. 
4. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
Letter of Development Policy. 
5. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
Page  12
11 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Financing Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing. 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
