Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20594
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Credit 25 14-MAI)
ON AN IDA CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$45.8 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
JUNE 13, 2000
Rural Development Operations
Eastern & Southern Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQIIVALENTS
AtAppraisal USSI = MWK400
Al Cottipiction USS I - MWK46 43
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metlic System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1-Decemnber 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAU                 Agri-business Advisor Unit
ACB                 Agnctltural communications Branch
ACS                 Agricultural Communications Section
ADS                 African Development bank
ADD                 Agrncatural Development Drvision
ADF                 Agrncoltural Developmenl Fund
ADMARC              Agricultural Development & Marketing Corp
APATU               Agricultural Porlcy Analysis & Training Unit
APIP                Agricultural Producttvity Investnsent Program
APRU                Agricultural Pohcy Reseatrch Unit
ASC                 Agricultural Sciences Comnitnee
ASSC                Agricultural Sector Steering Canmtittee
ASP                 Agricultural Services Project
BES                 Block Extension System
BIAS                Beneficiary Impact Assessment Smvey
CMEU                Central Monitoring & Evaluation Unit
CRP                 Contract Research Progrant
DAETS               Department of Agricultural Extension& Tech Savices
DAHi                Department of Animal Healli & Industry
DARTS               Departtnent of Agricullural Research & Tedincal Services
DFID                Department for Intem;atinal Devdopment
DO                  Development Officer
DOI                 Departmets of Irrigauon
DREA                Depattment of Research & Environmental Affaira
EPA                 Extension Planning Atea
EU                  European Union
FA                  Field Assistant
FAO                 Food & Agriculture Organtzation
FHA                 Farm Home Assistant
F&N                 Food & Nutrition
GOM                 Govetment of Malawi
ICB                 Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
IDA                 Intemational Development Association
IFAD                International Fund for Agricultural Dev
IFPRI               Intematidnal Food Policy Research Institute
LCB                 Local Competitive Bidding
MCOS                Motorcycle Owneship Scheme
MPTF                Maize Productaity Task Force
MIPA                Malawi Investment Promotion Agency
MOAI                Ministry of Agriculture & Irrigation
MoF                 Ministry of Finance
MRFC                Matawi Rural Fhnace Company
MTEF                Mid- Term Expenditure Framework
MTR                 Mid-Term Review
NGO                 Non-Goverment Organization
NRDP                National Rural Development Pngranm
NRCM                National Research Council of Malawi
NSCM                National Seed Company of Malawi
PCR                 Project Completion Report
PD                  Planaing Division
PDO                 Project Development Objective
PEM                 Participatory Extemion Methods
PPF                 Project Preparation Facility
RELO                Research Extenston Liaison Officer
RDP                 Rural Development Project
SADEC               Southem Afncan Devlopnient Comnuunitv
SFFRFM              SmnalilholderFarmar Fertilizer Revolving Fund of Malawt
SFSP                Snallholder Food Security Project
SMS                 Subject Matter Specialist
SPS                 Starter Pack Scheme
TA                  Technical Assistance
TO                  Technical Ofricer
T&T                 Transport & Travel
T&V                 Training & Vtsit
USAID               United States Agency for Intemational Development
VA                  Veterinary Assistant
VLPA                Village Levd Participatory Approach
WB                  World Bask
Vice President     Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director      Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager/Director:     Sushma Ganguly
Task Team LeaderlTask Manager        Bernard W  Van de Poll



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Credit 2514-MAI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                               1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                              1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry    2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                       3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                        12
6. Sustainability                                                            13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                             14
8. Lessons Learned                                                           16
9. Partner Comments                                                          17
10. Additional Information                                                   17
1 1. ANNEXES
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                         18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                         25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                         29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                         32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfo-mance                            33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents:
Annex 7A - Executive Summary of Project Completion Report for ASP,
prepared by MoAI (December, 1999); Annex 7B - Aide Memoire of
ICR ASP Mission, prepared by FAO (May, 2000)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I     .     I       I   -  . . .    1 1 . 1 1     I   I



1.               Project Data
Name: AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT                      Credit 2514-MAI
Nusmber:
Country/Department: MALAWI                                          Region: Eastern & Southern
Africa,
Sector/subsector: AE - Agricultural Extension; AG - Agency
Reform; AM - Agro-Industry & Marketing; AR
- Research
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  02/19/88                       Effective:  01/21/94          01/21/94
Appraisal:  06/25/92                        MTR:  N/A                   05/29/98
Approval:  06/15/93                       Closing:  09/30/99           12/31/99
Borrower/lImplementingAgency:  Government of Malawi/Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
Other Partners:  Afncan Development Bank (co-financing of selected sub-components
Other Partners:eon a parallel basis)
STAFF                   Current                                 [At Appraisal
Vice President:         Callisto E. Madavo                       E Jaycox
Country Manager:        Barbara Kafka               _
Sector Manager:         Susha Ganguly                            J . Shivakumar
Team Leader at ICR:     Bemard Van De Poll         l             Richard Anson
ICR Primary Author:     Michael Wales (FAO/CP)                  _
2.                Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=Hfigh, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)    ICR
Quality at Entry: S                 S
Project at Risk atAny ime: Yes              Yes



3     Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of
Quality at Entry
Original Objective:
3.1  The Project was conceived as the first phase of a longer-tern exercise that
aimed to reform and integrate research, extension and input supply services. The
Project was to (a) support institutional and management reforns in research,
extension and input supply, with the aim of providing cost-effective and sustainable
technologies for different types of smallholders and agro-ecological zones; and (b)
enhance smallholder incomes and food security by increasing the productivity of
smallholder agriculture, especially that of female and resource-poor farmers.
Although there was no Country Assistance Strategy at the time of project design, the
project's objectives were appropriate, and congruent with broad Government
strategy and development priorities, and it tried to build upon the lessons of earlier
projects, such as the National Rural Development Program (NRDP), the Agricultural
Extension and Planning Support Project (AEPSP), and the National Agricultural
Research Project (NARP).
Original Components:
3.2   The IDA contribution for the project components, to be implemented over six
years, were: (a) Agricultural Research (US$15.8 million): (b) Agricultural Extension
(US$17.2 million), (c) Input Supply (US$4 million), and: (d) Institutional
Strengthening (US$8.8 million), including project preparation:
3.3   The project was a successor to the 30 Rural Development Projects (RDPs)
which comprised NRDP. It was intended to simplify the provision of support
services by consolidating them into national, centrally managed initiatives, with a
focus on resource poor farmers. The Research component was designed to encourage
scientists to focus on farmers' problems, and to make better use of limited resources.
However, the associated reforms failed to allow for intrinsic resistance to change in
management procedures within the Ministry of Agriculture, now the Ministry of
Agriculture & Irrigation (MOAI). The Extension component was intended to
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the existing extension service, rather
than introduce radically new systems. In contrast to the Research component
however, the activities prescribed were rather general and relied very heavily for
successful implementation on competent management that understood and was
committed to change. The Input Supply component was essentially to support
liberalization of the trade in inputs, and in particular to encourage the private
wholesalers and retailers to enter the sector in an attempt to introduce a bit of
competition. The last component -Institutional Strengthening- was an attempt to
introduce much needed changes in the operational procedures of the MOAI. Its
principal weakness was a very heavy dependence on internationally recruited
Technical Assistance, to develop and pilot new procedures.
2



QOiality at Entry:
3.4 A QAG assessment conducted in mid 1998, concluded that the project design
was sound, ready for implementation at the time of approval, and that the
Government was committed to the project. However, some concems were voiced at
appraisal, that the project was too complex for a weak ministry to implement, that
Government had played little part in the preparation of the project and showed few
signs of "ownership". The ministry at the time was characterized as lacking goals,
leadership, commitment, financial and management accountability. The holistic
design, was intrinsically more complex than the NRDP, and much more demanding
of management. Concern was also expressed at appraisal that the centralization of
control over funds might be inimical to responsiveness by the Agricultural
Development Divisions (ADD). The implementation experiences suggest that these
concerns were valid, and the ICR mission re-assessed the quality at entry as
marginally satisfactory. In particular too much emphasis was placed on
centralization of management systems.
3.5   At appraisal a number of changes were made to simplify the project.
Livestock extension, land resource management and conservation, certain aspects of
small-scale irrigation including institutional strengthening, and part of fertilizer
supply, were transferred to an African Development Bank (ADB) project; whilst a
parallel-financed IFAD project - the Smallholder Food Security Project (SFSP)
included group development, burley tobacco and hybrid maize development, soil
conservation and fertility, the provision of seeds and fertilizer, small-scale irrigation
infrastructure and training. Support for smallholder credit was transferred to the
World Bank-funded Rural Financial Services Project, and the IFAD-funded Mudzi
Financial Services Project. The result was an overall design in which sequencing and
interdependencies were very complex.
4.          Achievement of Objective and Outputs
Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1   The project is rated as unsatisfactory. However, its perfornance was
influenced by extraneous factors such. as HIV/AIDS and its political and policy
environment. Although the project has contributed to a number of policy reforrns, it
has not achieved its principal objective of delivering agricultural services to the
smallholder sector, in particular the resource-poor. The absence of specific
performance indicators over the life of the project, makes it difficult to assess to what
extent smallholder productivity, incomes and food security have been enhanced. The
Starter Pack Scheme (SPS), which was supported by the project in the 1998-99 and
1999/2000 seasons, was effective in targeting poverty and household food security,
and was a contributory factor in the production of bumper harvests in those seasons,
but its sustainability is highly questionable. Overall, maize yields have increased,
although it is not possible to distinguish the effect of the relatively good rains
received in the last two years, and high prices, from project impact. There is evidence
of diversification into sweet potato, Irish potato, soybean, pigeon pea, cassava,
cabbages and other vegetables.
3



Outpults hy components:
4.2    Agricultural Research: This component is rated as marginally satisfactory.
Its objective was to develop a cost-effective and sustainable research system that
would generate technologies responsive to farmers' needs. Support was for (a) the
formulation and implementation of research action plans; (b) strengthening research-
extension-farmer linkages; (c) diversifying participation in publicly-funded research
through a contract research program (CRP), and commercialization of some research
activities; (d) improving the definition of research priorities and the allocation of
funding by strengthening the Department of Agricultural Research (DAR, now
DARTS) and activating the Agricultural Sciences Committee (ASC); and (e)
improving DAR's management systems and the motivation and accountability of
researchers. The component has partially achieved its objectives through the CRP,
although its overall impact was limited by difficulties in channelling funds 'to
scientists under the regular research program, and there was virtually no involvement
of farmers in developing research agendas. Some 30 maize varieties, and around 30
varieties of other crops including sorghum, groundnuts, legumes, cassava and sweet
potato were released during the project period. However, it is not clear whether the
emphasis on maize breeding, was a sensible priority, given the many other constraints
to production by small farmers; and most of the varietal development work was
undertaken by private companies or by International Agricultural Research Centres
(IARCs).
4.3    Research Action Plan: Research Action Plans were prepared at the start of
the project, but the annual planning procedures of DARTS have not changed. The
most successful activity supported was the Maize Productivity Task Force (MPTF),
jointly funded with the Rockefeller Foundation and the  EU, which carried out
fertilizer trials nationally. This resulted for the first time in a database of region-
specific fertilizer recommendations for farmers. The strong GOM ownership of this
initiative, reflected in the fact that it received nearly 50 % of total GOM project
counterpart funding of the project, was a key factor in this success, as was the
commitment and hard work of the Technical Assistance expert retained to assist the
MPTF.
4.4    Research-Extension-Farmer Linkages: Despite the formulation of a set
of guidelines, research-extension-farmer linkages remain poorly developed.
Although Research Extension Liaison Officers (RELOs) were appointed at research
stations, no provision was made by DARTS to cover their operational costs.
4.5    Diversification of Research Bodies: Although a successful CRP procedure
for channelling resources to scientists was developed, questions remain about the
relevance of some of the research topics supported, and its sustainability. During the
project only 33 projects, in one batch in 1995, were approved for funding. Funds
went almost exclusively to DARTS scientists, and only one private sector researcher
and not a single NGO received grants. Although there was good monitoring of the
projects, no research results have yet been translated into extension messages, and
not all projects received their budgeted allocation of funds. It was envisaged that the
CRP mechanism would be adopted to fund all agricultural research. This has not
happened.
4



4.6    Research Priorities, Funding and ASC: The re-establishment of the ASC
was temporarily achieved by the secondment of two DARTS officers to the National
Research Council of Malawi (NRCM). During the project the ASC, developed and
managed the CRP, prepared an operational manual, and a paper on options for a
Sustainable Funding Mechanism for research. To date none of the options proposed
has proved attractive to donors. After failing to meet several deadlines, an Agriculture
and Natural Resources Research Master Plan was finally completed, in September
1999. Although it will undoubtedly serve as a useful reference document, the Master
Plan is unlikely to be used as a basis for planning and managing research because it
produced an extensive list of activities rather than a stratified and prioritized list, and
makes unrealistic assumptions about the availability of resources. '
4.7    DAR Management and Staff Motivation: The overall management of
DARTS has not improved and the flow of funds to scientists remains a major
problem. The project undoubtedly augmented the DARTS operating resources, and
scientists have benefited from training, even though only two of the 39 slots for
short-term overseas courses were utilized. The poor flow of funds, other than CRP
resources, the failure to procure most of the laboratory equipment funded under the
project until almost the closing date, and a lack of promotion opportunities, has left
the Department with low staff morale. Although annual joint review meetings,
involving research and extension staff, to select research projects have taken place,
the constraints of time and poor attendance have meant that some of the priorities
identified by extension have not been reflected in the research program. The
weaknesses of DAR/DARTS management were recognized at appraisal, and it was
envisaged that a long-term TA Research Management Advisor would be recruited to
develop better systems. The failure to hire such expertise partially explains the
failure of DARTS to improve its management.
Agricultural Extension:
4.8    This component of the project is rated as unsatisfactory. It was designed to
continue support for MOA's nation-wide Block Extension System (BES), a modified
form of T&V extension. The project supported measures (a) to increase the
efficiency of extension service delivery through restructuring and streamlining all
operations and staffing levels, functions and capacities; (b) to expand the extension
coverage of smallholders, particularly resource-poor and female farmers through
separating credit administration from extension work, promoting more relevant and
affordable technologies/practices, strengthening research-extension-farmer linkages,
integrating technical messages, collaborating with NGOs involved in extension,
upgrading all farm home assistants to Field Assistants (FAs) and training all FAs in
gender-related issues, particularly nutrition and the labour constraints faced by many
female-headed households; and (c) to increase the effectiveness of service delivery
through improving field staff training, using more interactive teaching methods, and
encouraging better quality and consistency of field supervision by providing
The draft Agricultural Research Strategy A.D.2000-2010, prepared by DARTS, dated
February 2000, does not refer to ANRRMP or CRP.
5



adequate operational funding, more closely monitoring supervision and rewarding
better performance.
4.9    Management and  Operation: There  is  little  indication  of any
improvements in efficiency or effectiveness of extension delivery. Whilst the de-
linking of extension from credit has been achieved, FAs are still engaged in the
registration and training of groups for the purpose of credit delivery through the
Malawi Rural Finance Company (MRFC). Initially this tended to bias extenlon
delivery towards farmers in credit groups. Latterly this tendency diminished and has
been replaced by a bias towards villages where bi -lateral donor-funded extension
initiatives have started. The BES, has virtually collapsed as a result of inadequate
staff numbers and operating funds at the field level. The BES suffered from low
farmer attendance due to an absence of new and affordable messages, and inadequate
supervision. Although most Subject Matter Specialist (SMS) posts were filled, many
of the staff were not suitably qualified. This, together with a chronic shortage of
operating funds at ADDs, Rural Development Project (RDP) and Extension Planning
Areas (EPA), resulted in poor quality of supervision and technical backstopping,
with little or no support from Headquarters. Extension planning and management at
the ADDs has not improved. Despite the introduction of a log frame approach, the
use of workplans and the prioritization of work, extension work plans and budgets
continue to be far in excess of resources available.
4.10   Extension Coverage and Content of Messages: The ratio of Front Line
Staff to farm households has deteriorated from 1:980 shortly after the start of the
project in 1995, to 1:1700 at the end of the project in 1999. This is the result of a
failure to recruit new staff following formal and informal recruitment freezes,
retirements, an increasing rate of "deaths in service" due for a large part to
HIV/AIDS2, , and the fact that the National Rural College no longer offers courses to
train FAs. Veterinary and animal husbandry field staff, whose operational costs were
to have been funded by ADB, found themselves with extremely limited resources as
a result of slow disbursement from the ADB credit. On-Farm Demonstrations
(OFDs) became a priority activity and expanded enormously in number from 15,000
to almost 160,000, but this, together with an increase in the number of farmer
production clubs to service, has over-stretched the FAs, and the quality of
supervision has deteriorated. There was, however, considerable success in
propagating low-cost technologies, soil conservation and fertility management, agro-
forestry and on-farm root crop multiplication, through SFSP and programs funded by
EU and USAID. The transition to a unified extension system, in which the FA is
responsible for all farner contacts, including livestock production activities, appears
to have resulted in even less attention to livestock extension than before. There was a
large expansion in the number of farmer's clubs based on specific crops, especially
burley tobacco, or livestock activities, as well as women's groups, and others
organized through churches or mosques. The women's program was, however,
focused almost exclusively on food and nutrition. The support provided by the
2 For example, it is reported by the Human Resources Department that there were 60 deaths-in-service
dtiring 1999 in Machinga ADD, and 43 in Lilongvve ADD.
6



project has allowed the extension service to serve as the vehicle for various
extension-type initiatives such as the promising Village Level Participatory
Approach (VLPA) of the World Bank, PROSCARP (EU), MAFEP (USAID),
Agricultural Productivity Investment Program (APIP), Farmer Field Schools, as
well as the activities of a large number of NGOs, all of which are based on a large
degree of farmer participation and responsiveness to farmer priorities. The ultimate
task in this respect was the distribution of Starter Packs to some 2.8 million farm
households in 1998-99 and 1999-2000, in which FAs played a crucial role in
registering recipients.
4.11   Training:  No training targets were achieved. Funds for training in
innovative extension approaches, such as Participatory Extension Methods (PEM),
were exhausted at senior levels and few if any FAs benefited. A total of 17 staff
undertook Ms. courses overseas and six attended short courses in media and
extension management. A limited number of FHAs received training to become
FAs, and courses were held to upgrade FAs to the supervisory Technical Officer
(TO) level, and to provide them with the necessary skills in animal production. The
Food and Nutrition (F&N) subcomponent was delayed by the late arrival of the TA
expert. A Community Nutrition and Training Manual was finally prepared, has been
printed but not yet distributed and no training associated with it has been conducted.
The program at the field level has been handicapped by the fact that there is often
only one staff member to undertake both F&N and women's programs. The failure
of Bunda College to finalize the socio-economic baseline survey means that it is
almost impossible to make any quantifiable assessment of the benefits of much of
the project.
4.12  Improved Access to Transport: The motorcycle ownership scheme was
successfully implemented with supervisors receiving motorcycles. While this was
considered innovative and partially successful, the positive impact that this should
have had on supervision was negated by the fact that there were never sufficient
funds to settle transport and travel (T&T) claims.
4.13   Civil Works: A program of civil works (total cost US$5.9 million) aimed
primarily at the extension service, was substantially not implemented. The original
proposal for houses for FAs, and four EPA centers, was modified to accommodate
rehabilitation of existing FA houses and construction of two RDP centers. However
these works were never undertaken. This was because the Intemational Competitive
Bidding documentation was submitted by GOM too near the end of the project to
allow for completion of works within the project life.
4.14   Extension Aids Branch: The Agricultural Communications Branch (ACB)
-formerly the Extension Aids Branch, was to have been strengthened in support of
the overall extension program, in particular, with equipment to modernize the Visual
Aids Section for the use of radio to reach resource poor farmers in listening groups.
ACB received vehicles and domestic training and, towards the end of the project,
equipment. Two staff had long-term training on video production. Radio program
and visual aids produced by ACB have had a significant impact in the field, even
though its operations were constrained by lack of resources.
7



4.15   Input Supply:
This component of the project is rated as satisfactory. Its objective was to support
the increased availability of improved seeds and fertilizer to smallholders and to
expand use of these inputs by smallholders. The subcomponents were (a) support
for the formulation and implementation of policy reforms to further liberalize
importation, pricing and distribution of inputs; (b) improved donor co-ordination;
and (c) provision of foreign exchange to help finance incremental fertilizer imports
on a commercial basis.
4.16   Policy Reforms: The reform with most far-reaching implications was the
amendment to the Special Crops Act, which allowed smallholders to begin growing
burley tobacco. This, together with support targeted at burley groups by SFSP,
resulted in a major expansion in the number of smallholders growing burley from
18,000 to 50,000, and substantially enhanced incomes for these farmers.
4.17   The deregulation of fertilizer imports has been partly achieved, and at one
stage there were nine local and intemational companies active. Subsidies, which
started to be reduced from 1991/92, were completely removed in 1993/94. Towards
the end of the project, however only two private fertilizer companies were operating,
and the GOM has again been playing a major role in fertilizer importation thereby
reversing the liberalization trend of the fertilizer policy. There has been no success in
reducing the cost of fertilizer imports to farmers for a number of technical and policy
related reasons. The small size of many fertilizer orders, long haulage distances,
poor roads and high freight rates all contribute to high prices. Equally important
however is uncertainty about the GOM maintaining liberalization policies. This
discourages private suppliers from making the substantial long-term investment that
could reduce prices. Problems of late delivery also still exist. The Smallholder
Farmer Fertilizer Revolving Fund for Malawi (SFFRFM) operated commercially,
selling to farmers and to local companies until the start of the SPS.
4.18   The objective of liberalizing production and marketing of hybrid seed was
achieved, and all subsidies on improved seed were removed in 1994/95. Two
commercial companies are currently producing or importing almost all hybrid maize
seed used. Towards the end of the project there was a substantial increase in the use
of hybrid maize which, according to MOAI estimates, now accounts for as much as
40% of the planted area (1.5 million ha in 1999/2000). However, there are
indications that substantial numbers of farmers are using recycled seed.  The
expansion in the use of hybrids is also partially attributed to the free and low cost
SPS (around 280,000 ha for about 2.8 million households), and APIP (250,000 ha)
programs. The relatively low intervention prices for maize still discourage the use of
high cost inputs such as hybrid seed.
4.19   There remains however a substantial agenda of second generation reforms to
be undertaken, such as the privatization of the parastatal ADMARC, which controls
50% or more of the fertilizer market and, in remote areas, is the only supplier. The
role and sustainability of the maize dual band intervention price support system,
introduced after the 1994 drought, in order to protect consumers, also needs to be
8



reviewed. Overall whilst the agreed policy reformns have been largely implemented,
this component has not fully achieved its objectives because the overall impact on
the availability of inputs to small farmers, and competitiveness in supply, has been
very modest.
4.20   Fertilizer Imports: Under the project IDA financed the importation of
12,500 t of fertilizer, through loans to SEDOM and INDEFUND through the
Reserve Bank of Malawi for private sector traders. ADB funds were used to
procure 19,877 t of fertilizer, without ADB approval, in 1997/98 for SPS, which led
to temporary the suspension of the ADB loan.
4.21   Institutional Strengthening:
Partly influenced by the poor performance of the Civil Service Reforn, this
component of the project turned out to be unsatisfactory. Its objective was to
strengthen the capacity of the Ministry to deliver agricultural services in an efficient,
effective and sustainable manner. The subcomponents were (a) planning and
financial management in MOAI/ADDs; (b) transport management; (c) procurement;
(d) agricultural policy analysis training; (e) small-scale irrigation (funded by ADB
and IFAD); and (f) sectoral and project monitoring and evaluation. The
implementation of all sub-components suffered as a result of the MOAI failing to
appoint adequate counterparts to technical advisers.
4.22   Planning and Financial Management: Although some progress has been
made in financial management, including the installation of a computerized system
(Finays), and related staff training, overall financial recording was very poor. In the
main, this is attributed to a lack of interest by MOAI managers, in adopting better
financial management systems. Furthermore work plans, budgets, and financial
reports were generally produced late. But by the MTR of the project substantial
progress was made in prioritizing expenditures, particularly with the Bank
suspending disbursements till a work plan satisfactory to IDA was formulated.
Arrangements for improved fund flow were also put in place. As a consequence
some progress in fund flow to the field for the implementation of priority programs
followed, but with a change in the financial management staff at MOAI the system
once again collapsed. The most critical constraint to the achievement of the
project's objectives was the failure of the MOAI to channel resources to extension
field level staff and research scientists on a secure and regular basis. This problem
has been compounded by the lack of realistic work plans and budgets at the ADD
and RDP levels, and by DARTS. The logical framework approach has been adopted
at all levels as part of the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) exercise
started by the Ministry of Finance with Bank assistance. However, the process of
prioritizing activities remained a problem, with budget proposals grossly in excess of
available resources.
4.23   Transport Management System: The provision of increased mobility to
staff at all levels in support of extension delivery, was a crucial part of the project's
design. Although over 20 (4x4) vehicles, 440 motorcycles and 865 bicycles were
procured, a transport management system was not put in place and no effective
training was conducted.
9



4.24   Procurement3: Although in the SAR, procurement was identified as "the
most intractable constraint on timely project execution", the project has failed to
improve the situation, despite the retention of an internationally recruited
procurement specialist. On the basis of the Mid-Term Review (MTR) assessment,
field visits and the experience of ADDs, it appears that procurement was invariably
slow and erratic4, often wasteful through the purchase of inappropriate goods, (e.g.
average price of cameras, and photocopiers purchased for the extension service as
reported by MOAI were US $ 7600 and US$ 14,900 respectively), and that items
once procured were often misallocated. Responsibility for the procurement study
called for in the SAR was shifted between several Ministries and was eventually
completed at the end of 1999. Little or no training was carried out, leaving the
Procurement Section at the end of the project without operational capacity.
4.25   Agricultural Policy Analysis Training:   The project supported the
Agricultural Policy Analysis Training Unit (APATU) at Bunda College of
Agriculture, in an attempt to strengthen the policy analysis capacity of the MOAI.
Support, which was implemented, included procurement of equipment, and
infrastructure development of a 30-bed hostel. The unit successfully conducted
around five, 2-3 week courses per year5 against a target of nine, and has served a
range of agencies within government and NGOs. The main problem was slow
disbursement of funds, which has limited the number of short courses that could be
conducted, and inadequate support from the international agency contracted to
provide technical assistance support. The main failure has been the inability to
attract candidates for the Ms. degree program in agricultural economics, extension
and rural sociology, with only one person of the targeted 30 receiving a degree. Six
students were enrolled in 1999 but, with the closure of the project, they will not be
able to complete the degree course.
4.26   Training: A total of 5 Ph D, 33 M Sc, and 30 diploma and short courses
were funded by the project, with the majority of the beneficiaries being from
Headquarters. This was far below the targeted training program, and is attributed
largely to the decision to suspend the training program pending a training needs
assessment, which was not completed until the end of the project6
4.27   Technical Assistance:  The project was to have provided 410 person
months of TA in 18 different areas, of which 144 months would be long-term and
298 months international, including 100 months for the procurement study. Only
half of the technical advisers were hired, with critical gaps in research management,
It proved difficult to obtain information on procurement since the TA officer had moved to a different
project and was not in the country.
4Laboratory equipment for research stations was not delivered until the final year. Vehicles were not
delivered for two years. The bulk of the civil works program was not implemeented.
5This was reduced to 2-3 per year in 1998 and just one in 1999 due to lack of resources.
Training Needs Assessnient Report, by Deloitte and Touche, dated 1999.
10



extension management training, agricultural policy, monitoring & evaluation,
livestock extension and financial systems. The MOAI reports that the quality and
output of much of the international TA that was provided was disappointing.
Particular problems include difficulties in obtaining progress and final reports,
unduly strict adherence to terms of reference, recruitment of inappropriately
qualified personnel, failure to appoint counterparts and, in the case of the TA support
to Bunda College, a strong sense that they have not received value for money.
4.28   Monitoring and Evaluation:  A major objective of the institutional
strengthening component was to improve the M&E function at all levels in the
Ministry. Initially there was inadequate staffing, a problem not resolved until the end
of the project through recruitment and training. Although the annual work
programming process improved with the introduction of the log frame,
implementation has remained poor. Performance indicators were re-formulated by
the planning department, although not until the end of 1998, and they have not yet
been endorsed by the ADDs. Work on improved agricultural data collection, based
on the Area Sampling Frame (ASF), and did not proceed beyond the pilot stage.
Guidelines for ASP reporting were never issued and the submission of M&E reports
was chronically behind schedule almost throughout the project. Overall, there is still
no effective system in place to monitor and evaluate the progress of agricultural
development in Malawi, and no capacity to integrate M&E management information
into the strategic and annual work planning processes.
4.29   MIPA: Support for the Agribusiness Advisory Unit (AAU) in the Malawi
Investment Promotion Agency (MIPA) to strengthen the capacity to promote local
and foreign investment, disseminate agribusiness technical and market information,
and advise entrepreneurs on financial opportunities and accessing advisory services,
started in 1996. AAU staff successfully completed a range of induction and
specialist training courses, although on-the-job training by the TA did not take place.
The AAU achieved its objectives, in so far as establishing the Domestic Investment
Promotion Department. However, it was hampered by slow flow of funds from
MOAL and failure to procure the necessary equipment for its Business Information
Center.
4.30   Project Management:  Overall project management, which was the
responsibility of MOAI, with the Central Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (CMEU)
responsible for day-to-day activities, remained weak throughout the project. The
principal mechanism for implementing co-ordination was the Agricultural Sector
Steering Committee (ASSC) which was scheduled to meet quarterly, but in fact only
met twice during the project life. An ASP Facilitator (on contract) was overwhelmed
with work, remained in post for only one year and was never replaced. Despite two
start-up workshops, detailed knowledge of the project's objectives was not
widespread. The cost tables in the SAR (Annex 6) gave only very broad indicative
cost estimates for the individual components. The PER and the Implementation
Manual, which provided greater detail on investments, were hardly used by the
MOAI. As a result many subcomponent managers were not clear as to what
assets/expenditure they were supposed to be responsible for. Management of
individual components by different departments was generally inadequate, although
11



ADDs generally fared well under difficult circumstances. Weak management and
limited commitment to the objectives of the ASP led to the project funds being used
in an ad hoc way to fund a range of initiatives
Net Present Value/Economic rate ofreturn:
4.31   A formal ERR was not calculated for the project. However, potential
benefits were assessed (Annex 16) using farm budgets and linear program analyses.
The models assumed substantial increases in the use of fertilizer and hybrid maize,
as well as in burley tobacco production by smallholders.   By 2002/3, it was
estimated that 84% of smallholders would use flint hybrid maize in pure stands, that
burley production by smallholders would increase to 35,000 Kg, and that the overall
increase in the real value of smallholder production would be 35%. On the basis of
these assumptions an ERR of 23.8% over 20 years was predicted. In terms of the
main assumptions adopted in the model, it is unlikely that the project achieved such
a high ERR. It is estimated that in 1999-2000, whilst burley production has increased
substantially, around only 40% of the maize area is now planted with hybrid seeds,
and this mainly the result of the SPS and APIP, rather than the ASP.
Institutional development impact:
4.32   Little sustainable institutional development within MOAI was achieved. A
contract research procedure was developed, but contrary to expectation, it has not
been adopted by DARTS for routine funding of research, and DARTS failed to
secure alternative research funding sources. The extension service has formally
ceased its involvement in credit delivery but has failed to develop improved
extension approaches, and has not undertaken any institutional restructuring.
Improved, computer- based, methods of work planning, budgeting and financial
recording have been introduced but have yet to be fully adopted.  The policy
reforms, in particular the liberalization of the markets for hybrid seed and burley
tobacco, have encouraged greater involvement of private seed and fertilizer
companies, but at the time of project closure there were clear signs that the GOM is
becoming increasingly involved in fertilizer distribution again.
5.    Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1    A  major drought in  1994  diverted  attention  away  from  routine
implementation at the beginning of the project. The decision to have parallel and co-
financing, resulted in complex implementation and problems of interdependency,
with several components financed by two financing institutions. Finally, an
important cause of the high level of staff vacancies and turnover was the increasing
number of deaths-in-service, due for a large part, to HIV/AIDS.
Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2    Macro-economic instability with high inflation, the devaluation of the
Kwacha and high interest rates, had a negative impact upon the profitability of
agriculture dependent on imported inputs and the use of credit. Associated with this
and the impact of the 1994 drought, was the virtual collapse of the smallholder credit
system. The failure of the MOAI to adopt a workable mechanism for the prompt
12



reimbursement of claims between the Bank, MoF and MOAI resulted in serious cash
flow problems at the field level which resulted in chronic under-resourcing of the
field extension and research programs, and undermined the entire project. In addition
to involuntary losses, the high level of staff vacancies due to formal and informal
freezes on recruitment as part of the civil service reforn, and resignations to join
NGOs and the private sector also affected the project.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3    Weak management, limited commitment, poor co-ordination of donor
assistance in general were major factors contributing to the poor performance of the
project. Inadequate formal and in-service training, lack of resources for field
activities, non- and delayed payment of T&T claims, failure to rehabilitate FA
housing, and career uncertainty resulting in low staff morale, had a negative impact
on the project, especially at the field level. The disproportionate allocation of
operating funds given to Headquarters staff through high levels of travel and
subsistence claims, and preferential access to training opportunities, overseas study
tours, vehicles and equipment, adversely affected implementation capacity and
morale in the field. The TA recruited was generally poorly supervised and this
undermined the envisaged institutional strengthening.
Costs andfinancing:
5.4   In the SAR the total cost of the project was US$ 64.8 million. The IDA
share of this was US 45.8 million, with co-financing from the African Development
Bank of US$ 12.7 million and a Government of Malawi (GOM) contribution of US$
6.3 million. The project formally closed on September 30, 1999, as scheduled;
although categories 3 and 4 remained open until December 31 1999 in order to allow
reimbursement of final claims for procurements in connection with SPS, and
research equipment. Total IDA disbursements were SDR 30.98 million (US$43.62
million), which represents 95% utilization of the credit. There was a substantial
disbursement lag throughout the life of the project. Originally the GOM contribution
was set at 10% of total project costs (US$6.3 million), although after the MTR this
was reduced to 5%. Actual GOM contributions, as reported by the MOAI in April
2000 amounted to US$1.32 million, equivalent to 21% or 41 % of the original and
final targets respectively. Some 50 % of the GOM counterpart funding were spent
on Research, mainly for the MPTF. Disbursement of ADB funds at the time of
project closure were UA 5.68 million, equivalent to US$7.87 million. The bulk of
the ADB disbursement, (US$6.Omillion), was for fertilizer purchase.
6.          Sustainability
Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1    Few aspects of the project are expected to be sustainable. The regular
research program and research -extension linkage has virtually ceased following
closure of the project and failure of the MOAI to provide funds from its budget, and
there are no sources of funding to continue the CRP. The continued operation of
ASC is doubtful since the senior staff seconded has returned to the MOAI. The
extension service has not developed an acceptable system or approach, and is
essentially dependent on ad hoc donor project support. The motorcycle ownership
13



scheme cannot be sustained because reflows into the revolving fund are inadequate
to purchase new machines. The management of the MOAI remains very weak,
unable to face the challenges of the future in the absence of effective planning and
budgeting of work programs, and poorly functioning M&E, financial, procurement
and transport management systems. The continuance of the APATU program is
likely through tailoring courses to the needs of various donors, especially under the
SADEC Regional Food Security Training Program, and offering more specialized
courses focusing on agribusiness for graduates
Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2    Nothing has been done to transfer the operational costs of the project to the
regular MOAI budget. In fact following project closure, there has been a major cut in
the resources available to the MOAI. The result is that much of the research and
extension activity, especially in the ADDs have become dependent upon small flows
of "Other Recurrent Transaction" (ORT) funds and or and funding of specific
activities by bilateral programs. Extension activities at the field level have been
severely curtailed by the cuts that have resulted in resources being concentrated at
headquarters and the ADD level rather than in the RDPs and EPAs
7           Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
Lending:
7.1    Rated marginally satisfactory. The project design provided a holistic linkage
between the core business of the Ministry (Research and Extension), and input
supply and agricultural policy. The project's objectives were appropriate, but a
centralized, top-down, message delivery extension system was not likely to be
effective, and was certainly not fiscally sustainable. The project design, whilst
drawing on the lessons from earlier projects, and implicitly recognizing weak
management within the MOAI as the key constraint failed, to come up with discrete
prescriptive activities to address these weaknesses, particularly decentralized
decision making and management. The strategy of relying on TA to develop and
introduce better management procedures was very risky, especially given previous
experience with TA in Malawi.
Supervision:
7.2    Marginally satisfactory. A large number of staff weeks were devoted to
supervision of the project. Supervision missions were, for the most part, regular, and
identified actual and impending implementation problems. However, although
institutional strengthening was a critical part of the project, an institutional specialist
was never included in the missions. Despite successive "unsatisfactory" ratings for
the extension component, nothing was done to remedy the problems. Fundamental to
all implementation problems was the inability, from the beginning to the end of the
project, to resolve the problem of flow of funds. The Bank made great efforts to
simplify its cost recovery procedures, but these were not adequately reciprocated by
the GOM. Although an attempt was made at the MTR to re-orient the project, none
of the action plan proposals were implemented and it was only at this stage that the
Project Development Objective (PDO) rating was downgraded to "Unsatisfactory".
14



Consequently, at the end of 1998, the project was declared to be "at risk",
disbursements against operating expenditures were suspended for five months, and it
was decided not to extend the project closing date, even though some US$17.5
million of the credit remained undisbursed. At this point the Bank agreed to the
utilization of most of the remaining funds to finance seeds, fertilizers and logistic
costs associated with the first & second SPS.
Overall Bankperformance:
7.3    Overall, the Bank's performance has been marginally satisfactory. There
were three successive Bank Team Leaders during the project cycle and the
emergence of serious problems at an early stage was not adequately recognized.
Whilst the Bank did identify many of the project weaknesses and problems during
implementation it was unable to satisfactorily address these weaknesses, and in
particular the weaknesses in the institutional structure and management of the MOAI
Borrower
Preparation:
7.4    Rated  unsatisfactory. Although  there  was  probably  some  MOAI
commitment to the project in the early stages, there was a fundamental lack of
ownership, which resulted, in part, from contracting out much of the preparation
work to local consultants
Government implementation performance:
7.5    Rated unsatisfactory. The lack of ownership contributed to the project
problems, by resulting in increasingly ad hoc management and an inability to take
corrective action when problems started to emerge. However the main weakness was
simply poor overall project direction and management by the MOAI, and a
reluctance to introduce institutional reforms. Procedural problems, starting at the
field level and stretching to MoF with respect to the timely submission of
withdrawal applications, and reimbursement of claims by departments and ADDs,
led to a chronic problem of channeling funds to the field. It took two years before the
Special Account was allocated to cost centers, and the procedures for reimbursement
via MoF were complex and slow, all of which undermined the entire project
implementation. Non-salary operating costs were often late and insufficient, even
though they were 100% reimbursable. Recommendations of the TA specialists to
improve institutional capacity in financial and transport management, procurement
and M&E were not adopted. Management capacity in the Ministry was further
stretched by acceptance of other donor sponsored extension projects. Indecisive
management and poor procurement procedures resulted in the almost complete
failure to implement the civil works program (10% of original category). The
supervision of TA, including failure to appoint counterparts and react decisively to
problems, was also weak. For a period, audit reports were submitted late, and with
qualifications
Overall Borrower performance:
7.6    Overall, the borrower's performnance has been unsatisfactory. An attempt
was made at the MTR to reorient the project by focusing on training at the field
level, on strengthening M&E, research and extension and on activities to test
15



alternative approaches to extension delivery and management on a pilot scale. None
of the proposed activities were implemented. Instead, all project activities were
abandoned in favor of SPS.
8.          Lessons Learned
The principal lessons that can be drawn frorn the implementation of ASP are:
8. 1    General
*  For successful implementation all stakeholders must be involved in the
conceptualization and design of a project.
*  Innovative project design, especially when it involves institutional reform, must
be based on a realistic assessment of management capacity, and commitment to
change.
*  Problems associated with centralized procurement, and the related excessive
demands placed on the CMEU, suggest that decentralization of many project
activities would have been preferable.
* Successful institutional strengthening of MoAI can not only be addressed by
capacity building through training and technical assistance, but will for a large
part be dependent on successful Civil Service Reform and the willingness of
management to make hard decisions to move the decentralization process.
*  Investments aimed solely at increasing productivity are unlikely to yield
enhanced farmer incomes unless market development-related issues are
adequately addressed simultaneously.
-  Effective flow of project resources to the field level is a sine qua non for
successful project implementation. This must be achieved through a combination
of simplifying procedures, strengthening financial management, and designing
projects in which responsibility is devolved to the lowest level possible.
-  A dependence on co-ordinating mechanisms such as steering committees only
works when such instruments have authority and meet regularly.
8.2    Policy
* The policy reforms carried out under ASP alone are not sufficient to yield
significant benefits to the sector and a range of "second generation" reforms
need to be addressed.
8.3    Research
*  Improving research funding procedures (e.g. CRP), must be combined with
improved research project selection methods
*  Research-extension-farmer linkages can only be strengthened by farmers
participating in the development of research agendas.
*  Research Master Plans must be prepared in advance of any changes in research
funding and management systems, and must be supported by a strong
commitment to prioritize the use of funds.
16



8.4    Extension
*  Dependence on a standard routine, visit-based, message delivery extension
system (such as BES) is neither effective nor fiscally sustainable.
*  Participatory approaches, which empower farmers' groups (e.g. VLPA), are most
efficient and cost-effective; however such approaches are multi-sectoral and
should not only involve Ministry of Agriculture staff.
*  In the interests of sustainability and affordability, a clear definition of publicly
funded extension priorities is essential, together with partnerships between
government, NGOs and the private sector.
8.5    Bank
*  Effective project supervision is a crucial part of implementation, and, where
necessary, additional resources should be allocated to the supervision of projects
when implementation begins to deviate substantially from original intentions.
*  Although the incorporation of a project within an existing ministry (MOAI)
avoids dependence upon a Project Implementation Unit, this can only work if the
institution itself is strong.
9.          Partner Comments
Borrower/implementing agency:
9.1    The Borrower prepared a comprehensive draft Project Completion Report in
December 1999, which identifies the same project implementation problems and
weaknesses as described in this report. The Executive Summary of their report is
attached as Annex 7A of this report. The Borrower also carried out a Beneficiary
Impact Assessment of ASP in November, 1999, which is available on request.
10.         Additional Information
10.1   The Bank initially resisted support for the Starter Pack Scheme (free
distribution of fertilizer, hybrid maize and leguminous seeds for 0.1 ha/hh) on the
grounds that it was not sustainable (US$30million/year), and could not be
satisfactorily targeted to the truly needed. The Bank was subsequently persuaded that
it could be considered as a household-level food security mechanism to benefit for the
poorest Malawian families and as part of the solution to the problem of soil fertility
among the poorest smallholders. It was also recognized as being a more cost
effective way of improving food security than simply importing maize at a time when
national supplies and stocks were very low. Whilst the scheme undoubtedly
contributed to the good yields achieved in the 1998/99 and 1999/00 maize seasons,
the Bank remains of the opinion that such measures are essentially short-term or
emergency measures that other bilateral donors are in a better position to support and
their SPS should be based on a clear safety nets strategy.
17



Annex 1
Key Performance Indicators
OUTCOME/IMPACT INDICATORS
I ndiWcator  iProjectediin SAR                                                              Lit est/Actual
Minimum average real smallholder income increases  6%                No estimates made
Reduction in pre-harvest, food-scarce period from 3 to 2             BIAS suggests that the food-scarce period in 1999 reduced from 2 to I
months                                                               month
Adaptation, dissemination and adoption of labour-saving    2 technologies  Several technologies have been adopted by smallholder farmers
technologies in food processing/transportation/fuel
use/collection
Three low cost agricultural productivity enhancing  By 40,000 farmers
technologies
Reduction in annual rate of research staff turnover  20%
Coverage of smallholder population by extension    60%               Only indicator is FLS: farm household ratio - average 1: 1680 but
ranges from 1:748 to 1:3087
Ratio of female farmers covered by extension       50%               No data available
Number of smallholders adopting HYVs of maize      40%               As a result of SPS I and II, in 1999, 64-70% of farmers using hybrids
Number of farmers using nitrogen-fixing soil conservation  40%       Estimated in ASP Semi-Annual Report at 40%
techniques
Upgrading FHAs to FAs                              100%              Some FHAs have been upgraded to FAs
Incorporation of nutritional messages into FAs work  100%            Information spread by leaflets but FAs not trained on how to use
Nutrition Manual
No. of ha under small-scale irrigation             300               (ADB support)
No. of farmers using small-scale irrigation        1000              (ADB support)
No. of local, problem-specific surveys undertaken by each  6 to 24   Block Survey and Policy Impact Surveys conducted only for two
ADD                                                                  seasons - subsequently stopped due to lack of funds
Reduction in MOA transport costs                   12%               No data available - but indications that no savings have been achieved
No. of GOM staff who have received Agricultural Policy   30          Only I student graduated with M Sc
Analysis Training
Increase in number of private hybrid maize seed    Thd               In 1999, two private seed distributors in operation
producers/distributors                                                                _      ___ __
18



OUTPUT INDICATORS
Indicator-                                       Projected in                              Latest/Actual
SAR
Research:
Action Plans for 7 research groups                                Action plans prepared originally but not up-dated. Annual programme
of research agreed by consensus but limited time and inputs from
extension.
Plans to reflect priorities and budget ceilings                   Budget ceilings not available before planning programme. Large part
of budgets spent on travel
Plans reflect smallholder needs                                   Research not explicitly geared towards smallholder problems
Senior researcher appointed for contact with ADDs                 Liaison researcher appointed but not replaced upon retirement. Weak
response to ADD problems due to lack of travel funds
On-farm trials researclher-extension-farner managed               On-farm trials conducted but questionable reliability due to limited
supervision
Increased number of field days                                    Field days at stations and on farmer fields, well attended,
Joint committees to review results and plan next year             Public seminars held; Joint Committee to review results at annual
meeting involving extension staff, university, ASC and farmer
representatives
Results disseminated in publications                              Leaflets and posters distributed, but many technologies not publicized
Expanded use of contract research                                 33 projects funded and scientists satisfied with results; projects
receive more funds than DARTS projects; funds reach the scientists
directly; accountability
AS C as advisory board                                            ASC successfully set up and operated during project
Technical secretariat to ASC set up                               Technical Secretariat established
National Research Master Plan prepared                            National Agriculture and Natural Resources Research Master Plan
finally issued October 1999
Improved research monitoring                                      Monitoring of research generally good
Improved accounting                                               No improvement in accounting
Advise on allocation of public research funds                     Yes
Stronger links with regional and international                    Few systematic links with international centres established
research bodies fostered
19



Improved accounting at DARTS                                    No improvement in accounting
Professional Interview Board set up                             Interview Board not set up
Studies conducted
Action plans prepared                                           Yes
Training programme for research scientists                      DARTS has benefited from training in research programme
undertaken                                                      preparation and budgeting; inadequate professional training - only 2
of 39 overseas training slots used
Improved career structure and promotion                         Overall poor morale in DARTS due to lack of promotion prospects;
opportunities                                                   erratic funding; laboratory equipment arrived at end of project
TA: Research Management Expert                     12 p-m       Not recruited
TA: Librarian                                      20 p-mi      Not recruited
Extension:
Food and nutrition programme                                    National food and nutrition survey conducted; training materials
produced; F&N Manual finally printed but not distributed
TA: Food & Nutrition Expert                         12 p-m      Recruited late
Training:                                                       Programme implemented 1994-96, 1997-99 no training took place
due to need for Training Needs Assessment; 1999, overseas courses
for 35 staff plus in-country courses for 11 staff
Diplomas                                            6         3
M.Sc.s                                              6         19
Study tours                                         2         4 short courses overseas + 2 in-country courses
De-link extension from credit recovery                          Extension de-linked from credit recovery butFAs still involved in
organising and training credit groups; time released increasingly well
used to work with special interest groups
Streamline MOA's structure and staffing                         No progress with streamlining structures; Functional Review not to be
implemented until after project
Reorientation training of staff                                 Substantially less than planned
Upgrading training of FHAs to FA or VA level                    Limited number of FHAs upgraded
More integrated information on main areas covered               Not clear whether overall coverage of resource-poor has occurred.
Low-cost soil fertility objectives met mainly through PROSCARP.
On-farm root crop multiplication benefited resource-poor
More targeted infonnation linked to local conditions            Location-specific fertilizer recommendations from MPTF
20



and tvpe of smallholder
Expand mini-plots                                               Mini-plots (OFDs) expanded greatly in number but dubious qualitv;
block gardens declined but not abandoned
Reduce block garden demonstrations
Introduce topics in response to farmer requests                 Participatory extension not institutionalized and few FAs trained in
Methodology
Shift focus from credit groups to wider range through           Many natural groups incorporated into extension but needs emphasis
churches, mosques etc
Greater coordination with local NGOs                            Some coordination with NGOs, which work with FAs but no
contracting-out of services
Reorientation training to mainstream women's issues             No progress in reorientation of training to women's issues
Training in nutrition by F & N Unit                             Training on soya bean done and preparation of food and nutrition
materials
Livestock and environmental training to farmers                 No livestock or environmental training done
Improve field supervision, budget and planning -                No improvement in supervision, budgeting, planning - allowances
transport & allowances                                          increased but often not paid and always late
Improved access to vehicles, bicycles & motorcycles:
4x4 double cab                                      20        7 (13 by ADB)
10 seater minibus                                   I         At NRC
Motorcycles                                        440        485 (44 by ADB)
Bicycles                                           865        (50 by ADB)
Motorcycle ownership scheme for supervisors                     Access to vehicles and motorcycles improved through ownership
scheme. but negated by late or non-payment of allowances (T&T)
Houses for field staff                         80 EH 10 houses  No improvement in field staff housing; failed to implement
substituted FA house rehabilitation programnme
Office/training facilities at EPA level:
Offices                                             60        Not constructed
EPA centres                                         4         Not constructed
Classrooms                                          4         Not constructed
Storerooms                                          12        Not constructed
Equipment: computers                                  4         (2 by ADB)
Strengthen mass media for resource-poor - focus on              No improvement in mass media except "wind-up" radios distributed
radio                                                           under EU scheme
21



Agricultural Communications Branch (ACB)
Upgrade ACB and VAS equipment                                 ACB received equipment
TA: Extension Training Specialist                 18 p-m      Not recruited
Input Supply:
Liberalising production and marketing of seed to              Hybrid maize seed production and marketing liberalised 1993
increase competition, choice and lower prices
Remove all subsidies on improved seed                    __  Subsidies removed 1994/95
Formulate and implement policy reforms:
Deregulate imports and make SFFRFM commercial               Import deregulated. SFFRFM still government-owned
Emphasise high analysis fertilizer import, ICB,              Companies free to import whatever fertilizer demanded
bagged
Single max target retail price for each type                 No single retail price
Liberalise distribution for PS entry into wholesale          Distribution liberalised; initially nine companies involved in
and retail and freedom to buy from SFFRFM and                 importation and distribution, but at end of project only two
Admarc
Admarc seller of last resort to defend target max            Admarc still dominates the market and in some remote places, is sole
price                                                         supplier
Foreign exchange for fertilizer - IDA             12,500 t    Procured using SEDOM and INDEFUND as revolving fund
Foreign exchange for fertilizer - ADF             18,750 t    19,774 t CAN procured
Institutional Strengthening:
Planning and Financial Management:
TA and in-service training to HQ and ADDs for:                TA unsatisfactory - no usable outputs produced
Portfolio management in PSIP                                Introduction of MTEF approach on full scale for 1998/99 budget. FY
changed from April to July
Work plans linked to ADD budget preparation                  Failure to prepare realistic work plans
Project planning anid budgeting                              Annually
Improved accounting                                          Some improvements in financial management
TA: Financial Management Expert                   27 p-m      Recruited but performance poor
TA: Financial System Analyst                      12 p-m      Recruited but performance poor
Transport Management:
Introduce MOA/ADD transport management system:                Not implemented
22



Training in transport and workshop management               Workshop training not conducted
Private sector maintenance on pilot basis                   Yes - almost all maintenance by private sector
Workshop equipment, computer hardware and                   Computers not procured
software
TA: Transport Management Advisor                24 p-m      TA unsatisfactory - monitoring systems designed but not operational;
poor TOR strictly adhered to
Procurement
Study to improve procurement and intemalise results  100 p-m  Responsibility for the study shifted between different Ministries and
was finally completed (under OPC) at the end of 1999
Support for MOA procurement - procurement agent               Procurement slow and Items procured not distributed according to
to handle civil works and goods                               plan
In-service training                                           Little training conducted by TA; two short course attended
TA: Procurement Management Expert                 24 p-m      Extended to 60 p-m; failed to conduct training, no procurement
Policy Analysis Training:                                     manual preparation
Non-degree and PG courses, Bunda RD Dept:
Commodity, market and price analysis                        Conducted with reduced frequency
Food security and nutrition policy                          Conducted with reduced frequency
PAM                                                         Conducted with reduced frequency
Environment and natural resource policy                     Conducted with reduced frequency
Project preparation and management                          Conducted with reduced frequency
M&E                                                         Conducted with reduced frequency
M.Sc degree course                                30        1 M.Sc awarded; 6 students completed ISt year only before end of
project
Support for Bunda:
Hostel                                          20 beds     30 bed hostel completed 1998
Computer training room                                      Constructed
4x4 Pickup                                        6         Procured (5 by ADB)
4x4 Saloon car                 _                  2         Procured (I by ADB)
25 seat minibus                                    I        Procured
TA: Policy Analysis Course                    _33 p-m         Unsatisfactory - contract with IFPRI terminated
Other Procurement:-                      -
Motorcycles                                       12        6 (6 by ADB)
Bicycles                                          150       150
23



Conmputers                                          66        55 (I1 by ADB)
Printers                                            32        29 (3 by ADB)
Photocopier                                         5         3 (2 by ADB)
Facsimile                                           2         (2 by ADB)
Monitoring & Evalhation:
Streamlining survey and reporting systems                       Little success in strengthening M&E; monthly, semi-annual and
annual; report chronically late
Pilot to introduce Area Sampling Framework (ASF) not followed-up
Developing quantitative indicators and targets, RRA             Performance indicators still not agreed
techniques
Strengthening M&E capacity at ADD level - training              Upgraded 7 staff to M.Sc level
Computers to enhance speed                                      Procured
Increased management accountability                             Work plans based on log frame approach started but poorly utilised
Beneficiary and local problem assessment                        Two beneficiary assessments carried out
Disaggregating data by gender and farm size                     Not achieved
TA: M&E Advisor                                     7 p-m       Not recruited
Management:
Vehicle                                               1         Procured
Computer                                              I         Procured
Printer                                               1         Procured
24



Annex 2A
Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
Estimate         Estimate        Appraisal
Project Cost By Component                 US$ million      US$ million
Research                                                    18.10              6.54            36.1
Extension                                                   24.20              9.73            40.2
Input Supply + SPS                                          10.00           21.68 '           216.8
Institutional Strengthening                                 11.30             13.97            123.6
Project Preparation                                          1.20              0.89            74.2
Total Baseline Cost                                         64.80             52.81
Total Project Costs                 64.80             52.81
Total Financing Required                 64.80              52.81
1/ Includes US$6.0 million disbursed by AfDB
25



Annex 2B
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method:
Expenditure Category       ICB      : NCB            Other2        N.B.F     . Total Cost:
1. Civil Works               0.00          5.90         0.00          0.00          5.90
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Vehicles & Equipment       5.30         0.00          1.00         0.00          6.30
(2.9)       (0.00)         (0.9)       (0.00)        (3.8)
3. Technical Assistance       0.00         0.00          5.90         0.00          5.90
(0.00)       (0.00)        (5.4)        (0.00)        (5.4)
4. Training                   0.00         0.00         13.20         0.00         13.20
(0.00)       (0.00)       (11. 1)       (0.00)        (11.1)
5. Fertilizer & Seeds        10.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         10.00
(4.0)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (4.0)
6. Operating Costs           0.00          0.00         22.30         0.00         22.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (16.3)        (0.00)        (16.3)
7. Refinancing of PPF         1.0           0.2          0.00         0.00          1.2
(1.0)        (0.2)         0.00         0.00          (1.2)
Total                      16.30         6.10        42.40         0.00          64.80
(7.9)        (4.2)        (33.7)       (0.00)        (45.8)
26



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements 3' (Actual/Latest Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method 1l
Expenditure Category        JCB           NCB         Other2    -N.BF.         Total Cost
1. Civil Works                  0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Vehicle & Equipment          0.00          0,00         0.00         0.00          0.00
..__________________ .(0.00)  (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Technical Assistance         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Training                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Fertilizer & Seeds           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Operating Costs              0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
7. Refinancing of PPF           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
________________ __ . .(0.00)  (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
1/   Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2/   Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
3/   Not available
27



Annex 2C
Project Financing by Component
(in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of
Appraisal_Estitmate    Actual/Latest Estimate  A    Appraisal
___________________       ;Bank   Govt.: CoF.  ::Bank    Govt.   CoF.  Bank Got tCoF.
Research                15.80    2.30             5.90     0.70    0.00   37.3  30.4  0.0
Extension               17.20    3.10    3.90     8.30     0.50    0.90   48.3  16.1  23.1
Input Supply + SPS       4.00             6.00   15.70 4           6.00   392.5  0.0  100.0
Institutional            7.60    0.90    2.80    12.90    0.10      1.00   169.7  11.1  35.7
Strengthening                                           I _ _
Project Preparation      1.20                     0.90                     75.0  0.0   0.0
Total                   45.80    6.30    12.70    43.60    1.30    7.90   95.2  20.6  62.2
Note: Co-financing by the African Development Bank
1/  Based on data provided by MoAI (4/26/00)
2/  Includes US$9.7 million for SPS
28



Annex 3
Economic Costs and Benefits
Cost Benefit Analysis 1/
6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1/ Not Available
29



Annex 4A
Bank Inputs
Missions:
M 4  C rS ;.N .nof    'Perso                               i an  SeiaIt  eoiance Rati. 
SAge  obf Project Cycle_____                                      __________
Impemetatio n   Dvlmn
: . .: : :i:: : i S i : . E : iei ;,; :.     ' W -.-               Y                             m oR      ei   R-z
Month/Year                  Count         specialt                             Pro.greObectve.
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision
Supervision (PSR 1) June-93               Initial                                          S                 S
Summary
Supervision (PSR 2) April-94             6         Ag Econ (3), Agron (2), Res             S                 S
Supervision (PSR 3)                       7        Ag Econ(3), Agron (2), Res, Ext         S                 S
June-94
Supervision (PSR 4)                      4         Ag Econ (2), Ext. Res.                  S                 S
Dec-94
Supervision (PSR 5)                      6         Agron (1), Ag Econ, Res (2),            S                 S
Jun-95                                             M&E, Ext
Supervision (PSR 7)                       7        Agron (2), Ag Econ, Res (2), Fin        S                 S
Jan-96                                             Anal, Proc.
Supervision (PSR 8)                      6         Agron (2), Ag Econ, Res (2), Ext        S                 S
Jun-96
Supervision (PSR 10)                      7        Agron (2), Ag Econ, Res (2),            S                 S
Jan-97                                             M&E, Fin Anal
Supervision (PSR 12)                      7        Agron (2), Ag Econ, Res. (2), Fin       S                 S
Aug-97                                             Anal. Ext.
30



Supervision (PSR 14) MTR I/June 1998     13        Agron (2), Econ (2), Irrig, Ext,        S                 U
Res (2), Ag Econ (2), Fin Anal,
M&E, Task Asst.
Supervision (PSR 15)                      7        Agron (2), Ag Econ, Ext, Fin           U                  U
November 1998                                      Anal, M&E, Task Asst
Supervision (PSR 16)                      4        Agron (2), Ag Econ, Fin Anal           U                  u
June 1999
Supervision (PSR 17)                     3         Agron (2), Fin Anal                    U                  U
October 1999
ICR
ICR MissionApril 2000                    3          Econ, Agron, Ext                      U                  U
1/   Key to type of expertise: Ag. Econ. = Agriculture Economist; Agron. = Agronomist; Ext. = Extension Specialist;
Res. = Research Specialist; Fin. Anal. = Financial Analyst; M&E = Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist;
Iff. = Irrigation Specialist; Proc. = Procurement Specialist.
2/   Performance Ratings recorded in Form 590s/PSRs and in the ICR
S = Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory
31



Annex 4B
Bank Inputs
Staff.-
Stag  ofproject CyCl                        'A tual/Lats Estimat
iNo. St ff weks                 (000)
Identification/Preparation                        107                       318
Appraisal/Negotiation                             173                       333
Supervision                                       408                      1097
ICR                                                41                       115
Total                                             728                      1863
32



Annex 5
Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                           NA
Sector Policies                          M
Physical                                 N
Financial                                N
Institutional Development                N
Environmental                            NA
.Social
Poverty Reduction                   M
Gender                              N
Other (Please specify)
Private sector development               M
Public sector management                 N
Other (Please specify)
1/   Marginally satisfactory due to Starter Pack initiative
Annex 6
Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly
Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                            Rating
Lending                                      s1'
Supervision                                 S!
Overall                                     S
6.2 Borrower performance                        Rating
Preparation                                  U
Government implementation performance        U
Implementation agency performance            U
Overall                                      U
1/  Marginally Satisfactory
33






Annex 7A
MINIS'TR OF AGRICULTURE               'GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
AND'IRRIGATION:
PROJECT COMPLETION'REPOR  FRTHE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT( (SP), Cr. 2514
MINIlSTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION:
PLANNING DIVISION
P.O. BOX 30134
LILONGWE:3                                  Decembter, 1999.



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
As the Agricultural Services Project (ASP) came to a close on 30 t' September, 1999 a
Project Completion Report (PCR) has been compiled by the Ministry of Agriculture and
Irrigation (MoAI) as a preparatory work for the donor consultants who will produce the
final PCR in January, 2000. This report covers ASP (IDA) components and a summary of
the ASP (ADF) components.
ASP's key objectives were: a) to support institutional and management reforms in
research, extension and input supply, with the aim of providing cost-effective and
sustainable technologies for different types of smallholders and agro-ecological zones;
and b) enhance smallholder incomes and food security by increasing the productivity of
smallholder agriculture, especially that of female headed households and resource-poor
farmers.
The project's main aims were to: a) improve focus, cost effectiveness and impact of
agricultural research and extension activities; b) support seed and fertilizer marketing
reforms to increase supply and use, and provide foreign exchange for importing
incremental fertilizer; c) strengthen planning and financial management, transport
management, procurement, agricultural policy analysis, small-scale irrigation
development, and monitoring and evaluation in MoAI and constituent ADDs.
All loan conditions tied to the ASP were fulfilled by the Government of Malawi (MoAl)
between 1994 and 1995. During the early stages of the project implementation was
smooth but got stagnated towards the end of the project. The Total Estimated Cost was
adjusted to take care of inflation and newly introduced activities but cash floats remained
low, and delays in reimbursements of funds was experienced because of late submission
of claims by cost centres to MoAI and then to Treasury. Although a Financial System
Analysts was recruited in 1995, no improvement was experienced in the Accounts
Department and this resulted into poor performance of the TA as most of the work
stipulated in his Terms of Reference (TOR) were not achieved.
The mandate of the Procurement component under the ASP-IDA was to provide
institutional support and management improvement through the purchase of equipment,
and, to help in building capacity of the procurement unit in the ministry. The Technical
Assistant was recruited in 1994 to facilitate the implementation of the procurement
activities.
Some notable achievements were made in the equipment purchase sub-component where
equipment was purchased and distributed to the project beneficiaries. Close to 80% of the
funds planned for this activity were utilized. Under the procurement of agricultural inputs
component, the major achievement was the purchase of inputs for the Starter Pack
Scheme for the 1998/99 and 1999/2000 seasons. The total input purchases for the scheme
exceeded the planned (US$4.0 million) estimate for the component by over 100% as
balances from other sub components of the project covered for the financial increase. The
Technical Assistants who were recruited under the other project components utilized over
ix



30 % of the allocated funds allocated under the TA sub component. The performance of
most of these TAs was not impressive as some of them left at the end of their contracts
without achieving most of what was stipulated in their TORs and also without leaving
contract completion reports behind. Nothing was achieved under capacity building for the
procurement unit as no training was organized and as the project was closing the unit had
no staff capable enough to handle procurement activities. The same was the case with
civil works, as no infrastructure was constructed as planned in the appraisal.
The fundamental objective of the research component was to establish a cost effective
and sustainable research system that would generate technology responsive to farmer's
needs, especially those of the resource poor. During the project implementation period,
all research stations except for Kasinthula, Baka and Mkondezi established their own
cash offices. The Department of Research has managed to release new varieties of
various crops and make recommendations on cultural practices. Although a number of
technologies were released, uptake of these technologies has been very low due to several
factors, among them, being the inavailability of farm inputs mainly due to escalating
prices of inputs caused by the liberalization of the economy, the weak research-
extension-farrner linkage and the erratic flow of funds.
The Agricultural Sciences Committee (ASC) was mandated to strengthen the National
Agricultural Systems (NARS) structurally, technically and financially in order to increase
agricultural productivity and promote sustainable utilisation of the renewable resources.
The Committee achieved most of the activities it was mandated to undertake. The
Contract Research Programme was initiated, implemented and managed leading to
generation of twenty-five (25) high impact technologies. The Malawi Agricultural and
Natural Resources Master Plan (MANRRMP) was produced and launched in September
1999. An effort to co-ordinate the research agenda has been very successful and most
research institutions are now familiar with steps followed when appraising research
proposals and funding the research projects. The development of a sustainable funding
mechanism for research and consultations was not successful, This was due to donors not
willing to lump their resources in one account but rather fund specific programmes of
their interest. However, researchers have indicated that funding through Agricultural
Sciences Committee was good as it funded trials directly and usually in line with
proposed budgets.
The Extension and Crops departments had a mandate to i) improve the efficiency and
effectiveness in delivery of agricultural extension services to smallholder fanners, ii)
development of appropriate management system for the services, iii) to improve crop
production and productivity through increased farmner use of improved varieties and
fertilizer uptake, iv) to improve the availability of seed through the involvement of
smallholder farmers in seed multiplication programmes; and v) encourage farmers
participation in various agricultural activities through the use of On-Farm -
Demonstrations (OFDs) rather than government owned demonstrations. Maize
Productivity Task Force (MPTF) Action Group 1, which was funded within the ASP-
IDA, generated and disseminated technologies that promoted the use of area specific
inorganic fertilizers etc.
x



All the activities to be carried out under these technical areas were to be implemented at the
ADDs, but co-ordinated as a technical area under new departments namely Land Resources
and Conservation Department and Irrigation Department. New technical areas too were
introduced under the Extension and Crops Component and these included Agricultural
Communications Branch (ACB) and Natural Resources College (NRC).
The performance of the department in delivery of extension services can be termed as
marginally satisfactory. The group contact approach and the participatory extension
methods adopted during the implementation period was not fully achieved as few
extension staff were trained on these. The motorcycles ownership scheme improved
farmer coverage and staff morale.
The emphasis on group dynamics and management has assisted farners to have access to
credit from various lending institutions. A good number of field staff underwent
upgrading courses at NRC apart from those who benefited from offshore short and long-
term courses. This has and will obviously improve their capacity.
The department re-enforced the group approach and collaborated with non-governmental
organizations in order to extend coverage to a wider range of smallholder farmers
through informal groups such as natural, special interest groups and strengthening group
dynamics and mobilization. In order to strengthen the block extension system, some
extension approaches were initiated and implemented during the project period. These
approaches include Participatory Extension Methods (PEM), Village Level Participatory
Approach (VLPA), Priority Setting and Diagnostic Grid.
There has been very little improvement, in Research-Extension-Farmer (REF) linkages
due to poor coordination between research and extension departments, and, lack of
adequate funding, Most of the researchers expected extension department to bear the cost
whenever they attend a meeting though both departments had a budgeting sub
programme of the REF linkage. Due to inadequate funding during the implementation
period, extension department failed to meet these costs to sustain the linkage. Lack of
adequate funding also affected the implementation of MTRWs so much that they were
only implemented during the initial phase of the programme. Joint field supervision were
carried out smoothly during the initial phase of the project but were never carried out
during the course of the project implementation as departments expected either Planning
Division or Department of Agricultural Extension Services to provide allowances and
transport for the joint field supervision.
Very little achievement has been made under the Food and Nutrition Unit though an
expert was recruited. The activities of this unit still could not be differentiated as in the
past, as most of the field staff who handled the Food and Nutrition issues were Women's
Programme Officers in the ADDs. Most of the field staff lack knowledge in special
nutrition issues because not much training was carried out although the Nutrition
Technical Assistant developed training manuals for Food and Nutrition staff.
xi



The Motorcycle Ownership Scheme was implemented as a way of reducing the burden
the ministry had in maintaining staff motorcycles and in order to improve mobility of
field staff, to achieve wider farmer coverage. While the beneficiaries are quite happy with
the scheme and that it has been very successful in actual acquisition and distribution of
motorcycles, problems have been faced when it came to payment of travel and transport
claims to supervisory staff. Production of the legal framework forms for the motorcycle
ownership scheme took too long as they were to be done in conjunction with Ministry of
Justice. Lack of continuity of the scheme demotivated those staff who did not benefit
from the scheme.
Under the Training a number of courses have been conducted during the project life, both
staff and farmers have benefited from these courses. Several members of staff benefited
from offshore courses, however, internal training for both staff and farmers has been less
than those planned at both headquarters and ADD levels. Poor flow of funds has
contributed to the poor performance of the component.
The Beneficiary Impact Assessment Survey (BIAS) for the ASP, which was carried out,
involved interviewing a total number of 480 smallholder farmers and 216 ADD staff. The
survey findings indicate that farmers really benefited from the project. 70 % of the
respondents reported to have been using improved hybrid maize seed over the years due
to the increase in number of players in input supply. About 50% of the farmers keep
livestock for home consumption while others keep them as source of income, draught
power and to meet social obligations i.e. lobola.
Farmers access to extension services has remarkably increased over the project life while
less than 50 % of them had access to credit facilities through farmer groups. The most
common sources of credit are MRFC, ADMARC and FFC. Farmers faced a number of
problems which reduced their participation in credit schemes and these include - i) high
interest rates stringent credit requirements, ii) lack of collateral and; iii) lack of adequate
and timely information about sources of credit. Increase in input prices due to direct
response to changes in foreign exchange rates has led to some farmers applying organic
manure as an altemative. However, some farmers indicated that they do not use manure
because of the following problems: - transportation of manure, shortage of labour and
source of manure.
Nearly 50% of the farmers indicate that their food security status has improved. This
achievement could not be attributed to improvement in the provision of extension
services alone, but rather to the many micro and macro-economic effects encountered
following policy reforrns during the project implementation period and also due to other
projects which were implemented parallel with ASP i.e. APIP, Starter Pack Scheme,
Smallholder Food Security Programme etc.
During the initial implementation of the project, the Agricultural Communication Branch
(ACB) was not very much emphasized until it was realized that the communication
branch be taken on board to improve technical message delivery and coverage. During
the project period, modernization of the equipment in all ACB sections was done and this
xii



has improved capacity especially in the printing section, thereby enabling it to print and
circulate various agricultural booklets and leaflets. Additional equipment has been
provided to all ADDs and there has been expansion in use of radio by farrmers in listening
to Agricultural Programmes.
Co-ordination between the Departments of Extension and Crops and the ministry
headquarters up to the ADDs was good. The department benefited a lot in terms of
finances from NGOs however, inadequate funding during the project implementation
period has been a major stumbling block to full implementation of the planned activities
in order to achieve more.
The Natural Resource College (NRC) benefited from ASP through strengthening the
college activities, provide college material support, and provide external training for
members of staff at the college. At least some equipment and material were purchased
and up grading courses and other training sessions were conducted. Most of the sub
component activities were not done especially under college strengthening (exchange
programmes and student attachments). The major problem was lack of funds and claims
of expenditure not being honoured on time.
The Training component was implemented through the Hunman Resources Development
and Management unit of the ministry. The main activities of this component were to i)
assist in recruiting local personnel to fill the vacant posts in the ministry not useful for
specific posts, ii) recruitment of Technical Assistants which was done in conjunction with
the Procurement unit, iii) to coordinate training plans for the ministry for both in country
and offshore courses, iv) coordinate the production of the Legal framework for the
Motorcycle Ownership Scheme (MCOS), and, carry out a Training Needs Assessment for
the entire Ministry.
Most of these activities were achieved though there were some problems, which affected
their implementation. There are still a lot of vacant posts in the Ministry caused by
deaths, retirements, resignations etc. Though some members of staff benefited from
training, most of the beneficiaries were from headquarters. The Training Needs
Assessment affected the ministry-training plan as the consultants took time to come up
with a report.
The Institutional Strengthening component consists of five sub-components namely: -
Planning & Financial Management, Transport Management, Agricultural Policy Training
Unit (APATU), Central Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (CMEU) and Malawi
Investment Promotion Agency (MIPA).
Under the Planning and Financial Management, a Planning and Financial Management
Specialist was recruited in 1994 to develop yardsticks for linking workplans to budget
allocation in the Ministry. However, the performance of the TA was below standard and
nothing was achieved as required under his Terms of Reference. Efforts have been made
to come up with a proper format that would link annual workplans to budgets and several
formats have been developed but no link has been provided. The efforts were overtaken
xiii



by Treasury's introduction of the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) which
all ministries and departments adopted. The objective was to achieve optimal resource
allocation particularly to priority areas thereby reducing government expenditure.
Not much was achieved under Transport Management. A Transport Advisor was
recruited in 1995 to manage transport system in the Ministry and to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of service delivery. This was to be achieved through training
in transport operations and workshop management. A monitoring system was devised for
the motorcycle ownership Scheme and use of vehicles. However, little progress has been
made on the implementation of action plans for transport management during the project
period.
The Agricultural Policy Analysis Training Unit (APATU) of Bunda College of
Agriculture has conducted several short courses and workshops since the project began.
The unit co-ordinated and conducted courses initiated by government departments such
as Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation and National Economic Council and other Non-
Governmental Organizations. Only one student has been trained under ASP at MSc level
and at present six (6) students from the ministry are studying for MSc degree in
Extension, while other six (6) students from the ministry resented the MSc Degree in
Agricultural Economics at the college due to:- i) lack of specific time frame for the
course; ii) lack of international exposure. The proposal to hire PhD level staff to
strengthen capacity of lectures in the Rural Department and the introduction of an
attachment programme to an overseas university for a specified time period never
materialized but APATU managed to hire IFPRI staff at US$90,000 a week to support
the implementation of activities, however, it was felt that one week period was too short
for the impact to be seen. It was then proposed to hire a local member of staff who was
cheaper and ready to support the unit for longer period.
The Monitoring and Evaluation component was to come up with a detailed M&E system
which would be evolutionary and responsive to the requirements of implementing
managers, planners, policy makers and donors. Several achievements were accomplished
which included: - development of Monitoring Indicators, guidelines for the collecting and
reporting on progress of ASP implementation of activities, formulation of a standard
reporting system which was abandoned and replaced by a Semi Annual and Quarterly
reporting formats, Annual Work Plan and Budgets System which are currently used by the
ministry. Evaluation Working Party meetings were carried out where Evaluation Officers
meet and planned how they would carry out monitoring and evaluation issues and at least
two extension monitoring surveys were conducted and reports produced during the project
period.
Several staff training were carried out and these were: - A Participatory Rural Appraisal
(PRA) course in conjunction with OUTREACH -India; a Monitoring and Evaluation
Training in conjunction with American Institute for Research. Four (4) graduate
Officers from the CMEU/ADD were trained overseas at MSc level in Agricultural
Economics. The CMEU and ADD evaluation units got equipment like computers
and printers under this project.
xiv



The CMEU carried out the Beneficiary Impact Assessment Survey (BIAS) on ASP and has
produced the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the project. The Area Sampling
framework which was planned to be funded under ASP never, took off.
The Starter Pack Scheme (SPS) which was initiated in 1998 had the following objectives:
- i) to assist fill the food gap; ii) to promote crop diversification; and iii) to promote the
concept of soil fertility improvements. The programme was set to address Malawi's
persistent food gap than providing free food relief, as has been the case in the past. The
inputs were planned to be in a form of a package containing cereal and legume seed, and
fertilizer to plant on a 0.1 ha of land and was to cover 2.8 million smallholder farmers.
Funding for both the 1998/99 and 1999/200 seasons for SPS was as follows: i)
Government of Malawi (GOM) provided fertilizer, ii) seed and other logistics for the
entire exercise was funded by DFID - UK, European Union (EU), World Bank (WB) and
the Republic of China. World Bank funded SPS through the Agricultural Services
Project with US$ 1,192,912.00 in the first season and US$ 8,824,600.00 in the second
season.
The programme had a positive impact on the National Crop Production as production of
maize for the 1998/99 season was 2,479,406 MT compared to 1,772,392 MT for the
1997/98 season. But the increase in production can not only be attributed to SPS alone
because there were other programmes which were implemented parallel to this
programme and had the same objective of increasing crop production.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation, through the Agricultural Services Project
supported the activities of the Agri-business Advisory Unit ( AAU ) under the Malawi
Investment Promotion Agency. The establishment of the Unit followed the
recommendations that were made by the December, 1994 World Bank supervision
mission. The Unit was mandated to promote and support the capacity of Malawian
entrepreneurs to develop viable investment proposals.
Over the project life, the Unit made a number of activities like the establishment of the
Business Infornation Centre where entrepreneurs, firins and associations are able to
access cost effective, technical and marketing information. Through the establishment of
the centre, the Unit has managed to raise awareness among business information
beneficiaries about the financial services available. The Unit also managed to send both
farmers and staff on study tours and courses overseas.
The Principal Secretary for the MoAI chaired the Agricultural Sector Steering Committee
(ASSC) which was setup in 1994 to coordinate the implementation of the project
activities. The committee met only twice during the project life because of a lot of adhoc
work within the ministry which involved most people who were members of the
committee. Though a Project facilitator was recruited during the same year, not much
was done by his office as he was all alone and could not co-ordinate activities as
expected. This led to his contract not renewed and coordination of the ASP activities
xv



were left to be done by Planning Division - CMEU. The unit still had problems in
coordinating the ASP activities due to reasons beyond their control.
During the initial stage of the ASP, the Land and Resources Conservation component was
implemented under the Land Resources Unit, which was, then under the Department of
Agricultural Extension Services (DAES). After the first year of the project, the Unit was
established as a department. This component is being funded by the African
Development Bank (ADB) and will phase out in December 2000.
The Land Resources and Conservation Department was mandated to enhance soil
conservation and fertility improvement in the gardens of resource poor farmers. Some
achievements were registered in addition to farmer training with an intention of
equipping farmers in all aspects of land resources and conservation, making and use of
A-Frame for pegging contour ridges, reclaiming gullies using simple techniques and
establishing agro-forestry nurseries and transplanting in seedlings.
The land resources activities were implemented in all ADDS and farmers in general were
receptive to the soil conservation technologies put forward to them, but the major
problem has been on supervision of the adoption of these technologies due to lack of
funds caused by the suspension of disbursement.
The Small-Scale Irrigation component is also being funded by ADB and the component
is focussing on institutional development of staff, development of self-help gravity fed
irrigation and the construction of the headquarters of the Irrigation Department. This
component too will phase out in December, 2000. Achievements under this component
include: - training of staff both at MSc and BSc level, procurement of fifteen motorized
pumps and treadle pumps and Irrigation policy and Action plan has been produced. The
performance of this component at the ADD level has been poor due to poor flow of funds
caused by suspension of disbursement.
The Livestock extension component was funded by the ADB and is to improve the food
security and poverty alleviation of resource poor farmers through animal production and
the promotion of simple livestock extension services through Field Assistants and
specialized extension messages through the Veterinary Assistants. Achievements have
been made in addition to supervision of the livestock husbandry activities in the field,
which was successful. The major problem faced is poor flow of funds.
Though ASP was rated unsatisfactory by the donor during the Malawi CPPR meeting
which was held in April, 1999 in Lilongwe, it was felt by implementers of the project that
ASP was a success as it improved several aspects in the Ministry which include:
equipment (computers, printers, photocopiers etc) vehicles, training ( offshore and in-
country), improved mobility of field staff, improved extension and research activities,
and operating cost. These would not have been achieved using revenue funds which
mostly are inadequate and also not adequate to sustain most of the ASP activties now that
project has closed down.
xvi



Data collection for this Project Completion Report (PCR) exercises was carried out from
25th October to 3rd December 1999 and report writing was done during the remaining
days of December 1999. The team involved in this work comprised of technical experts
from within the Ministry, and these were:
Miss. M.J. Nyekanyeka     - Economist (M&E - MoAI HQ.) - Team Leader
Mr. T. Fatchi             - Economist (M&E - MoAI HQ)
Mr. H. Mdyetseni          - Economist (Budgeting - MoAl HQ)
Mr. R. Mchenga            - Senior Economist (SLADD)
Mr. I. Mwale              - Economist (M&E - MoAI HQ)
Mr. G. Chande             - Economist (M&E - MoAl HQ)
Mr. M. Kasamba            - Principal Accountant (MoAI HQ)
Mr. H. Lozo               - Accounts Personnel (MoAl HQ)
xvii



Annex 7B
IALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT (ASP)
(IDA Credit 2514 MAI)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
AIDE MEMOIRE
Introduction
1.         A missiont from the FAO World Bank Cooperative Programme (FAO/CP) visited Malawi
between 3 and 14 April in order to compile ari Implementation Completion report (ICR) for the IDA-funded
components of the Agricultural Services Project (IDA Credit 2514 MAI). The mission work-ed closely with the
staff of the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (MOAI) and made field visits to research stations and to
Lilongwe, Salima, Machinga and Blantyre ADDs. Valuable information was gathered from a meeting with
ADD Programme Managers and research station heads in Lilongwe. The mission also met officials from the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) and with a number of donors active in the agricultural sector. A draft Project
Completion Report (PCR) and Beneficiary Impact Assessment Survey (BIAS) prepared by MOAI, were
reviewed by the mission and made an important contribution to its work.
2.         The mission would like to express its appreciation to the staff of MOAI at Headquarters and in
the ADDs and research stations for their insights and assistance.
Project Objectives and Components
3.         The Project was conceived as the first phase of a longer-tenn exercise to reform and integrate
research, extension and input supply services. The Project was to: (a) support institutional and management
reforms in research, extension and input supply, with the aim of providing cost-effective and sustainable
technologies for different types of smallholders and agro-ecological zones; and (b) enhance smallholder
incomes and food security by increasing the productivity of smallholder agriculture, especially that of female
and resource-poor farmers. A secondary objective was to provide a policy and operational framework for
channelling and coordinating assistance to agricultural services from other donors, in order to overcome the
pattern of fragmented assistance and inconsistent strategies.
4.         In order to achieve these objectives, the project was to be implemented over six years, through
four components:
-    Agricultural Research (USS15.6 million): to develop a cost-effective and sustainable
research system that would generate technologies responsive to farmers' needs, especially
the resource-poor and women, through providing vehicles, research equipment, training,
and support for operating expenses.
-    Agricultural Extension (US$211.1 million): to continue sapport for MOA's national
extension system, building on the experience of the IDA-supported pilot T&V initiative,
in order to make service delivery more efficient and effective, and to expand coverage to
smallholders previously by-passed by the extension system, by providing training,
improved mobility and housing for field staff, equipment and support for operating
expenses.
M.L.Wales, mission leader/economist (TCIR); C.Bevan, agronomist (TCEP) J.Cook, extension specialist (consultant)
4



Input Supply (USS9 million): to support the increased availability of improved seeds and
fertilizer to smallholders through supporting policy refonms and providing foreign
exchange to help finance incremental fertilizer imports.
Institutional Strengthening (USS9.9 million): to strengthen the capacity of MOA to
deliver agricultural services in an efficient, effective and sustainable manner, in order to
ensure the realisation of benefits to smallholders from extension, research and input
supply systems.
Overview of Project Timing, Financing and Costs
5.         The project was identified in early 1988, prepared in 1991-92 with a US$700,000 Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) approved in November 1990, and appraised in 1992, with a post-appraisal in late
1992. At this stage it was agreed that IFAD would parallel finance certain aspects unider the umbrella of ASP
throtugh its Smallholder Food Security Project (SFSP) (Loan No. 35-SRS-MW), building upon its area-based
projects in Kasungu and Dowa West RDPs; and subsequently, that ADB would co-finance certain elements.
The total cost of the project was estimated at US$64.8 million, of which US$45.8 million was to be funded by
IDA, US$12.7 million by ADB, and US$6.3 million by Govemment of Malawi (GOM). The IDA
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was signed in October 1993 and the project became effective three
months later, in January 1994. A Mid-Term Review (MTR) was conducted in May/June 1998, at which point
the prqject was de facto restnictured to accommodate support for a Starter Pack Scheme (SPS) which
delivered a 0.1 ha package of hybrid maize seed, fertilizer and legume seed to practically all farm households.
There were 11 IDA supervision missions. The DCA was amended xx times, and disbursements were
suspended against certain categories for a period of five months, in 1998-99 due to the failure of MOAI to
present an annual work plan and budget for FY 1998/99 following the MTR. The original closing date of 30
September 1999 was adhered to, except for categories 3 and 4, which were extended to 31 December 1999 to
allow final procurement of seeds for SPS 11 and equipment for research and extension. The ADB loand is
scheduled to close on 31 December 2000 and in November 1999 was 62%, disbursed. By end March 2000, at
which point all withdrawals had been made from IDA, US$43.6 million of the IDA credit had been disbursed,
that is, 94% of the total.
Achievement of Ohjectives and Outputs
6.         The project is provisionally rated as unsatisfactory. Although the project has made significant
achievcments in policy reforms, contract researchi and improved input supply, it has not achieved its principal
objective of delivering agricultural services to the smallholder sector, in particular the resource-poor. The
absence of specific performance indicators over the life of the project- makes it difficult to assess to what
extent smallholder productivity, incomes and food security have been enhanced. The SPS, which was
supported by the project for two seasons (1998-99 and 1999/2000)), was effective in targeting poverty and
household food security and was a contributory factor in the production of bumper harvests in those seasons.
Overall, maize yields have increased, although it is not possible to distinguish the impact of good rainy
seasons frorm project impact. There is evidence of diversification into sweet potato, Irish potato, soyabean,
pigeon pea, cassava, cabbages and other vegetables. The deregulation of burley tobacco growing by
smallholders. together with support targeted at burley groups by SFSP, resulted in a major expansion in the
number of srnallholders growing burley from 18,000 to 50,000, and substantially enhanced incomes for these
farmers.
Agricultural Research
7.         The objective of this component was to develop a cost-effective and sustainable research system
that would generate technologies responsive to farmers' needs, especially the resource-poor and women. It
was designecd to support: (a) the formulation and implementation of research action plans; (b) strengthening
research-extension-farmer linkages; (c) diversifying participation in publicly-funded research and
commercialisation of some research activities; (d) improving the definition of research priorities and the
ADF Loan No: F/MLW/AGR/93/26
5



allocation of funding by strengthening the Department of Agricultural Research (DAR, now DARTS) and
activating the Agricultural Sciences Committee (ASC); and (e) improving DAR's management systems and
the motivation and accountability of researchers. The project has partially achieved its ob.jectives, especially
through the contract research programme, but its overall impact has been limited by difficulties in channelling
funds to scientists tinder the regular research programme. Some 30 maize varieties were produced and
released, and around 30 varieties of other crops including sorghum, groundnuts, legumes, cassava and sweet
potato were produced. However, it is not clear whether breeding, in particular for maize, was a sensible
priority, given the many other constraints to production by small farmers. Part of the critical research work
was conducted by external funding agencies including IARCs. The prqject has provided core funding for
research which would have otherwise received lower levels of funding.
S.          Research Action Plans. Research Action Plans were successfully prepared, but there is little
evidence to suggest that the annual planning procedures of DARTS have changed. The most successful
activity has been the work of the Maize Productivity Task Force (MPTF), jointly funded by the project and
Rockefeller and EU, which carried out simple fertilizer trials and has resulted in the compilation of a database
of region-specific fertilizer recommendations, as well as other husbandry practices such as the use of legum es.
The strong GOM ownership of this initiative, reflected in the fact that it received 9%, of total GOM counterpart
funding of the project, was a key factor in this success.
9.          Research-Extension-Farmer Linkages. Despite the best efforts of both DARTS and DAES,
and the formulation of a set of guidelines, research-extension-fanner linkages remain poorly developed.
Altlhouglh Research Extension Liaison Officers (RELOs) were appointed at research stations, their operational
funding was always inadequate.
10.         Diversification of Research Bodies. The main mechanism for diversification of participation in
publicly-funded research was the contract research programme (CRP). Although this has been successful as a
mechanism for channelling resources directly to scientists, questions remain about the relevance of some of
the topics undertaken and its effectiveness in terms of funding research topics which address the priority needs
of resource-poor farmers. During the project only 33 projects, in one batch in 1995. were approved for
funding. Funds went almost exclusively to DARTS scientists, and only one private sector researcher and not a
single NGO received grants. Although there was good monitoring of the projects, no research results have
been translated into extension messages.
11.         Research Priorities, Funding and ASC. The re-establishment of the ASC was achieved by the
secondment of two DARTS officers to the National Research Council of Malawi (NRCM). ASC operated
effectively during the project, developed and managed the CRP, prepared a manual on its mandate and a paper
on options for a Sustainable Funding Mechanism (SFM). To date, the proposal for a general Research Fund
has not proved attractive to donors. The main task of ASC, to prepare an Agriculture and Natural Resources
Research Master Plan (ANRRMP), was delayed. After failing to meet several deadlines, this document was
finally completed at the end of the project, in September 1999. Although it will undoubtedly serve as a useful
reference document, the ANRRMP is unlikely to be used as a basis for planning and managing research
because it produced an extensive list of activities rather than a stratified and prioritised list, and makes
unrealistic assumptions about the availability of resources'. Although annual joint review meetings to select
research projects have taken place, the constraints of time and poor attendance have meant that some of the
priorities identified by extension have not been reflected in the research programme.
12.         DAR Management and Staff Motivation. The overall management of DARTS has not
improved and the flow of funds to scientists remains a problem. The prqject has undoubtedly augmented its
operating resources, and scientists have benefited from training, even though only two of the 39 slots for short-
term overseas courses were utilised. The poor flow of funds, the failure to procure most of the laboratory
equipment funded under the project until almost the closing date, and lack of promotion opportunities, has left
the Department with low staff morale. The long-termn TA Research Management Advisor was not recruited.
Agricultural Extension
The draft Agricultiral Research Strategy A.D.2000-20 10, prepared by DARTS, dated Fcbniary 2000, does not even refer to.
ANRRM or CRP.
6



13.        This component of the project was designed to continue stupport for MOA's national extension
system, building on the experience of the IDA-supported pilot T&V initiative, in order to make service
delivery more efficient and effective, and to expand coverage to smallholders previously by-passed by the
extension system. The project supported measures: (a) to increase the efficiency of extension service delivery
through restructtring and streamlining all operations and staffing levels, functions and capacities; (b) to
expand the extension coverage of smallholders, particularly resource-poor and female farmers through
separating credit administration from extension work, promoting more relevant and affordable
technologies/practices, strengthening research-extension-farmer linkages, integrating technical messages.
collaborating with NGOs involved in extension, upgrading all farm home assistants to FAs and training all
FAs in gender-related issues, particularly nutrition and the labour constraints faced by many female-headed
households; and (c) to increase the effectiveness of service delivery through improving field staff training,
using more interactive teaching methods, and encouraging better quality and consistency of field supervision
by providing adequate operational funding, more closely monitoring supervision and rewarding better
performance. Overall, the prqject has failed to perform as expected. The main elements of T&V extension
have disappeared, but there are indications that extension coverage has broadenled through the formation and
traininig of farmers' clubs, especially those for burley tobacco which were supported directly by SFSP. The
project has also provided core funding for the extension service which has facilitated the operation of a wide
range of extension-type initiatives funded froim other sources. However, there is no evidence that women
farmers have benefited preferentially from extension services.
14.        Management and Operations. There is little indication of any improvements in efficiency or
effectiveness of extension delivery. Whilst the de-linking of extension from credit has been achieved, FAs are
still engaged in the registration and training of groups for the purpose of credit delivery through MRFC. This
continues to bias extension delivery somewhat towards farmers in credit groups. Although this tendency
diminished towards the end of the project as alternative extension methodologies were adopted, it has been
replaced by a bias towards villages where donor-funded initiatives have started. The Block Extension System
(BES). a modified T&V approach, has virtually collapsed as a result of inadequate staff numbers and operating
funds at the field level. The BES suffered from low fanner attendance due to an absence of new and affordable
messages, and inadequate supervision. Although most SMS posts were filled, many of the staff were not
suitably qualified. This, together witlh a chronic shortage of operating funds at ADDs. RDPs and EPAs,
resulted in poor quality of supervision and technical backstopping, with little or no support from Headquarters.
Extension planning and management at the ADDs has not improved despite the introduction of a log frame
approach, with extension work plans and budgets far in excess of the actual resources available.
15.        Extension Coverage and Content of Messages. The ratio of Front Line Staff (FLS) to farm
households has deteriorated from 1:980 shortly after the start of the project in 1995. to 1: 1700 at the end of the
project in 1999. This has been the result of a failure to recruit new staff as a result of fonnal and infornal
recruitment freezes, retirements, an increasing rate of "deaths in service'", in part the result of AIDS, and the
fact that NRC no longer offers courses to train FAs. Veterinarv and animal husbandry field staff, who were to
have been funded by ADB, found themselves with extremely limited operating resources as a result of slow
disbursement against the ADB loan. On-Farm Demonstrations (OFDs) became a priority activity and
expanded enormously in number from 15,00() to almost 160,000, but this, together wvith an increase in the
number of clubs to service, has over-stretched the FAs, and the quality of supervision has deteriorated. There
was considerable success in propagating low-cost technologies, soil conservation and fertility management,
agro-forestry and on-farm root crop multiplication, through SFSP and programmes funded by EU and USAID.
The transition to a unified extension system, in which the FA is responsible for all fanner contacts, including
livestock production activities, appears to have resulted in even less attention to livestock extension than
before. There was a large expansion in the number of farner clubs based on specific crops or livestock
activities, as well as women's groups, and others organised through churches or mosques. The xvomen's
programme was, however, focused almost exclusively on food and nutrition. The support provided by the
project has allowed the extension service to serve as the vehicle for various extension-type initiatives such as
the VLPA (World Bank), PROSCARP (EU), MAFEP (USAID), APIP. FFS, and SG200(0, as well as the
activities of a large number of NGOs, all of which are based on a large degree of fanner participation and
responsiveness to fanner priorities. The ultimate task in this respect was the successful distribution of Starter
For example, it is reported by the Human Resources Department that there were 60 deaths-in-service during 1999 in
Machinga ADD. and 43 in Lilongwe ADD.
7



Packs to some 2.8 million farm households in 1998-99 and 1999-2000. in which FAs played a crmcial role in
registering recipients.
16.        Training.  Capacity-building appears to have had little impact, with all training targets
substantially under-achieved, especially for field level staff. Funds for training in innovative extension
approaches, such as PEM, were exhausted at senior levels and few if any FAs benefited from this. A total of
17 staff undertook M.Sc courses overseas and six attended short courses in media and extension management.
A limited number of FHAs received training to become FAs, and courses were held to upgrade FAs to the
supervisory TO level, and to provide them with the necessary skills in animal production. The Food and
Nutrition (F&N) subcomponent was delayed by the late arrival of the TA expert, but there were substantial
achievements in enabling three staff to obtain M.Sc degrees, and conducting a training needs assessment
throughout the country. A Community Nutrition and Training Manual was finally prepared, has been printed
but not yet distributed and no training associated with it has been conducted. The programme at the field level
has been handicapped by the fact that there is often only one staff member to undertake both F&N and
women's programmes. A major lacuna in knowledge has been the failurc of Bunda College to finalise the
socio-economic baseline survey.
17.        Improved Access to Transport.  The motorcycle ownership scheme was successfully
implemented with supervisors receiving motorcycles. However, the positive impact that this should have had
on supervision was negated by the fact that there were never sufficient funds to settle transport and travel
(T&T) claims.
18.        Civil Works. A programme of civil works (total cost US$5.9 million) aimed primarily at the
extension service, was substantially not implemented. The original proposal for houses for FAs, and four EPA
centres, was modified to accommodate rehabilitation of existing FA houses and construction of two RDP
centres. However, despite these works being designed and tendered, the works were not undertaken, which has
had an adverse impact upon field staff morale. The failure of GOM to supply counterpart ftnding for the civil
works programme was undoubtedly part of the reason why it was not implemented.
19.        Extension Aids Branch. The Agricultural Communications Branch (ACB) (formerly the
Extension Aids Branch) was to have been strengthened in support of the overall extension programme, in
particular, with equipment to modernise the Visual Aids Section for the use of radio to reach resource-poor
farmers in listening groups. ACB received vehicles and domestic training and. towards the end of the project,
equipment. Two staff had long-term training on DTP and video production. Radio programmes and visual aids
produced by ACB have a significant impact in the field, even though its operations are constrained by lack of
resources. The Functional Review proposed abolishing ACB.
Input Supply
20.        The objective of this component was to support the increased availability of improved seeds and
fertilizer to smallholders and to expand use of these inputs by smallholders. The fertilizer subcomponent was
to: (a) support the formulation and implementation of reforms to further liberalise importation, pricing and
distribution; (b) improve donor coordination; and (c) provide foreign exchange to help finance incremental
fertilizer imports on a commercial basis.
21.        Policy Reforms. Although the agreed policy reforms have been largely implemented, this
component has not achieved its objectives because the overall impact on the availability of inputs to small
farmers, and competitiveness in supply, has been negligible. The reform with most far-reaching implications
was the amendment to the Special Crops Act, which allowed smallholders to begin growing burley tobacco.
The deregulation of fertilizer imports has been achieved, and at one stage there were nine local and
international companies operating. Subsidies, which started to be reduced from 1991/92, were completely
removed in 1993/94. The Smallholder Farmer Fertilizer Revolving Fund for Malawi (SFFRFM) operated
commercially, selling to farmers and to local companies, until the start of SPS. It manages the fertilizer buffer
stock which has been practically depleted as a result of SPS I and II. Towards the end of the project, the
number of private fertilizer companies shrank to two, inevitably reducing competition. There has been no
success in reducing the cost of fertilizer imports to farmers, due to long haulage distances, poor roads and high
freight rates, and the problem of late delivery still exists. For hybrid maize seed. the objective of liberalising
8



production and marketing of seed to increase competition was achieved. witli two commercial companies
producing or importing all requirements. All subsidics on improved seed were removed in 1994/95. There
remains a substantial agenda of second generation reforms to be undertaken, such as the privatisation of
ADMARC, which remains a parastatal, controls 50% or more of the fertilizer mark-et and, in remote areas, is
the only supplier. The role and sustainability of the maize price band, introduced after the 1994 drought in
order to protect consumers, must also be reviewed.
22.         Improved Maize Seed. Towards the end of the project, there was a substantial increase in the
use of hybrid maize which, according to MOAI estimates, now accounts for as much as 40)% of the planted
area (1.5 million ha in 1999/2000). However, there are indications that substantial numbers of farmers are
using recycled seed (F2). The expansion in the use of hybrids has been achieved by the SPS (around 280,000
ha), APIP (250,000 ha), as well as the fact that hybrids are now more widely available. Supplies of all other
types of improved seed, which it is not attractive to commercial seed companies to produce, are also
increasing through farmer multiplication schemes operated by EU and various NGOs. After the MTR, the
project financed the purchase of hybrid maize and groundnut seed, and logistics, as part of SPS I and II,
utilising around US$6 million of the funds remaining in the credit.
23.         Fertilizer. IDA financed the importation of 12,500 t of fertilizer, through loans to SEDOM and
INDEFUND through the Reserve Bank of Malawi for private sector traders. ADB procured 19,877 t of
fertilizer which was used, without ADB approval, for SPS 1, and led to the suspcnsion of the ADB loan.
Institutional Strengthening
24.         The objective of this component was to strengthen the capacitv of MOA (niow MOAI) to deliver
agricultural services in an efficient, effective and sustainable manner, in order to ensure the realisation of
benefits to smallholders from extension, research and input supply systems. The subcomponents are: (a)
planning and financial management in MOA/ADDs; (b) transport management; (c) procurement; (d)
agricultural policy analysis training; (e) small-scale irrigation (funded by ADB and IFAD); and (t) sectoral and
project monitoring and evaluation. The project did not achieve its institutional strengthening objectives, a
failure which proved to be critical to the performance of the project as a whole.
25.         Planning and Financial Management. Although some progress has been made in financial
management, including the installation of a computerised system (Finasys) for Revenue Account, work plans
and budgets, and financial reports are still delayed, and little training was conducted. However, the most
critical constraint to the achievement of the prqject's objectives has been the inability, throughout the duration
of the project, to channel resources to field level staff and research scientists on a secure and regular basis.
This problem has been compounded by the lack of realistic work plans and budgets at the ADD and RDIP
levels, and by DARTS. The logical framework approach has been adopted at all levels as part of the Medium
Term  Expenditure Framework (MTEF) exercise started by the Ministrv of Finance with WB assistance.
However, the process of prioritising activities remains a problem, with budget proposals grossly in excess of
available resources.
26.         Transport Management System. The provision of increased mobility to staff at all levels in
support of extension delivery, was a crucial part of the prqject's design. Although over 20 4x4 vehicles, 440
motorcycles and 865 bicycles were procured, a transport management system was not put in place and training
was not conducted. However, the private sector now carries out almost all maintenance.
27.         Procurement'. Although in the SAR, procurement was identified as 'The most intractable
constraint on timely project execution", the project has failed to improve the situation. On the basis of the
MTR assessment, field visits and the experience of ADDs, it appears that procuremenit was invariably slow
and erratic2, often wasteful through the purchase of inappropriate goods. and that items once procured were
often misallocated. Responsibilitv for the procurement study was shifted betveen several Ministries and was
It proved (dit ficult to obtain information on procurement since the TA officer had moved to a different project and was not in
the countrv.
2  Laboratory equipment for research stations was not delivered until the final year. Vehicles X ere mot delivered for two years.
Thie bulk ot'the civil w%jorks programme was not implemented.
9



eventually completed (under OPC) at the end of 1999. Little or no training was carried out, leaving the
Procurement Section at the end of the project without operational capacity.
28.        Agricultural Policy Analysis Training..The project supported the Agricultural Policy Analysis
Training Unit (APATU) at Bunda College of Agriculture, to strengthen MOAI policy analysis capacity.
Procurement of equipment, and infrastructure development, including a 30-bed hostel, were substantially
implemented. It has successfully conducted around five, 2-3 week courses per yearl. against a target of nine,
and has served a range of agencies within government and NGOs. It has successfully attracted supplementary
funding from outside. The main problem has been the slow disbursement of funds, which has limited the
number of short courses that can be conducted, and inadequate support from the institution which was
contracted to provide technical assistance support. The main failure has been the inability to attract candidates
for the M.Sc degree programme in agricultural economics, extension and rural sociology, with only one person
of the targeted 30 receiving a degree. The course itself is perceived to be less attractive than one undertaken at
an overseas institution, there are too few teaching staff, it takes too long to complete, and involves no
intemational exposure. Six students enrolled in 1999 but, with the closure of the prqoect, they have not been
able to complete the degree course.
29.        Training. A total of 5 Ph.D., 33M.Sc., and 30 diploma and short courses were funded by the
project. with the majority of the beneficiaries being from Headquarters. This was far below the targeted
training programme, largely due to the decision to unidertake a training needs assessment, which resulted in a
two-year hiatus in the programme. The report was not completed until the end of the project2. At the MTR it
was agrced that only field level training should take place, but even this was not carried out.
30.        Technical Assistance. The project was to have provided 410 person-months of TA in 18
different areas, of which 144 p-m would be long-term and 298 p-m intemational, including 100 p-m for the
procurement study. Only half of these slots were filled, with critical gaps in research management, extension
management training, agricultural policy, M&E, livestock extension and financial systems. There has been
dissatisfaction in MOAI with the quality and output of much of the intemational TA provided under the
project. There have been difficulties in obtaining progress and final reports, unduily strict adherence to terms
of reference, recruitmnent of inappropriately qualified personnel, failure to appoint counterparts and, in the case
of the TA support to Bunda College, a strong sense that they have not received value for money.
31.        Monitoring and Evaluation. A major objective of the institutional strengthening component
was to improve the M&E function at all levels in the Ministry. Whilst there has been some progress towards
this goal, throughout the project, M&E was unsatisfactory. Initially there was inadequate staffing, a problem
not resolved until the end of the project through recruitment and training. Although the annual work
programming process improved with the introduction of the log frame, implementation has remained poor.
Perfonnance indicators were not formulated until end 1998 and have still not been cndorsed by MOAI, and
work on improved agricultural data collection, based on the Area Sampling Frame (ASF), did not proceed
beyond the pilot stage. Guidelines for ASP reporting were never issued and the submission of M&E reports
was chronically behind schedule almost throughout the project. Overall. there is still no effective svstem in
place to monitor and evaluate the progress of agricultural development in Malawi, and no capacity to integrate
M&E management information into the strategic and annual work planning processes.
32.        MIPA. Support for the Agribusiness Advisory Unit (AAU) in the Malawi Investmnent Promotion
Agency (MIPA) was included in the project following the Joint Review mission in 1994. The Unit, to
strengthen the capacity to promote local and foreign investment, disseminates agribusiness technical and
market information, and advises entrepreneurs on financial opportunities and accessing advisory services,
started in 1996. AAU staff successfully completed a range of induction and specialist training courses,
although on-the-job training by TA. did not take place. AAU substantially achieved its objectives, and
especially the creation of the Domestic Investment Promotion Departmnent. However. it was hampered by slow
flow of finds from MOAI, and failure to procure the necessary equipment for its Business Information Centre.
This was reduced to 2-3 per year in 1998 and just one in 1999 due to lack ol resources
2 Trtining Needs Assessment Report, by Deloitte and Touche, dated xxx
11)



33.        Project Management. Overall project management, which was the responsibility of MOAI,
with CMEU responsible for day-to-day activities, remained weak throughout the project. The principal
mechanism for implementation coordination was the Agricultural Sector Steering Committee (ASSC) which
was scheduled to meet quarterly, but in fact only met twice during the project life. An ASP Facilitator (on
contract) was overwhelmed with work, remained in post for only one year and was never replaced. Despite
tNwo start-up workshops, detailed knowledge of the project's objectives was not widespread. There were no
detailed cost tables in the SAR and the Implementation Manual was not widely available so that many
subcomponent managers were not clear as to what assets they were supposed to acquire. Management of
individual components by different departments was generally inadequate, although ADDs generally fared
well under difficult circumstances.
Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
34.        The main factors which positively affected project inipleinentation were:
-    political stability, with the transition to democratic systems achieved comparatively
smoothly;
-    the commitment and dedication of field level staff operating under difficult circumstances
and with inadequate resources;
-    policy reforms whiclh liberalised trade in fertilizer and seeds:
-    expanded access to improved seed and fertilizer under SPS I and 11,
-    FAs released from the task of recovering credit;
-    expansion in the number of farmers' groups and clubs, especially those unrelated to credit
delivery, serving as a focus for extension delivery; and
-    expansion in the number and level of activity of NGOs serving farmers, often involving
field level staff in their programmes and introducing participatory approaches.
11



35.        The main factors which adversely affected project implementation were:
-    macro-economic instability with high inflation. devaluation of the Kwacha and MRFC
lending rates reaching a high of 50%, which had a negative impact upon the profitability
of agriculture using imported inputs and the viability of credit;
-    the virtual collapse of the smallholder credit system in 1994 due to high interest rates and
poor repayments following the drought;
-    a major drought in 1994 which diverted attention away from routine project
implementation;
-    failure to devise a workable mechanism for the prompt reimbursement of claims between
World Bank, MOF, MOAI Headquarters, and the ADDs, whiclh resulted in chronic under-
resourcing of the field extension and research programmes:
-    high level of staff vacancies, especially at field level, due to formal and infonnal freezes
on recruitment as part of the civil service reform and latterly. increasing losses due to
retirement and deaths-in-service, partly due to AIDS:
-     low staff morale, especially at the field level, resulting from inadequate formal and in-
service training, lack of resources for field activities, failure to pay T&T claims. failure to
rehabilitate FA housing, and career uncertainty under restructuring; and
-    undue retention of project operating resources at Headquarters through high levels of
travel and subsistence claims, and preferential access to training opportunities, overseas
study tours, vehicles and equipment.
Project Costs and Financing
36.        The project formally closed on September 30, 1999, as scheduled. However, categories 3 and 4
remained open until December 31 1999 in order to allow reimbursement of final claims for procurements in
connection with SPS, and for equipment for research to be processed. Total disbursements were SDR 30.98
million (US$43.62 million), which represents 94%, utilisation of the credit. There was a substantial
disbursement lag throughout the life of the project, which was finally 24'S,. Although GOM  counterpart
contribution to the project was set at 10% of total project costs (US$6.3 million), after the MTR this was
reduced to 5%. Actual GOM counterpart contributions (Development Budget Part 11) amounted to US$0.72
million, as compared to the US$6.3 million envisaged, revised to US$3.2 million. Research received 50% of
the counterpart funding, procurement 25%, and the ADDs 10%. ADB co-financing of the project, which is due
to close on December 31, 2000, amounting to UA 9.21 million (US$12.7 million), was only 62% drawn down
(UA 5.68 million, equivalent to US$7.87 million) by November 1999. The decision to extend the ADF loan
had not been taken by April 2000.
Project Sustainability
37.        Although few aspects of the project can be expected to be sustainable. in some cases, such as
extension, changes in methodology and approach make this unimportant. Following closure of ASP, there has
been a major cut in the resources available to ADDs and field level staff for extension, with operations
dependent upon small flows of ORT and funding of specific activities by bilateral programmes. The
motorcycle ownership scheme cannot be sustained because reflows into the revolving fund are inadequate to
purchase new machines. The regular research programme under DARTS has been similarly affected and there
are no sources of funding for CRP. Scarcity of funds will undoubtedly result in the cessation of even the
limited research-extension-farmer linkages. The continued operation of ASC is doubtful since the senior staff
seconded to it has returned to the Ministry. MOAI itself is in a weak position to face the challenges of the
future in the absence of functioning M&E, financial, procurement and transport management systems.
Although MIPA and the AAU are in a poor financial position and have been adversely affected by the
12



cessation of funds under the project, the sustainability of AAU's activities, which are generally recognised as
being valuable, could be guaranteed through a proposal to raise funds from a levy on certain commodities. The
continuance of the APATU programme is likely through tailoring courses to the needs of various donors,
especially under the SADEC Regional Food Security Training Programme, and offering more specialised
courses focusing on agribusiness for graduates. Overall, the fact that there is no World Bank-funded project in
the pipeline for the agricultural sector limits the sustainability of MOAI activities.
Bank and Borrower's Performance
Bank Performance
38.        Overall. the Bank's performance has been unsatisfactory. The preject's objectives were
appropriate, focusing on research and extension, and on institutional strengthening aimed at bringing effective
agricultural services to all small farmers, especially the resource-poor and women. However, in retrospect, a
top-down, message delivery extension system was not likely to be effective and was certainly not fiscally
sustainable. It tried to build upon the lessons of earlier projects, especially prqjects under the National Rural
Development Programme (NRDP), the Agricultural Extension and Planning Support Project (AEPSP), and the
National Agricultural Research Project (NARP). In particular, the conclusion that earlier prqjects had
primarily benefited the better-off farmers, underlay the design. However, in a laudable attempt to allow
flexibility in implementation, the design proved to be insufficiently prescriptive to facilitate implementation.
In part, this was reflected in concerns expressed at the time that the project was too complex for a weak MOA
to implement, and that because Government had played little part in the preparation of the project, it showed
few signs of "ownership". The design, which created a project with national coverage as the successor to the
30 Rural Development Projects (RDPs) which comprised NRDP, financed by several different donors, was
intrinsically more complex than the RDPs and more demanding of management. In particular, there were
concems that the centralisation of control over funds that would result might be inimical to responsiveness in
the ADD extension services.
39.        There were three successive Bank Team Leaders during the project cycle, and a large number of
staff weeks were devoted to supervision of the prqject. Supervision missions were, for the most part, regular,
and identified actLal and impending implementation problems. However. although institutional strengthening
was a critical part of the project, an institutional specialist was never included in the missions. Despite
successive "unsatisfactory" ratings for the extension component, it appeared to be impossible to remedy the
problems. Fundamnental to all implementation problems was the inability, from the beginning to the end of the
project, to resolve the problem of flow of funds to the field (ADDs and beyond) which resulted from
inadequate and late delivery of GOM counterpart funds, and difficulties with the processing of reimbursement
claims. Guidelines on the use of the Special Account were issued late and frequent modifications were made to
procedures, right up to the end of the project. Although an attempt was made at the MTR to reorient the
project, none of the action plan proposals was implemented and it was only at this stage that the PDO rating
was downgraded to "Unsatisfactory". Consequently, at the end of 1998, the prqject was declared to be "at
risk", disbursements against operating expenditures were suspended for five months. and it was decided not to
extend the prqject closing date, even though some US$17.5 million of the credit remained undisbursed. At this
poiiit, when it was deemed that none of the project's development objectives was likely to be achieved, the
Bank agreed to utilise almost all remaining funds to finance seeds and logistic costs associated with first, SPS
1, and subsequently SPS II.
Borrower's Performance
401.        Overall, the borrower's performance has been unsatisfactory. Althlough there was probably
commitment to the project in the early stages, the fundamental lack of ownership resulted in increasinglyad
hoc management and an inability to take corrective action when problems started to emerge. Procedural
problems, starting at the field level and stretching to MOF with respect to the timely submission of witlhdrawal
applications, and reimbursement of claims by departnents and ADDs, led to a chronic problem of channelling
funds to the field. It took two years before the Special Account was allocated to cost centres, and the
procedures for reimbursement via MOF were complex and slow, all of which undermined the entire prqject
implementation. Non-salary operating costs were provided late and below the required level, even though they
13



were 1 00%/o reimbursed by the project. Failure to act decisively wheni efforts to improve institutional capacity
in financial and transport management, procurement and M&E were failing. meant that the delivery of
improved agricultural services could not be achieved. Management capacity in the Miiistry was weakened as
other donor projects attracted senior staff to join special PlUs. Although piecemeal introduction of altemative
extension approaches (such as PEM, SEC, KAP) without associated training, as well as programmes funded
by other donors (such as PROSCARP, MAFEP, APIP) caused confusion and diverted efforts at the field level,
it actually opened the door to new participative extension methods. It appears that indecisive management and
poor procurement procedures resulted in the almost complete failure to implement the civil works programme
(10% of original category). The supervision of TA, including failure to appoint counterparts and react
decisively to problems, was also weak. For a period, audit reports were submitted late, and with qualifications.
41.        An attempt was made at the MTR to reorient the project by focusing on training at the field level,
on strengthening M&E, research and extension, and on activities to test altemative approaches to extension
delivery and management on a pilot scale. None of the proposed activities wvas implemented. Instead, ali
project activities were abandoned in favour of SPS.
Lessons Learned
42.        The principal lessons that can be drawn from the implementation of ASP are:
General
-     The participation of all stakeholders in the conceptialisation and design of a project are
fundamental to securing full commitment to implementation.
-    The problems arising from complex project design are compounded by the involvement of
co-financing.
-     Innovative project design must include a realistic assessment of management capacity, and
ambitious institutional strengthening (especially in financial management, procurement
and M&E) cannot be carried out during operational implementation.
-    Although centralised procurement may apparently offer benefits of efficiency, this is
offset by the difficulties of consulting end users in the process in order to ensure that the
correct items, appropriately specified, are procured and allocated.
-     Decentralisation of project activities, including the channelling of operating funds directly
to the lowest possible level in the administrative hierarchy, together with capacity to
manage them and accountability for their use, is more effective than central administrative
control; the management structure placed excessive demands upon the CMEU, which
suffered high staff turnoverl and weak technical capacity.
-    The process of decentralisation, the changing demands upon MOAI, and the need to
ensure sustainability of service, indicates the need for substantial restructuring of the
Ministry to reflect clearly-defined core functions.
-     Investments aimed solely at increasing productivity are unlikely to yield enhanced farmer
incomes unless market development-related issues are addressed through improving
access to markets, promoting farner associations, and developing market linkages for
inputs and outputs by providing a conducive environment for the private sector.
Policy
There were no less than 7 different Chiefs/Controllers of Planning during the course of the project
14



The policy reforms carried out under ASP alone are not sufficient to yield significant
benefits to the sector. Second generation reforms, such as the privatisation of Admarc,
changing the maize pricing policy', defining the role of the National Food Reserve
Agency, the tobacco Intermediate Buyer system, resolving the problem of rural finance,
and addressing this issues of land policy.
Research
-     Whilst securing funding for scientists is important (as under CRP), it does not necessarily ensure the
relevance of the work carried out. The involvement of NGOs and the private sector in research has to be
actively sought and the areas for public- and private-funded research clearly defined. More rigorous
screening of research proposals is needed, and proposals for agreed research topic priorities should be
solicited, possibly through a competitive grants system.
-     Research-extension-farmer linkages are unlikely to be strengthened unless farmers participate more
actively in developing the research agenda.
-     A Research Master Plan is of little value unless it is produced ahead of research funding and represents
the consensus of the main stakeholders
Extension
-     Uniform national coverage of a routine, visit-based, message delivery extension system (such as BES)
is neither effective nor fiscally sustainable'.
-     New participative extension approaches require longer term testing to assess sustainability. In the mean
time, a plurality of extension approaches is likely to be a better course of action than adopting any
single approach.
-     Participatory approaches, which empower farmers' groups and give them  greater
responsibility for deciding what their priorities are and to choose the level of technology
which suits them best, are most efficient and cost-effective.
-     In the interests of sustainability and affordability, a clear definition of publicly-funded
extension priorities is essential, together with partnerships between govemment, NGOs
and the private sector in meeting the information needs of fanners.
Bank
-     Effective project supervision is a crucial part of implementation. Additional resources
should be allocated to the supervision of projects in which implementation deviates
substantially from the plan, in particular providing skills to address institutional issues.
However, excessive "micro-management" which debilitates management of the project by
the borrower, and diverts attention from the resolution of major issues, should be avoided.
-     Although the insertion of a project within an existilg institutional structure (MOAI)
avoids dependence upon a PIU, this can only work if the institution itself is strong and all
parties involved in implementation feel ownership and are fully familiar with its
objectives. In this context, start-up workshops, wide distribution of implementation
manuals and cost tables, and regular review workshops are vital, especially if staff
turnover is high. The use of coordinating mechanisms such as steering committees
comprising those directly involved in implementation, should be rigorously applied.
The operation of the mEaze price band cost governuent USS 19.5 million in 1999.
15



Effective flow of project resources to the fieid level is a sine qua non for successful
project implementation. This must be achieved through a combination of simplifying
procedures, strengthening financial management, and designing projects in which
responsibility is devolved to the lowest level possible.
16






lORD 29374
To Dour Es tidoio 
'0                                                                                                            ID~~~~~~~
r x~~~~P
0e"-'\ E f#~MAAWI
rhbrnopwosproourso mt    5ed                                    ,    ADMINISTRATIVE
DIVISIONS
Th on'r4colors,  X-1
dnomtinfotioneand any                                                   REGIONS AND DISTRICTS
othe informato ahow
impton thi    t of                  RUMPH)
Th. World Bonk Group,
ony iudgmnt on the ego(-
startue of any territory         Ktm
or any endorement                    Rum                                  -        PRiNCIPAL ROADS
or acptance of suchPPNIAROD
bouncories.
,Ytr-  -   RIVERS
aderoEI;nd ni Lak XeS   \      0   TOWNS
0    DISTRICT CAPITALS
Au$ipof -              *    NATIONAL CAPITAL
; Mzinmba \ b  lB    , z  v /DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
REGION BOUNDARIES
ZAMBIA                        ,. -                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS 0   20  40  60  80  100
MILES o     20      40     60
\     M)OZAMBIQUE
To Lusoakr acjii
LILLGRa
.  D   E       D       7       A     t      4      0        \DEDZ
Dedua        1                         To Nacala
ok              MACHINGA    C
MAOZAMBIQUE                                                                  (
vX~~~~O <      A              CChiM
DEMt. RtEP                                   TOctoria
L. Tangoi                                                  Chikwa                      Mulonji 3
ANGOL L& _9; \  tNU/WI T       ,- - s - ,                   \             A  C                    To Biro
ZIMBABWE
NAMIBLAk
rB BOTSWAN>N4<
Fobruary 1998



