Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY            gY  '         g      W
Report No. 11602-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
MAY 24, 1993
FILE COPY
Report No.:11602-MAI    Type:  (SAR)
Title: AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Author: ANSON, RICHARD
Ext.:34397 Roorn:J11167 Dept.:AF6AG
Southern Africa Department
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipiei ts only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1 = MK 4.0
MK1 = US$0.25
ACRONYMS
ADB          African Development Bank
ADD          Agricultural Development Division
ADMARC    Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
ARC          Agricultural Research Council
ASP          Agricultural Services Project
ASSC         Agricultural Sector Steering Committee
CAETO        Chief Agricultural Officer
CARO         Chief Agricultural Research Officer
CMEU         Central Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
CVO          Chief Veterinary Officer
DAET         Department of Agricultural Extension and Training
DAHI         Department of Animal Health and Industry
DAR          Department of Agricultural Research
DO           Development Officer
DOI          Department of Irrigation
EC           European Community
EEC          European Economic Community
EPA          Extension Planning Area
FA           Field Assistant
FATOT        Field Agricultural Training of Trainers
FHA          Farm Home Assistant
FNU          Food and Nutrition Unit
GTZ          German Agency for Technical Cooperation
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
MOA          Ministry of Agriculture
NARP         National Agricultural Research Project
NGO          Non Governmental Organization
NRDP         National Rural Development Program
NSCM         National Seed Corporation of Malawi
NSO          National Statistical Office
PM           Program Manager (ADD)
PO           Project Officer
PS           Principal Secretary
PSC          Project Steering Committee
PSIP         Public Sector Investment Program
RDP          Rural Development Project
SFFRFM       Smallholder Farmer Fertilizer Revolving Fund of Malawi
SMS          Subject Matter Specialist
SSI          Small Scale Irrigation
TMS          Transport Management System
VA           Veterinary Assistant
VAS          Visual Aids Section



MALAWI                               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ..........................   i
I. BACIKGROUND .......................................  1
A. Introduction . ....................................  1
B. Macroeconomic Setting  .............................    2
C. Agriculture Sector: Key Features and Performance  ....                 ........    3
D. Smallholder Constraints and Potential ....................    5
E. Government Sectoral Objectives and Strategy   ...............    7
F. IDA Assistance Strategy   ............................    7
HI. AGRICULTURAL SERVICES: ARRANGEMENTS, ISSUES AND
STRATEGIES   ....................................    8
A. Institutional Arrangements  ........                ...................    8
B. Agricultural Research  ..........                ....................   10
C. Agricultural Extension .11
D. Livestock Field Services  ..........                ..................   12
E. Input Supply and Agricultural Produce Marketing ....                 .........   12
F. Small-Scale Irrigation . ..............................  14
HI. THE PROJECT...................................... 14
A. Project Design Considerations .14
B. Project Rationale, Objectives and Summary Features ....                 .......  16
C. Detailed Features .         ................................   17
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING   ........ ..                               ............   28
A. Financing .28
B. Procurement ...........  29
C. Disbursements ...................................  31
D. Accounts and Audits ................  32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal and post-appraisal mission which visited Malawi in July and
November of 1992, which comprised Messrs/Mmes R. Anson (Mission Leader, Sr. Agricultural Economist);
E. Gadzama (July mission, Women in Agriculture); R. Gopalkrishnan (Sr. Procurement Specialist); S. Hiwa (Ag.
Program Officer, Resident Mission); Z. Matmor (Sr. Extension Specialist); P. M'buka (Sr. Ag. Services Specialist,
Resident Mission); V. Scarborough (November mission, Ag. Economist); L. Schwartz (July mission, Ag.
Economist); V. Venkatesan (July mission, Sr. Extension Advisor); A. Yates (Sr. Research Specialist). In addition,
several GTZ (Germany) consultants participated in the mission to assist MOA finalize the design of several
subcomponents. C. Dickerson (IFAD) participated in the post-appraisal mission. Messrs/Mmes A. Spurling
(Principal Research Specialist) was the Lead Advisor; A. Rioust-de-Largentaye and K. Saito were peer reviewers.
C. Helman is managing Division Chief and S. Denning Department Director for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION .... ...... 32
A. Overall Arrangements .............. ................   32
B. Research  ......................................    33
C. Extension  .....................................   34
D. Input Supply ....................................   35
E. Institutional Strengthening  .......... ..             ...............  35
F. Monitoring, Evaluation and Beneficiary Assessment  ....              .......  36
G. Training and Technical Assistance  ..........               ............. 36
H. Implementation Schedule .............                  ...............  37
I. Fiscal Impact .....................................   37
J. Environmental Impact  ...........               ...................   37
VI. BENEFTIS AND RISKS ................................  38
A. Benefits .......................................  38
B. Risks  ........................................   40
VI. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .................  41
ANNEXES
1.      Summary Features of Malawi's Agricultural Sector  ......               ........  44
2.      Organization Charts    ................              ..................   53
3.      ASP Plan of Action            ..................................   56
4.      TOR for Public Sector Procurement Reform Program  .....                ........  62
5.      ASP Performance Indicators           ............         ................  67
6.      Cost Tables ......................  .................   69
7.      Financing Tables  ................                 ...................   77
8.      Medium Term Public Investment Program for MOA and
Incremental Extension Operating Costs  ....... ..               ............  80
9.      Disbursement Schedule ........ .......                    .................  82
10.    Improved Accounting Guidelines ............                   ..............  83
11.    Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance ...... ..                ..........  90
12.    Terms of Reference for ASP Evaluations .......           ..............  116
13.    ASP Implementation Schedule            ...11.................   l8
14.    Supervision Plan .................................  123
15.    Letter of Sectoral Policies and Strategies ......... ............ 124
16.    Benefits Analysis: Methods, Assumptions and Results .....               ........ 130
17.    Documents in Project File    ..............               ................ 137
IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL (available on request)
Section 1       Review of MOA Organization, Staffing and Functions
Section 2        Commodity Research Action Plans
Section 3       Extension - Agriculture
Section 4       Extension - Livestock
Section 5       Extension - Training
Section 6       Food and Nutrition
Section 7       Program Budgeting and Activities Planning System
Section 8       Transport Management
Section 9        Agricultural Policy Analysis Training
Section 10       Small Scale Irrigation
Section 11       Monitoring and Evaluation



i
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  The Republic of Malawi.
Credit Amount:             SDR 33 million (US$45.8 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Project Description,       The Project is designed to help formulate and implement
institutional and management reforms in the national research,
extension and input supply systems. The Project's key aims
are to provide cost-effective and sustainable technologies
suitable for a range of smallholders; and to improve
smallholder incomes and food security by increasing
productivity and diversification, especially among female and
resource poor farmers. The ASP is part of a longer-term
program to reform and integrate key agricultural services for
smallholders. The recent development of two improved hybrid
maize varieties and some low cost technologies relevant to
smallholders' constraints, and Government commitment to
integrating key policy reforms and supporting investments,
make it particularly timely to implement this Project. It has
been prepared in close collaboration with the Government of
Malawi and includes a comprehensive list of performance
indicators and key targets, as well as a detailed implementation
manual for each component.
The project will be implemented over six years and include
four components: (i) Agricultural Research will: support
priority agricultural research action plans; strengthen research-
extension-farmer linkages to ensure the development of
appropriate technologies; diversify participation in publicly
funded research; activate an umbrella body to help set and
update national research priorities and advise Government on
allocating public resources; improve research management
systems; and enhance researchers' career structures,
motivation and accountability; (ii) Agricultural Extension will
cover five areas: crops/agro-forestry; livestock; land resources
and conservation; small-scale irrigation; food and nutrition.
The component will: increase the efficiency of extension
delivery through streamlining staffing and organizational
arrangements; expand the coverage of smallholders through
separating credit from extension, promoting low-cost and
proven technologies, strengthening research-extension-farmer
linkages, increasing the number of female field assistants, and



ii
training field assistants in gender-related issues, particularly
nutrition; increase effectiveness through improved and more
interactive training, encouraging better quality and consistency
of field supervision supported by adequate operational funding,
closer monitoring of supervision and rewarding good
performance; (iii) Inut= Supply will increase the availability of
improved seeds and fertilizers to, and their use by
smallholders through supporting the formulation and
implementation of seed and fertilizer policy reforms and
financing incremental fertilizer; and (iv) Institutional
Strengthening of the Ministry of Agriculture to deliver
improved agricultural services and technologies in an efficient,
effective and sustainable manner to ensure the realization of
benefits through changes in the research, extension and input
supply systems. The Project will improve: planning and
financial management; transport management; procurement;
agricultural policy analysis (in-country training); the
development of small scale irrigation; and monitoring and
evaluation.
Project Benefits:           The Project will provide two types of benefits: production
related and institutional. Production benefits will include:
increased adoption of improved seeds, particularly hybrid
maize; more efficient and profitable application of fertilizer;
use of fertilizer by a larger number of smallholders; wider
adoption of agro-forestry, nitrogen-fixing rotations and water
and soil conservation methods, and the development and
replication of viable technologies for small-scale irrigation.
Institutional benefits will include improved institutional
mechanisms and capacity to sustain more efficient research
and extension, which is responsive to smallholders' needs,
especially those of women and the resource poor; improved
financial, transport and monitoring capacity to support
agricultural services; and a better motivated and trained
research and extension staff. The net value of smallholder
agricultural production is expected to increase by 35% in real
terms by 2002/3 as a result of the Project. The ASP benefits
will also be enhanced by several parallel donor projects which
aim to provide additional assistance through the ASP
framework.
Risks                       Limited Government capacity to formulate and implement the
required policy and institutional changes would adversely
affect project implementation. This risk will be minimized by
ensuring realistic project scope, developing phased
implementation action plans prior to project start-up, and
providing in-service training and carefully designed technical
assistance to build local capacity. A deterioration in economic
performance and budgetary funding could undermine the
required non-salary recurrent funding of key services. These



iii
risks are countered by developing improved methods for
allocating recurrent funding, financing incremental funds on a
declining basis to ensure phased absorption by MOA, close
monitoring, and biennial evaluations. In addition, ASP will
provide a framework and mechanisms for more effective
donor funding support and collaboration.
Economic
Rate of Return:           Not applicable



iv
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Estimated Project Costs
Local            Foreign          Total
US$ Milion-
Research                         9.6            6.0            15.6
Extension                        16.2           3.9            20.1
Fertilizers                      0.0            9.0            9.0
Institutional Strengthening      4.6            5.3            9.9
Project Preparation              0.2            1.0            1.2
Physical Contingencies           1.4            0.4            1.8
Price Contingencies              4.5            2.7            7.2
Total                      36.5           28.3           64.8
Project Financing Plan
Local        Foreign          Total
-US$ Million-
IDA                              26.3           19.5           45.8
ADB                              3.9            8.8            12.7
Government                       6.3            0.0            6.3
Total                         36.5          28.3            64.8
Estimated IDA Schedule of Disbursement
Project Year       FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99 FY2000              TOTAL
Annual Disbursements
(US$ Million)     5.4   11.4  9.8   6.6   7.3   3.5   1.8            45.8
Cumulative Disbursements
(US$ Million)     5.4   16.8  26.6  33.2  40.5  44.0  45.8           45.8



1
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.1    An Agricultural Services Project (ASP) is needed to support the generation,
adaptation, dissemination and adoption of new agricultural technologies and practices in order
to increase the productivity of smallholders, particularly among the 75% who are not being
reached by current services. To stay ahead of population growth (3.5% in 1991), agriculture
must grow at least 4% per year. This calls for a concentrated and sustained effort to address
production constraints, including land pressure; poor access to production inputs; low levels
of purchasing power; too narrow a range of technology for the differentiated farming
environment; declining soil fertility and soil erosion.
1.2    ASP will address these constraints by supporting agricultural research and extension
services; increasing the availability of improved seed and fertilizer and strengthening the
institutional capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The integrated rural development
projects of the 1970s and 1980s devoted considerable resources to expanding rural
infrastructure and staffing to improve agricultural services. However, due to inefficient
resource allocation, ineffective management and policy constraints, the impact of these
interventions has been limited. ASP is different from past projects in the following four
ways:
(a)   ]t will build on Government ownership of its design and implementation.
Such ownership was facilitated by several activities including a multi-donor
and Government agricultural strategy workshop held in March, 1992. A
second workshop was held in November, 1992 to develop consensus on
detailed project design, implementation arrangements and action plans.
(b)    The ASP has been designed in parallel with the preparation of an Agricultural
Sector Memorandum and the latter has provided the analytical basis for the
Project. It will integrate key policy changes with project investments, to
further enhance the adoption of improved technologies. These policy changes
include the liberalization of seed and fertilizer markets, activating the
Agricultural Sciences Committee, delinking credit and extension, rationalizing
the public investment portfolio and improved forward planning in recurrent
expenditures.
(c)    'he ASP will support promising smallholder technologies which have been
recently developed and field tested with success, and which show good
prospects of being widely adopted. These include improved "flint" maize
hybrid varieties (MH17 and MH18), which have a yield potential of about
3,000 kg./hectare with fertilizer and which could lead to a mini-green
revolution in Malawi. In addition, a number of low-cost, productivity
enhancing technologies, suitable for resource poor farmers, are now ready for
dissemination.



2
(d)    The Project will promote improved approaches to the generation and
dissemination of technologies to ensure they respond to the varying
characteristics of smallholders. Key mechanisms for this include:
strengthening research-extension-farmer linkages; improving the criteria for
preparing annual research work plans; adopting participatory approaches to
training; expanding the role of non-public sector bodies in research and
extension (e.g., through contract research and the inclusion of a range of
community groups and NGOs in extension), and increasing the accountability
of, and incentives for, research and extension staff.
B. Macroeconomic Setting
1.3    Malawi is a small, land-locked country with a total area of approximately 119,100
square kilometers, of which 24,200 square kilometers is lake surface. It is bordered on the
north and northeast by Tanzania; to the east, south, and southwest by Mozambique and to the
west by Zambia. The land area consists of three topographical regions: the northern
mountainous region, the central plateau, and the southern lowlands. The population of
Malawi is estimated at 8.8 million (1991) and is growing at an annual rate of about 3.5%.
The country has one of the highest population densities in Africa with 93 inhabitants per
square kilometer of land surface, and 170 inhabitants per square kilometer of arable land.
Much of the population suffers from malnutrition, and only two out of three children survive
beyond five years of age. Agricultural production has been severely constrained by drought,
cassava mealy bug infestation (now largely controlled), the high cost of agricultural inputs
such as fertilizers, and increased transport costs due to the civil war in Mozambique. This
civil war has also driven some 1,000,000 refugees into Malawi.
1.4    Country Policies. Despite a series of adjustment programs, Malawi remains one of
the poorest countries in the world with a per capita GNP of US$240 (1991) and it is
extremely vulnerable to external shocks because of its land-locked position and narrow
resource base. Although the country has made considerable progress on the macroeconomic
front over the past four years, the medium-term economic outlook is highly uncertain due to:
*     the external shocks and the adverse impact of an unprecedented drought in
1992; and
*     deteriorating relations with bilateral donors as a result of unresolved issues
related to governance.
1.5    Malawi's period of strong growth came to a halt in the early 1980s when the country
faced a combination of unfavorable terms of trade, high interest rates, weather-related shocks,
and major domestic policy weaknesses. The first series of adjustment operations was a
response to this set of shocks. However, while the Government of Malawi (GOM) was
adjusting to these shocks, the country was hit, in the mid-1980s, by a worsening of the war
and civil strife in neighboring Mozambique which led to a major increase in international
transportation costs; increased security-related expenditures and a large influx of refugees.
This caused a sharp deterioration in the macroeconomic environment. Despite the partial
reopening of the Nacala rail route through Mozambique in October 1989, and recent peace
overtures, the Mozambican situation has not eased and remains uncertain. Certain policy
responses to this second and more dramatic set of shocks, including expanded fiscal deficits



3
and implementation of import controls, have compounded the difficulties and discouraged
private sector investment. The situation was further exacerbated by the severe drought in
1992 which reduced the maize crop by nearly 60 percent. Widespread poverty and food
insecurity have resulted in additional foreign exchange requirements of US$236 million for
maize imports. Drought-related expenditures for the internal distribution of emergency food
aid, water supply rehabilitation, and health programs will further worsen the Government's
fiscal difficulties.
1.6   At the May 1992 Consultative Group Meeting held in Paris, bilateral donors and the
EC refrained from pledging additional external assistance to Malawi due to governance issues.
To close the resulting fiscal and external financing gap, the Malawian authorities implemented
an austerity package in June 1992, comprising a 22% devaluation of the Kwacha, strict
expenditure controls, and a tightening of the monetary stance. The measures have helped the
economic reforms to remain broadly on track. Nevertheless, timely resumption of bilateral
and EC external support (eg., balance of payments support) is crucial for the successful
continuation of the adjustment program.
1.7   Economic Performance. Throughout the 1980s the Government undertook a broad-
based structural adjustment program. These reforms and improvements in short-term
macroeconomic management have created a stable macroeconomic environment. After
negative growth in 1986 and 1987, GDP (at market prices) grew by 4.8% in 1990 and 7.8%
in 1991, restoring per capita GDP growth to a positive level. Agriculture grew at 15% in
1991. Inflation decelerated sharply from an average of about 30% in 1987-88 to 16% in
1989 and 12% in 1991. Real wages have declined. In fact, labor has borne a significant part
of the adjustment burden. The fiscal deficit has been brought under control, with net negative
domestic credit financing of Government in 1988/89, 1989/90, and 1990/91. This
improvement allowed growth in private sector credit of 26%, 59%, and an estimated 38%,
respectively in these three years.
1.8   In spite of the breadth of policy reforms and the restoration of macroeconomic
stability, significant structural weaknesses remain that impede the development of a
sustainable supply response. The productivity of the economy is low, while increased
financial flows to the private sector have not resulted in stimulating non-traditional activities.
As a result, foreign savings continue to be of critical importance to the economy, with a
current account deficit reaching 13.4% of GDP in 1989, and nearly 10% in 1991. In
addition, export responsiveness has been impeded by the stagnation of smallholder agricultural
productivity and continued population pressure. While the external situation may improve,
Malawi must ensure maximum use of its potential to sustain growth.
C. Agriculture Sector: Key Features and Performance
1.9    Malawi has 43,400 square kilometers (2.4 million hectares) of arable land. It has
limited mineral resources and a climate which only allows for one cropping season a year.
However, the country is endowed with moderately fertile soils and ample water resources.
1.10  Agriculture continues to be the economy's backbone, supporting about 85% of the
population and accounting for 35 % of GDP and 90% of foreign exchange earnings (1991).
Crop production accounts for about 93%, and livestock 7%, of the total value of agricultural
output. Exports primarily consist of tobacco (68% of total export revenue in 1991); tea



4
(13%); sugar (9%) and coffee (2%). Maize is the dominant crop and staple food and
occupies about 80% of cultivated land. Much of this maize consists of low-yielding local
varieties. Other important crops include groundnuts, cassava, cotton, rice, sorghum, millet,
legumes, and tree crops. The dominance of maize, coupled with an acute land shortage and
low levels of fertilizer use, has resulted in excessive extraction of nutrients from the soil.
This has caused a decline in fertility, particularly in the densely populated south. Livestock
production includes cattle (Malawi Zebu), goats, sheep, pigs, chickens and rabbitsY
1.11   Since Independence growth in agricultural GDP has varied, averaging about 5%
during the 1970s, 1% during the early 1980s, and 2.7% during 1987-90. Throughout the
1980s, agricultural growth was slower than population growth. The main source of growth
has been expansion of area under cultivation. Increases in yields have been of secondary
importance. Since much of the arable land is already cultivated, future growth will have to
come from the introduction of higher yielding technologies.
1.12   Malawi's agricultural sector is characterized by smallholders and estates, differentiated
by regulations concerning production, marketing, pricing and land tenure. There is, however,
considerable variation within each of these two broad categories. The smallholder sector
accounts for about 25% of GDP, 75% of agricultural GDP and 90% of agricultural labor,
while the estate sector makes up about 9% of GDP, 25% of agricultural GDP, and 10% of
agricultural labor. (Annex 1 provides more details on the agricultural sector, particularly the
smallholder sub-sector.)
1.13   The smallholder sector comprises about 1.8 million families, operating under
customary tenure on 1.75 million ha, and producing about 80% of food production (mostly
for subsistence) and 10% of exports. About 55% of smallholder households cultivate less
than 1.0 ha, 31% between 1 ha and 2 ha, and 14% above 2 has' Size of holding is
inversely correlated with levels of food insecurity and poverty. Table 1 provides a typology
of smallholders, which highlights the need to generate a range of technologies suitable for
different socioeconomic groups and agro-climatic conditions.
1.14 Women comprise about 70% of full-time farmers and have primary responsibility for
providing family food. About one-third of rural households are headed by women, who face
particular constraints regarding access to land, labor, credit, seed, fertilizer and extension.
To raise agricultural productivity in Malawi, special efforts must therefore be made to
improve the access of female farmers to these inputs.
VI According to the 1989 Livestock Census (Department of Animal Health and Industiy (DAHI)) herd and flock
figures are: 0.8 million cattle; 0.8 million goats; 0.09 million sheep; and 0.2 miUion pigs. Census figures show
considerable annual variation. During the 1980s, livestock populations recorded by the National Statistical Office
(NSO) and DAHI were substantially differet. See Government of Malawi, Ministry of Agriculture/Arup Atkins
Intenational Limited (1988), National Livestock Development Study.
a/ 25% of smallholdors are cultivating less than 0.5 ha (avenge 0.25 ha), and 30% cultivate between 0.5 ha and 1
ha.



5
TABLE 1. A TYPOLOGY OF SMALLHOLDERS IN MALAWI
Ae cuWtived (ha) per household by ADD, North to Soulh
Houehold characteristics                                       _ 
Kanga    Mzuzu      Kaugu    Ilongwe   Sali-       liwonde    B]antyre    Ngabu
1. Emerging/lurphuamallholdeuwith     > 1.50    > 1.00    > 1.00     > 1.50    > 2.00    > 2.00     > 1.50    > 3.00
enough land to produce a surpua (14 %).'                                                                             l
2. Smallholdeu with enough land to produce  0.75-1.50   0.75-1.00   0.50-1.00   1.00.1.50   1.00-2.00   1.25-2.00   0.75-1.50   1.75.3.00
sufflcient to meet food reuirements (31%).'                                                                          l
3. Food-deficit     Sporadicallydeficit   0.50-0.75   0.25-0.75   0.50-0.50   0.50-1.00   0.50-1.00   0.50-1.25   0.50-1.50   1.00-1.75
househods (55 %).
ChronicaUly deficit    < 0.50  < 0.25  < 0.50   < 0.50    < 0.50     < 0.50    < 0.50     < 1.00
Source: Naftonal Sample Suney of Agriculburc, MA
at Refer to rough estmate of proportion of total rural households.
1.15    The estate sector comprises about 18,000 farms, occupying about 19% of the cultivated area.
Average estate size is 42 ha, but only 24% of estate land is cultivated. The sector produces mostly
flue-cured and burley tobacco (about 40% of estate cropped area) and maize (about 34%). Other
crops grown by estates include tea, sugar, coffee and tree nuts. Until 1991, only estates were granted
licenses to grow burley tobacco. They also have easier access to fertilizer and credit, and they have
security of tenure which motivates higher levels of investment (and thus higher yields) than are found
in the smallholder sector. Due to a rapid expansion of burley tobacco production, the relative
contribution of estates to agricultural output has increased over the last five years. Growth in this
sector has always been faster than in the smallholder sector (except between 1984 and 1986),
reflecting preferential Government policies; better servicing by client-financed research for tobacco
and tea; the movement of more productive smallholders into the estate sector, and higher risk
exposure among smallholders. During the 1980s and early 1990s, the number of estates grew from
8,400 to 18,000, as smallholders pooled their resources to form a landholding of at least 10 hectares
in order to register as an estate. However, many of these 'graduated smallholder' estates have
characteristics similar to farmers remaining in the smallholder sector.
1.16    Given this economic structure and these sectoral characteristics, it is not surprising that about
55% of Malawi's population is poor3'. About 78% of the poor are smallholders and 20% are estate
workers. The urban poor (2%) are those earning less than minimum wages. Women are disproport-
ionately represented among the poor. Female-headed households constitute about one-third of this
group and almost half of perennially food-deficit households (i.e. the core poor).
D. Smallholder Constraints and Potential
1.17    Slow growth in the smallholder sector has been partly caused by an incentive structure that
discriminates against it (e.g., low producer prices and restrictions on growing and selling tobacco)
and partly by inadequate agricultural services and technologies. Given small farm sizes and low
yields (averaging 800kg/ha for maize), about 75% of households run out of maize three months
before the harvest in a normal rainfall year. On smaller holdings, continuous cropping without
supplementary nutrients has become the norm, particularly in areas of high population density. Also,
2/ Poor is defined hers as an inability to meet minimum nutritional requimments, equivalent to USS40/year.



6
marginal land, which is not very fertile and often susceptible to soil erosion, is increasingly
cultivated. On the majority of small farms soil fertility is declining. However, smallholders with
larger holdings (more than 1.5 ha) have been able to use new technologies, like higher-yielding maize
varieties and fertilizers.
1.18   Technology. The availability of suitable technology is critical to increasing growth and
incomes in the smallholder sector. In the past, insufficient attention has been paid to the particular
constraints faced by different types of smallholders. Until recently, dent hybrids and fertilizer were
the only higher-yielding technologies available for maize production. These hybrids have been grown
mainly as a cash crop due to adverse storage and pounding characteristics, which the hard-flint
varieties, MH17 and MH18, introduced in 1991, may overcome. Other important productivity-
enhancing prospects include location-specific fertilizer recommendations; new varieties of groundnut
and field beans; self-nodulating Magoye soybeans; agro-forestry, and improved land husbandry and
cultivation practices. The ASP will support the adaptation, dissemination and adoption of all of these.
Recent policy changes which have made burley tobacco accessible to smallholders, also offer
considerable potential for growth in incomes.
1.19 Hybrid flint maize grown on smallholders' fields in trials is yielding about 3,000 kg/ha (with
fertilizer) and about 1,500 kg/ha (without fertilizer). Maize composites average about 1,500 kg/ha,
with fertilizer. The daily return to labor in producing hybrid flint maize with fertilizer is estimated to
be about MK3-4.00 (1991/2 prices), compared to MK5-7.00 for burley tobacco. The cash outlays are
about MK385/ha for hybrid maize and fertilizer and about MK770/ha for tobacco (with fertilizer) -
considerable sums for smallholders with average annual incomes of MK810. Access to cash or credit
is clearly an important prerequisite for the adoption of either of these crops. However, field trials
also demonstrate that non-fertilized hybrid flint maize results in higher returns than local maize. This
is important for smallholders without access to credit. The development and dissemination of location-
specific fertilizer recommendations should also increase the returns to farmers' use of this input.
1.20   Groundnut and bean production is primarily technically constrained, particularly by disease
susceptibility, and further research is required, which ASP will support. Improved soa bea
produce more energy per hectare than maize, provide valuable protein and fix nitrogen in the soil.
Previous varieties required inoculation with nitrifying bacteria, a difficult and expensive process.
However, a new variety, Magoye, which does not require inoculation has been developed in Zambia
and was introduced officially into Malawi in 1992.
1.21 Agro-Forestry. The Department of Agricultural Research (DAR) has shown that alley
cropping with Leucaena sp. increases maize yields by 30-350%, depending on soil type. However, it
only grows in certain areas and is subject to termite attack. Alternatively, maize yields under the
canopy of Acacia albida are between 50-200% higher than crops grown on the same soils in the open.
Such agro-forestry packages will be particularly important for farmers who cannot afford marketed
inputs.
1.22   Cultural practices and land husbandry techniques which could increase productivity, as well as
promote soil conservation, include realignment of ridges, improved ridge and plant spacing, planting
vetiver grass hedges and more timely planting and weeding. All these will be promoted under the
ASP.
1.23  In addition to land-saving technologies, labor-saving technologies are needed to raise
productivity, particularly among female farmers, whose labor input per hectare far exceeds that of
male farmers. Women also spend much time processing food, collecting wood (average 5



7
hours/week) and gathering water (8.5 hours/week). Female farmers typically work 14-17 hours a
day. Their labor constraints, especially at peak-demand seasons, are critical. Labor-saving
technologies in agro-processing and transportation would contribute greatly towards increasing their
productivity and the research component of the ASP will support these efforts.
E. Govermnent Sectoral Objectives and Strategy
1.24   The objectives for Malawi's agricultural development are outlined in the Government's
Statement of Development Policies (1987-1996). They are: (a) improving and maintaining food self-
sufficiency; (b) expanding and diversifying agricultural exports, while conserving natural resources;
(c) raising farm incomes and promoting economic growth; and (d) improving social welfare. These
objectives are being pursued through programs undertaken with support from IDA and several other
donors (IFAD, UNDP, USAID, GTZ, ODA, EEC) within a broad framework of promoting private
sector involvement; improving incentives through liberalizing pricing and marketing; increasing
producer prices for export crops and rehabilitating rural infrastructure. The importance of improving
food security and social welfare in the Government's development objectives is demonstrated in the
Food Security and Nutrition Policy Statement.# This emphasizes growth based on increased agri-
cultural productivity, especially on holdings of less than one hectare; increasing employment opportu-
nities; improving human resource development, and increasing income transfers to the vulnerable in
the short term, pending the achievement of longer-term objectives.
1.25   Government strategies for promoting a dynamic supply response from smallholders include:
maintaining macroeconomic stability in the domestic and external accounts, maintaining export
competitiveness, and ensuring that macroeconomic policies promote an efficient and dynamic
agricultural sector; strenigthening the research and extension systems to promote the adoption of yield-
augmenting technologies (especially flint maize hybrids); expanding the role of the private sector
through increased reliance on open markets for agricultural inputs and outputs and encouraging
private sector export diversification; expanding smallholder access to cash crops (especially burley
tobacco); promoting small livestock production; expanding access to financial services in rural areas;
promoting environmentally sustainable resource use; rationalizing public sector expenditures, and
enhancing public sector employee accountability and incentives. While both the estate and
smallholder sectors will play an important role in these strategies, emphasis will be placed on
revitalizing the smallholder sector and Government's strategy stresses the need to consider fully the
constraints, as well as the potential, of households with different socioeconomic characteristics.
F. IDA Assistance Strategy
1.26   IDA's activities over the past decade have consisted of lending operations, underpinned by
sector and economic work. Three Structural Adjustment Lending operations have provided essential
resources to relieve balance-of-payment pressures and support private sector import requirements; an
agricultural adjustment operation has focused on deepening key macroeconomic and sectoral reforms;
and 10 investment projects have aimed at increasing smallholder productivity and rural incomes. IDA
has also been instrumental in coordinating donor assistance and mobilizing substantial amounts of
external resources.
41 Office of the President and Cabinet, Department of Economic Planning and Development (1990), Food Security
and Nutrition Policy Statement - Supplement to the Statement of Development Policies.



8
1.27  IDA's current assistance strategy builds on past lessons and supports Government's medium-
term development strategy. The primary goal is to continue to support economic growth and poverty
reduction through macroeconomic management and natural resource conservation. Within this broad
framework, IDA's agriculture sector strategy focuses on supporting Government's formulation and
implementation of the strategies outlined in para 1.25. IDA, in close collaboration with the
Government, is currently preparing an Agricultural Sector Memorandum (ASM). The preliminary
findings and recommendations of this ASM have guided the design of the ASP and the proposed
Rural Financial Services Project, and has provided an underpinning to other proposed projects (e.g.
Agricultural Diversification Project and Environmental Support Project). Another key element in
IDA's strategy is to improve the performance and impact of on-going agricultural projects in Malawi
and to ensure that the lessons learned from previous operations are incorporated into new projects. In
this context, IDA places priority on providing implementation assistance, maintaining constant contact
with project beneficiaries, and close collaboration and coordination with other donors supporting
agricultural programs in Malawi (para 1.24).
II. AGRICULTURAL SERVICES: ARRANGEMENTS, ISSUES AND STRATEGIES
A. Institutional Arrangements
2.1    Ministry of Agriculture. MOA plays a major role in agricultural policy formulation and
service delivery, and it oversees the operations of public sector agricultural marketing corporations
and crop authorities. It is comprised of four technical departments (agricultural research; agricultural
extension and training; animal health and industry; and irrigation); a planning division; a food and
nutrition unit; a land resources and conservation branch and a smallholder credit administration (see
Annex 2, page 1 for organizational chart). In the current Public Sector Investment Program, MOA is
allocated about 13% of total planned investments (fourth in terms of Government revenue expendi-
ture).Y For FY1992/93, MOA's allocation is MK 61.4 million, of which MK 42 million is from the
development budget and the remainder from the revenue budget. Relative to the complexity of the
agricultural sector and the large and decentralized operations of MOA, the institution has been
characterized by staff, management and organizational weaknesses. MOA senior management is
currently in the process of addressing these weaknesses.
2.2    Organizational Structure of Agricultural Services. The agricultural field services of MOA are 
organized through eight Agricultural Development Divisions (ADDs), each headed by a program
manager (PM). The ADDs, from north to south, are Karonga, Mzuzu, Kasungu, Lilongwe, Salima,
Liwonde, Blantyre and Ngabu. For service delivery, each ADD is divided into 2-5 rural development
projects (RDPs), of which there are 30 in total. Each RDP is divided into about five extension
planning areas (EPAs) (with a total of 146), which in turn are divided into sections (total 1,808).
Each section is served by one agricultural field assistant (FA). The criteria used for establishing
EPA/section boundaries are numbers of farmers and similarity of agroecological conditions.
Livestock services, however, are arranged around dip-tank catchment areas, and these do not coincide
with EPAs.
2.3    Agricultural Research. MOA's Department of Agricultural Research (DAR) conducts most
national agricultural research, except for that on tobacco, tea and sugar, which is undertaken by
5/ From 1988/89 to 1991/92, the annual budget allocation to MOA bas varied bdween 4.3% and 4.6% of total
GOM Revenue Budget.



9
specialist units.9' In addition, some NGOs have now begun farm-level adaptive research in certain
crops and livestock. DAR's activities are divided into five commodity-based programs: cereals; grain
legumes, oil seeds and fibers; livestock and pastures; horticulture; and soils and land husbandry. In
addition, there is an adaptive research program and a technical services program.
2.4    Agricultural Extension. National responsibility for smallholder extension rests with MOA's
Department of Agricultura Extension and Training (DAET). Within this the Land Resources and
Conservation Branch (LRCB) is responsible for improving the use of natural resources and promoting
improved methods of soil and water conservation. Some NGOs also conduct agricultural extension
activities. The estate sector is covered separately by the Estate Extension Service Trust, a private
organization formed in 1991. There is also a separate forestry extension service under the Ministry
of Forestry and Natural Resources.
2.5    Department of Animal Health and Industry. DAHI is responsible for all aspects of animal
production and disease control, including livestock marketing and the provision of improved livestock
inputs, animal health research and disease investigation.
2.6    Department of Irrigation. DOI is responsible for developing irrigation in the country,
advising all other departments on irrigation activities, and promoting farmer knowledge of irrigation
practices. DAR is responsible for carrying out irrigation research, although relatively little has been
done.
2.7    Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration. The Smallholder Agricultural Credit
Administration (SACA), established within MOA in 1988, provides credit to smallholders. Field
operations are managed by the ADDs, with specific staff assigned to credit activities. However, FAs
undertake a large part of credit processing, supervision and recovery and use an average of 40% of
their working time in doing so. Currently, there are plans to separate extension and credit and to
restructure SACA into a limited liability company with the aim of making it more self-sustainable.
This plan is being carried out under the proposed Rural Financial Services Project.
2.8    Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation. ADMARC is responsible for
distributing fertilizers and improved seeds to smallholders, managing Malawi's food security reserves,
and marketing strategic crops based on floor and ceiling prices. Although the marketing of
smallholder agricultural produce was liberalized in 1987, ADMARC continues to play a dominant
role, especially in the maize market.
2.9    Smallholder Farmer Fertilizer Revolving Fund of Malawi. Established in 1983, the SFFRFM
is responsible for the procurement of fertilizer required by smallholders; managing the Fertilizer
Buffer Stock Project; and arranging the distribution of fertilizer provided under commodity aid
agreements. Operating as a separate unit within ADMARC, the fund was transformed into a trust
corporation under Government control in 1988.
2.10 Private Com=anie j. Fertilizer for the estate sector is supplied by private companies through
direct imports or local granulation, and some larger estates import fertilizer themselves. The supply
6J DAR also produces breeder seed; propagates and distibutes cultivars of fruit trees; provides plant quarntine,
inspection and protection services; does soil surveys and analywse, and seed testing. Other bodies which undertake
research include: the Department of Aniral Health and Industry (DAHI); the Tobacco Research Institute of Malawi
(TRIM); the Tea Research ]Foundation (TRF); the Tree Nut Authority; the University of Malawi; and two sugar
estates.



10
of seeds and agro-chemicals for both the estates and smallholders also originates in the private sector.
The National Seed Company of Malawi, (NSCM) is the main supplier of certified seeds, which are
then distributed by ADMARC and private retailers. A number of private trading companies also
supply imported pesticides and herbicides, of which there is no Malawian production. Private
companies also play a significant role in processing and exporting agricultural products.
B. Agricultural Research
2.11   The Department of Agricultural Research (DAR). Throughout the 1980s, agricultural
research was a priority investment for both human and financial resources under the IDA-funded
National Agricultural Research Project (NARP) and the USAID-funded Malawi Agricultural Research
and Extension Project (MARE), with DAR as the main beneficiary. Its present structure has been in
place since 1985, when research activities were reorganized into commodity research teams under the
leadership of national research coordinators. DAR produced its first national research master plan in
1988. It is currently completing a major planning and priority-setting exercise, the output of which
includes a comprehensively revised master plan and seven-year action plans for each of the
commodity teams. These will be the basis for improvements in the research system.
2.12   The Agricultural Research Council (ARC) was established in 1985, with a mandate to orient
the direction of research, approve programs and budgets, and approve funding levels for DAR. The
ARC has focused on timely budget submissions and work programs, but has not been able to mobilize
additional government funds for DAR; improve conditions of service, or adapt the research master
plan to reflect national priorities and capacity.7' The ARC is now in the process of being revitalized,
and its mandate will be narrowed to focus on strengthening the coordination of research activities
within MOA.
2.13   In 1990, Government established the National Research Council of Malawi (NRCM) in the
Office of the President and Cabinet to coordinate all types of research, set national priorities, and
advise Government on the use of public funds for research. The establishment of an Agricultural
Sciences Committee (ASC) to serve as a technical arm of NRCM was proposed. However, to date,
such a committee has not functioned. Government is now taking steps to activate the ASC in order to
fulfill some of the functions originally envisioned for the ARC, but which require a greater degree of
independence than is possible through the ARC.
2.14   Constraints. Despite major investment in infrastructure, training and institutional support
during the past decade, progress has been very slow in generating technologies which are useful to
small farmers (apart from improved maize varieties). Poor management systems (scientific,
personnel, financial and administrative); disruption caused by an intensive training program; low
morale; a high rate of attrition among researchers and managers, and unreliable and/or inflexible
funding have all contributed to this poor performance.
2.15   Issues. The basic issue confronting ASP is how to increase the efficacy of publicly funded
research (measured by improved smallholder productivity), without significantly increasing total
expenditure. Resolution of this problem will require: more efficient resource utilization; better
targeting of research; improved management systems; and the gradual commercialization and
7/ The research master plan describes other msearch organizations, but only identifies a research progam for DAR.
Consequently the plan fails to take into account the activities and abilities of other resarch organizations.



11
privatization of components of researchY Changes in this direction conform with the policies
outlined in the Framework for Action developed by the Special Program for African Agricultural
Research (SPAAR)2' in association with regional organizations in Africa, including the Southern
Africa Development Community (SADC).
2.16    Increasing the efficiency of resource utilization will require, first and foremost, a clear
definition of national research priorities. It will also require increasing productivity and avoiding
duplication of efforts, effectively coordinating donor activities and making use of all available
facilities. This implies encouraging private sector participation and increasing collaboration with
national, regional and international research units. Increased efficiency will also require improving
the morale, motivation and accountability of researchers and their managers, and strengthening the
links between research, extension and farmers. Inflexible management and limited salary, career and
promotional structures associated with the Civil Service, together with unreliable recurrent funding,
are major causes of low morale. Other managerial weaknesses exacerbate this situation.-L'
2.17    Improved management is required at two levels: first, strengthening institutional mechanisms
to define and advise Government on national research priorities and the allocation of public funds;
and second, improved personnel, financial, administrative, and scientific management within DAR,
including revitalizing the ARC to ensure that research-extension-farmer links lead to relevant
messages and that crop,, livestock and land husbandry messages are integrated. (See paras 3.13 - 3.20
for ways in which the ASP will address these issues and constraints.)
C. Agricultural Extension
2.18    Overview. The extension service has been expanded and upgraded under the National Rural
Development Project (NRDP). Through the IDA-funded Malawi Agricultural Extension and Planning
Support project and the USAID-funded MARE project, substantial efforts have been devoted to
extension planning, staff training, and expanding the Block Extension System (which focuses on small
areas).  The number of field staff has increased by 33% to 2,234 under these activities. However,
due to growth in the number of farm families, from 1.4 million in 1984/85 to 1.8 million in 1991/92,
the ratio of FAs to farm families has remained about the same over this period.'" Current staff
deployment does not reflect a well-defined policy, but an organizational review currently underway
could provide the basis for allocating staff more efficiently throughout the MOA/ADD structure.
8/ As has been done for tea and tobacco and is being done for tree nuts.
2/ In summary, the SPAAR policies call for: the planning of resarch prograns based on national Master Plans and
their subsequent development towards a regional context; ensuring that research is responsive to farmners' needs and
that researchers are made accountable; the proper dissemination of research findings; broadening the institutional base
of research; coordinating all sources of funds for publicly funded research and improving incentive structures and
management.
10/ For example, poor *iirection results in projects being undextaken which are of low priority, and/or are badly
targeted, and/or duplicat,- other work; ineffective accounting systems result in inefficient use of funds; and inadequate
reporting means that results are not properly used.
11/ These figures do not include Senior Field Assistants, Farm Home Assistants, Land Husbandry Assistants or Field
Assistants assigned to duties other than front-line extension work. The total number of field staff (STA/TA grade) is
2,750, excluding veterinary staff. The ratio of FAs to farm families in 1984/5 was 1:792 and in 1991/2 was 1:816.



12
2.19   There is little evidence that extension has had a significant impact on productivity. Increases
in output to date have largely resulted from expansion of cultivated area. Moreover, the extension
system has bypassed the majority of smallholders - especially women and those with holdings of less
than 1.5 ha. Extension staff currently reach about 25% of smaliholders, mainly through credit
groups. Extension work plans need to give greater priority to non-credit recipients, livestock
(especially small ruminants) and low-cost, labor- and land-saving technologies and practices.
2.20   Constra . The effectiveness of extension is limited by: (a) inadequate funding of operating
costs; (b) poor management and lack of good quality work plans; (c) poor research-extension-farmer
linkages; (d) poor transportation management leading to limited mobility in the field; (e) skewed
incentives which emphasize administrative duties rather than field staff supervision; (f) poor quality
training for field staff, and (g) the heavy involvement of FAs in credit activities, rather than
extension. The combined effect of these constraints is low morale and lack of motivation among
FAs, limited relevance of technical messages, and limited coverage of smallholders, especially the
resource-poor.
2.21   The Five-Year Extension Strategy Plan was prepared as an outline of proposals for dealing
with the constraints and deficiencies of the extension service. Its objectives are ambitious, but insuffi-
cient attention is paid to recurrent cost burdens and constraints faced by smallholders not currently
reached. It is therefore necessary for MOA to (a) define extension priorities within realistic
budgetary constraints, and (b) develop and disseminate alternative technologies/practices for poorer
smallholders. (See paras 3.21 - 3.30 for ways in which the ASP will address extension issues and
constraints.)
D. Livestock Field Services
2.22   Overview. Key problems in livestock field services are: (a) unclear organizational,
supervisory and reporting arrangements (e.g., DAHI is responsible for livestock extension messages,
but livestock field staff are integrated into the ADD structure and controlled by the PMs); (b) the
inconsistency between EPA/section boundaries and dip-tank catchment areas, and (c) a skewed
staffing structure, with too many field staff positions established, and too few subject matter
specialists (SMSs) to train veterinary assistants.
2.23   Need for Reorganization. There is a need to consider an alternative organization of field
services to address livestock issues more effectively. DAET and DAHI have worked out a
mechanism to do this. FAs will provide simple livestock messages, VAs will provide specialized
messages in areas with high livestock populations, and livestock SMSs will provide in-service-training
to FAs and VAs. DAHI will provide technical supervision in close coordination with the ADD PMs
and supervisors. (Implementation Manual, Section 4, provides further details.)
E. Input Supply and Agricultural Produce Marketing
2.24  Inu Supply. The key agricultural inputs in Malawi are improved seed (particularly maize)
and fertilizer. The NSCM, whose majority shareholder is Cargill, is the sole source of certified
hybrid and composite seeds on the smallholder market, although the seed is produced on contract by
farmers and another company has recently expressed interest in engaging in this market. Hybrid
maize seed accounts for 85% of NSMC's business. ADMARC retails 90% of NSCM's seed at a
subsidized rate to smallholders; the remaining 10% is sold through the private sector. All prices



13
along the marketing channel are set by Government. The subsidy on improved maize seed rises to
43%, depending on variety. Following the release of varieties more suited to farmers' preferences
(i.e., MH17 and MH18), NSCM's supply has not met demand. To encourage increased production
and lower prices, Government plans to liberalize seed production, pricing and marketing.
2.25   Fertilizer. With the disruption of transport networks through Mozambique, external transport
costs now constitute up to 55% of the landed cost of fertilizers in Malawi. This led Government to
subsidize smallholder fertilizer prices during the 1980s and early 1990s. The rate of subsidy in
1992/3 is zero on low-analysis fertilizers and 15.3-17% on high-analysis ones. (GOM intends to
eliminate all remaining subsidies by 1995/6.) Despite high costs, fertilizer consumption by
smallholders increased by 100% between 1986 and 1991.'1 However, less than 40% of
smallholders use fertilizer. The SFFRFM currently has a monopoly over imports of fertilizers for the
smallholder sector and ADMARC sells it to farmers on a consignment basis. Smallholder demand
has invariably exceeded SFFRFM's import capacityL'Y and MOA predicts that demand will grow by
about 5% per year. To address this supply constraint and to increase the efficiency of the fertilizer
market, Government intends to liberalize the smallholder fertilizer market and encourage private
sector importation and distribution. The operational details for this liberalization process are
contained within a GOM/MOA position paper and outlined in paras 3.31 - 3.35 below.
2.26   Agricultural Produce Pricing and Marketing. During the 1980s, Government progressively
liberalized its pricing and marketing policies for smallholder crops, with the support of IDA.
Currently, Government sets floor prices for smallholder maize, groundnuts, rice, cotton, tobacco,
soybeans, guar beans and cashew nuts, but all other crops have been descheduled. Government also
sets a ceiling price for maize.A' Since 1987, private traders have been allowed to buy and sell all
smallholder crops, except cotton and tobacco. The marketing restrictions on these two crops were
lifted in 1991. Thus, actual producer prices can, and in fact do, vary according to supply and
demand, although they are not supposed to exceed the limits set by ADMARC prices. Government is
also refining the role of ADMARC as a buyer and seller of last resort for staple food crops. A
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) has been prepared which outlines the principles for
identifying the social roles undertaken by ADMARC and calculating the costs of these roles. It also
specifies the arrangements for ADMARC's reimbursement by Treasury for fulfilling social roles and
defines specific performance targets to ensure that ADMARC is efficient in carrying out its social
functions.
2.27   The supply response from smallholders will increasingly hinge on non-price factors,
particularly the availability of more suitable technologies. To date, the supply response to price
changes has been limited to the estate sector, 25% of the better-off smallholders, and substitution
between crops. However, lifting remaining constraints on the private trading sector will also
encourage increased production, diversification and a more efficient resource allocation. These
include administrative controls over exportation; the limited supply and high price of transport
12/ With a shift toward high-analysis fertilizers, smallholder consumption of nitrogen has increased by 140% over
the same period, and of phosphate by 220%.
13/ Smallholder demand in 1991/92 was estimated at 151,000 metric tons, while the Fund's import capacity was
95,000 tons. The shortfall was partly met through commodity aid agreements, which provided 29,000 tons.
14/ In setting these prices, it uses a methodology, developed with IDA assistance, aimed at aligning producer prices
with border-price equivalents, except for maize. Due to its low value-to-volume ratio, maize is treated as a non-
tradable commodity, with pricing policy aimed at equating domestic supply and demand.



14
services, limited access to finance, and lack of market information. Under the IDA-supported
Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project, Government is taking steps to address the
last two of these constraints.
F. Small-Scale Irrigation
2.28   The 1992 drought highlighted the importance of developing strategies and low-cost
technologies for tapping Malawi's irrigation potential. About 200,000 ha (or 15%) of cultivable land
can be irrigated, of which about 50% is suitable for small-scale irrigation. Currently, only 10,000 ha
is under irrigation. Low cost small-scale irrigation schemes offer the most appropriate approach to
realizing Malawi's irrigation potential. Experience in Malawi and other countries suggests that the
traditional 'top-down' approach to irrigation development has not worked. A focus on small-scale
irrigation (SSI), with an emphasis on involving the beneficiaries at an early stage, could expand the
crop, technology and income generating options available to smallholders.
2.29   The main constraints to the development of cost-effective and sustainable SSI can be attributed
to five factors: (a) weak planning Oack of data, appropriate and proven technologies, coordination
among donors, NGOs, government, private parties); (b) environmental factors (water-borne diseases,
degradation of catchment areas); (c) inadequate management (inadequately skilled experts, lack of
documented irrigation experience, inadequate knowledge of irrigation practices by farmers);
(d) implementation issues Oand tenure, low animal power utilization, absence of credit for SSI
activities); and (e) marketing characteristics Oimited purchasing power in the domestic market, and
limited export experience). There are also shortcomings in the Department of Irrigation (DOI), partly
because Government and donors have not devoted much attention to developing irrigation programs
or building capacity in this area.
2.30   Currently, there are several isolated irrigation projects supported by a number of donors.
Some of these initiatives confirm the potential for further irrigation development and farmer interest
in, and ability to adopt, irrigation technology. This limited experience also highlights the need for
Government to develop a more coherent strategy to irrigation development, with an emphasis on
small-scale, self-help, low cost schemes; field testing promising technologies; farmer management and
operation of the schemes; strengthening the capacity of the DOI to help develop and implement a
coherent strategy framework; and appropriate technologies and organizational forms for supporting
farmers. This will also require strengthening the linkages with the research and extension systems.
(Paras 3.44 - 3.45 provide details on the ways in which the ASP will address these shortcomings.)
IH. THE PROJECT
A. Project Design Considerations
3.1    Macroeconomic and Sectoral Policies and Constraints. Macroeconomic reforms, started in
the 1980s, are expected to lead to an improved operating environment for agriculture in the 1990s,
provided follow-up measures are implemented. The ASP was designed in parallel with the
preparation of an Agricultural Sector Memorandum and with the close collaboration of GOM (para
1.2). As a result, GOM's strategy with respect to the agricultural sector and further sectoral reforms
have been integrated into the Project design, with the aim of enhancing project performance. The
1992 drought had an adverse effect on the economy, although Government, assisted by donors, is



15
taking appropriate steps to re-establish positive growth and good maize and tobacco crops are
expected in 1993.
3.2    Budgetary Constraints. The agricultural sector is constrained by a shortage of revenue to
implement development projects. MOA needs to prioritize its investment program and reduce exist-
ing commitments to a more realistic level. This is taking place in parallel with a review of overall
ceilings for budget expenditures. The following are under discussion with Government: (a) ways of
accommodating the injection of funds from ASP into the budget over the next three years; (b)
terminating, by end-FY1992/93, all projects two years past their original completion date; (c) the
relevance of smaller lprojects providing technical assistance to the overall program; and (d) reducing
counterpart funding commitments to on-going projects. Given the pressures arising from the drought,
ASP's implementation and costs have been phased to reduce the budgetary burden in the initial years.
3.3    The development of an improved program budgeting system for recurrent cost funding in
MOA (HQ and ADDs) is being closely coordinated with the on-going review of staff levels and job
descriptions. Operating costs at the field level are a priority area and a detailed plan is being
prepared to indicate how recurrent cost allocations under ASP will be sustained. Project support for
incremental non-salary operating costs will be provided on a declining basis to facilitate sustainability
of project activities.
3.4    Household Typology Framework. ASP is designed to take into consideration the needs of
different smallholders and agro-ecological areas. It should improve the focus of research and
extension services to adapting technologies to the various agro-climatic and socioeconomic conditions
in the country, and therefore their impact on smallholder productivity.
3.5    Lessons Learned from Agricultural Service Projec. Relevant projects in Malawi include: the
Smallholder Fertilizer Project (Cr. 1352); several projects under the National Rural Development
Program in the 1970s and 1980s; the National Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 1549); the
Agricultural Extension and Planning Support Project (Cr. 1626); and the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2121). The lessons from these, and similar projects in sub-Saharan Africa,
include: (a) project scope must be kept simple and adjusted to realistic budgetary constraints; (b)
institutional reforms require a long-term commitment and should be phased, and based on detailed
action plans and a broad-based consensus; (c) multi-component projects require an effective
coordinating mechanism to ensure timely implementation of day-to-day activities; (d) overseas degree
training should not be emphasized, especially when incentives are weak in the public sector, as in
Malawi; (e) strong Government/MOA procurement arrangements and capacity are essential; and (f)
credit and extension services should be separated at the field level so that extension reaches beyond
credit recipients.
3.6    The design of the ASP has taken into account IDA's strategy in Malawi (para 1.27) and the
above lessons by focusing on the most critical services, developing consensus during preparation,
supporting a phased program of institutional reform (including the delinking of credit and extension),
expanding the reliance on private/non-public sector agencies, supporting in-service and domestic
training, and complementing other relevant donor-supported projects. In addition, the design of the
Project has included the development of a comprehensive list of performance indicators in relation to
project objectives and the introduction of quantified performance targets for some of the important



16
outputs (see Annex 5), as well as a detailed implementation manual for each of the components and
sub-components1W.
B. Project Rationale, Objectives and Summary Features
3.7    Project Rationale and Strategy. In the 1970s and 1980s, Government, with multi-donor
assistance, made substantial investments in agricultural development through thirty area-based rural
development projects. Most of the investments concentrated on providing physical infrastructure and
on establishing research, extension and credit systems, accompanied by increases in staff. While
these investments provided a needed base for tapping Malawi's agricultural potential and generated
benefits to the better-off smallholders (about 25% of total), they did not lead to wide-spread
agricultural growth in the smallholder sector. The majority of smallholders, especially the resource
poor, have been by-passed by these investments and resultant services. The main constraints to
smallholder growth include a deficient interpretation of the technological needs of smallholders
operating under different agro-ecological and socioeconomic conditions and inadequate supplies of,
and access to, key inputs and finance.
3.8    Government strategy now recognizes that growth and income increases are possible for a large
number of smallholders in Malawi, if supported by integrated and more appropriate agricultural
services, and if smallholder access to inputs (including credit) and cash crops is improved. In recent
years, Malawi has made good progress in establishing a smallholder credit system with high recovery
rates; developing promising maize varieties with the potential to substantially enhance food security,
and testing successfully a Training and Visit 5T&V) extension system adapted to Malawi conditions.
It is also beginning to use farmer community groups and NGOs as a means of expanding the coverage
of extension services and promoting low-cost technologies. These initiatives have been aided by
separate IDA-supported projects which are now coming to a close, but which have not addressed
some of the underlying institutional and policy constraints.
3.9    Building on past investments and the above promising initiatives, the Project strategy to reach
at least 60% of all smallholders is to focus on all farmers' groups, rather than only credit groups;
better motivate, train, and support field staff; promote improved maize hybrids, as well as more
appropriate, low cost technologies, and to integrate all agricultural messages (e.g., crop, agro-forestry
and livestock - see paras 3.21 - 3.30). This strategy in turn has the potential to benefit all
smallholders as the successful initiatives are replicated. At negotiations, Government presented a
draft letter of sectoral policies which was discussed and agreed (see Annex 15). The letter provides
Government's latest policy and strategy framework for the agricultural sector and the Project. It
emphasizes improved strategies for agricultural services and the medium term public sector
investment program. Government finalized this letter of agricultural policies, satisfactory to IDA,
before Board presentation.
3.10   Project Objectives. ASP's key objectives are to: (a) support institutional and management
reforms in research, extension and input supply, with the aim of providing cost-effective and
sustainable technologies for different types of smallholders and agro-ecological zones; and Q) enhance
smallholder incomes and food security by increasing the productivity of smallholder agriculture,
especially that of female and resource-poor farmers. The ASP is the first phase of a longer-term
IS/ The implementation manuals were writen jointly by members of the IDA project appruisal team and the
implementing agencies in the Ministry of Agriculture of Malawi.



17
exercise to reform and integrate research, extension and input supply services. Accordingly, a
secondary objective is to provide a policy and operational framework for channeling and coordinating
assistance to agricultural services from other donors, in order to overcome past patterns of fragmented
assistance and inconsistent strategies.
3.11   Summary Features. The main aims of ASP are to:
*     Improve the focus, cost-effectiveness and impact of agricultural research and extension
activities;
*     Support seed and fertilizer marketing reforms to increase supply and use, and provide
foreign exchange for importing incremental fertilizer; and
*     Strengthen planning and financial management, transport management, procurement,
agricultural policy analysis, small-scale irrigation development, and
monitoring and evaluation in MOA and constituent ADDs.
3.12   The ASP complements a proposed parallel IDA-supported Rural Financial Services Project
which will expand access to credit in rural areas and involve separating extension from credit. The
ASP also provides a program framework for mobilizing and coordinating multi-donor assistance in
key agricultural services. For example, the African Development Bank (ADB) is co-financing the
Project, and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) is finalizing the preparation
of a parallel project targeted to food insecure households. The IFAD project is a pilot activity which
will involve providing inputs for cash and food crops (e.g., burley tobacco and hybrid maize) to food
insecure households. By combining inputs for cash and food crops, these households will become
credit-worthy, which will enable them to purchase improved agricultural inputs on credit, thus
ensuring that food security is improved in a manner which is self-sustaining. This initiative, an on-
going Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program, supported by USAID, and the ASP are
complementary in erhancing smallholders' ability to adopt higher yielding technologies on a
sustainable basis.
C. Detailed Features
Agricultural Resear ch (Base Costs of US$15.6 million, or 28% of total)
3.13   The fundamental objective of this component is to develop a cost-effective and sustainable
research system that will generate technologies responsive to farmers' needs, especially those of the
resource-poor, many of whom are women. It will build on the infrastructure developed and staff
trained under previous projects and the principles supported by SPAAR (para 2.15). In particular,
the ASP will support:
(a)   the formulation and implementation of research action plans;
(b)    strengthening of research-extension-farmer linkages;
(c)    diversifying participation in publicly funded research and the commercialization of
some research activities;



18
(d)    improving the definition of research priorities and the allocation of funding by
strengthening the DAR and activating the Agricultural Sciences Committee (ASC);
and
(e)    improving DAR's management systems and the motivation and accountability of its
researchers.
3.14   Research Action Plans. As part of the ASP, seven-year action plans for the seven research
groups in DAR have been prepared. The Implementation Manual, Section 2 provides details.-L'
These action plans reflect national priorities and budgetary ceilings and form the basis for detailed
annual research plans and budgets. To ensure that the action plans reflect and integrate smallholder
needs, DAR plans to strengthen the mechanisms for incorporating the views of other MOA
departments/units into their development. The action plans will be revised periodically in response to
changing conditions and priorities as reflected in the national research master plan.
3.15   Government/MOA will submit to ASC and IDA, for review, the revised research action plans
which should: be consistent with the national research master plan and realistic budgetary ceilings;
take into account the existing state of knowledge; estimate anticipated impact at farm level; ensure
that technologies are environmentally sound; cover the entire spectrum of work from the laboratory to
the farmers' fields; be based on transparent cost estimates; define types of cooperation planned with
other research units and with extension, and list verifiable objectives. At negotiations. assurances
wereot1aWi from Government that DAR will annually update the research action plans in
accordance with the above criteria; and submit them to the ASC and IDA not later than September 15
(beginning in 1993), as part of the annual budgetary review (para 7.1(a)). It is understood that
Government's allocation of funds will be influenced by the recommendations of the ASC regarding
the annual research plans. DAR completed the research action plans in accordance with agreed
criteria before Board presentation.
3.16    Research-Extension-Farmer Linkages. The ASP will give special emphasis to strengthening
formal linkages between research, extension and farmers, with DAR and DAET being jointly
responsible for the implementation of improvements. DAR, in liaison with DAET and DAHI, has
prepared an action plan to strengthen these links, based on the following elements: (a) making a
senior researcher responsible for routine contact with a defined group of ADDs (for example, by
attending regular monthly training workshops with SMS's to assist in identifying solutions to farmers'
problems and disseminating the feed-back to other researchers); (b) conducting on-farm trials at three
levels of complexity, namely researcher-, extension worker- and farmer-managed, with the
appropriate person taking primary responsibility for each type; (c) increasing the number and
effectiveness of field days at which experimentation at research stations is exposed to examination and
comment by extension personnel and farmers; (d) establishing joint committees (with extension and
farmers, where possible) to review experimental results and plan the next year's program; and
(e) promptly disseminating research results in publications suited to the relevant audiences. The ASP
will provide adequate funds (mostly for incremental, non-salary operating costs) to ensure
implementation of the plan to strengthen research-extension-farmer links. At negotiations. assurances
were obtained from Government that MOA will implement and closely monitor the research-
extension-farmer linkage action plan, satisfactory to IDA, beginning in 1993/94, and that it will
16/ Some important areas of research include: location-specific fertilizer recommendations; locally adapted, pest -
and disease-tolerant/resistnt varieties of the major food crops; tree crops with export potential; soil fertility and
conservation, including agro-forestry, and labor-saving technologies, particularly for female-headed households.



19
annually update the action plan, and provide it to IDA for review not later than September 15
(beginning in 1993) (para 7.1(b)).
3.17   Diversification of Research Bodies. In order to increase the efficiency of resource use in
research, the ASP will support the expanded use of contract research with other suitably qualified
research bodies, such as Chancellor College, Bunda College and the Tea Research Foundation.
Currently, about 2% of DAR's total research budget is used to finance contract research. Under the
ASP, DAR will strengthen its capacity to supervise and direct contract research. Project funds will
be used to finance the contract research directly and to strengthen DAR's capacity to supervise it. Al
negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that MOA/DAR will ensure that progress
reports on contracted research are prepared and submitted to DAR (by May 1, as outlined in the Plan
of Action) and that Government (ASC/DAR) will attempt to expand the amount of contract research
annually, subject to implementation experience, requirements and outside capacity, by promoting an
'enabling environment' and advertising all contract research opportunities by July 1, every year,
beginning in 1993 (para 7.1(c)).
3.18   Research Priorities, Funding and the ASC. The ASC will be an advisory body to GOM on
all matters pertaining to agricultural research. Its main functions will include: converting the present
research master plan into a comprehensive national research master plan; periodically revising the
national master research plan; monitoring research programs funded by the public sector (including
donors); promoting the use of improved accounting systems; advising Government on the allocation
of public funds to program and research units (including private bodies); and fostering stronger links
with regional and international research bodies. The ASC will be comprised of senior representatives
of public and private sector entities involved in agricultural research. It will meet three times a year
to review progress and provide guidance in the above areas. The ASP will support the establishment
and strengthening of a small secretariat to assist the ASC in fulfilling its functions.
Government/Department of Research and Environmental Affairs (DREA) has prepared and submitted
to IDA, for its review, a proposal of the main functions, method of operation and composition of
ASC, and an action plan (including the establishment of a small secretariat and work program). Al
negotiations. assurances were obtained from Government that: (a) the proposal on the main functions,
method of operation, composition and action plan of the Agricultural Sciences Committee was
satisfactory to IDA; (b) DREA will implement the action plan for ASC's operations beginning mid-
1993; and (c) DREA/ASC will update a work plan for ASC on an annual basis and submit it to IDA
for review by September 15 (beginning in 1993) (para 7.1(d)). A condition of credit effectiveness is
the appointment, by DREA, of the head of the technical secretariat of the ASC, with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to GOM and IDA, and formal approval of the method of operation and
work plan for 1993/94 (para 7.2(a)).
3.19   DAR ManageInent and Staff Motivation. The ASP will support improvements in administra-
tive, financial, personnel, and scientific management within DAR. Improved cost accounting systems
will be required to facilitate monitoring by the ASC and to increase the efficiency of resource
utilization. Additionally, Government has endorsed MOA's proposal to establish a Professional
Interviewing Board (PIB) to strengthen the independent assessment of researcher performance as a
basis for promotion. 'This and other improvements will be monitored closely during implementation.
If tangible improvements are not evident by Project Year 3, other institutional options will be
examined (e.g., transition to a semi-autonomous agricultural research institute). The Project will
provide funds for studies necessary to review the situation; to prepare detailed action plans and to
undertake any training that may be needed. Terms of reference (TOR) have been prepared outlining
the action plans which need to be developed for further improving DAR's structure and research
system. MOA is preparing action plans for improving DAR's management systems, staff morale and



20
accountability and the TOR and timetable for the above mentioned study of the research system
(Annex 3, Item 1 outlines the main elements and timetable of the final action plan). At negotiations.
assurances were obtained from Government that DAR will implement, beginning in 1993/94, the
action plans, satisfactory to IDA, involving improved research management systems; career structures
and staff motivation, and that it will update proposals to improve the management systems annually,
based on implementation experience, and submit the updated proposals to IDA for review (by
September 15, beginning in 1993)(para 7.1(e)). Before Board Presentation, Government approved
improved researcher career structure and incentives which included the following key elements:
enhanced career structure for professional and technical staff; improved mechanisms for promotion
and tenure; commitment to provide adequate funding of non-salary operating costs of priority
research, and steps to develop and implement clear guidelines and mechanisms for further enhancing
researcher incentives and linking them to performance, involving: sabbatical leave and secondment;
workshops, symposia and seminars; consultancies, and training.
3.20   Use of ASP Funds. ASP funds will help cover all categories of expenditure (other than
salaries) related to the approved research programs, institutional support and management
improvements (e.g., costs of construction, vehicles, equipment, training and technical assistance,
contract research experts and incremental non-salary recurrent expenditures). IDA support for
incremental recurrent expenditures will be on a declining basis and the national research organizations
are expected to balance these reductions through attracting other means of support and/or through
privatizing components of research.
Agricultural Extension (Base Costs of US$20.1 million, or 36% of total)
3.21   Continued support of MOA's national extension system will be provided under the ASP. It
will build on the experiences of the IDA-supported pilot T&V initiative, and of other organizations
(including NGOs), in an attempt to make the public extension system more efficient and effective.
The main thrust will be to expand coverage of smallholders by-passed by the current system.
3.22   The extension component will cover five technical areas: crops/agro-forestry; livestock; land
resources and conservation; irrigation; and food and nutrition. It will support three main objecti
which cross-cut these areas:
*     increasing the efficiency of service delivery through restructuring and streamlining all
operations and staffing levels, functions and capacities;
*     expanding the coverage of smallholders, particularly resource-poor and female
farmers, through separating credit administration from extension work; promoting
more relevant and affordable technologies/practices; strengthening research-extension-
farmer linkages; integrating technical messages; collaborating with NGOs involved in
extension; upgrading all farm home assistants (FHAs) to FAs, and training all FAs in
gender-related issues, particularly nutrition and the labor constraints faced by many
female-headed households; and
*     increasing the effectiveness of service delivery through improving field staff training;
using more interactive teaching methods, and encouraging better quality and
consistency of field supervision by providing adequate operational funding, more
closely monitoring supervision and rewarding better performance in this area.



21
3.23   Management and O)perations. The national extension system, based on T&V principles
tailored to Malawian conditions, provides an adequate framework for the management and operation
of extension under ASiP. Thus, field services for all technical areas will remain within the ADD
structure. However, GCovernment has decided that FAs will no longer administer credit, which
currently consumes about 40% of their time. In late 1992, MOA initiated a pilot scheme for
delinking or separating the credit activities of SACA from those of extension. So far, results have
been positive and this separation is to be expanded nation-wide by October, 1993. Not only will this
lead to FAs spending more time on extension activities, but it will also encourage the expansion of
coverage beyond crediit recipients. The expansion of the separation of credit from extension will be
closely monitored to ensure that high rates of credit recovery are maintained. At negotiations.
assurances were obtained from Government that it will implement, in 1993/94, an action plan,
satisfactory to IDA, to delink credit and extension throughout the country, consistent with the ASP
Plan of Action, taking into account the implementation experience of the on-going pilot scheme (para
7.1(u)).
3.24    A review of the extension service's staffing levels, job descriptions, and non-salary recurrent
expenditures has been carried out, and MOA is finalizing an action plan to rationalize these areas
(refer to Implementation Manual, Section 1). This review will provide the basis for increasing the
efficiency and cost-effectiveness of service delivery. Assurances were obtained at negotiations from
Government that it will begin implementing, by mid-1993, an action plan, satisfactory to IDA, to
streamline MOA's organizational structure and staffing, and that it will update this action plan on an
annual basis, in conjunction with work plans and budgetary allocations, by September 15, beginning
in 1993 (para 7.1(f)).
3.25    Extension Coverage and Content of Messages.  In order to expand coverage of resource-
poor smallholders, the content of messages and the channels for their dissemination will be altered.
The content of extension messages under ASP will include: (a) more integrated information on farm
management, land resources and conservation, agro-forestry, livestock (animal husbandry and health),
and nutrition; and (b) more targeted information relative to local conditions and types of
smallholders.-' The use of mini-plots on farmers' fields, as a mechanism of dissemination, will be
expanded. These efforts have had positive results in pilot activities. Block garden demonstrations
will be continued, but progressively reduced. In addition to delivering messages, field staff will
introduce topics on their own initiative and in response to farmers' requests, as part of the action plan
to strengthen research-extension-farmer linkages. The ASP will also support a shift in focus from
credit groups to a wider range of smallholders, through church, mosque and other community
groupsX!, and greater coordination with local NGOs which have been successfully transferring low-
17/ For example, five low-cost technologies are promising and messages about them will be disseminated in initial
years: prevention of soil and water loss by re-aligning ridges under an 'A' frame on sloped land; planting vetiver
grass hedges to stabilize contour bunds on steeper slopes; promoting use of organic fertilizers; cultivating on-farmn
tree nurseries (i.e., Faidherbia albida for building soil fertility and Gliricidia for soil fertility and firewood); and
planting Magoye soybean, a self-nodulating variety, to enhance diets and soil fertility. ASP would support the
establishment of vetiver grass nurseries. Efforts would also be made to disseminate labor-saving technologies
responsive to women's time constmints (especially in food processing, fuel collection/use and transport).
18/ Church congregations alone cover approximately 60% of the population. In addition, NGO experience indicates
that people who are nolt members of a specific church group will often attend church-basd agricultural meetings.



22
cost technologies to resource-poor farmers.'  (Annex 3 provides a summary action plan of the
extension subcomponent and the Implementation Manual, Section 2, provides further details.)
3.26     Training.  Removing the credit function from FAs work, and changing the focus of
extension to low-cost messages and targeting a wider segment of the population, will require
reorientation training for extension staff. The ASP will support this in-country training, for which
initial proposals have been prepared (see Implementation Manual, Section 5; for a summary action
plan, see Annex 3).2' Two training activities are aimed at reaching female farmers: (a) courses to
complete the upgrading of farm home assistants (FHAs) to the level of FAs or VAs; and
(b) reorientation training to bring women's issues into the mainstream.2t' The newly formed Food
and Nutrition Unit (FNU) in MOA will be responsible for training extension staff in matters related to
nutrition. The FNU has prepared a draft Implementation Manual, including an action plan (see
Implementation Manual, Section 6, and Annex 3 for a summary action plan). The ASP will also
provide livestock and environmental training to farmers. At negotiations. assurances were obtained
from Government that the extension training action plan, as outlined in the Plan of Action, Annex 3,
and satisfactory to IDA, will be implemented beginning in 1993/94 (para 7.1(f)).
3.27   To increase staff motivation, and thus the effectiveness of extension, the Project will seek to
improve field supervision and program budgeting and planning. To this end, adequate provision will
be made for staff transportation and for appropriate incentives to reward good field supervision.2W
Also, the preparation and implementation of annual program budgets and work plans will be adopted.
At negotiations. assurances were obtained that MOA will develop an action plan to improve the
supervision of field staff and extension staff motivation, satisfactory to IDA, and that this will be
implemented, beginning June 30, 1993 (para 7.1(g)). The effectiveness of these improvements will
be closely monitored by the Central Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (CMEU).
3.28    Improved Access to Transport. The ASP will support increased access to vehicles and
bicycles, to ensure that extension staff have sufficient mobility to fulfil their responsibilities.
Emphasis will be given to ensuring that female extension staff gain equal access to transport facilities.
Existing vehicles will be replaced (following proof that the vehicle being replaced is beyond repair
and/or written off and a review of actual requirements) and a user-purchase program for motorcycles
will be introduced on a pilot basis.2'  MOA has agreed with Treasury on the terms and conditions
of the motorcycle ownership scheme. At negotiations. assurances were obtained from Government
19/ An MOA/NGO workshop, aimed at identifying specific mechanisms for closer collaboration, is planned for miid-
1993.
20/ In addition, there would be: (a) cornpletion of the Field Agricultural Training of Trainers (FATOT) coure for
Fas and Vas, which began under previous projects and (b) trining in animal husbandry for aU Vas. Higher-level
training would be kept to a minimum, but would include: (a) new staff at supervisory level in trauining of trainers; (b)
line managers and SMSs to improve managerial sdkl and efficiency; and (c) SMSs to upgrade technical knowledge
and training skills relevant to the target group. ASP also makes a provision for strengthening the institution which
trains most field staff.
21/ To avoid the re-margination of women in this process, clos monitoring of the gender characteristics of field
staff and recipients of their services would be undertaken as part of the monitoring and evaluation of ASP.
22/ Incentives may include adequate recurrent funds to carry out field services; promotions; opportunities for
overseas tauning and/or non-monetary recognition (awards, pres coverage).
23/ Motorcycle users would buy their motorcycles through installments and receive a fuel allowance and sone funds
for maintenance.



23
that the final terms and conditions of the motorcycle ownership scheme were satisfactory to IDA, as
well as the action plan to begin implementing the scheme in 1993/94 (para 7. 1(h)).
3.29   The Project will also provide limited funds for the construction of houses for field staff (in
areas where there has previously been an underinvestment in housing, like Mwanza) and for the
building of office/training facilities at the EPA level.34 Low-cost designs used in other projects will
be used in order to minimize the budgetary burden. Prior to project start-up, MOA, in cooperation
with Ministry of Works, will prepare a detailed construction plan, taking into account likely staff
transfers.
3.30   The Extension Aids Branch (EAB) and the Visual Aids Section (VAS) of the ADDs reinforce
and support field extension and extension training. Under the ASP, mass media activities will be
strengthened and focused on reaching resource-poor farmers. Project support will include upgrading
and modernizing equipment in all EAB sections, providing additional equipment for the VAS and
expanding the use of radio to reach a larger number of resource-poor farmers (e.g., listening groups,
solar radios).
Input Supplv (Base Costs of US$9 million, or 16% of total)
3.31   This component will support the increased availability of improved seeds (especially hybrid
flint maize) and fertilizer to smallholders and the expanded use of these inputs by smallholders. An
important constraint orn the adoption of improved maize seed is limited supplies, partly due to
inappropriate seed pricing and distribution policies. MOA has prepared a policy proposal for
encouraging an expanded supply of seeds through liberalizing the production and marketing systems.
This will lead to increased competition; more choice for buyers and a lowering of prices. At
negotiations. assurances were obtained from Government that it would finalize, formally approve,
implement and monitor these seeds policy reforms and review with IDA, on an annual basis, progress
in their implementatiorL (not later than September 1, beginning in 1993) (para 7.1(i)). Before Board
presentation, Government formally approved and announced seed policy reforms, satisfactory to IDA
and consistent with the principles of increasing private sector participation and competition in the seed
markets; removing all subsidies on improved seed (by 1994/5), and expanding supplies and consumer
choice. The Pricing and Marketing Unit in MOA's Planning Division will be responsible for
coordinating the impleimentation of these reforms. It is anticipated that Government's seed policies
will be reviewed and updated periodically, as needed.
3.32   The fertilizer subcomponent will: (a) support the formulation and implementation of reforms
to further liberalize importation, pricing and distribution (in line with a program currently being
considered by the EC),; (b) improve donor coordination; and (c) provide foreign exchange to help
finance incremental fertilizer imports on a commercial basis.
3.33   The main fertilLizer policy reforms will involve:
Further deregulating imports, in a phased and managed manner, with the aim of
progressively limiting Government's role to establishing guidelines on types to be
imported; operating a simple registration system for importers (to provide information
241 It is proposed to construct a total of 80 EH10 class houses, mainly for FAs and FHAs. In addition, 4 EPA
centers; 4 class rooms; 12 store rooms and 60 office units would be constrcted.



24
on supplies, whilst ensuring easy entry and avoiding the importation of unsuitable
fertilizers); and transforming the SFFRFM into a commercial organization.
*     Reducing the cost of imports through continuing the emphasis on high-analysis
fertilizers and procuring through international competitive bidding, with documents
specifying the delivery of bagged fertilizer to a specific destination.
*     A fertilizer pricing policy based on a single maximum target retail price for each type
of fertilizer.
*     Liberalizing domestic distribution to encourage private sector entry into wholesale and
retail trade and thus increasing competition in this market, including permitting all
private traders to purchase fertilizers from the SFFRFM and ADMARC.
*     ADMARC becoming a seller of last resort and defender of the target maximum retail
prices on the open market. ADMARC's costs in fulfilling this function will be
reimbursed by Treasury, subject to the fulfillment of performance criteria, as outlined
in the Memorandum of Understanding between Government and ADMARC.
3.34    Government has prepared a fertilizer policy reform paper which is consistent with the above
principles. It is anticipated that, eventually, competition among importers and retailers will make it
unnecessary to have target maximum retail prices and will lead to a reduction in the role of the
SFFRFM and ADMARC, but they will be retained in the initial phase of liberalization. Likewise, the
reforms will initially focus on domestic market liberalization. At negotiations. assurances were
obtained from Government that it will implement and monitor the approved fertilizer policy reforms
beginning in 1993/4, and review progress in implementation, with IDA on an annual basis (not later
than September 1, beginning in 1993) (para 7.1(i)). Before Board presentation, Government formally
approved and announced fertilizer policy reforms (which included a supporting action plan),
satisfactory to IDA, and consistent with the principles of further liberalizing the importation, pricing
and distribution of fertilizers. Government will amend the relevant legislation accordingly. The
Pricing and Marketing Section of the Planning Division in MOA will be responsible for managing and
monitoring the implementation of the reforms. Disbursement of IDA funds for fertilizer will be
contingent on Government implementation of agreed policy measures and supporting action plan
satisfactory to IDA (para 7.3(a)).
3.35   Under the ASP, IDA will finance an estimated 12,500 metric tons of high-analysis fertilizer
(about 1.5% of total requirements during ASP's implementation) to supplement anticipated assistance
from other donors. The ADB is expected to finance an additional 18,750 metric tons of high-analysis
fertilizer. These foreign exchange funds will be made available to private importers through the
Reserve Bank of Malawi for the procurement of fertilizer for the smallholder sector based on
simplified ICB procedures. The Project will also provide a framework for helping to mobilize
additional donor funding for fertilizer imports. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
IDA funds for fertilizers will be made available to private sector smallholder fertilizer suppliers
through the Reserve Bank of Malawi (para 7. 1(j)).
Institutional Strengthening (Base Costs of US$9.9 million, or 18% of total)
3.36   Overvie. The objective of this component will be to strengthen the capacity of MOA to
deliver agricultural services in an efficient, effective and sustainable manner, in order to ensure the
realization of benefits to smallholders from the extension, research and input supply systems. It will



25
support the following siabcomponents: (a) planning and financial management in MOA/ADDs; (b)
transport management; (c) procurement; (d) agricultural policy analysis training; (e) small scale
irrigation; and (f) sectoral and project monitoring and evaluation. Project funds will provide technical
assistance, training, vehicles, equipment and incremental, non-salary recurrent funds.
3.37   Planning and Financial Manazement. Funds will be provided to strengthen MOA's planning
and financial management through improved systems of project planning and accounting. Technical
assistance and practical in-service training will be provided at MOA HQ and the ADDs on: (a) portfo-
lio management related to the Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP); (b) work plans linked to
budget preparation within ADDs; (c) project planning and budgeting; and (d) an improved accounting
system. A comprehensive report has been prepared which assesses budgetary and financial
management in MOA (especially in DAR and DAET) and outlines detailed action plans for the
implementation of the above. Annex 3, Item 5 provides a summary of the action plan for this sub-
component and the Implementation Manual, Section 7 provides further details. At negotiations.
assurances were obtained from Government that MOA will implement the action plan contained in
the ASP Plan of Action, satisfactory to IDA, to improve its financial management and accounting,
beginning by July, 1993 (para 7. 1(f)).
3.38   Transport Management System. The absence of an organized approach to transportation
management within MOA/ADDs reduces staff mobility and thus the efficiency and effectiveness of
service delivery.21' Funding will be provided for the introduction of a MOA/ADD Transport
Management System (I`MS) over a three-year period, including: (a) training in transport operations
and workshop management; (b) using private sector maintenance services on a pilot basis; (c) the
provision of workshop equipment and computer hardware and software; and (d) technical assistance in
transportation management. An action plan, based on a recent review of ADD transport management,
has been prepared and discussed with IDA. Annex 3, Item 9 provides a summary of this action plan.
Further details are provided in the ASP Implementation Manual, Section 8. At negotiations.
assurances were obtained from Government that it will implement the action plan contained in the
ASP Plan of Action, satisfactory to IDA, beginning in 1993/94 (para 7.1(f)).
3.39   Procurement. Procurement delay in Malawi is the most intractable constraint on timely
project execution. The reasons for delay include: procurement procedures based on colonial
documents; over-centralized decision-making and weak accountability; lack of trained personnel to
prepare and evaluate bidding documents; inadequate coordination within Government, and local
guidelines that conflict with IDA guidelines in several areas (e.g., foreign currency payments,
evaluation criteria, public bid openings). A multiplicity of donors and limited organizational capacity
aggravate these problems.
3.40 The ASP will support Government's initiative to rationalize public sector procurement and
supply management across all ministries. To achieve this goal, a study will be implemented in four
phases over 18 months to ensure that the findings are internalized by the relevant agencies. Annex 4
contains the TOR agreed with Government for the study, which will develop a comprehensive action
plan aimed at building procurement capacity. Government is finalizing the solicitation package in
order that early selection of the consultants can take place.
25/ Although about 45% of MOA's total budget revenue is allocated to ADDs for fuel and lubricants, there is no
defined authority or adequate senior-level training for transportation management.



26
3.41   Given that an improved procurement system will not be in place before the start-up of the
ASP, the Project will also support specific strengthening of MOA procurement. MOA will appoint a
procurement agent to handle the procurement of civil works and goods, including the preparation of
technical specifications and tender documents, tender evaluations, contracting and the supervision of
delivery. This agent will also formulate and implement a program (mostly in-service and on-the-job
training) to strengthen the capacity of MOA to handle procurement matters. At negotiations.
assurances were obtained from Government that MOA will implement the procurement action plan
contained in the ASP Plan of Action, satisfactory to IDA (para 7.1(f)).
3.42 Agricultural Policy Analysis Training. Strengthened capacity in the analysis, formulation and
planning of agricultural policies in Malawi is essential. Since a training program based exclusively on
overseas courses leads to unacceptably high attrition rates, capacity will be enhanced through local
non-degree and post-graduate training. It will be organized in a manner that links MOA with the
Rural Development Department of Bunda College of Agriculture and thus strengthens both
institutions.
3.43   The training will be based on 3-4 week modules, covering the following areas: (a)
commodity, market and price analysis; (b) food security and nutrition policy; (c) the policy analysis
matrix; (d) environmental and natural resources policy; (e) project preparation and management; and
(f) monitoring and evaluation. Initial participants will be directly involved in agricultural sector
analysis and primarily from MOA (HQ and ADDs), Treasury, and the Economic Planning and
Development Department. After about 3 years, subject to project review findings, the program will
be opened up to the private sector and to participants from other countries in the region. Bunda
College will implement the program on behalf of Government, with the assistance of international
expertise satisfactory to IDA.R' The ASP will provide funds for constructing accommodation
facilities, a mini-bus, micro-computers and consultants. Bunda College, in association with MOA,
has prepared an Implementation Report (and supporting action plan) and a draft Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU). For details, see Implementation Manual, Section 9. The action plan is
summarized in Annex 3, Item 10. At negotiations. assurances were obtained that: (a) the detailed
design of the policy analysis training program, as outlined in the Implementation Manual, will be
fmalized and submitted to IDA for review, and implemented beginning in 1993 in accordance with the
ASP Plan of Action (para 7.1(f)); and (b) the draft MOU between MOA and Bunda College (and any
subcontracting of consultants) will be in accordance with TOR and terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA (para 7.10) and 7.1(r)).
3.44   Small-Scale Irrigation. SSI provides a potential means of increasing smallholder agricultural
incomes and employment opportunities, provided there is appropriate technology and organization,
especially among the participating smallholders. The constraints to developing sustainable and viable
irrigation warrants a phased approach in building the planning, organizational and technological
capacity of the DOI and beneficiaries.
3.45   The ASP will follow this phased approach through supporting four components: (a) an
assessment of recent SSI experience and lessons learned, followed by the preparation of a national SSI
program, within the framework of an irrigation development strategy currently being developed by
26/ These were identified as priority areas with MOA at the ASP workshop in November 1992.
271 The International Food and Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) is currently assisting the Rural Development
Department to improve its degree curriculum, and in view of its recent establishment of an outreach program, is
ideally suited for this assistance.



27
Government; (b) provision of training and on-scheme research; (c) design, implementation (including
DOI and farmer training) and operation of SSI pilot schemes based on low cost technologies;-, and
(d) essential improvernents to DOI facilities. Annex 3, Item 11 summarized the SSI subcomponent
action plan. At negotiations. assurances were obtained that the DOI will implement the SSI
subcomponent in accordance with the action plan outlined in the ASP Plan of Action (para 7. l(f)).
Before Board presentation, the DOI completed a comprehensive Implementation Report, satisfactory
to IDA, to guide this implementation of this subcomponent (see Implementation Manual, Section 10).
3.46   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) and Beneficiary Assessment. MOA is currently
rationalizing its reporting and monitoring system for HQ and the ADDs. The detailed design of the
M&E system will be evolutionary and responsive to the requirements of implementing managers,
planners, policy makers and donors. The ASP will assist project management in the identification of
such needs. The Pro ject will also harness the existing system's potential through: (a) streamlining
survey and reporting systems (eliminating duplication and ensuring coordination); (b) increasing
analytical rigor by developing quantitative indicators and targets (see Annex 5) and employing tighter,
more in-depth surveys, using rapid rural appraisal techniques;22' (c) strengthening M&E capacity
and motivation at the ADD level through training and increasing the possibilities of promotion; (d)
providing computers ito enhance timeliness and productivity; (e) increasing management
accountability, and thereby its demand for data; (f) providing for beneficiary and local problem
assessments (including obtaining farmer feedback on their satisfaction with agricultural services), and
(g) disaggregating monitoring indicators by gender and farm size.
3.47   ASP evaluatio2n  (in project years 2,4 and 7) will be done on a contract basis with an
independent local institution. MOA/CMEU has prepared an Implementation Report for the M&E
subcomponent (Implementation Manual, Section 9), including key performance indicators to be
monitored and quantified performance targets; TOR for the ASP evaluation studies, and a detailed
action plan for the first year. A summary action plan is contained in Annex 3, Item 10; Annex 5 lists
the key performance indicators to be used in monitoring and evaluating ASP performance, as well as
initial performance targets and the TOR for project evaluations are contained in Annex 12. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that: the M&E action plan, as contained in the ASP Plan of
Action, is satisfactory to IDA, and will be implemented beginning in the first year, including the
preparation of reports by Government to enable periodic project evaluations by GOM/IDA (para
7. 1(f)) and that Government will prepare, and submit to IDA within six months of project closing, a
Project Completion Report describing the costs, benefits and lessons learned for the next phase (para
7.1(s)).
28/ Including some 30 pilot schemes covering a total of about 50 ha and involving stream diversion schemes; drip
irrigation, basin/furrow irrigation, and "backyard" drip irrigation.
29/ Under ASP the frollowing would be developed for project monitoring: (a) three national, annual core surveys
(crop production estimates, food security, nutrition and incomes, and extension) and (b) ad hoc local studies aimed at
specific ADD problemns. In addition, an improved Annual Work Plan and Budget and Reporting cycle would be
developed as a management information, planning and coordination instrument.



28
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
4.1     Proect Costs. Total project costs are estimated to be MK257.1 million (US$64.8 million),
including physical and price contingencies. Donor-supported projects have a tax-free status in
Malawi, so project costs are not subject to taxes and duties. The foreign exchange component is
about US$28.2 million, or 43.6% of project costs. Base costs are estimated in mid-1992 prices.
Physical contingencies are as follows: civil works 15%; vehicles and office equipment 5%; training
and technical assistance 5%; input supplies 5% and recurrent costs 5%. Price contingencies for both
local and foreign costs have been added, based on projected price increases in international and local
economies.3a Estimated project costs are summarized below (with detailed cost tables in Annex 6).
TABLE 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY'
|Malawi Kwacha miLLion             USS miLLion                     % Total
X Foreign   Base
Component                 Local   Foreig   Total   Local    Foreign   Total    Exchange    Costs
n                        I__ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
A. Research               35.3    21.9        57.2    9.6      6.0       15.6     38.2         28.0
B. Extension              59.7    14.5       74.2   16.2       3.9      20.1      19.5         36.1
C. Input Supply            0.0    33.0       33.0    0.0       9.0       9.0    100.0          16.1
D. Instit. Strengthening   16.8    19.5       36.3    4.6      5.3       9.9      53.8         17.7
E. Project Preparation     0.9      3.5       4.4    0.2       1.0       1.2      80.0          1.2
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS       112.7   92.4      205.1   30.6    25.2       55.8      45.0        100
Physical Contingencies     5.3      1.7        7.0    1.4      0.4        1.8     23.7          3.4
Price Contingencies       27.0    18.0       45.0    4.5       2.7       7.2      37.6         12.8
TOTAL COSTS                145.0   112.1    257.1   36.5    28.3        64.8      43.6        116.2
A. Financing
4.2      The ASP will be financed by Government; IDA and the African Development Bank (ADB).
The IDA credit of US$45.8 million equivalent will cover 69% of foreign costs and 72% of local
costs, which combined, constitute 70% of total project costs. The ADB credit of US$12.7 million
equivalent will cover 31%  of foreign costs and 10.7%  of local costs, or 20%  of total project costs.
The ADB will co-finance selected sub-components on a parallel basis, thereby simplifying the
implementation process. The remaining US$6.3 million equivalent (10% of total project costs) will
be covered by Government. Total costs and phasing have been reduced to a level which can be
absorbed within the likely budgetary ceilings of MOA. Also, Government's financing share of
incremental recurrent expenditures will be increased during implementation to help ensure project
sustainabiity. Table 2 summarizes the financing plan by component. Further details are provided in
Annex 7. At negotiations. assurances were obtained from Government that it will: (a) review with
IDA on an annual basis the proposed budgetary allocations for the Project and the improved method
for calculating non-salary operating expenses (see Annex 8, page 2), not later than September 15
(beginning 1993); (b) make annual budget allocations and timely releases to the participating agen-
cies/departments consistent with the agreed yardsticks for non-salary operating expenditures, project
implementation expenditure schedule and approved work plans; (c) over the course of ASP
30/ Local infation has been projected at 10.5% in the first year of the project and 5% thereafter; foreign inflation
has bcen projected at 3.9% in the first two years of the project and 3.8% thereafter.



29
implementation, progressively increase its share of financing for non-salary operating expenditures at
a rate commensurate with the decrease in IDA's financing of incremental recurrent expenditures as
stipulated in the disbursement provisions; and (d) allocate budgetary resources according to its
medium-term agricultural investment program satisfactory to IDA, and update the investment program
not later than the third year of the ASP (para 7.1(k)).
TABLE 2: PROPOSED FINANCING Plan (US$ million)
Conponent                 IDA    ADB |GOM    Total
A. Research                15.8    0.0    2.3      18.1
B. ]Extension              17.2    3.9    3.1     24.2
C. Input Supply            4.0     6.0    0.0      10.0
D. [nstitutional Support   7.6    2.8    0.9       11.3
E. Project Preparation     1.2    0.0    0.0       1.2
Total                     45.8    12.7   6.3      64.8
B. Procurement
4.3   Table 3 indicates the procurement methods to be followed for the main expenditure
categories. The procurement of items financed by IDA will follow IDA guidelines. The civil works
(US$5.9 million) are relatively small, labor-intensive, geographically dispersed in areas with limited
access and spaced over the life of the project. High mobilization costs, coupled with small value,
may not be attractive to international bidders and will therefore be carried out under contracts issued
through local competitive bidding procedures (LCB) satisfactory to IDA: advertising, public bid
opening, and clearly stated evaluation criteria. Foreign bidders, if interested, will not be precluded
from participation. The first three contracts awarded under LCB will be subject to prior review by
IDA to ensure that the quality of LCB procedures is maintained.
4.4    Office equipment, supplies and vehicles/equipment (US$6.3 million equivalent) will be bulked
into packages aggregating to more than US$100,000 suitable for ICB. Procurement of vehicles and
equipment under all components will be managed through a procurement specialist, selected by
Government on the basis of selection procedures and TOR acceptable to IDA. Fertilizer will be
procured by commercial importers following simplified ICB procedures satisfactory to IDA. Small
off-the-shelf items, costing less than US$25,000 each and aggregating to US$100,000, which are
urgently required by the project, may be purchased by prudent shopping after obtaining at least three
independent quotations. There will be requirements, spread over time, for a variety of components
and spare parts for various types of goods used by beneficiaries throughout the country. These are
proprietary spares and small value items for which ICB is not appropriate and which can be obtained
efficiently by the use of direct contracting or prudent shopping. The total amount for these two
categories of procuremnent is estimated at US$1.0 million. Direct contracting can be used only for
proprietary equipment: (costing US$5,000 each and aggregating to US$25,000) or where compatibility
with existing equipment requires the acquisition of standardized equipment or spare parts, and will be
cleared with IDA before its acquisition.
4.5   Training components will be implemented in accordance with an agreed TOR and training
plan. Consultants for TA and for carrying out studies will be selected according to agreed TOR



30
(Annex 4, 11 and 12) and to IDA guidelines. Goods, works and consultancy services, involving
firms and costing less than US$100,000 per contract will not require prior review by IDA, but will be
subject to post review by IDA supervision missions. If IDA funds these items and services, any taxes
levied will be borne in their entirety by Government.
4.6    The incremental, non-salary operating costs include fuel and lubricants, vehicle maintenance,
subsistence and field/hotel allowances for MOA staff, and these items will be procured according to
Government procedures, satisfactory to IDA.
4.7    Nearly 50% of project expenditures financed by IDA, excluding non-salary operating funds,
will require prior review. IDA supervision missions will review procurement processes to ensure
compliance with the agreed Procurement Guidelines.
TABLE 3: PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million with IDA funding in parentheses)
|Expenditure Category           ICB         LCB        Other-       Total
Civil Works                               5.9(4.0)                5.9(4.0)
Vehicles and Equipment         5.3(2.9)               1.0(0.9)    6.3(3.8)
Technical Assistance                                 5.9(5.4)     5.9(5.4)
Training                                              13.2(11.1)   13.2(11.1)
Fertilizers                    10.0(4.0)                          10.0(4.0)
Incremental Operating Costs                          22.3(16.3)   22.3(16.3)
Refmancing of PPFbl            1.0(1.0)   0.2(0.2)                1.2(1.2)
TOTAL COSTS                    16.3(7.9)  6.1(4.2)    42.4(33.7)   64.8(45.8)
% IDA Financing               48          69         80           71
a/ Includes direct contracting and prudent shopping, see para 4.4 above for explanation
bi Project Preparation Facility
4.8    Prior to ASP start-up, MOA will prepare a detailed procurement schedule, based on the
project's implementation schedule. At negotiations. assurances were obtained that Government will
follow IDA Procurement Guidelines for procuring IDA-financed works, goods and IDA Guidelines
for selection of consultants (para 7.1(1)). Procurement information will be collected and recorded as
follows:
(a)    prompt reporting of contract award information by the borrower;
(b)    comprehensive quarterly reports to IDA by the borrower (assisted by consultants),
indicating:
(i)   revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project;



31
(ii)   revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract
awards, and completion time for individual contracts; and
(iii)  compliance with the aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
C. Disbursements
4.9   The proceeds of the US$45.8 million IDA credit will be disbursed as follows:
Amount of
Credit Allocated   % of Expenditures to be
Cat goy                 US$ Million             Financed
1. Civil Works                           4.0       90%
2. Consultants' Services and Training   16.5        100%
3. Vehicles, Equipment and Supplies      3.8        100% of foreign expenditures
and 80% of local expenditures
4. Fertilizers                           4.0        100%
5. Incremental Operating Costs          16.3        100% through December 31,
1996 and 60% thereafter
6. Project Preparation Facility          1.2        100%
4.10  Disbursements for all expenditures will be made against full documentation, except for
expenditures below US$25,000 equivalent. These items will be based on certificates of statements of
expenditure (SOEs). Full supporting documentation with respect to SOEs will be retained by the
borrower and made available for inspection by IDA (during project supervision) and external auditors.
4.11   The disbursement period of six and one-half years is less than the eight year IDA profile for
agricultural projects in Malawi and similar southern African countries. The ASP is supporting a time-
slice in on-going national programs and the proposed time period is considered adequate to implement
the various institutional reforms. Since previous operations have been hindered by the delayed
disbursement of funds, the Project makes provisions for short-term consultants to assist in financial
management and procurement and a Special Account will be established. A disbursement action plan
has been prepared which is expected to guide improvements in disbursement performance for the ASP
and MOA (see Annex 3, Item 13). Annex 9 contains an indicative schedule of disbursement. The
completion date for the Project will be March 31, 1999, and the closing date will be six months later.
4.12   Special Account. To ensure that funds for the project are available when needed, and to
reduce the number of disbursement claims to be processed, Government will establish a Special
Account in US dollars with a commercial bank, to be administered by MOA. Such funds will be
used to finance eligible expenditures of less than US$50,000 per contract. Upon credit effectiveness,
IDA will make an advance deposit of US$1.0 million into this account to pay for any expenditures to



32
be financed by IDA. This amount is consistent with an anticipated 3-4 month rate of disbursement.
IDA will make further deposits to replenish the Special Account against withdrawal applications
which are supported by appropriate documentation. At negotiations. assurances were obtained from
Government that the Special Account will be implemented in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to IDA (para 7.1(m)).
D. Accounts and Audits
4.13   MOA, through the Chief Accountant, will be responsible for preparing financial statements
and accounts relating to the disbursement of ASP funds. Financial statements will be consolidated on
the basis of returns for each component prepared by the responsible implementing agency within
MOA. Such statements will relate to expenditures incurred through the disbursement of funds in
accordance with the normal Government regulations (Treasury Instructions). In addition, it will be
necessary to prepare SOEs on goods and service contracts, for which disbursements have been made
through direct drawings or through the Special Account. Under the ASP, the MOA's Finance
Division will be strengthened to ensure improved capacity for preparing the financial accounts for
ASP and other investment programs. Annex 10 outlines the improved accounting guidelines which
will be utilized by the MOA and ADDs. At negotiations. assurances were obtained from Government
that MOA will implement these improved guidelines as outlined in the Plan of Action (Annex 3)
beginning in the first year of the project (para 7.1(f)).
4.14   Consolidated project accounts, SOEs and the Special Account will be audited by the Auditor
General or independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
audit reports and audited statements will be submitted to IDA within nine months of the close of the
fiscal year (para 7.1(n)).
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Overall Arrangements
5.1    MOA will have overall responsibility for project implementation, with the CMEU responsible
for day-to-day activities. Nearly all of the project activities are a part of the on-going programs being
carried out by line departments or the private sector. Individual components and subcomponents are
generally self-contained and will be implemented by the following agencies: research - DAR and
ASC; extension - DAET, DAHI, LRCB and FNU; input supply - Pricing and Marketing Section and
fertilizer importers; and institutional strengthening - Planning Division, Finance Division, Bunda
College of Agriculture, Treasury, and DOI. Close coordination among these agencies will be
emphasized and will, together with project monitoring, be based on strengthened MOA organizational
and management systems.
5.2   Sector/ASP Coordination. An Agriculture Sector Steering Committee (ASSC) will be
formalized and made effective to coordinate the implementation of all MOA programs/projects
involving agricultural services. The ASSC will be chaired by the principal secretary (PS) of MOA
and will be comprised of the heads of involved departments/units and ADD program managers.
Senior officers from Treasury and the Economic Planning and Development Department will also
participate. The committee will meet quarterly to review the status of project implementation, based



33
on progress reports from the CMEU.A It will resolve policy and coordination issues and review
and approve annual work plans and budgets for ASP components. MOA's strengthened finance unit
will be responsible for consolidating all ASP accounts. Since project activities will be implemented
by a number of different departments, the managerial burden on each is deemed to be reasonable.
5.3    At negotiations. assurances were obtained from Government that, prior to the start-up of the
ASP, MOA will revive the ASSC to meet on a quarterly basis to perform the functions outlined above
(para 7.1(o)) and that it will assign one senior officer from CMEU to be responsible for the
requirements of the ASP (para 7.1(o)). A Condition of Credit Effectiveness is the issuance of an
administrative circular by the MOA formalizing the role of the ASSC and indicating the meeting
schedule for 1993/94 (para 7.2(b)).
5.4   Implementation Manuals and Plan of Action. To facilitate project implementation, each
implementing department has prepared a Implementation Report for its component/
subcomponent (see Implementation Manual). Each Implementation Report contains details concerning
activities, organization and management; cost estimates; performance indicators, and a supporting
action plan. Prior to negotiations Government prepared a Plan of Action satisfactory to IDA. Annex
3 contains this Plan of Action and outlines agreed key actions for each component and subcomponent,
with an emphasis on the first year activities. At negotiations. assurances were obtained from
Government that it will implement the Plan of Action with actions and timetable consistent with
Annex 3 and satisfactory to IDA (para 7. 1(f)). The Implementation Reports for the food and nutrition
and small scale irrigation subcomponents, and the research action plans for the research component,
satisfactory to IDA, were completed before Board presentation.
5.5    Annual Workc Plans and Budget. The official(s) responsible for each component/sub-
component will update an annual work plan and budget in accordance with the Implementation
Manuals and MOA's project planning and budgeting cycle. The work plans will detail: the activities
planned, budgetary and human resources required, and achievement indicators. The budgets will
detail the allocation of funds to investment and recurrent costs. For activities within ADDs, the
concept of program budgeting will be further developed, particularly with a view to separating the
administrative expenditures of ADDs and RDPs from those on agricultural extension. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that, as outlined in the Plan of Action, by
September 15, beginning in 1993, draft annual work plans and supporting budget estimates for the
following fiscal year for each component/subcomponent will be prepared by the implementing
departments/agencies and will be submitted to the ASSC and IDA for review (para 7.1(f)).
B. Research
5.6    The ASP will support agreed subprograms of research, whether undertaken by DAR or other
research institutions. For the first year of the Project, funding will be based on DAR's commodity
action plans. Annex 11, Appendix 1 provides TOR for a research management specialist who will
help implement managerial improvements in DAR and build capacity to sustain them. DAR will
secure the services of the National Library Services to assist in managing the library. To benefit
311 The CMEU will assign a senior officer (Level 7) to take day-to-day responsibility for this task. The Chief
Planning Officer, with the assistance of the CMEU and department heads, will be responsible for preparing the ASSC
agenda and rlevant lprogress reports.



34
from specialization, DAR will also contract out selected research activities to other research bodies in
Malawi.
5.7   In the event that internal reforms are insufficient to retain key DAR researchers and managers
and it is necessary to retain the services of staff due to retire, the Project will finance the cost of
hiring the latter on a contract (or technical assistance) basis. The TOR and terms and conditions of
contract staff will need to be satisfactory to IDA. The research plan of action should indicate the
requirements for such staff, if any, beginning in 1993/94.
5.8    Research programs and priorities will be revised in line with a national research master plan,
to be produced in the first year of the project and periodically revised under the direction of the ASC.
The master plan will include an evaluation of research capacity outside DAR. The activities to be
undertaken by the ASC in its first year of operation will include development of the national research
master plan and appropriate adjustments to individual research action plans. Annually, DAR will
prepare commodity research action plans, to be reviewed by the ARC, ASC, and IDA as part of the
budgetary cycle (beginning in 1993/94).
C. Extension
5.9    Organization of Agricultural Extension. ADD PMs will be responsible for implementing
extension activities within their respective divisions, but the Chief Agricultural Extension and
Training Officer (CAETO) will have national responsibility. MOA has defined the role of other
department and unit heads regarding field services. It has also prepared an action plan aimed at
improving supervision of field staff. A review of staffing levels and job descriptions by the
Department of Personnel Management and Training (DPMT) will be the basis for changes in MOA's
staffing structure (see Section 1 of the Implementation Manual). At negotiations. assurances were
obtained from Government that MOA will implement an action plan to improve extension
management and responsibilities satisfactory to IDA, beginning in the first year of the project, as
outlined in the Plan of Action (para 7.1(f)).
5.10   Budgeting. The system of program budgeting, initiated by MOA in FY1991/92, will be
further developed in order to improve budgetary control. Program budgeting will be introduced for
each cost center (i.e., ADD management units and RDPs) through: (a) the allocation of salary costs to
each center and program; and (b) the allocation of operational funds to each program (e.g.,
administration, extension, land husbandry, livestock, farm management, training, nutrition, women's
program). This system of program budgeting will apply to all funds, including those allocated under
the ASP.
5.11   Planning and implementation of the extension training program will be the responsibility of
the MOA Training Branch. A Extension Training Plan has been prepared in collaboration with the
CAETO, who will be responsible for coordinating implementation of field staff training. (For further
details, see Annex 3 and Implementation Manual, Section 5.) To assist MOA in the implementation
of this plan, an extension training expert will be engaged (IrOR are contained in Annex 11, Appendix
2). Expertise will also be provided to strengthen extension training at the Natural Resources College
and Bunda College (Annex 11, Appendix 8).
5.12   Nutrition Program. The action plan for this subcomponent will be carried out by the Food
and Nutrition Unit in MOA. It will be strengthened with the assistance of a nutrition education
specialist (for TOR, see Annex 11, Appendix 4).



35
5.13   Extension Aids. This subcomponent will be implemented by the Extension Aids Branch and
the Visual Aids Branch.
D. Input Supply
5.14 Improved Seed. The Pricing and Marketing Unit, MOA, will have primary responsibility for
monitoring the implementation of the policy reforms to liberalize seed production, pricing and
marketing, in a way which will encourage increased private sector entry, market competition, lower
prices and more consumer choice. This unit will also be responsible for updating Government seeds
policies, based on implementation experience.
5.15 Fertilizer. MOA's Pricing and Marketing Section will be responsible for coordinating and
monitoring the implementation of the reforms detailed in Government's Fertilizer Reform Policy
paper. MOA's capacity to sustain the program is being strengthened with the assistance of
UNDP/FAO, and more comprehensive assistance is being discussed between the Government and the
European Commission.
E. Institutional Strengthening
5.16  Planning and Financial Management. Financial management within MOA is the responsibility
of the Chief Accountant, who heads the Finance Division. The Financial Coordinator is also critical
to project budgeting and financial reporting. Technical assistance will be provided to strengthen the
capacity of MOA to implement improved accounting and financial management systems (see Annex
11, Appendix 6).
5.17   Transportation Management. MOA will assign to a senior HQ official (eg., Deputy
Secretary for Administration) the task of transportation management to coordinate and monitor all
ADD transport operations. Additionally, the task of managing all aspects of transport (including
maintenance) at the AI)D level will be assigned to the Deputy Program Manager (para 7.1 (v)).
Annex 11, Appendix 5 provides TOR for a transport management systems advisor who will help
MOA build its capacity to implement and sustain improvements in transport management (as outlined
in the action plan). As a condition of credit effectiveness, MOA will appoint the transport systems
advisor (para 7.2(d)). Prior to the advisor's appointment, MOA will finalize the responsibility of
transport management coordination in MOA/HQ and each ADD.
5.18 Procurement. Procurement activities under the ASP will be handled by MOA's Procurement
Unit, which will obtain assistance from the Ministry of Works for civil works and a procurement
agent, with qualifications and TOR satisfactory to IDA (see Annex 11, Appendix 7 for the TOR).
This is consistent with a Government proposal for strengthening procurement in all ministries in the
medium term. TOR for this ministry-wide procurement assistance have been prepared (Annex 4) and
Government is taking steps to appoint the consultants by mid-1993. Treasury will supervise the
cross-ministry procurement study.
5.19   Agricultural Policy Analysis Training. MOA will contract Bunda College of Agriculture to
implement this subcormponent. Initially, the Rural Development Department will be responsible, with
assistance from a quali[fied international institution. Bunda College has prepared a draft MOU which
outlines its role and responsibilities in carrying out this training. Bunda College and the international
institution will enter into a separate contractual arrangement (see Annex 11, Appendix 8). The



36
Economic Development Institute (EDI) of the World Bank will also collaborate in this subcomponent,
in sharing relevant cross-country experience with Bunda College.
5.20   Small Scale Irrigation. The SSI subcomponent will be carried out by the DOI, private
contractors and farmer groups. The DOI will be responsible for evaluating past SSI experience and
preparing a SSI strategy paper, incorporating inputs from farmers, NGOs and DOI field staff. The
main activity will involve implementing pilot schemes, which will be carried out by a multi-
disciplinary task forces. This decentralization will help ensure a "bottom-up" approach; involvement
of the beneficiaries from the planning stage, and the selection and design of the schemes which
conform to agreed socioeconomic criteria. The SSI Implementation Report provides further details
(see Implementation Manual, Section 10). An irrigation specialist with relevant cross-country
experience will provide implementation assistance and training for DOI staff and farmer groups (see
Annex 11, Appendix 9, for the TOR).
F. Monitoring, Evaluation and Beneficiary Assessment
5.21   The CMEU in MOA's Planning Division will be responsible for implementing this subcompo-
nent. The following arrangements are envisioned: (a) monitoring of activities by each Implementing
agency, with assistance from the CMEU and associated ADD evaluation officers, based on an agreed
program satisfactory to IDA; (b) beneficiary assessments and impact studies being undertaken by
CMEU; and (c) evaluations (in project years 2,4 and 7) being contracted out to a suitably qualified
local institution, based on TOR and contracts satisfactory to IDA (see Annex 12 for TOR). At
negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that (i) the biennial and terminal evaluations
of the performance of the ASP will be contracted to a suitably qualified institution based on TOR and
selection procedures satisfactory to IDA (para 7. 1(p)); and (ii) that MOA/CMEU will prepare and
submit to IDA progress reports every six months, with a separate account on each component, as well
as a general overview of disbursements of funds prepared by the Financial Coordinator (para 7.1(q)).
G. Training and Technical Assistance
5.22   The ASP will provide 410 person-months (p/ms) of technical assistance. Of this, about 166
p/ms will be for periodic inputs of less than a year; 144 p/ms will involve inputs of one year or
more, and 100 p/ms will be for the ministry-wide procurement strengthening exercise. All of the
training and technical assistance is geared towards building the capacity of the implementing agencies
to sustain the improvements. Each implementing department/unit will have main responsibility for
recruitment and supervision of TA. TOR for all TA have been prepared and discussed with the
relevant implementing agencies (see Annexes 4, 11 and 12). At negotiations. assurances were
obtained from Government that the selection procedures, TOR, and qualifications and experience of
all technical assistance experts will be satisfactory to IDA (para 7.1(r)). A Condition of Effectiveness
is Government appointment of key technical assistance experts (procurement, transport systems
advisor, planning and financial management) with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA
(para 7.2(c)).



37
H. Implementation Schedule
5.23   The ASP will be implemented over a six year period commencing July 1993. Detailed
preparatory work for iimplementation has already started and is reflected in the ASP Implementation
Manual. An indicative implementation schedule of key actions for project activities and each
component/subcomponent is outlined in the Plan of Action (Annex 3). The actions have been phased
to reflect project priorities and implementation capacities of the responsible agencies. The Project
Implementation Schedule highlights the more important actions (Annex 13).
I. Flscal Impact
5.24   Effective implementation of the ASP is expected to generate substantial fiscal savings in some
areas, while in other areas an increase may occur in order to expand output. The net effect is not
easy to quantify, but savings will result from the introduction of a Transport Management System,
and these could be substantial. Present ADD vehicle maintenance and operation expenditure levels
are about MK6.0 million (1991/92). A 10% reduction in expenditure (a conservative prediction)
would therefore generate an annual saving of MKO.6 million. Incremental operating costs for
research and extension will amount to about MK8.0 million annually (or about 12% of MOA's budget
in 1992/3). Total operating costs for extension will increase by about MK4.1 million (1992/3 prices,
see Annex 8, page 2 for details). However, annual costs per family reached, assuming that 60% of
smallholders are covered, will fall from MK1 1.43 to MK8.57 . Similarly, although the Project will
result in greater fertilizer utilization, it is expected that fertilizer subsidies will be eliminated by
1995/6. The fiscal impact of phasing out fertilizer subsidies will be about US$6 million a year
equivalent (based on the level of subsidy and prices in 1992/3). The annual cost of housing and
office construction under the project amounts to MK3.9 million, assuming a maintenance cost of 1%
of total construction cost. The replacement cost of vehicles amounts to MK17.0 million.
J. Environmental Impact
5.25   Fertilizer use remains low in Malawi and water pollution from this source is not expected to
pose an environmental threat for some time. Nevertheless, disseminating information on optimal
application rates and timing will promote more efficient use of fertilizer. Increased and improved use
of fertilizer, coupled with expanded organic nitrogen-fixing practices, will help contain Malawi's
serious declining soil fertility. Both the research and extension components will generate extension
messages on improved soil and land management, water conservation, agro-forestry, nitrogen-fixing
rotations and cultivation practices. While the Project will not finance pesticides or herbicides, the
extension component will provide advice on the environmentally sound use of these products.
Government has established a special environmental unit to integrate environmental issues into its
planning process. Currently, this environmental unit is preparing a National Environmental Action
Plan (NEAP) which will provide an improved framework for promoting sustainable development and
will include actions to further strengthen the capacity of this unit to fulfill its role. The ASP will use
this unit to monitor thef environmental impact of the project. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained from Govermnent that it will take appropriate steps to ensure that the Project does not have
adverse environmental effects (para 7.1(t)). To this end, the project's monitoring system will develop
clear guidelines and witll include appropriate performance indicators.



38
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1    Overview. It is difficult to isolate the benefits of investments in agricultural services from
other factors. The discussion here focuses on production benefits, that result from lifting constraints
on smallholder productivity, and institutional benefits. Research eases technological constraints on
increased productivity, while extension relieves information constraints. Recent research by the Bank
has demonstrated that investment in T&V extension systems in Africa yields very high rates of return.
In addition, the effects of the ASP on smallholder cropping patterns, levels of production and incomes
have been estimated using farm budgets and linear programming. Institutional benefits (increased
effectiveness, efficiency and sustainability of support services) are primarily qualitative.
6.2   Production benefits include increased adoption of improved seeds, especially hybrid maize
seed; more efficient utilization of fertilizers; use of fertilizer by a larger number of smallholders; and
more widespread adoption of agro-forestry, nitrogen-fixing rotations and water and soil conservation
practices. Production benefits will have an important incremental impact on female and resource-poor
farmers not currently being reached by agricultural services. In addition, female farmers will benefit
from low-cost, labor-saving technologies being researched and the integration of more female FAs
into the extension system.
6.3    Economic and Beneficiary Assessment of Proiect Imnact. An attempt has been made to
assess the overall effect of the project on smallholder cropping patterns and incomes. This analysis
forms part of the on-going preparation of the Agricultural Sector Memorandum (para 1.27).
Representative farm budgets were constructed for each of the cells in the smallholder typology shown
in Table 1, page 5. The data for the farm budgets was taken from the MOA's Annual Survey of
Agriculture (ASA). The farm budgets were then used in a linear programming analysis to determine
smallholder agricultural production patterns with and without the project. Trends in the ASA data for
1990/1 were extrapolated to estimate cropping patterns and income levels in 2002/3 without the
project, while the effects of the adoption of hybrid flint maize, Magoye soybean and Acacia Albida
rotations, and improved cultivation practices (including more efficient fertilizer application) were
examined to estimate the situation in 2002/3 with the project. The assumptions made throughout the
exercise were conservative and total research and extension project costs were included. (More
details concerning the methodology, assumptions and results of this analysis can be found in Annex
16).
6.4    The outcome of this indicative analysis shows that the project has the potential to generate an
internal rate of return of 23.8% over 20 years. The net value of smallholder agricultural production
(based on gross margin analysis and constant 1992/3 prices) is expected to increase by MK214.5
million by 2002/3 with the project (relative to continued trends without the project). The main
changes in income estimated in the model are brought about through substitution away from local
maize and maize/pulse intercropping towards hybrid maize and agro-forestry and soybean/maize
rotations, as well as modest increases in gross margins due to improved cultivation practices. In
particular, it is estimated that with the project, by 2002/3, an additional 450,000 smallholders will
adopt hybrid maize with fertilizer (of which about 95% will be in the small category); an additional
115,000 smallholders will use fertilizer on local maize varieties and an additional 149,000 will adopt
nitrogen-fixing rotations in combination with local maize. All these figures are relative to the
situation which would obtain in 2002/3 if current trends were continued. Thus, with the project, it is
estimated that in total about 84% of smallholders will adopt hybrid flint maize, in pure stands, in
rotation with soybeans and/or in combination with agro-forestry techniques. This, in combination with



39
other changes3', leads to an estimation that the net value of smallholder output will increase by 35 %
in real terms by 2002/3.
6.5   Institutional benefits. A major thrust of the ASP is to strengthen the institutional capacity of
the national research, extension and input supply systems in order to increase the cost-effectiveness
and sustainability of smallholder service delivery. Benefits include an enhanced capacity to formulate
policies and to plan, budget, manage and report on agricultural projects; a better motivated and
trained staff, especially in the field, and broader coverage of smallholders. It is difficult to measure
these benefits directly, but the M&E system includes various performance indicators, which will be
closely monitored, on the implementation of reforms under the ASP and their impact at the farm level
in terms of productivity and income levels (see Annex 3 and the Implementation Manual, Section 7).
6.6    Research. The incremental benefits stemming from the research component are difficult to
predict initially. During the periodic evaluations some quantification of benefits would be carried out,
focusing on increased food production, especially among the resource-poor. Changes in these
indicators would, however, also reflect investments in prior research and extension's role in
promoting the adoption of new technologies and practices.
6.7   Increased Adoption of Hybrid Maize Varieties. The adoption of the hard flint maize varieties,
MH17 and MH18, is primarily constrained by inadequate seed supply. The benefits of seed
production and marketing reforms will be evidenced through monitoring the quantity of hybrid
improved seed produced and sold each year. It is difficult to project the rate of smallholder adoption
of these varieties if adequate quantities of seed become available, as income/cash constraints would
then become binding. However, using farm budgets and linear programming, it has also been
estimated that with the project, if seed supply is not constraining and if smallholders' access to credit
and cash crops is substantially increased, nearly 2 million smallholders (of an estimated population of
2.4 million) will adopt hybrid maize by 2002/3.
6.8   Increased smallholder production of burley tobacco and soybeans, and/or the adoption of
agro-forestry techniques, are likely to relieve the income constraint on the adoption of HYVs to some
extent, either by increasing incomes directly (and therefore credit worthiness) or by reducing the
amount of fertilizer necessary to generate economically viable yields from HYVs.
6.9   Increased Use of Inorganic Fertilizers and Improved Application Practices. Based on recent
trends, Government predicts that fertilizer use will increase by 5% a year, regardless of the ASP.
The future price of fertilizer, and its relation to maize prices, will depend on the transport situation,
as well as the effects of policy reforms. Market liberalization, and its effects on the domestic
quantities of fertilizer available, as well as on retail prices, will be closely monitored. Aside from the
supply constraint, inefficient use of fertilizer (suboptimal application and inappropriate timing) lowers
the profitability of its use. This is partly the result of information constraints, and these will be
addressed by the Project.
6.10   Increased Use of Nitrogen-Fixing Cultivation Practices. Extension services will demonstrate
the benefits of these practices; sell agro-forestry seedlings and Magoye soybean seeds; help farmers'
groups set up nurseries; work with research to adapt new technologies and practices to different
farmers' needs, and inform researchers of farmers' problems in adopting these packages. Benefits
32/ Examples of these other changes include increased burley production; increased efficiency of, and hence greater
returns to, fertilizer application; wider adoption of soil conservation practices.



40
will be identified through monitoring the adoption rate of agro-forestry and soybean rotations, and the
impact of these on crop yields. DAR has shown that agro-forestry can increase yields by up to
350%, depending on soil type. The benefits analysis for the ASP indicates that by the year 2002/3,
the Project could lead to the adoption of nitrogen fixing rotations/mixes by about 240,000 farmers.
6.11   Soil Conservation and Land Husbandry. Under the ASP, FAs will be able to spend more
time on soil conservation and land husbandry issues, because credit administration will be removed
from their duties. The Project will support the dissemination of improved land conservation
messages. In addition, it will ensure coordinate with other donors (UNDP) which are providing
specific support for soil conservation and improved land use planning. The benefits from this are
difficult to quantify, but are important in controlling soil erosion and degradation, especially in the
face of increasing land shortages and cultivation of more marginal lands.
6.12   Small Scale Irrigation. The major benefits of the SSI subcomponent will be derived from the
field testing (under smallholder conditions) and dissemination of technologies suitable for small scale
irrigation schemes. In the initial phase of the project, the pilot schemes will cover about 50 hectares
and involve about 100 smallholders, male and female. During the project implementation period, it is
expected that the schemes will be expanded to cover about 500 ha and 1000 smallholders, as well as
provide the basis for wider replication in future years. The major production benefit is that the
schemes will enable participating smallholders to diversify into cash crops (mostly vegetables for the
local market) and thereby increase their incomes substantially. The Project's monitoring and
evaluation system will assess the production and income benefits of the pilot schemes and identify the
technologies which have the greatest potential for wider adoption. The evaluation will focus on the
financial, economic and environmental viability of the various technologies used. The SSI
subcomponent will also provide important institutional benefits in helping to reorient and strengthen
the capacity of the DOI to promote farmer led SSI development.
6.13   Focus on Female Farmers. The ASP, together with the UNDP-supported Fifth Country
program, will emphasize reaching female farmers with appropriate messages. Under the ASP,
research will be conducted on affordable labor-saving food processing and transport technologies;
FHAs will be retrained to work as FAs, thus the number of female FAs will be increased; FAs will
receive training on gender-related issues, particularly nutrition; explicit efforts will be made to include
informal women's groups in extension; the number of demonstrations will be increased relative to
verbal message delivery and the mobility of female staff at EPA and RDP levels will be ensured. In
addition, since many female-headed households are resource-poor, the Project's focus on developing
and promoting technologies and agricultural practices to improve the productivity of this group will
benefit a large number of women. Performance indicators will be disaggregated by gender, where
appropriate, in order to monitor the effect of the ASP on the productivity of female farmers.
B. Risks
6.14 Proect Risks: - Limited Government/MOA capacity to formulate and implement the required
policy and institutional changes would adversely affect project implementation. This risk has been
minimized by ensuring realistic project scope, phasing implementation, developing action plans prior
to project start-up, and providing in-service training and carefully designed technical assistance to
build local capacity. Deterioration in economic performance and budgetary funding could undermine
the required non-salary recurrent funding of key services. These risks are countered by developing
improved and agreed methods for calculating levels of recurrent funding required, financing
incremental operating costs on a declining basis to ensure phased absorption by MOA, forward



41
planning of recurrent budgets, and close monitoring on an annual basis. The proposed improvements
in research and extension may not generate affordable solutions to the constraints faced by resource
poor smallholders, but priority will be placed on ensuring a rapid flow of remunerative and accessible
technologies; strengthening research-extension-farmer linkages; and close monitoring and evaluation
of farmer adoption rates. Other donor project involving agricultural services may diffuse budgetary
and management resources, but the ASP provides a framework and mechanisms to help mobilize and
better coordinate donor funding support.
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1    At negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a)    DAR will update the research action plans annually in accordance with agreed criteria,
satisfactory to IDA, and submit them to the ASC and IDA not later than September
15 (beginning in 1993), as part of the annual budgetary review (para 3.15);
(b)    MOA will implement and closely monitor the research-extension-farmer linkage plan
satisfactory to IDA, beginning in 1993/94, annually update it, and provide it to IDA
for review not later than September 15 (beginning in 1993) (para 3.16);
(c)    MOAMDAR will ensure that progress reports are prepared and submitted to DAR (by
May 1) on contracted research, and Government (DAR/ASC) will attempt to expand
the amount of contract research annually in accordance with increased capacity of the
participating agencies by promoting an 'enabling environment' and advertising all
contract research opportunities by July 1, every year, beginning in 1993 (para 3.17);
(d)   (i) the final proposal on the main functions, method of operation, composition and
action plan of the Agricultural Sciences Committee will be satisfactory to IDA; (ii)
DREA will implement the action plan for ASC's operations beginning in 1993,
satisfactory to IDA; (iii) DREA/ASC will update a work plan for ASC annually and
submit it to IDA for review by September 15 (beginning in 1993) (para 3.18);
(e)    MOA/DAR will implement, beginning in 1993/94, the action plans satisfactory to
IDA regarding improved research management systems and staff motivation, update
them arnually based on implementation experience, and submit them to IDA for
review (by September 15, beginning in 1993) (para 3.19);
(f)   the relevant implementing agencies will: (i) carry out the ASP Plan of Action (and
constituent action plans) according to actions and timetable listed in Annex 3 (para
5.4); (ii) update annually the individual action plans and annual work plans as part of
the budgetary review process, and provide the action plans to the Agricultural Sector
Steering Committee and IDA for review by September 15 (beginning 1993) (paras
3.24; 3.26; 3.37; 3.38; 3.41; 3.43; 3.45; 3.47; 4.13; 5.4; 5.5; and 5.9);
(g)    MOA will, by June 30, 1993, develop, begin to implement and closely monitor an
action plan to improve the supervision of extension field staff and the motivation of
extension staff.more generally, satisfactory to IDA (para 3.27);



42
(h)   the final terms and conditions of the motorcycle ownership scheme were satisfactory
to IDA and that Government will begin its implementation in 1993/94 (para 3.28);
(i)    Government will implement and monitor the approved seeds and fertilizer policy
reforms beginning in 1993/94, and review with IDA on an annual basis the progress
in their implementation (not later than September 1, beginning in 1993) (paras. 3.31
and 3.34);
0j)   IDA funds for fertilizers will be made available to private sector smallholder fertilizer
importers through the Reserve Bank of Malawi (para 3.35);
(k)    Government (i) will review with IDA on an annual basis the proposed budgetary
allocations for the project, not later than September 15 (beginning in 1993), and
review the application of the improved yardsticks for non-salary operating expenses;
(ii) will make annual budget allocations and timely releases to the participating agen-
cies/departments consistent with agreed yardsticks for non-salary operating
expenditures, the Project implementation expenditure schedule, approved work plans
and overall budgetary ceilings; (iii) over the course of ASP implementation,
Government will progressively increase its share of financing for non-salary operating
expenditures; the increase in Government's share of funding of recurrent costs will be
commensurate with the decrease in IDA's financing share of recurrent expenditures as
stipulated in the disbursement provisions; and (iv) will allocate budgetary resources
according to its medium-term agricultural investment program satisfactory to IDA,
and update the program not later than the third year of ASP (para 4.2);
(I)    Government will follow IDA Procurement Guidelines for procuring IDA-financed
works, goods and IDA Selection Guidelines for Consultants (para 3.43 and 4.8);
(m)   the special account will be implemented in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
IDA (para 4.12);
(n)   the audit reports and audited statements will be submitted to IDA within nine months
of the close of the fiscal year (para 4.14);
(o)    MOA will (i) revive the ASSC to meet on a quarterly basis to perform the functions
outlined above, and (ii) assign one senior officer from CMEU to be responsible for
the monitoring and reporting requirements of the ASP (para 5.3);
(p)    ASP's biennial and terminal evaluations will be contracted to a suitably qualified
institution based on TOR and selection procedures satisfactory to IDA (5.21);
(q)    MOA/CMEU will prepare and submit to IDA progress reports every six months, with
a separate account on each component, as well as a general overview of disbursements
of funds prepared by MOA's Financial Coordinator (para 5.21);
(r)   the selection procedures, TOR, and qualification and experience of all technical
assistance experts will be satisfactory to IDA (para 3.43 and 5.22);



43
(s)    Government will prepare and submit to IDA within six months of project closing a
Project Completion Report describing the project benefits and costs and lessons
learned for the next phase (para 3.47);
(t)    Government will take appropriate steps to ensure that the Project will not have
adverse environmental effects (as defined by guidelines to be developed, satisfactory
to IDA) (para 5.25);
(u)    Government will implement, in 1993/94, an action plan satisfactory to IDA to delink
credit and extension throughout the country, consistent with the ASP Plan of Action,
taking into account the implementation experience of the on-going pilot scheme (para
3.23); and
(v)    prior to the transport systems advisor's appointment, MOA will assign a senior officer
in MOA HQ the responsibilities of transport coordination management and assign the
PM in each ADD transport management responsibilities (para 5.17).
7.2    Conditions of Credit Effectiveness are be as follows:
(a)    appointment by the Department of Research and Environmental Affairs (DREA) of the
head of the newly established technical secretariat of the Agricultural Sciences
Committee, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to GOM and IDA, and
formal approval of the method of operation and work plan for 1993/94 (para 3.18);
(b)   Issuance of an administrative circular by the Ministry of Agriculture formalizing the
role of the ASSC and indicating the meeting schedule for 1993/94 (para 5.3);
(c)    MOA appointment of key technical assistance staff (i.e. procurement specialist,
trans,port systems advisor, planning and financial management specialist) with
qualification and experience satisfactory to IDA (para 5.17 and 5.22).
7.3    A Condition of Disbursement for the inputs component is:
(a)    Government's implementation of the policy reforms outlined in the fertilizer policy
paper and of an action plan satisfactory to IDA (para 3.34).
7.4    With the above assurances, the proposed Project will be suitable for an IDA credit of
US$45.8 million on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



ANNEX-1
Page 1 of 9
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Land Resources, Customary Land and Population by Region
(Areas in Km2 Unless Otherwise Indicated)
Region
North         Central           South           Total
Total Land Base Less:                       26,931           35,592          31,753          94,276
Settlements and Infrastructure                  216             575             660           1,451
National Parks andl Game Parks                4,134           4,118           2,661          10,913
Forest Reserves                               2,850           2,890           2,920           8,660
Non-Agric. Land                              12,776           9,233           7,847          29,856
Suitable for Agriculture Less:                6,955          18,776          17,665          43,396
Estates 1989                                  1,052           5,686            1,736          8,474
Customary Land for Smallholder                5,903          13,090          15,929          34,922
Cultivation
Population ('000)                               966           3,319           4,215           8,501
Density/Km2 all land                             36              93              133             90
Density/Km2 Cust Land                           164             254             265             243
Customary Land Pler Capita, ha                 0.61            0.39            0.38            0.41
Source: Ministry of Agriculture (after World Bank, 1989): Esates; Mkandawire at. al. (1990); Population: 1989 projections on the
basis of Malawi Population and Housing Census of 1987.
Note:   Figures for estata land only available up to 1989. EtimAtes therefore baeed on the aituation in 1989. It is assumed that estates
have expanded fIrther during 1989-1991.



ANNEX-1
45                            Page 2 of 9
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Esdmated Maize Yields on Smallholder Land
1983/84 - 1990/91 (Kg/ha)
Year                          Hybrid            Composite              Local
1983/84                        2,757               1,787               1,037
1984/85                        3,111               1,746               1,034
1985/86                        2,941               1,729                958
1986/87                        2,706               1,635                953
1987/88                        2,667               1,199               1,094
1988/89                        2,855               1,760               1,052
1989/90                        2,555               1,400                813
1990/91                        2,908               1,417                872
Source: Minsty of Agcultum Cop Etmates.



ANNEX 1
46                                       Page 3 of 9
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECr
Aggregated Household Production Levels by HodidDg Size Calculated
from the 1987/S8 Annual Survey of Agriculture
HoldingSize                         0<0.5          0.5<1          1<1.5          1.5<2           2<2.5            2.5<3             >3
Number of Households               405,617        468,020        312,013        171,607          78,003           46,802         78,003
Percent of Households                  26              30             20             11               5               3               5
Avenge Holding (ha)                    0.3           0.73           1.22           1.72            2.22             2.72           3.95
Household Size                         3.8            4.3            4.7            5.2             5.8              6.3            7.3
Household production (Kg)
lmproved Maize                          21             52            147            270             571             504             978
Unimproved Maize                      310             721          1,111          1,422            1,694           2,079          2,509
All Maize                             331             773          1,258          1,692           2,265            2,583          3,487
Millets/Sorghum/Roots                   49             75            103            129             173             242             291
Rice                                    26             57             66            122             111              172            254
All Food                               737          1,678          2,685          3,635            4,814           5,580           7,519
Tobacco                                  1              3             IS             34              52               67             99
Cotton                                   7             31             53             S0             103              150            341
Groundnuts                               6             32             98            183             265              405            442
Beans                                    1              1              3              5               7               12             19
All Cash Crops                          IS             67            170            302             427             634             901
Attendance block % HH                   4               7             10             12              17               16             10
Contact with Extension % HH             6              10             14             16              21              23              22
Area Cash Crops (ba)                10,465         47,832         82,222         79,990          57,665           44,301         113,386
As % of Area Cultivated                8.6             14             22             28              34              34              40
% Total Area UnderCash                2.4            11.0           18.9           18.4            13.2             10.2           26.0
Area Food Crops (a)                110,003        288,015        288,538        203,073          109,442          83,001         168,538
As % of Aea CuWivated                 91.4             36             7S             72              66              66              60
Area Cultivated (ha)               120,468        335,84        370,759        283,062          167,106         127,301        281,923
% Area Cultivated                      7.1           19.9           22.0           16.8             9.9              7.5           16.7
Source: Government of Malawi 1987/88 Annual Survey of Agriculture.



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 9
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Cropping Pattemn by Holding Size 19S7/88 ASA
HoldingSize(heotars)              0<0.5       0.5<1       1<1.5      1.5<2       2<2.5      2.5<3          >3        Tota
Pewcent of Atu Planted to
Maize
Local Maize                         52.2        52.2       53.4        49.7        48.1       47.1        38.1       48.9
Hybrid Maize                         1.6         1.7        3.2         4.5         7.9        5.5         6.S        4.1
Composite Maize                      1.3        1.2         1.7         1.8         2.3        1.9         3.2        1.9
Maize/Groundnut                      7.0        6.1         4.1         4.8         3.6        2.3         23         43
MaizelPulsea                        11.9        12.1        8.6         5.9         3.5        6.6         6.3        8.0
Maize/Roots                          4.7        2.2         0.9         0.6         0.3        0.6         0.5        1.2
Maize/Mil/Sorgh                      3.2        3.1         2.0         0.7         1.3        1.1         0.9        1.S
AU1 Maize                           81.9       78.6        73.9        68.0        67.0       65.1        58.1       70.2
Other Food Crops
MiHlet Purestand                     0.6        0.9         1.2         1.6         1.5        1.S         1.2        1.4
Sorghum Purestnd                     0.3        0.7         0.6         0.4         0.7        0.8         0.8        0.6
Cassava PS                           6.2        3.1         2.1         1.8         1.5        1.6         1.2        23
SweetPotatoesPS                      0.7         0.7        0.8         0.6         0.9        1.1         1.1        0.9
Blue Bonnet Rice                     0.1        0.4         0.4         0.7         0.7        1.2         0.9        0.6
Faya Rice                            0.5        0.5         0.8         0.9         0.8        0.6         1.3        0.8
Local Rice                           3.0         2.3        0.9         1.1         0.3        0.4         0.1        1.1
Other Food                          11.4        S.6         6.8         7.1         6.4        7.5         6.6        7.7
All Food Crops                      93.3        87.2       80.7        75.1        73.4       72.6        64.7       77.9
Cash Crops
NDDF Tobacco                         0.2        0.6         1.9         2.8         3.6        3.4         2.8        2.1
Sun Air Tobacco                      0.0        0.2         0.2         0.2         0.4        0.1         0.1        0.2
Oriental Tobacco                     0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
Other Tobacco                        0.2        0.0         0.4         0.9         0.7        1.4         2.1        0.8
All Tobacco                          0.4        0.8         2.5         3.9        4.7         4.9         5.0        3.1
Cotton                               3.0        5.3         5.4         5.8        5.8         6.9        10.8        8.6
Chalimbana GN PS                     1.4        4.2         8.5        113         12.8       16.0        12.2        9.2
Manipita PS                          0.7        0.6         0.2         0.3         0.2        0.2         0.0        0.3
All Groundaut PS                     2.1        4.8         8.7        11.6        13.0       16.2        12.2        9.5
Beans PS                             0.4        0.4         0.7         0.6         0.7        0.9          1.0       0.7
All Cash Crops                       5.7        11.1       16.7        20.8        23.1        27.4       26.8        21.9
Source: Government of Maawi 1987/88 Aal Sumey of Agrictore



ANNEX-1
48                                 Page S of 9
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Summary of Crop Margins and Returns per Labor Day
Crop                                  Crop       Crop       Input   Finance       Crop      Labor   Return to
Yield   Revenue      Costs    Charge      Gross       Day       Labor
Margin      Input
(Mkl/ha)   (MkWha)   (Mlcha)   (k/ha)   (Ml/ha)        (days)  (Mk/day)
Local Maize (no fertilizer)             800       238         16          0        221        113        2.0
Local Maize (with fertlizer)          1,500       446        163         17        266        120        2.2
Hybrid Maize (with fertilizer)        2,750       817        366         37        414        135        3.1
Hybrid Maize (high fertilizer)        3,500      1,040       384         38        618        153        4.0
Burley Tobacco (SH)                     800      2,200       765         86      1,348       275         4.9
Burley Tobacco (Ten)                  2,019      3,633     1,284          0      2,349       250         9.4
Incremental Production & Financial
Returns:
Local Maize (with fertilizer)          700        208        147         17         45         7         6.4
Hybrid Maize (with fertilizer)        1,950       579        350         37        193        22         8.8
Hybrid Maize (high fertilizer)        2,700       802        368         38        396        40         9.9
Burley Tobacco (SH)                      -       1,962       749         86      1,127        162        7.0
Source: DARUDEC Preparation Report, April 1992.



ANNEX 1
49                                      Page 6 of 9
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Farm and Household Models for Smallholder
(Present Situation)
Indicative Models
Item                                   (0 - 0.5 ha)      (0.5 - 1.0 ha)  (1.0- 2.0 ha)    (2.0 plus ha)
Average Holding Size (ha)                     0.25              0.75             1.43            2.78
Average Family Size (no)                      4.00              4.00             5.00            6.00
PRESENT SITUATION
Indicative Cropping (%)      (1)
Maize Local - no fert.                        60%               60%              50%             50%
Maize Local - low fert.                       10%               10%
Maize Hybrid - low fert.                                                         20%             20%
Maize hybrid - high fert
Other Food Crops
(2)              30%              30%              30%             30%
Cash Crops                   (3)               0%                0%               0%              0%
Total                                        100%              100%             100%            100%
Household Maize (kg/yr)
Est. Requirement             (4)               920               920            1,150           1,380
Eat. Production              (5)               15S               473            1,354           2,645
Surplus/(Deficit)                            (762)             (447)             204            1,265
Cash Flow (Mk/yr)
Maize
Gross Surplusl(Deficit)                      (226)             (133)              61              376
Input Costs (ex labor)                           7                20              116             226
Fmance Charges                                   0                 1              10               20
Net Surplus/(Deficit)                        (233)             (154)             (65)             130
Cash Crop                    (5)
Crop Reserve
Input Costs (ex labor)
Finance Charges
Gross Margin                                     0                0                0                0
Off Farm Income              (6)               250               160              70                0
Total Cash Flow                                 17                 6               5              130
Notes:  (1) Indicative model based on ASA results to 1985/86.
(2) Household usage, no sales.
(3) Assumed no growth for present situation.
(4) Average household size as per ASA results and per capita caloric requirement of 230 kg/yr.
(5) See note (3) above.
(6) Minimum cash requirement to purchase balance of maize requirement.



ANNEX 1
50                                        Page 7 of 9
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Farm and Household Models for Smaliholder
(Improved Situation)
Indicative Models
Item                        (0 - 0.5 ha)   (0.5 - 1.0 ha)   (0.5 - 1.0 ha)   (1.0 - 2.0 ha)   (2.0 Plus ha)
Average Holding Size (ha)         0.25            0.75           0.75            1.43           2.78
PROJECTED SlTUATION
Indicative Cropping %
Maize local - nc fert             20%             20%            20%
Maize local - low fert            25%             25%             0%             10%            10%
Maize hybrid- low fert            25%             25%
Maize hybrid- high fert                                          25%             32%            51%
Other Food Crops                  30%             30%            30%             30%            24%
Cash Crops                         0%              0%            26%             28%            15%
Total                            100%            100%            100%           100%           100%
Household Maize (kg/yr)            920            920             920           1,150          1,380
Est. Requirement
Est. Production                    920            920             920           1,150          1,380
Surplus/(Deficit)                (614)              3            (150)            660          4,000
Cash Flow (MkfYr)
Maize
Gross Surplus/(Deficit)          (182)               1            (45)            196          1,190
Input Costu (ex labor)              34             102             74             198            591
Fmance Charges                       3              10              7              20             58
Net Surplus/(Deficit)            (219)           (111)           (126)             22            541
Cash Crop (tobacco)
Crop Revenue                         0              0             440             880            880
Input Costs (ex labor)               0              0             153             306            306
Finance Charges                      0              0              17              34             34
Gross Margin                         0              0             263             539            539
(219)          (111)            137             561          1,080
Off Farm Incorme   (1)             250            160               0               0              0
Total Cash Flow                     31             49             137             361          1,000
Note:    (1) Minimum cash requirement to purchase balance of maize requirement.
Source: DARUDEC Preparation Report.



ANNEX 1
51                                  Page 8 of 9
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Proportion of Smallholder Area and Households Using Fertilizers by ADD
ADD           % of all  1980181   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1987/88   1989/90  1990/91
Households
Malawi
Malawi            100       26.3     33.1*        28        26        27                   40       40
Karonga             2       12.7     41.9*        15        14        29
Mzuzu               7       45.6     47.5*        58        56        52
Kasungu            13       33.8     44.7*        35        34        34
Salima              7       24.9     45.6*        18        16        19
Lilongwe           21       31.6     28.4*        32        35        31
Lilongwe                                       24.8*     21.4*      22.4*     34.6*     41.6*
Liwonde            21       23.0     23.0*        14        17        20
Blantyre           23       21.2      25.9        24        10        14
Ngabu               6        0.5      2.5*       0.3       0.4         2
Small-                     49.11     57.21     41.71      57.0       68.5      81.2      99.1    112.2
holder
Fertilizer
Sales:
(000t)
Notes:  *1981/82 Agricultual Sample Survey showed houscholds using ferilizer; also Lilongwe ADD reported households using
fertilizer from 1982/83.
Source: National Agricultural Sample Surveys 1980/81, 1981/82, 1982/83, 1983/84 and 1984/85. Ferlizer sals from Nadonal
Statistical Office, or Ministry of Agriculture/ADMARC.



ANNEX 1
52                                 Page 9 of 9
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Sales of Hybrid Maize Secd, Fertilizer, and Maize Output 1983/84-1990/91
Year            Est. Maize    Est hybrid   Est fertilizer  Est maize         Units per ha
ara planted    seed sales       sales    production      Seed     Fert    Output
(000 ha)      (tons)        (tons)    (000 tons)         (all in kg per hectare)
1983/84             1,174       1,277        57,000         1,398      1.09      48.6      1,191
1984/85             1,145       1,440        68,500         1,355      1.26      59.9      1,183
1985/86             1,193       1,375        64,300         1,295      1.15      53.9      1,085
1986/87             1,182         900        67,300         1,202      0.76      56.9      1,017
1987/88             1,215       1,390        81,200         1,427      1.14      66.8      1,174
1988/89             1,271       1,880        87,400         1,509      1.48      68.8      1,187
1989/90             1,344       3,740        99,100         1,343     2.79       73.7        999
1990/91             1,292       5,200       112,200         1,590      4.02      86.8      1,231
Note:  If hybrid seed and frtilizer are influencing maize yield then columns 6 and 7 should be strongly correlated with column 8.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture, Inputs Unit; ADMARC.



MALAWI
IMNISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Organizatilon chart
|       SECP  ARY
r                            S
w~~                                 m *       
. .   -N.R.C  -S.T:.A ,      - AdtlkWdn         P,    d       -     nsgand aldg
*un       -} h*  UAI  AK.FAC.TA          - _ Pnnd                                     p*ft
A-MRC      -S.S.A.            - Fhnc                           -Surn,s Evaluln and SWAc
S.C.A.      Edson                                               Pcofea Ptpalion
1 r *   fl ts   r   _         *                *                *              *  r~~~~~~~~~~Sl ad  ea
Coonamdl|                                                            Food _          an Mer vSC .Ck,
E .HuMdon                                                   and                   CF O
=rch~~~~~ (*"%)                                                                             Adddirto
R|mc        F      i       S       y                                               So NW i wON)i|    Sp 
|-C-voands       cto.ku         A-Cd lbt                       -owvFh r
I-Cfols    L   P-A        Lkok v_                     > F1-haln* 
l.Dft                                                                        Suppos-imc Resdon
E      cm&                                                  Fbimom ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E~ ai
Ank"~~~~~~~~~~~~ -aq                      Rod      -  --  -Ts 
"uWM*y  "sbant  E.Aa TO)        ddkoWaduhW 



THE PRESENT ORGAN(ZATION OF THE DEPT. OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY
AGAICLLURAL RESEARCH COUNCIL
CFi;EF AJPCLTURAL RESEAFICH OffICER         
RESEARCH ECONOMIST jNANCAL CON.I OLER 
TEPUTY CHIEF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH OFFICER                    OEPuTY CHIEF AGRICULIURAL RESEARCH OFFICER
(RESEARCH PROGIAES)                                    (UEC-NAL. AND ADMINISTRATNE SERVICES)
ACG1ICULURAL ECONOIACS. STATISlICS,
AND DATA PROCESSING UNIT
RESEARCH EDITOR
EIlEALS  HORTICULTURE LE&IMES    LIVESTOCK & ENG & LAND  ADPIE    EVCES         CHIEDE BYUMBWE           AOA        UMACA
A-R-CT     OILSEEOS &   pASTURES    | HUSBANDRY        R          A          RESEARCH   RESEARCH    RESEACH   RESEARCH
FIBIRES ARCC                 ARC                                   STATION     STAnoN      STATION     STATON
UFLJU   CHTALA SIMIULANGOBU    DNEA    BW         BAKA
s w    1 t r aT p w M O   m is   Wv a u Is   1   W j ~ i  ,  | s o l s   I  ad s i * W .  1 J I W t | F7~ J WP E R .   E XXsd s.lr t p r c w  E X P E R   E E   EEX P E
t wo *aiftLft    o U sd        pe tales  |  scU  sdirv 9  r    t  na  |rocixe  |   S                                    SSTATION             TA
tree MAOs       ocJicn                     sgl rdiaLt*,u   wls      nooI
|(X15 ~ vr> Ieta   |                      | f                      |c*   seed seq*ss    BEMBEICE ISAN 0AKO  TOMALI  MAPERA MCHECItiEMA POLERO MERU
v"ablesIM                                  feffm nwwkiwy            crp stors      TRIAL    TRIAL     TRIAL    TRIAL     TRIAL         TRIAL  TRIAL
lbruay         SITE     SlTE      SITE     SITE      SITE          SItE   SITE
rD(D
0
-h



PRESENT ORGANIZATION CHART: DEPARTMENT OF IRRIGATION (DO)
I CtbtIrrb Olw (P5)
1 Shdw  Typist 8tno. (D4/D3)
|c ion|           | Exensn & AcnoW Secidon             IS | I ADDs       Support Services
I An. C Inlf. 01. (PO)        I Pdo.   . 0I. (7)                                    1 Accowt (POICEO)
I     un.06l Olt. (PO)
2 ulgoa COlt. (P09
Dl & ConsVucflon        libehdd   8o                       Accounts           Prori d Gerwal
Of.C  Services
1 Prbod Itg. Ol. IP7)          1 s8 Me          SeVsr (STO)  1 Son. Acc. As. (SCO)  I Sen. Exec. Ol. (SEO GO)
3 ktNgon O0   o (PO)           1 Mechrloml SupevIsor (10)    3 Account Ass. (CO)    1 Sen. Cler. of. (SCO GD)
1 I  lgilon OMw (CTO)         1 CluuSor          (CO)                             3 Cerical Onl. (CO ID)
3Ass. Iulgdon 01o1cs (TO)                                                         2 Copy Typists (C81/6)
1 A                 (TO)                                                          1 POOperator (SCII)
I Draa_*nun (TO)                                                                  I Ass. Head Moss. (SCIV)
2 Messers (SCIV)
4 Secaury Guads
NOTE: Nutwr o Stall h ADDs and RDPs: 23
No. of tW hi t0 govL nrn ARhbeK. wom.s: 130
o0



56                              ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 6
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
PLAN OF ACTION*
ACTION PLAN 1: RESEARCH
ACTIONS                                                                                RESPONSIBLE                  TARGET
AGENCY/PERSON                DATE**
1. Finalize revised DAR Master Plan and conimodity research action plans              MOA/DAR                       May 1993
2. Update commodity trials action plans annually                                       MOA/DAR                      Sept yrly
3. Fmalize action plan for trengthening research-extension-farner links                DARIDAET/DAHI                Mar 1993
4. Annual review and update of research-extension farmer linkages                      DARlDAET/DAHI                Sept 15 yrly
5. Prepare Annual progress reports on contract research subritted to DAR/ARC and ASC   DAR/ASC/ARClContractors   June I yrly
6. Fmalize proposal on ASC and its relationship with ARC                               DREA/DAR                     May 1993
7. Establish ASC secretariat                                                           DREA                         May 1993
S. Prepare proposals and action plans for inproving DAR management systems            MOA/PS/DPMT                   May 1993
9. Finalize proposals for improving rewarding level of performance of scientists      MOAIPS/CARO                   April 1993
10. Prepare work plan for improved supervision of field stations by CARO/DARO         DAR/CARO                     March 1993
11. Complete arrangements for improving the management information system             DARICARO                      April 1993
12. Contract consultant to advise on general and scientific management system         DARICARO                      Feb 1994
13. Implement agreed improved management sysem                                        DAR/CARO                      1993-95
14. Streamline research stations by implementing recommendations of action plan       DAR/CARO                      1      R3/14 0
15. Review DAR staffing and update job descriptions for monitoring perfonnance annually  DAR/CARO                   JAi 1993 ydy
16. Prepare action plan for filling vacant administration posts                       DPMT                         Jul 1993
17. Complete detailed preparation of improved accounting system                       CARO/Consultant              May 1993
iS. Fmalize and Implement improved accounting system                                  DAR                          Jul 1993/4
19. Prepare action plan for improving reports and reporting procedures                DARICARO                     May 1993
20. Prepare TOR and plan of operation for technology clearing house                    DARICARO                     April 1993
21. Prepare TOR for study and action plans on inproved DAR/research structure          DARIASC                      Mar 1993
22. Initiate study, Phase I (item 22)                                                  DAR/ASC                      April 1993
23. Impliment action plans (item '23)                                                  DAR/ASC                      July 1994 on
24. Review findings of Phase U of study                                                DAR/ASC                      Sept 1995
These items are based on the outcome of detailed discussions with the officials from relevant participating agencies, including the
agreed recommendations arising from the ASP workshop held in November 1992. It is understood that some of the actions and target
dates may need to be revised in accordance with implementation experience.
In all cases, unless otherwise stated, the target date refers to that for the completion of relevant action. It is understood therefore that
actions will begin earlier than the target date, with sufficient ime in order for them to be completed by the target date.



57
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
ACTION PLAN 2: EXTENSION - AGRICULTURAL; LIVESTOCK and LAND HUSBANDRY
ACTIONS                                                                              RESPONSIBLE                  TARGET
AGENCY/PERSON               DATE
1. Develop improved research-extension-farmer linkage mechanisms                     DAR/DAET/DAHI/Bunda          Jan 1993
2. Implement linkage mechanisms                                                      PMs/ADD/DAR                   ib 93 nm
3. Promote proven low-low, productivity enhancing technologies                       PMs/Heads of Depts           Ongoing
4. Extend promotion of low-cost technologies to all RDPs                                                          Jul 1994
5. Establish closer links with NGOs extending low-cost technologies                                               Jul 1994
6. Create forum for cooperation with NGOs                                            MOA/CAS/NRDP                 Jul 1993
7. Review methods of extension in relation to low-cost technologies                  CAETO                        Ongoing
S. Relieve FAs of credit duties and reallocate time to resource-poor farmers' ext    MOA/PS                       1993
9. Improve farmer and field staff participation in planning, and tie plans to budgeb  PMs/Heads of Depts          Ongoing
10. Review and assess aff esablishment and career structure                          Heads of Depts               Jun 1993
11. Prepare proposal and implementation plan for sustainable organization of DAEr    PMslCAETO                    Feb 1993
12. Recruit staff to fill existing vacancies                                         Heads of Depts               Immeday
13. Clarify livestock extension responsibilities                                     CAETO/CVO                    Jan 1993
14. Fmalize estimate of required buildings (staff houses and offices)                CAErO                        Feb 1993
15. Construct required buildings                                                     CAErO                        Dee 199S
16. Prepare annual work plans and budget (by Sept. 1)                                CAETO/FNU/PMs                Annualy
17. Provide land resource information for National, ADD, RDP and EPA development Planning LRCB                    1993/4 on
18. Develop and promote long term sustainable land use systems                       LRCB                         1993/4 on
19. Publicize scarcity and vulnerability of country's natural resources              LRCB                         1993/4 on
20. Promote research in land husbandry practices to develop improved mesages for farmers    LRCB                  1993/4 on
21. Extend appropriate land husbandry skills to farmers and staff                    LRCB                         1993/4 on
22. Build up a land husbandry reference library                                      LRCB                         1993/4
ACTION PLAN 3: EXTENSION - TRAINING
ACTIONS                                                                              RESPONSIBLE                  TARGET
AGENCY/PERSON               DATE***
1. Pre-planning workshop in Participatory Extension Methods (PEMs)                   ATW/CAETO                    Feb 1993
2. Introductory PEM workshops                                                        ATBlPMslPrin NRC/            Aug 1993
Prin Bunda/Heads of Dept.
3. Training of core trainers in PEMs                                                 ADD Training Officers        June 1993
4. Training of trainers in PEMs                                                      ADD TOs                      Sept 1993
5. Training of TAs in PEMs                                                           ADD TOs                      Sept 1993
6. Development of system of reporting appropriate to PEMs                            ATB/CAETO/ADD TOs            Feb 1993
7. PEM training material development                                                 ATB/CAETO/ADD TOs            Feb 1993
8. Identification of needs related to training in extension management               ATB                          Mar 1993
9. Identification of institution relevant for training in extension management       ATB                          Mar 1993
10. Design course in extension management                                            ATBITA                       Sept 1993
11. Train line management staff in extension management                              ATB                          Oct 1993
12. Train SMSs in management of supervision                                          ATB                          Oct 1993
13. Follow-up and refresher courses in extension management                          ATE                          AnnuaUy
14. In-service SMS training and supplementary training of DOs,                       ATE/Heads of Depts/NRC       Oct 1993
ADOs and TAs in specialist subject matter                                         Bunda/PMs                    a appkable
15. Working group on strengthening agricultural colleges' pre-service training       CAS                          Jan 1993
16. Development of new curriculum to strengthen agricultural colleges' pre-service training  Prin Bunda/Prin NRC  Mar 1993
17. Development of new curriculum at NRC                                             Prin NRC                     Aug 1993
18. Staff orientation in new curriculum                                                                           Aug 1993
19. Training underqualified staff                                                    Prin NRC                     Aug 1993
20. Upgrading fieldstaff courses                                                     Prin NRC/Heads of Dept.      AnnuaUy
21. Prepare annual work plans and budgets (by Sept.1)                                ATE/CoUleges/Heads of Deptb  Annualy
** Target date for completion of action in the case of extension training is subject to available finding.



58
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 6
ACTION PLAN 4: EXTENSION - FOOD AND NUTRITION
ACTIONS                                                                              RESPONSIBLE                  TARGET
AGENCY/PERSON               DATE
1. Finalize action plan for Food and Nutrition subcomponent                          FNU                          Feb 1993
2. Study tour to Tanzania and Botswana                                               FNU                          May 1993
3. Baseline survey to assess nutritional knowledge of field staff                    FNU/Bunda College            Sep 1993
4. Organization and Management Workshop for PMs and Heads of Depts (2 days)          FNU                          May 1993
5. Preparation of training mod.ales/extension messages for implementation of Nutrition Facts    FNU, FNO SL&LWADD  Dec 1993
6. Technical training for FNOs (ADDs)                                                FNU/Bunda College            Jan 1994
7. Training of DOs and ADOs (15 courses)                                             FNU/TA                       Oct 1994
8. Training FAs (90 courses)                                                         FNU/TA/ADDs                  Jul 1995
9. Implementing FAs field activities at EPA level                                    FNU/TA                       Aug 1994
10. Review NRC Food and nutrition syllabus for FAs and update                        FNUITA                       Nov 1994
11. Field supervision of FAs activities and gathering feed-back from farmers         FNU/ADDs                     Ongoing
12. Regular, fortnightly training of FAs                                             FNU/ADDs                     Ongoing
13. MScs, Diplomas, PhD for ]FNU/ADD staff                                           FNU/ADDs/MOA                 Jul 1999
14. Review impact of implemenitation of Nutrition Facts Handbook                     FNU/CMEU                     Annually
15. Prepare annual work plans and budgets (by Sept 1)                                FNU                          Annually
16. Revise Nutrition Facts for IMalawian Famnilies                                   FNU                          Sept 1998
ACTION PLAN 5: PLANNING AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
ACTIONS                                                                              RESPONSIBLE                  TARGET
AGENCY/PERSON               Date
1. Review/vet projects in PSIP for consistency in policies and priorities            MOA/Planning Div.(PD)        Maiuch 1993
2. Update Tot. est. costs and project budgets                                        MOA/PD/EP&D                  Oct 1 yrly
3. Estimate and convey future resource ceilings for revenue budget                   Treasury/MOA                 Oct 1 yrly
4. Estimate recurrent expenditure needs (res and ext.) based on 'yardsticks'         PD/Fin. Div./DAR/DAET        July ydy
5. Provide training in forward budgeting for recurrent estimates                     Treasury/MOA (Fin. Div.)    May 1993
6. Update sector investment program                                                  MOA/PD                       every 2 yrs
7. Reassess rationale, structure and levels of subsidies/fees in MOA portfolio       MOA/PD                       Completed
S. Prepare framework/action pl an for phasing out subsidies                          MOA/PD (Pric. & Mkg.)        Nov 1993
9. Establish improved system for reviewing annual work plans and budgets             EP&D and MOA (PD)            May 1993
10. Standardize work plan and budget procedures in MOA (via manual)                  MOA (PD and FD)              1993/94
11. Conduct training needs assessment on computer applications for
preparation of work plans, finance and budgeting                                  MOA(PD/Training Unit)       May 1993
12. Prepare training plan                                                            MOA (Training Unit)         July 1993
13. Study Tours                                                                      MOAIEP&D/Treasury            Aug 1993
ACTION PLAN 6: INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING - IMPROVED ACCONTQING
SYSTEM
ACTIONS                                                                              RESPONSIBLE                  TARGET
AGENCY/PERSON               Date
1. Develop improved Book-kceping System.                                             Data Processing Unit         Maids 1993
2. Formulate Budget Codes in addition to Treasury Codes.                             Data Processing Unit         Sept 1993
3. Develop and Introduce Book-keeping Form Sheets.                                   DPU, Chief Accountant        August 1993
4. Provide Status of Donor Offshore Account                                          DPA, Chief Accountant        August 1993
5. Development of an adequate creditor ledger system.                                DPA, Chief Accountant        August 1993
6. Development of an expenditure ledger system.                                      DPA, Chief Accountant        August 1993
7. Computerize accounting system                                                     Chief Account/PD             Nov 1993
8. Provide needed training to implement improved accounting system                   Training Unit/Chief Accountant 1994/1995
9. Prepare improved guideline.s for reporting internally and to donors               Chief Accountant             Sept 1993



59
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
ACTION PLAN 7: BUDGET PLANNING FOR EXTENSION SERVICE DEPARTMENT
ACTIONS                                                                              RESPONSIBLE                  TARGET
AGENCY/PERSON               Date
1. Prepare variable costs, staff lists, donor table, car exp. indicate yardsticks    Planning Division            Apr 193
2. Describe of activities, calculate yardsticks                                      Program Manager              Oct 1993
3. List monthly exp. for each activity                                               Program Manager              Oct 193
4. Estimate expenses per section - total monthly exp.                                Program Manager              Oct 193
S. Estimate expenses per section RDP/EPA total monthly exp                           Program Manager              Oct 1993
6. Estmate expenses per section ADD/MU, total monthly exp                            Program Manager              Oct 1993
7. Estimate budget for extension service department                                  Plan.Dept.Chief Accountant   Nov 1993
S. Estimate budget and financial planning each ADD, RDP, EPA                         Plan. Dept, Chief Accountant  Oct 193
9. Ftnalize draft budget estimates                                                   Treasury                     Dec 1993
10. Adjust budget ADD, RDP, EPA                                                      Plan Dept, Chief Accountant  Dec 1993
11. Prepare data per month for develpt rev and headq bldg                            Planning Department          Dec 1993
ACTION PLAN 8: BUDGET PLANNING SYSTEM FOR RESEARCH DEPARTMENT
ACTIONS                                                                              RESPONSIBLE                  TARGET
AGENCY/IPERSON              DATE
1. Describe activities                                                               Program Manager             Marh 1993
2. Descnrb activities and formulate improved yardsticks                              Program Manager, Research   Sept 1993
3. List monthly activity for each action for res. station, exp. at,, trials          Program Manager, Research   Oct 1993
4. List donors interest in financing research activity                               Manager, Research Headq.    Oct 1993
S. Estimate research trial expenditures                                              Prog. Manager, Mg Res.Headq Oct 1993
6. Budget planning, treasury proposed                                                Research headq, Pla Dept     Oct 1993
7. Fmalize draft budget estimates                                                    Treasury                     Dec 1993
S. Adjust budget for res/exp stations and trial sites                                Plan Dept, Res Headq         Dec 1993
9. Prepare Budget data per month for dev, rev and direct fin bgt                     Plan Dept, Comput Dept       Dce 1993
ACTION PLAN 9: INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING - TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT
ACTIONS                                                                              RESPONSIBLE                  TARGET
AGENCY/PERSON               DATE
1. Improve policy and practices in workshops and procurement                         MOA/PS/PMs                   ImmeaIy
2. Undertake study to determine cost-effective workshop facilities BLADD and LWADD   MOA/Planning/ADDs            Immudiy
3. Formulate policy and conditions guiding motor-cycle ownership scheme              MOA/Treasury                 Jan 1993
4. Inplement motor-cycle ownership scheme (including training of drivers)            MOA/PS/Planning/Trans Div  Jun 1993
5. Review transport operations in DAR, DAHI and DOI                                  Trans Dir/TSA                Sep 1993
6. Develop Transportation Division in each ADD and MOA Dept and define personnel needs   "                        Oct 1993
7. Define responsibilities and work methods for each level in Transp Divs                                         Nov 1993
8. Develop policy and methodology to link work activity with allocs of veh and op funds,                          Dec 1993
9. Standardize estab level for all workshop management positions                                                  Dec 1993
10. Train all staff in, and implement linking of activities with allocs of vehicles and op funds    '/ATB        Mar 1994
11. Increase no of motor-cycle mechanics; allocate more workshop space to m'cycle maint  Trans DirlTSA/WMA        Aug 1994
12. Review condition of vehicles and equipment                                       'AWMA                        Sep 1994
13. Upgrade mechanical staff to provide increased supervisory capacity               ./WMA                        Dee 1994
14. Develop training plan for Transp Diva staff and improvement prog for TM                                      Jan 199S
15. Develop and implement (including training) preventative maintenance program      -/WMA                        Feb 1995
16. Develop and implement regular workshop management and supervision training                                    Mar 1995
17. nstall computerized transport information system                                                              Apr 1995
18. Inventorize all MOA vehicles and workshop equipment                                                           Jun 1995
20. Train MOA, DAHI, DAR, DOI and ADD personnel in inventory program                 *          1ATB              Sep 1995
21. Develop and implement improved vehicle utilization reporting program             *         ^                  Oct 1995
22. Develop and implement vehicle maintenance reporting program (including training)            IWMA              Jan 1996
23. Develop and implement improved cogt and budgetary allocation prog for Tranap Dept          ./l WMA            Jan 1996
24. Consolidate, pilot test, modify, train staff in, and implement Transport Management System    /ATB            Jun 1996
25. Review economics of rotating mechanics; consolidated procurement; direct importation;
contract maintenance and use of public transport for long distances               MOA/PS/TDITSA/WMA            Jun 1996
26. Prepare annual work plans and budget (by Sept. 1)                                Trans Dir/PMs                Annually



60
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 6
ACTION PLAN 10: INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING - AGRICULTURAL POLICY
ANALYSIS TRAINING
ACTIONS                                                                                 RESPONSIBLE                   TARGET
AGENCY/PERSON                DATE
1. Finalize of draft MOU between Bunda and MOA and implementation report                Bunda/MOA                     Jan 1993
2. Finalize and signing of MOU between Bunda and MOA                                    MOAlBunda College             Apr 1993
3. Fmalize and signing of contract with external institution                            Bunda/Ext Instit              June 1993
4. Carryout needs assessment study                                                      Bunda/MOA/EPD                 May 1993
S. Preparation of training modules                                                      Bunda                         Dec 1993
6. Construct of buildings and procurement of vehicle and equipment                      Bunda/lDA                     Mar 1994
7. Begin teaching of short courses                                                      Bunda                         Jun 1993
S. Begin training MSc candidates                                                        Bunda                         Jan 1994
9. Prepare annual work plans and budgets (by Sept 1)                                    Bunda                         Annually
10. Steering committee meetings                                                         Committee                    Biennally
11. Advertize for regional program                                                      Bunda/GOM                    Jan 1996
12. Attend EDI PAM workshop                                                             BundalMOA                    Sept 1993?
13. Assignment of supernumerary managerladministrator for program Bunda                 May 1993
ACTION PLAN 11: INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING - IRRIGATION
ACTIONS                                                                                 RESPONSIBLE                   TARGET
AGENCY/PERSON                DATE
1. Recruitment of DOI staff to fill approved establishment                              CIOIMOAICPO Personnel    March 1993
2. Workshops                                                                            PMslCIO                       May 1993
3. Topographical survey Wenya, Bembeke, Uzami                                           CIO/PMs                       June 1993
4. Finalize detailed SSI workplan                                                       WB/CIO                        April 1993
5. Implementation of the training program                                               TA/CIO                        Dmlr SQI
6. Construction of offices, houases LADD and KADD.                                      Controller of Build. CIO, PM   June 1994
7. Detailed design of SSI schemes initiated in year 1                                   CIOITAIPM                     June 1994
8. Prepare national SSI development program                                             TAICIO                        Mardh 1994
9. hIplementation of Wenya and Ngolowindo pilot schemes                                 CIO/PM                        Manhi 1994
10. Establishment of geo-physiical data base                                            CIO/TA                       O1bt1993
11. Implementation of Pilot Scheme in Nsanje and Backyard Kits in Bladd                 CIO/PM                       Sept 1993
12. Country study evaluation SSI experience                                             DOV/Consultants              Dec 1993
13. Prepare national SSI program                                                                                     Dec 1994
ACTION PLAN 12: INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING - MONITORING AND EVALUATION
ACTIONS                                                                                 RESPONSIBLE                   TARGET
AGENCY/PERSON                DATE
1. Finalize M&E implementaition report                                                  CMEU                         Jan 1993
2. Appoint senior M&E officer for ASP work                                              CMEU                          May 1993
3. Review and implement monitoring of key indicators of ASP performance                 CMEU/EWP/ADDs                 ki 1993 *dy
4. Establish and implement core survey program                                          Chief PI Officer/TA           Ja 1993 y*y
5. Design and implement extension monitoring survey                                     EWP                           Mar 1993
6. Establish 6 additional P8 posts in ADDs                                              MOA/DPMT                      Apr 1993
7. Establish 2 economists in CMEU                                                       *                             Jun 1993
8. Improve and implement AWPBs (including training)                                     PMa                           Oct 1993
9. Complete production of M&E manual, including AWPB systems                            Chief P1 Officer/TA           Dec 1993
10. Operationalize improved progress reporting system                                   PMs                          Ongoing
11. Train evaluation officers in computer skills                                        CMEU/ADDs                    Ongoing
12. Train field staff in statistical skills                                             NSO/ADDa/CMEU                Ongoing
13. Restructure staffing at field level                                                 Plan Div                     Ongoing
14. Undertake local surveys and national surveys to monitor ASP perf                    CMEU/ADDs                    Annually
15. Prepare annual work plans and budgets (by August 3 1st)                             CMEU/ADDs                    Annually
16. Finalize TOR for evaluation study                                                   CMEU                         June 1993
17. Contract evaluation study to local institution                                      CMEU                          Dec 1993
18. Carryout biennial evaluation study                                                  CEMU/Iocal institution       Sept 199SW97
19. Carryout terminal evaluation study                                                                               Sept 1999



61
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 6
ACTION PLAN 13: INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING: DISBURSEMENTS
ACTIONS                                                                                RESPONSIBLE                  TARGET
AGENCY/PERSON                DATE
1. Review and report of status of claims in MOA                                       Consultants                   Feb 1994
2. Update claims submissions                                                           Consultants                  Feb 1994
3. Prepare proposal of funding and disbursement mechanism                              Consultants                  Feb 1994
4. Prepare training materials and plan                                                 Consultants/GOM              Matic 1994
5. Conduct training on disbursement                                                    Consultants/GOM              Midc 1994
ACTION PLAN 14: INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING: PROCUREMENT
ACTIONS                                                                                RESPONSIBLE                  TARGET
AGENCYtPERSONS               DATE
1. Fmalize TOR, solicitation package, short list for national procurement
management and supply study                                                        Treasury                     Feb 1993
2. Iue invitations to short list and select consultants                                Treasury                     May 1993
3. Begin Procurement study                                                             Consultants                  June 1993
4. Select MOA procurement specialist                                                   MOA/PD/Chief Acct.           Apil 1M
5. Prepare detailed procurement plan for ASP                                           MOA procurement unit         Feb 1993
6. Prepare procurement monitoring system for biannual reports                         MOA procurement unit          April 1993
7. Prepare back-up sheet with every procurement document submitted for clearance
to enable MOA and relevant donor to monitor progress more effectively              MOA procurement unit         June 1993



62
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 5
MALAWI GOVERNMENT
MINISTRY OF FINANCE - WORLD BANK (IDA)
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PUBLIC PROCUREMENT AND SUPPLY
MANAGEMENT REFORM
A.    INTRODUCTION
1.    Public Procurement in Malawi Government is governed by the Finance and Audit Act of
the Laws of Malawi as amplified by Malawi Government Treasury Instructions (Stores).
2.    These stores' regulations apply to all Government Departments for the procurement of
works, goods and services. Public Corporations and parastatals are exempted from these
regulations since their procurement is governed by their own regulations and are therefore
excluded fiom the scope of the program. Numerous problems have been encountered in
the application of the existing regulations which has significantly impeded the implementa-
tion of projects. The Government, therefore, wishes to introduce procurement policies,
procedures, including appropriate codes, manuals, and standard bidding documents to
improve economy, efficiency and transparency of the public procurement system.
3.    The organizational arrangement for the Public Procurement System requires a comprehen-
sive review as well as the existing regulations and directives. The recommendations for
the reorganized structure based on economy and efficiency should address various options
such as creation of a centralized procurement Directorate of supplies or a decentralized
set-up with Ministerial arrangements for Ministries to manage their own procurement of a
combination of centralized system for defined procurement and a decentralized system for
the procurement of routine and general items. The scope of work also includes the
preparation of relevant codes, manuals and standard bidding documents.
4.    A similar study is also required for the Supply Management System which would involve
a review of the existing supply management functions. The recommendations should
address various options such as improvements to the existing system and development of a
new computerized integrated supply management system for the central stores organiza-
tion which is responsible for procurement of Government requirements.
5.    To summarize, the objectives of restructuring are the development and implementation of:
(i)    Appropriate organizational structure and grading of supply positions/posts in
Ministries and Departments, under the Stores Common Service controlled by the
Ministry of Finance through Central Stores Department, for a viable procurement
and materials management system for speedy decision making process based on
economy and efficiency with adequate safeguards for monitoring and auditing
requirements;



63
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5
(ii)   New procurement code(s) procedures, manuals for officials, sample bidding docu-
ments, etc., for procurement and materials management systems in the Govern-
ment;
(iii)   Materials management systems with appropriate manuals for its implementation
and control;
(iv)   Establish an authority, in Ministry of Finance, for inspection of procurement and
materials management practices in Malawi Government to ensure consistency of:
-     monetary evaluation of Government Inventory/Stock Holding Value;
-     Variety reductions by transfer and disposal of stores;
-     Advisory role for procurement and materials management practices in
Government to check uneconomic and wasteful purchases, departure from
standing regulations, and general supply management practices; and
-     Training on procurement and materials management.
B.    SCOPE OF WORK
6.    The scope of work has been divided into the following four (4) distinct phases:
' .    Phase I
(a)    This phase should result in specific recommendations on the structure and
the organizational set up including supply positions/ posts both for (i)
Public Procurement Systems; and (ii) Supply Management System.
Public Procurement
(b)   Review current formally promulgated regulations pertaining to public
procurement policies and practices for the procurement of goods, works
and services by various Government Departments and discuss their
relevance and effectiveness in relation to current and future needs.
(c)    Recommending organizational set-up for Public Procurement System in
Malawi giving complete data and details of the structure proposed with
justification, responsibilities of the individual positions proposed for the
Public Procurement System and Supply Management System taking into
consideration the requirements specified under Phase II and IV and
attachment I (to be defined);
(d)   Listing of the public entity(ies) required to follow the recommended
organizational set up;
(e)    Brief outlines of the proposed methods for preparation of Codes and other
documents specified under Phase II;



64
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
Supply Management System
(f)    Study of the present structure of management procedures and operating
practices within the Department of GOM requirements and with responsi-
bility for Storage and Distribution. Based on the findings, the recommen-
dations should be made for the restructuring of the organization taking
into consideration requirements specified under Phase IH and Attachment
II (to be defined) and recommending specific arrangements for:
(i)   improving the purchasing effectiveness by introducing economy
and efficiency and timely deliveries to various government Depart-
ments' requirements;
(ii)   improving the financial central public accountability;
(iii)  current resources of manpower, available space and logistics;
(iv)   improving the existing financial management and information
systems;
(v)   forecasting future requirements;
(vi)  evaluation of suppliers performance;
(vii)  stock taking and storage practices; and
(viii)  training needs for Human Resources Development;
2.    Phase H
This phase relates to the Public Procurement System and covers the preparation of
code(s), manual(s) and standard bolding documents by synthesizing the existing
documents with other sample documents such as the Bank's Sample Documents
for Goods, Work and Consultants, training manuals (option item) and in consulta-
tion with GOM (optional).
(a)    Preparation of a Procurement Code based on the suggested checklist for
Public Code (Attachment I). The consultant should feel free to add on
other topics as appropriate. The codes should also address the need for
compliance with procurement procedures of the different financing agen-
cies;
(b)   Preparation of standard Bidding Documents for use on International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), Limited
International Bidding (LIB) and solicitations for international/local shop-
ping. In preparation the existing document presently used should be
reviewed for synthesizing with the Sample Bidding Documents such as
World Bank, African Development Bank, etc.; and



65
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5
(c)    Preparation of specimen solicitation package including Conditions of
Contract for Consulting Services. The existing document presendy in use
should be synthesized with the Sample Documents such as World Bank,
African Development Bank, etc.;
3.    Phase III
This phase is different from the above phases and deals in particular with the
Management and Inventory Control. This phase requires the implementation of
the recommendations arising out of Phase I which inter alia, include preparation
of manual(s) based on the tentative lists of topics given in Attachment II which
should include complete details of purchasing, inventory and stores management,
audit on logistics, finance and administrative management. Also this phase will
install recommended systems in place with appropriate on-the-job training for
GOM personnel.
4.    Phase IV
This phase essentially deals with implementation of the recommendation on Phase
I, II, III and should provide complete details on the implementation program
which inter alia includes working together with GOM team to collaborate in the
Work Planning, organization structure and implementation of the procurement
code and management of supplies. In addition, the respective department con-
cerned will be guided by the consultants in implementing the recommendations.
However, the accuracy of any data collected shall be the responsibility of the
consultants through the exercise of proper guidance and supervision.
(C)   SCHEDULE OF WORK
It is expected that the proposed work would take about 18 months to complete. All
systems, procedures and implementation aspects should be planned and conducted in
consultation with appropriate Government personnel assigned for the tasks, so that there
will be effective skill transfer. Consultants should furnish with their proposals a detailed
schedule to each of the specialists, the time assigned to each and the inter-relationships of
tasks, the latter in bar-chart form.
(D)   PARTICIPATION OF GOVERNMENT
The Government will assign a full time team to the Project, to collaborate in the work of
planning, organization, development and implementation of the procurement, development
and implementation of the procurement code, and management of supplies. In addition,
the respective department staff of MOW, MCT, MOF, CTB, AGC and others would
collaborate with the departments concerned under the overall guidance of the consultant.
However, the accuracy of all data collected shall be the responsibility of the consultants
through the exercise of proper guidance and supervision.



66                                ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 5
(E)   REPORT REOUIREMENTS AND IMPLEMENTATION ASPECTS
The consultants will prepare a draft Inception Report describing Phase I dealing with
structure and organization of the Public Procurement System and Supply Management
System, within three months of the start of work, which will be reviewed by the Govern-
ment and the World Bank within one month. This report will also detail the program for
implementation of the recommendations and time frame for completion of Phases II, III,
IV. The final Inception Report will take into consideration the agreed changes/modificati-
ons requested by the Government and will be submitted within one month thereafter.
Government reserves the option to continue the consultant for the work specified in
Phases II and [II depending on the results of the study and recommendations outlined
under Phase I which will be reviewed by GOM in consultation with IDA immediately
after GOM's approval of the recommendations within six months from the date of GOM's
notification to commence which will be given after materials submitted for Phases III and
IV are reviewed and accepted. The implementation of this would take 4-6 months.
Accordingly, consultants should indicate separately the breakdown of fee and other related
costs for each phase specified.
(F)   GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI STEERING COMMITTEE
In view of the nature of the project and its impact on almost all Government Ministries
and Departments, it is necessary and important to organize an Inter-ministerial Steering
Committee which will consist of the following offices:
Secretary to the Treasury               Chairman
Controller of Stores                    Secretary
Secretary to the President
and Cabinet                             Member
Accountant General                      Member
Secretary for Economic
Planning and Development                Member
Secretary for Trade and Industry        Member
The responsibilities of the Committee will be to ensure timely and successful conduct and
implementation of the Consultancy. This will be achieved by frequent meetings, period to
be determined later, between the Committee and the Consultants to review the progress of
work and subsequent course of direction. The Committee will submit progress informa-
tion to Aid Donors with appropriate comments or recommendations.



MALAWI AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS IN RELATION TO OBJECTIVES
NARRATIVE SUMMARY                              Objectively Verifiable Indicators               Means of                     Report   Responsible         Inportant
(Actual v. Target)                             Verification                 Freq.    Agency              Asumupts
GOALS
1.Increase living sisndards of farm households  1.% rise in average household net incomes*     FSIS/Evaluations            A         MEU       Causality can be shown;
2.1ncrease tabour efficiency                   2. % rise in return per person day of farm labour*    FSIS/Evaluations       A        MEU       Lowincidenceofnaturaldisasters;
3.Reduce household food scarcity               3. % fall in food scarce HHs5                    FSLS/Evaluations            A        MEU       Policy framework favorable.
4.Improve nutrition                            4.% decrease in malaourished children <5 yrs    FSIS/Evaluations             A        MEU
PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
A. PRODUCTION
1 .Increased yield of main crops               1.Average kgs/ha yield increases on main crops  Crop Estimates              A         NEWU   Favourable climate
2.1ncreased area and output from main crops    2.X increase in area and output from main crops    Crop Estimates            A        NEWU   Low pest and disease
3.Increase food availability from own production    3.Proportion of food consumed by HH fromn farm    FSIS                  B        MEU       Availability of inputs
4.Adoption of inproved technologies            4.% of HHs using recommended technologies       EMS/Crop Est.                B/A      MEU
5.Area under improved seeds                    5.% increase under improved seed for main crops   Crop Est.                  Q        NEWU
6.Adoption of agro-forestry                    6. % increase in farmers using agro-forestry*   Crop Est.                    A        MEU
7.Adoption of improved cultivation practices   7.% increase in farmers using improved practices*   EMS                      A        MEU
8.Adoption of soiUwater conservation techniques    8. % incrs in farmers adopting conserve. practices*   EMS                A        MEU
9.1ncrease irrigated atea and production       9. % Growth in irrigated crop area and output   FSIS/Irrig. Svys             B/A      MEU/DOI
10.1ncrease cash income from irrigated cropping  10.% of HH farm income derived from irrig cultiv   FSIS                   A         MEU                                               o0
1 1.Increase labour productivity of female farmers    11. % of F farmers using labour saving tech  FSIS,EMS                B/A       MEU                                                N
12.Increase cash income from livestock         12. % of HH income derived from livestock       FSIS/FSNM                   A         MEU/FNU
B. INSTlTuTIONAL
1.Support fertilizer/seed policy reforms       1.% rise in smallholders use of fertilizer/seeds  FSIS/EMS                  B/A       MEU       Fertilizer prices
2.More cost-effective extension                2.% rise in no. of mini-plots/meetings/FA unit cost* EMS/P Rpt               B/A      MEU/DAET
3.1nproved disewmination capacity              3.% rise in farmer understanding/awareness of ext   Credit Rpts              A        MEU       Messages relevant
4.1niproved relevance of extension messages    4.% rise in farmers adopting reconumendations5  EMS                          B        MEU
S.Delinking credit operations from extension   5.% of FAs not doing credit activities          Mgt Rpt                      A        SACA    SACA reformed
6.Upgraded management/supervisory skills       6.Staff assessment/job evaluationstreporting    Ann Rpt                      A        MGT
7.1ncreased efficiency and effect of research  7.% red.in costs/message; No of low cost mesgs    Ann Rpt                   A         CARO    Depts agree
8.ASC esabfished and functioning               8.National Research Master Plan revised         Fin Rpt                     A         CARO
9.Cost Accounting Systems operating            9.Funds disbursed and accounts produced         Ann Rpt                     A         C.A.
10.Higher government staff morale              10.% reduction in turnover of experienced staff  Ann Rpt                    A         DPMT
1 1.Increased awareness of nutritional issues  11. % MOA staff informed of issues              EMS                         B         MEU/FNU
12.1ncreased incorp of nutrition into extension  12.No/relevance of extension meages disseminated EMS                      B         MEU/FNU                                     ) Z
13.1ncreased capacity of MOA in ag. policy analysis 13.No of analyses undertaken/published     Png Rpt                     A         PMU                                        to  n
14. Ensuring the ptoject is not environ damagin  14.Guidelines and indicators to be developed  Prog Rpt                    A         MEU                                           X
*UthemeSU BsII orsI   M beu                          m, ,. by  ,  , . .. sine                                                                                                      Un
N



INDICATIVE TARGETS FOR ASP PERFORMANCE1
OUTPUT                                                          TARGET FIRSW    TARGET SECOND TARGEr
REVIEW 9/95       REVIEW 9/97       PROJECT CLOSE 9/99
1. Mnwmn  average al smaliholder income increae2               2%                 4%                6%
2. Reduction in pn-harvest, food carce period from 3 to 2 months
3. Adaptation, diswemination and adoption of labour aving
technologies in food processing/transportation/fuelusce/collection             2 technologies
4. Tee low coat &g. productivity enhancing technologies         Submisaion to     Distemination to    Adoption by
Extension         25,000 frmenrs    40,000 farmers
S. Reduction in annal rate of resarch sdaff turnovers           10%               15%               20%
6. Coverage of smallholder population by extension              35%               45%               60%
7. Ratiooffemamefarmers coveredbyextension                      25%               35%               50%
8. Number of mallholders adopting HYVa of maize                 25%               30%               40%
9. No. farmrs using nitrogen-fixing/soil conservation techniques  15%             25%               40%
10. Upgrading FHAs to FAa                                                         100%
11. Incorporation of nutritional moesges into FAs work                            100% FAs covered
12. Minno. of hectares under small scale irigation             30                 120               300
13. No of farmers using small scale irrigation                  100               400               1000                                                                        
14. No of local, problems specific surveys to be undertaken by each ADD' 2-8      4-16              6-24
15. Reduction in MOA transport costs (for same level of srvices)  5%              8%                12%
16. No of GOM staff who have received Ag Policy Analysis Training  10             20                30
17. Incra in no. of private hybrid maize seed producers/distributors  To be determined following seed policy study
a) Z
to z
These indicative targets are to be primarily used to monitor project performance. They provide an indication of the direction and magnitude of expected             rD M
project impact.  Failure to attain specific targets wil guide examinations into causes, and where appropriate, changes in the design/implementation                  N)
arrangements of the project.                                                                                                                                         o
2    All increases/reductions are relative to 1992/3 levels. Where ever appropriate indicators are to be disaggregated by gender and landholding size (see Annex
5, Staff Appraisal Report).
3    Staff turnover is largely beyond the control of the Department of Agricultural Research.
4    These are cumulative figures, thus the expectation is that between 1 and 4 problem oriented surveys are undertaken by each ADD in each of the project years.



MALAUI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
KWACHA                            USOOLLARS                       X Total
'~-~-~---------------''''''---    --------- ------------------ X Foreign               Base
Local   Foreign       Total        LocaL  Foreign    Total        Exchange      Costs
A . INST STRENGTHENING
1. TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT             1547.0    3267.0    4814.0           420.4    887.8   1308.2            67.9        2.3
2. PLANNING AND FIN MANMENT         1168.5    1804.5    2973.0           317.5    490.4    807.9            60.7         1.4
3. PROCUREMENT                         27.1    5824.3    5851.5            7.4   1582.7   1590.1            99.5         2.9
4. MONITORING AND EVALUATION        4933.7      855.9    5789.6         1340.7    232.6   1573.3             14.8        2.8
5. SMALL SCALE IRRIGATION           5095.5    4489.5    9585.0          1384.6   1220.0   2604.6            46.8        4.7
6. AG POLICY ANALYSIS TRAIN         3982.3    3276.0    7258.3          1082.1    890.2   1972.4            45.1        3.5
Sub-Total                               16754.1   19517.3   36271.4         4552.7   5303.6   9856.4             53.8       17.7
8 . AG RESEARCH
1. CEREALS                          3888.2    1000.8    4889.0          1056.6    272.0   1328.5            20.5        2.4
2. OILSEEDS AND GRAIN LEGUME        2024.2      554.8    2579.1          550.1    150.8    700.8            21.5        1.3
3. LIVESTOCK                         442.3       551.7      994.0        120.2    149.9    270.1            55.5        0.5
4. SOILS                            1022.2       927.4    1949.7         277.8    252.0    529.8            47.6         1.0
5. DAR HQ                           3519.0   14031.0   17550.0           956.3   3812.8   4769.0            79.9        8.6
6. ADAPTIVE RESEARCH                 1527.0      840.0    2367.0         414.9    228.3    643.2             35.5        1.2
7. AG SERVICES COMMITTEE            3820.8       178.6    3999.5        1038.3      48.5   1086.8            4.5         1.9
8. HORTICULTURE                     3112.1    2251.3    5363.5           845.7    611.8   1457.5            42.0        2.6
9. TECHNICAL SERVICES               16089.8    1582.2   17672.0         4372.2    429.9   4802.2             9.0         8.6
Sub-Total                               35445.8   21918.0   57363.8         9632.0   5956.0  15588.0             38.2       28.0
C . EXTENSION                                                                                                                                                                            CK
1. EXT SERVICES -AGRICULTURE    49865.9    8663.5   58529.5            13550.5   2354.2  15904.8            14.8       28.5                                                         '0
2. EXT SERVICES - LIVESTOCK         4713.0    2562.0    7275.0          1280.7    696.2   1976.9            35.2        3.5
3. EXTENSION AIDS                     130.2      253.8      384.0         35.4      69.0    104.3           66.1         0.2
4. fOO AND NUTRITION                  836.0    1443.4    2279.4          227.2    392.2    619.4             63.3        1.1
5. LAND RESOURCES & CONSERV         4108.0    1557.0    5665.0          1116.3    423.1    1539.4           27.5        2.8
Sub-Total                               59653.2   14479.7   74132.9        16210.1   3934.7  20144.8             19.5       36.1
D . AGRICULTURAL INPUTS
1. FERTILIZER SUPPLY                    0.0   33000.0   33000.0            0.0   8967.4   8967.4           100.0       16.1
E . PROJECT PREPARATION                  873.8    3495.4    4369.2          237.5    949.8   1187.3             80.0        2.1
Total BASELINE COSTS                   112726.9   92410.3  205137.3        30632.3  25111.5  55743.8             45.0      100.0
Physical Contingencies               5277.3    1639.1    6916.4          1434.1    445.4   1879.5             23.7       3.4
Price Contingencies                 26980.9   18055.3   45036.2          4453.8   2681.0   7134.9            37.6        12.8
Total PROJECTS COSTS                   144985.2  112104.7  257089.9        36520.2  28238.0  64758.2             43.6      116.2
Values Scaled by 1000.0 - 4/14/1993  12:16                                                                                                                                    Dt Z
t z
X m
0'
o0s
00



HALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Summary Account by Project Component
KWACHA
TRANSPOR                      MONITORI    SMALL      AG                OILSEEDS                                              AG
T     PLANNING             NG AND     SCALE    POLICY                 AND                                             SERVICES
MANAGEME   AND FIN  PROCUREM  EVALUATI  IRRIGATI  ANALYSIS               GRAIN   LIVESTOC                       ADAPTIVE  COMMITTE
NT      MAN4ENT     ENT       ON        ON        TRAIN    CEREALS   LEGUME       K       SOILS    DAR HO   RESEARCH       E
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                         0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0    2125.0    1448.6        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     100.0       0.0
B. VEHICLES AND EQUIP               1745.0        0.0       0.0     111.0    970.0      290.0      156.0     166.5     147.0      22.5    2940.0        0.0     145.0
C. OFFICE EQUIP AND SUPPLIES         345.0       55.0      31.5     490.0    1510.0    442.5        29.0       0.0      16.0     108.0       0.0      900.0      53.5
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              1080.0    1755.0   5580.0      315.0    1620.0   2013.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    2160.0        0.0       0.0
E. LOCAL TECH ASSISTANCE               0.0        0.0       0.0     858.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0    2904.0
F. INTERNATIONAL TRAINING            340.0       0.0      240.0       0.0       0.0     188.0     927.0      450.0     450.0     900.0   10250.0        0.0       0.0
G. DOMESTIC TRAINING                 720.0    1097.0        0.0     301.6    1260.0   1760.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
H. AGRICULTURAL INPUTS                 0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
1. PROJECT PREPARATION                 0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Totat INVESTMENT COSTS              4230.0    2907.0    5851.5    2075.6    7485.0    6142.1    1112.0       616.5     613.0    1030.5   15350.0    1000.0    3102.5
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. NONSALARIED OPERATING CST         584.0       66.0       0.0    3714.0    2100.0    1116.2    3777.0    1962.6      381.0     919.2    2200.0    1367.0      633.0
B. OfFICE AND ADMIN COSTS              0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0     264.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                584.0       66.0       0.0    3714.0    2100.0    1116.2   3777.0    1962.6       381.0     919.2    2200.0    1367.0      897.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                4814.0    2973.0    5851.5    5789.6    9585.0    7258.3    4889.0    2579.1       994.0    1949.7   17550.0    2367.0    3999.5
Physical Contingencies              133.7       6.0       1.6     215.7     547.7     309.7      198.1     106.5      27.2      52.5      257.0     128.3       54.8
Price Contingencies                977.8      526.1     736.5    1447.4    2203.2    1470.3    1088.7      569.1     196.0     371.4    3850.6      585.3      925.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                 5925.5    3505.1    6589.6    7452.7   12335.9    9038.4    6175.8    3254.6    1217.2    2373.6   21657.6    3080.7    4980.1
Taxes                                0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange                  4045.9    2072.0    6556.6    1061.0    5646.7    3981.5    1191.4       669.1     656.8    1078.4   17162.7    1091.6       212.7
Values Scaled by 1000.0  4/14/1993  12:16
-u 
0) D
to z
(D M
cp m
ro
0'
0c



MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Summary Account by Project Comporent
KUACHA
EXT
EXT    SERVICES                        LAND
TECHNICA  SERVICES      -               FOOD AND  RESOURCE  FERTILIZ   PROJECT
HORTICUL      L     -AGRICUL  LIVESTOC  EXTENSIO  NUTRITIO     S &       ER     PREPARAT
TURE    SERVICES    TURE        K      N AIDS       N      CONSERV   SUPPLY      ION
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                         0.0       0.0   10916.0   2000.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
B. VEHICLES AND EQUIP                143.5      33.0   3987.5   2180.0    252.0    145.0   1730.0            0.0       0.0
C. OFFICE EQUIP AND SUPPLIES         108.0    525.0        0.0       0.0      30.0      27.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                0.0       0.0    1350.0       0.0       0.0    264.0        0.0        0.0      0.0
E. LOCAL TECH ASSISTANCE               0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
F. INTERNATIONAL TRAINING           2250.0   1200.0    500.0         0.0       0.0    1138.4       0.0       0.0       0.0
G. DOESTIC TRAINING                    0.0       0.0   12591.0   1925.0    102.0    705.0   3425.0           0.0       0.0
H. AGRICULTURAL INPUTS                 0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0  33000.0        0.0
1. PROJECT PREPARATION                 0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    4369.2
. . ......... .......... ... . . .. ... I- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              2501.5   1758.0  29344.5   6105.0    384.0   2279.4   5155.0  33000.0   4369.2
11. RECURRENT COS1S
A. NONSALARIED OPERATING CST        2862.0   15914.0   29185.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    510.0        0.0        0.0
B. OFFICE AND ADMIN COSTS              0.0       0.0       0.0    1170.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS               2862.0   15914.0   29185.0    1170.0       0.0       0.0    510.0        0.0       0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                5363.5   17672.0   58529.5    7275.0    384.0    2279.4    5665.0  33000.0    4369.2
Physical Contingencies             155.7    823.6   3296.0    467.5         14.1       8.6      112.0      0.0       0.0
Price Contirnencies               1166.2   4039.3   14202.5    1857.7       71.7    336.9   1406.4   6612.4        394.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                 6685.4  22534.9  76028.1   9600.2    469. 8    2624.9   7183.4  39612.4   4764.1
Taxes                                0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange                  2719.5    1866.6   11240.9   3392.0    311.0    1675.1    2016.5  39612.4    3844.3
Valtu Scaled by 1000.0 4/14/1993 12:17
,0>Z
no z
to z
(Dm
Lid
0~
00
00



MALAUI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Projects Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
KWACHA
93/94     94/95     95/96     96/97     97/98     98/99     Total
A. INST STRENGTHENING
1. TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT           447.3    1519.3    2100.4      648.7   - 90.9    1119.0    5925.5
2. PLANNING AND FIN MANMENT        598.3    1406.2     678.4     261.5     273.9     286.9    3505.1
3. PROCUREMENT                    3310.3    2757.4     367.9      49.3      51.3      53.3   6589.6
4. MONITORING AND EVALUATION       432.5    1161.3    1432.4    1195.7    1586.2    1644.6    7452.7
5. SMALL SCALE IRRIGATION         1201.7   2420.8    2526.7    1971.4    2060.9    2154.5   12335.9
6. AG POLICY ANALYSIS TRAIN        727.7   3849.8    1084.0    1101.2    1151.6    1124.0   9038.4
Sub-Total                             6717.8   13114.9    8189.8    5227.8   5214.7    6382.2  44847.3
B. AG RESEARCH
1. CEREALS                        678.9    1340.4    1171.0    948.1       994.4   1043.1    6175.8
2. OILSEEDS AND GRAIN LEGUME       386.8    628.0      613.9    642.4      479.9     503.6    3254.6
3. LIVESTOCK                        70.2    442.2      257.3     268.3      87.4      91.8    1217.2
4. SOILS                           169.3    1023.7     547.4     200.9     210.9     221.5    2373.6
5. OAR HO                          890.7   5211.8    5101.7    3345.8    3482.6    3625.0   21657.6
6. ADAPTIVE RESEARCH               140.4     536.8     561.4     586.9     613.6     641.6    3080.7
7. AG SERVICES COMMITTEE           414.5     981.9     831.5     873.0     916.7    962.5    4980.1
8. HORTICULTURE                    527.1    1725.1   t129.8   t180.5    1233.5       889.4    6685.4
9. TECHNICAL SERVICES             2397.0   4623.2    3966.9    3789.4    3784.6    3973.8   22534.9
-------------------  -.  -------------------.  ---------------------------
Sub-Totat                             5674.9   16513.1   14180.8   11835.3   11803.7   11952.2   71959.9
C. EXTENSION
1. EXT SERVICES -AGRICULTURE      5240.4   12772.2  14588.1   14284.4   18103.8   11039.2   76028.1
2. EXT SERVICES - LIVESTOCK        215.5    1713.0    1791.5    1873.2    1958.7    2048.2    9600.2
3. EXTENSION AIDS                   17.9    182.3      189.7      34.2      22.3      23.4     469.8
4. FOOD AND NUTRITION              360.9    1591.5     442.5     229.9       0.0       0.0    2624.9
5. LAND RESOURCES & CONSERV         93.9   1291.7    1352.0    1415.0    1480.9    1549.9    7183.4
Sub-Total                             5928.6  17550.8  18363.8  17836.7  21565.7  14660.8  95906.3
D. AGRICULTURAL INPUTS
1. FERTILIZER SUPPLY                 0.0  11427.3   11867.2   8006.8   8311.1          0.0  39612.4
E. PROJECT PREPARATION               4764.1       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0   4764.1
Total PROJECTS COSTS                 23085.4  58606.1   52601.6  42906.5  46895.1   32995.2  257089.9
Values Scaled by 1000.0 4/14/1993  12:17                                                                                                                          (D z
oC m
0c
0
00



MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Projects Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
USDOLLARS
93/94     94/95      95/96      96/97     97/98      98/99      Total
A. INST STRENGTHENING
1. TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT              112.7      382.7     529.1       163.4      22.9      281.9    1492.6
2. PLANNING AND FIN MANMENT          150.7      354.2      170.9       65.9      69.0       72.3      882.9
3. PROCUREMENT                       833.8      694.6       92.7       12.4      12.9       13.4    1659.8
4. MONITORING AND EVALUATION         108.9      292.5      360.8      301.2     399.6      414.3    1877.3
5. SMALL SCALE IRRIGATION            302.7      609.8      636.4     496.6      519.1      542.7    3107.3
6. AG POLICY ANALYSIS TRAIN          183.3      969.7      273.1      277.4     290.1      283.1    2276.7
Sub-Total                                1692.2    3303.5    2062.9    1316.8    1313.5    1607.6   11296.5
B. AG RESEARCH
1. CEREALS                           171.0      337.6     295.0      238.8      250.5      262.7    1555.6
2. OILSEEDS AND GRAIN LEGUME          97.4      158.2      154.6      161.8     120.9      126.9      819.8
3. LIVESTOCK                          17.7      111.4       64.8       67.6      22.0       23.1      306.6
4. SOILS                              42.6      257.9      137.9       50.6      53.1       55.8      597.9
5. DAR HQ                            224.4    1312.8    1285.1       842.8      871.2      913.1    5455.3
6. ADAPTIVE RESEARCH                  35.4      135.2      141.4      147.8     154.6      161.6      776.0
7. AG SERVICES COMMITTEE             104.4      247.3      209.4     219.9      230.9      242.5    1254.4
8. HORTICULTURE                       132.8     434.5      284.6      297.4     310.7      224.0    1684.0
9. TECHNICAL SERVICES                603.8    1164.5       999.2     954.5      953.3    1001.0    5676.3
Sub-Total                                1429.4    4159.5    3572.0    2981.2    2973.2    3010.6   18125.9                                                                          W
C. EXTENSION
1. EXT SERVICES -AGRICULTURE        1320.0    3217.2    3674.6    3598.1    4560.1    2780.7   19150.6
2. EXT SERVICES - LIVESTOCK           54.3      431.5      451.3     471.8      493.4      515.9    2418.2
3. EXTENSION AIDS                      4.5       45.9       47.8        8.6       5.6        5.9      118.3
4. FOOD AND NUTRITION                 90.9      400.9      111.5       57.9       0.0        0.0      661.2
S. LAND RESOURCES & CONSERV           23.7      325.4      340.6      356.4     373.0      390.4    1809.4
Sub-Total                                1493.4    4420.9    4625.6    4492.9    5432.2    3692.9   24157.8
0. AGRICULTURAL INPUTS
1. FERTILIZER SUPPLY                   0.0    2878.4    2989.2    2016.8    2093.5           0.0    9977.9
E. PROJECT PREPARATION                 1200.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0    1200.0
Total PROJECTS COSTS                    5815.0   14762.2   13249.8   10807.7   11812.4    8311.1   64758.2
Values Scaled by 1000.0 4/14/1993 12:17
h Z
XD m
0n
O0s
00



HALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Sunnary Accounts Cost Sumnary
KUACHA                           USDOLLARS                      X Total
------------------------------    ---------------------------   X Foreign           Base
Locat   Foreign      Total        Locat  Foreign    Total       Exchange      Costs
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                      11612.7    4976.9   16589.6         3155.6   1352.4   4508.0           30.0        8.1
B. VEHICLES AND EQUIP                1516.4   13647.6   15164.0          412.1   3708.6   4120.7           90.0        7.4
C. OFFICE EQUIP AND SUPPLIES          467.0    4203.4    4670.5          126.9   1142.2   1269.2           90.0        2.3
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 0.0   1613? 0   16137.0            n,0   4385-1   431851          1OI-n        7 9
E. LOCAL TECH ASSISTANCE             3762.0        0.0    3762.0        1022.3      0.0   1022.3            0.0        1.8
F. INTERNATIONAL TRAINING            1883.3   16950.1   18833.4          511.8   4606.0   5117.8           90.0        9.2
G. DOMESTIC TRAINING                23886.6        0.0   23886.6       6490.9       0.0   6490.9            0.0       11.6
H. AGRICULTURAL INPUTS                  0.0   33000.0   33000.0            0.0   8967.4   8967.4          100.0       16.1
1. PROJECT PREPARATION                873.8    3495.4    4369.2         237.5    949.8   1187.3            80.0        2.1
Totat INVESTMENT COSTS              44001.9   92410.3  136412.3        11957.1  25111.5  37068.6           67.7       66.5
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. NONSALARIED OPERATING CST        67291.0        0.0   67291.0       18285.6      0.0  18285.6            0.0       32.8
B. OFFICE AND ADMIN COSTS            1434.0        0.0    1434.0         389.7      0.0    389.7            0.0        0.7
Totat RECURRENT COSTS               68725.0        0.0   68725.0       18675.3      0.0  18675.3            0.0       33.5
Total BASELINE COSTS               112726.9   92410.3  205137.3       30632.3  25111.5  55743.8            45.0      100.0
Physical Contingencies            5277.3    1639.1    6916.4         1434.1    445.4   1879.5           23.7        3.4
Price Contingencies              26980.9   18055.3   45036.2        4453.8   2681.0   7134.9            37.6       12.8
Total PROJECTS COSTS               144985.2  112104.7  257089.9        36520.2  28238.0  64758.2           43.6      116.2
Values Scaled by 1000.0 -   4/14/1993  12:17
->
Di
o) z
(a z
(D m
x
0'
0s
ol
Co



MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
KWACHA
93/94     94/95      95/96      96/97     97/98      98/99      Tota;
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                           38.0    4086.0    6138.2    5476.2    6383.0    1323.4   23444.8
B. VEHICLES AND EQUIP                    25.3    6739.7    4115.4    1568.5    4066.2    2778.0   19293.0
C. OFFICE EQUIP AND SUPPLIES            46.0    2656.0       719.8      720.1    1076.1      674.2    5892.1
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE               6230.6    6936.4    2988.2        773.6     803.0      833.5   18565.2
E. LOCAL TECH ASSISTANCE               347.3      672.8      941.9      741.7     778.8    1181.2    4663.8
F. INTERNATIONAL TRAINING             1259.3    5892.8    5148.3    4127.2    3293.8    3023.3   22744.6
G. DOMESTIC TRAINING                   1851.6    5840.9    5316.2    5478.1    5368.1    5533.0   29388.0
H. AGRICULTURAL INPUTS                   0.0   11427.3   11867.2    8006.8    8311.1           0.0   39612.4
1. PROJECT PREPARATION                4764.1        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0    4764.1
Totat INVESTMENT COSTS               14562.1   44251.9   37235.0   26892.2   30080.1   15346.6  168367.9
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. NONSALARIED OPERATING CST          8281.3   14065.2   15063.2   15695.7   16480.5   17297.3   86883.1
B. OFFICE AND ADMIN COSTS               242.0     289.0      303.4      318.6     334.5      351.3    1838.9
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 8523.3   14354.2   15366.6   16014.3   16815.0   17648.6   88722.0                                                                             _4
Total PROJECT COSTS                  23085.4   58606.1   52601.6   42906.5   46895.1   32995.2  257089.9
Values Scated by 1000.0 4/14/1993 12:17
to D
(D m
0
-h



MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
USDOLLARS
93/94     94/95      95/96      96/97     97/98      98/99      Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                           9.6    1029.2    1546.1    1379.4    1607.8         333.3    5905.5
B. VEHICLES AND EQUIP                    6.4    1697.7    1036.6       395.1    1024.2       699.7    4859.7
C. OFFICE EQUIP AND SUPPLIES            11.6      669.0      181.3     181.4      271.1      169.8    1484.2
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE               1569.4    1747.2       752.7      194.9     202.3      209.9    4676.4
E. LOCAL TECH ASSISTANCE                87.5      169.5     237.3      186.8      196.2      297.5    1174.8
F. INTERNATIONAL TRAINING              317.2    1484.3    1296.8    1039.6        829.7      761.5    5729.1
G. DOMESTIC TRAINING                   466.4    1471.3    1339.1    1379.9    1352.2    1393.7    7402.5
H. AGRICULTURAL INPUTS                   0.0    2878.4    2989.2    2016.8    2093.5           0.0    9977.9
1. PROJECT PREPARATION                1200.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0    1200.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                3668.0   11146.6    9379.1    6773.9    7576.8    3865.6   42410.1
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. NONSALARIED OPERATING CST          2086.0    3542.9    3794.3    3953.6    4151.3    4357.0   21884.9
B. OFFICE AND ADMIN COSTS               61.0       72.8       76.4      80.3       84.3       88.5     463.2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 2146.9    3615.7    3870.7    4033.8    4235.5    4445.5   22348.1
O=
Total PROJECT COSTS                   5815.0   14762.2   13249.8   10807.7   11812.4    8311.1   64758.2
Values Scaled by 1000.0 4/14/1993 12:17
CD Z
(X rn
(D m
00
-4h



MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
USDOLLARS
IDA              ADB            Goverrvnent         Total                   Local
'-'''-'--------------------'----------~-----------------------------    For.    (Exct.   Duties
Amount     X     Amount      X      Amount     X      Amount     X       Exch.   Taxes)   & Tax.
A. CIVIL WORKS                     3951.3    89.5       0.0     0.0    465.1    10.5   4416.4        6.8   1315.9   3100.5       0.0
B. CIVIL UORKS                        0.0     0.0   1332.1    89.5    157.0    10.5   1489.1         2.3    442.1   1047.0       0.0
C. VEHICLES                        2937.0    89.9       0.0     0.0    328.4    10.1   3265.4       5.0   2937.0    328.4        0.0
D. VEHILCES AND EQUIPMENT             0.0     0.0   1432.8    89.9    161.6    10.1   1594.3         2.5   1432.8    161.6       0.0
E. OFFICE EQUIPMENT                 891.5    90.0       0.0     0.0      99.3    10.0    990.8       1.5    891.5     99.3       0.0
F. OFFICE EQUIPMENT ADS               0.0     0.0    443.3    89.9       50.0    10.1    493.3      0.8    443.3      50.0       0.0
G. TRAINING                       11058.1   100.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0  11058.1    17.1   5152.7   5905.5         0.0
H. TRAINING ADB                       0.0     0.0   2073.5   100.0        0.0     0.0   2073.5      3.2       0.0   2073.5       0.0
1. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE           5384.7   100.0        0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0   5384.7      8.3   4209.9   1174.8        0.0
J. TECHNICAL ASSITANCE ADB            0.0     0.0    466.5   100.0        0.0     0.0    466.5      0.7    466.5       0.0       0.0
K. NONSALARY OPERATING CSTS       16240.2    77.2       0.0     0.0   4803.6    22.8  21043.8    32.5         0.0  21043.8       0.0
L. NON-SALARY OP COSTS                0.0     0.0    955.8    78.5    262.4    21.5   1218.2         1.9      0.0   1218.2       0.0
N. PROJECT PREPARATION             1200.0   100.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0   1200.0       1.9    968.3    231.7       0.0
N. OFFICE & ADMIN                    66.1    76.8       0.0     0.0      20.0    23.2      86.1      0.1      0.0     86.1       0.0
0. AGRICULTURAL INPUTS             3991.2    40.0   5986.8    60.0        0.0      0.0   9977.9    15.4   9977.9        0.0      0.0
Total Disbursement                 45720.2    70.6  12690.7    19.6   6347.3       9.8  64758.2   100.0  28238.0  36520.2         0.0
---------------------------~~-------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                   -
Values Scaled by 1000.0 4/14/1993 12:17
-U 0
Iaa z
tQ Z
( M
.j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.
0
(A



MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Finanrcing Plan by Project Components
USDOLLARS
IDA               ADB            Govermnent           Total                   Local
-------------------------------    For.    (Exci.   Duties
Amount     X      Amount      X      Amount      X     Amount      X       Exch.   Taxes)   & Tax.
A. TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT             1423.0    95.3        0.0     0.0      69.6      4.7   1492.6       2.3   1019.1    473.5        0.0
B. PLANNING AND FIN HANMENT          881.3    99.8        0.0     0.0       1.6      0.2    882.9       1.4    r21.9    361.0        0.0
C. PROCUREMENT                      1658.9    99.9        0.0     0.0       0.9      0.1   1659.8       2.6   1651.5       8.3       0.0
D. MONITORING AND                   1548.1    82.5        0.0      0.0    329.2    17.5   1877.3        2.9    267.2   1610.0        0.0
E. SMALL SCALE IRRIGATION              0.0      0.0   2798.5    90.1    308.8        9.9   3107.3       4.8   1422.3   1684.9        0.0
F. AG POLICY ANALYSIS TRAIN         2113.6    92.8        0.0     0.0    163.1       7.2   2276.7       3.5   1002.9   1273.8        0.0
G. CEREALS                          1280.1    82.3        0.0     0.0    275.5    17.7   1555.6         2.4    300.1   1255.5        0.0
H. OILSEEDS AND GRAIN                678.3    82.7        0.0     0.0    141.5    17.3    819.8         1.3    168.5    651.3        0.0
1. LIVESTOCK                         275.3    89.8       0.0      0.0      31.3    10.2    306.6       0.5    165.4    141.2         0.0
J. SOILS                             530.2    88.7        0.0     0.0      67.7    11.3    597.9        0.9    271.6    326.2        0.0
K. DAR HQ                           5196.2    95.3        0.0     0.0    259.1       4.7   5455.3       8.4   4323.1   1132.2        0.0
L. ADAPTIVE RESEARCH                 639.1    82.4        0.0     0.0    136.9    17.6    776.0         1.2    275.0    501.0        0.0
M. AG SERVICES COMMITTEE            1180.7    94.1        0.0      0.0     73.7      5.9   1254.4       1.9      53.6   1200.8       0.0
N. HORTICULTURE                     1477.8    87.8        0.0     0.0    206.2    12.2   1684.0         2.6    685.0    999.0        0.0
0. TECHNICAL SERVICES               4514.7    79.5        0.0      0.0   1161.6    20.5   5676.3        8.8    470.2   5206.1        0.0
P. EXT SERVICES                    16366.1    85.5        0.0     0.0   2784.5    14.5  19150.6    29.6   2831.5  16319.2            0.0
Q. EXT SERVICES - LIVESTOCK            0.0      0.0   2188.7    90.5    229.5        9.5   2418.2       3.7    854.4   1563.8        0.0
R. EXTENSION AIDS                    109.6    92.7        0.0     0.0       8.7      7.3    118.3       0.2      78.3     40.0       0.0
S. FOOD AND NUTRITION                656.0    99.2        0.0     0.0       5.2      0.8    661.2       1.0    421.9    239.2        0.0
T. LAND RESOUIRCES & CONSERV           0.0      0.0   1716.7    94.9       92.7      5.1   1809.4       2.8    507.9   1301.5        0.0                                    Co
U. FERTILIZER SUPPLY                3991.2    40.0   5986.8    60.0          0.0     0.0   9977.9    15.4   9977.9          0.0       0.0
V. PROJECT PREPARATION              1200.0   100.0        0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0   1200.0       1.9    968.3    231.7         0.0
Total Disbursement                  45720.2    70.6  12690.7    19.6   6347.3         9.8  64758.2   100.0  28238.0  36520.2           0.0
Vatues Scated by 1000.0  4/14/1993  12:17
XO Z
X m
0) 
to
(D M
MW



MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Financing Plan by Foreign Exchange / Local / Taxes
USDOLLARS
IDA        ADB      Goverrment       Total
Amount      Amount      Amount       Amount
I   Foreign                      19466.5      8771.4         0.0     28238.0
11  Local (ExcL. Taxes)         26253.7       3919.2      6347.3     36520.2
III Taxes                            0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0
,  .......................... ......... ................. ......
Totat Project                    45720.2     12690.7      6347.3      64758.2
Values Scaled by 1000.0  4/14/1993  12:17
W z
to z
(D m
0
-4
wJ



80
ANNEX S
Page I of 2
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Medium Term Public Sector Investment Program for the MCA
MK '000
Totai Development budget                           Prt D (unterpart Contrbuton)
Source    Agency   Proec             93194     9415      95/96     96197     97/98     Total      9394      94195     9519      96(T      97(98     Total
IDAO     MOA       Ag Ex'PI&n
Supp-Conp I       500                                               500         50                                                 50
tOA(LJ    MOA      Ag Mikt &
EetAn  Dev        729       214                                     1013         72        25                                     100
IDAL)    MOA       Ag. Svcs         31274    398        34966     39580    43534    156332         2181     480        4530      3630      3840    19181
USAID(G) MOA       ASAP Counte-
pen Funds
IDA(Q    MOA        NARP
Ag Ras           3000                                               3000        300                                               300
EEC      Tete Project                1000                                               1000
NETH(G)  DAHI      East Coot           80      2055      2303      2342                7670          30        36        40        44
For Vec
ADF(L)   DAHL       Natl Uvesiock    1272      7030     13000                         21302         127       700       700                          1527
FAO(G)   DAHI       Region                                                                           70                                                70
Tetas                      1000                                     1000
USAID(G) MtCA
USAID(G) MOA       Arch/Ext           443                                               443         294       117                                     411
Buffer Slock                                                                     75                                                75
UNDP(G) MOA         St"egthn land
.bsource Eal                                                                     70                                                70
DANIDA(G DCI        Rsh Smeitholder
Irri Schme       442                                                442
IDA(L)    SACA      Smnelhokle
Ag. Credit       3014                                              3914         361                                               391
ADF(L)   BLADO    Sbntyr,/Shire
Highlands FRO     970                                               975          97                                                97
ADF(4    6LADO    Mwanza RDP         0796      4059      4152      4507               21574        579       406        415       481                2180
ADFL)   LWAD       Norwe RDIP        1506                                               1506        150                                               150
ADF(L)   LWAD      Zonba ROF'        4002      4662      5000                         1364         400        466       500                          1306
EDF(G)   SLADD    Lakeebo RDP        1849                                              1849         185                                              1t5
EDF(G)   SLADD    Nkbotunldvotm      1240                                              1240         124                                               124
EDF(G)   KADD      Nichini RDi'
USAID              Nat'l E W Syst      54                                                54          54                                                54
USAID              Food Sec tl        451                                               451
Monhar
USAID              MAEPS              722                                               723
USAtD              Agro-F-ay          237                                               207
IFAD               Kosungu ADD        300                                               300          25                                                25
MAA
IFAD               Kaeungu ROP        3t0                                               300          30                                                30
IFAD               Do" Weal RDP
EDF                Nichini
IFAD               Nlchinp RFiP       300                                               300          30                                                30
FAO                Traln g Ag Mach                                                                   44                                                44
GTZ                Fat Countrpan
Uwdondo ADID                                                                    156       2a         20                           214
MG                 Waiwan T.A.                                                                       so                                                80
FAO                Improved 1JWlty
Crop                                                                              9                                                 9
TOTALS          0387    s5915    59641    45700    43834    2700               5925      6763      6216      4156      3840    25740
CEIUNG          5s000     70000    91000                                      9210       9730       8000



81
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
OPERATIONAL COSTS FOR EXTENSIONa - WITH AND WlmOUT ASP FOR FILLED
POSTS 1992/3 (Malawi Kwacha '000)
DEPT/ADD PROGRAM      GOM ESTIMATES          REQUTROEEIMNTS        DIFFERENCE
(INCREMENTAL ASP)
CAETO                  355.550                887.375               531.825
NADD                   377.502    .           681.499               303.997
BLADD                  566.000               1,410.311              S44.311
LWADD                  620.440               1,251.471              631.031
SLADD                  503.200                818.071               314.871
LADD                   807.043                969.003               161.960
KADD                   851.160               1,344,289              493.129
MiZADD                 702.000               1,138.614              436.614
KRADD                  358.336                751.547               392.211
TOTAL                 5,142.231              9,252.180             4,109.949
a/ Incuding fiud aad lubricans; hote charges; nminienawce of lAotr veicles and zbsuaence allowances.
For deta on metho of calcaution, am below and Implementation Volume, Anex 1.
hl Thm requirent anr based on yardsticks (me below) which provide an improved bass for detemininS the opeting fuds needed
to asure the extension staff is fMlly productive.
YARDSTICKS OR METHOD OF CALCULATION
The incremental operational costs for extension have been calculated using improved 'yardsticks', which
are based on the following assumptions:
I1.    DAET HQ officers at P4/P5 level stay 10 nights per month for 10 months of the year off station.
Officers from P6 to P0 stay 6 nights/month for 10 nights off station. Officers below P0 travel on the
budget of their controlling officers. All officers visit each ADD twice a year. (Visits to Mzuzu/Karonga
and Blantyre/Ngabu are combined, amounting to an average of 555 kms.) For visiting sites with an
ADD, an a round trip is on average 250 kms.
2.     The same figures apply to EAB, although technical grader personnel and below often have to
carry out additional travel: TAs, STAs, TOs and STOs stay away from their duty station 6 days/month
for 10 months of the year. They travel to each ADD twice a year and cover 555 kims on an average trip.
3.     In an ADD, PMs, DPMs and P7 officers travel to MOA HQ twice a month for 10 months every
year, covering an average of 555 krms and spending 1 night in Lilongwe per trip. Other SMSs and TOs
travel to MOA HQ 4 times a year under the same conditions.
4.     In RDPs, PJOs and APJOs visit the MU twice a month for 10 months a year, covering an average
50 kms in each trip (half by car, half by motor-cycle). They spend 2 nights in guest houses per month.
DOs, ADOs and FHAs receive travel an average of 800 knms per month and spend 3 nights per month
for 10 months of the year off duty station. FAs spend 2 nights per month for 10 months of the year off
duty station and have a MK2O.00 bicycle allowance per month. Land Husbandry Assistants claim an
additional 30 days a year for soil conservation campaigns.
5.     These figures are then multiplied by appropriate GOM rates for subsistence, hotels, fuel and
lubricants and vehicle maintenance to calculate operational costs for each ADD.



82
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 1
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
IDA Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Semester                          Disbursement                       Cumulative
Ending                            by Semester                       Disbursement
FY 1994 l'
December    31, 1993                    2.7                               2.7
June         30, 1994                   2.7                               5.4
FY 1995
December    31, 1994                    5.7                              11.1
June         30, 1995                   5.7                              16.8
FY 1996
December    31, 1995                    4.9                              21.7
June         30, 1996                   4.9                              26.6
FY 1997
December    31, 1996                    3.3                              29.9
June         30, 1997                   3.3                              33.2
FY 1998
December    31, 1997                    3.7                              36.9
June         30, 1998                   3.6                              40. 5
FY 1999
December    31, 1998                    1.8                              42.3
June         30, 1999                   1.8                              44.0
FY 2000
June         30, 2000                   1.7                              45.8
I/ Fiscal Year runs from July I to June 30



83                            ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 7
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
ANNUAL ACCOUNTS, AUDIT & AUDIT REPORTS
At the end of each fiscal year the Chief Accountant would prepare the
following financial statements for audit by the independent auditor:
-     Project Accounts Sources and Application of Funds (Table 1)
-     Summary of Special Account (Table 2)
-     Summary of withdrawals made from Donor Credit on the basis of Staement
of Expenditures (Table 3)
-     Special Account Cash Bank (Table 4)
-     Donor Credit Withdrawal Register (Table 5)
-     Subsidiary Banks and Records (Table 6)
The chief accountant would be responsible for the timely submission of the
above financial statements to the independent auditors for audit to ensure that audit reports on
the three statements are sent to Donor within nine months of the end of each fiscal year, as
specified in the Development Credit Agreement.



84                            ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 7
Table 1
MALAWI
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Source and Applications of Funds
(i MK '000)
Note Ref.    This Year     Last Year
Cumulative for
Project
Period
To
Date
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Government
IDA
(Cumulative to date in
USD/MK equivalent
for IDA Credit)
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Civil Works:
- Housing
- Building Rehab.
- Wells/Boreholes
- Vehicles & Equip.:
- Tech. Asst.:
- Consultants
- Training
- Studies
LINE OF CREDIT:
Incremental
Operating Costs:
- Staff Salaries
- Other Operating Costs
PPF REPAYMENT
Special Account
Balance



85                             ANNE 10
Page 3 of 7
Table 2
MALAWI
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Summary of Special Account for the Fiscal Year Ended
December 31, 19
in (US Dollas)
Receipts                                            Payments
Original Imprest/           Description             Category                Amount
Amount Balance b/f:
Replenishment on.....
Balance



86                              ANNEXIO
Page 4 of 7
Table 3
MALAWI
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Summary of Withdrawals Made from Donor Credit on the Basic of
Certified Statements of Expenditures During the
Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 19
W/A  and       Brief Desc.    Exp. Total     Amount         MK Equiv.    Analysis by
Date                                         Claimed                       Category



87                             ANNE"X
Page 5 of 7
Table 4
MALAWI
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Special Account Cash Book
Location ...               Account #...... Imprest (USD).
Receipts                                         Payments
Donor &    Description    Amount    Donor        Date &        Amount in  Exchange   Credit
Date                                 Category   Description    Currency    Rate USD   Category
Debited                   of Request
1. Including Credit Category Details and Donor Payment Advice Reference.
2. Including Offshore Bank/BM Payment Advice Reference.



88                              ANEX 10
Page 6 of 7
Table 5
MALAWI
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
DONOR CREDIT - WITHDRAWAL REGISTER
Donor's share paid direct (by Donor) or from Special account
W/A Ref. Brief                    Financing               Exchange Amount Rate   Analysis of
Description of & Sale                                                              Credit
Goods/Services
Total    Percentage   Category    USD       MK       MT
Amount



89
ANNEX 10
Page 7 of 7
Table 6
MALAWI
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Subsidiary Books and Records
MOA and ADDs1'
Cash Book
Project Expenditure Analysis Book
Fixed Assets Register
Payroll
Vehicle Log Book
stock Book
Costing Book
Costing records for civil works, specially for wells & boreholes.
DPU
Special Account Cash Book
Credit Withdrawal Register
Procurement Follow-Up Register
Cash Book
Project Expenditure Analysis and Amalgamation Book
Fixed Assets Register
Vehicle Log Book
Stock Book
Payroll
Vouchers/Statements
Documents, vouchers and records pertaining to sub-loans.
1/ Each of these two institutions would have to keep separate records as indicated.



90
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 26
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
LONG TERM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
POSITION                    SOURCE            SELECT PERSON MONTHS/YEAR
93/4     94/5     95/6      96/7     97/8     98/9      TOT
Research Librarian          International     Advt       6        6        -        -        -         -         12
Irrigation Specialist      International      Advt       6        6       -         -        -         -         12
Ag Sciences Committee       National          Advt       6        12       6        -        -         -         24
Extension College Educator   International    IND        6        6        -        -        -         -         12
Nutrition Educationalist    National          AdvtllND  6         6        -        -        -         -         12
Transport Management        Intemnational     IND        6        12       6        -        -         -         24
Procurement Management      International     IND        6        12       6        -        -         -         24
Financial Management        International     IND        6        12       6        -        -         -         24
TOTAL                                                    48       72       24        -       -         -        144
SHORT TERM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
POSITION                    SOURCE            SELECT PERSON MONTHSfYEAR
PYl      PY2      PY3       PY4      PY5      PY6       TOT
Research Manager           International      S/L       2         2         2        2         2        2        12
Research Library            National          IND       -         -         2        2         2        2         8
Ag Sciences Committee       National          IND       -         -         1        1         1        1        4
Extension Trainer           International     IND       3          3        3        3         3        3        18
Livestock Extensionist      International     IND       2          1        1       -        -         -         4
Financial Management        International     S/L       -         -         1        1         1        1        4
Financial Systems Analyst    International    SS        6         6        -        -        -         -         12
Agricultural Policy Analysts   International  SS        6          6        6        5         5        5        33
Agricultural Policy Analysts   National       SS        4          4        4        4         4        4        24
M&E Advisor                 International     S/L       2          1        1        1         1        1         7
M&E Surveys and Studies     National          S/L       3          3        3        3         3        3        18
Periodic Evaluations        National          S/L       -         5         -        5       -         -         10
Ternminal Evaluation        National          S/L       -        -         -        -        -          12       12
TOTAL                                                   28       31        24        27       22       34       166
Procurement Study           International     S/L       60        40      -         -        -         -        100
GRAND TOTAL                                             136      143       48        27       22       34       410
KEY:    Advt    Advertisement
IND      Individual
S/L      Short List
SS       Single Source



91                         ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 26
APPENDIX 1: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR MANAGEMENT ADVISOR TO DAR
Introduction
DAR is in the process of improving the totality of their management systems: administrative,
financial, personnel and scientific. A Management Information System is being introduced; a cost-
accounting system is being developed; alternative personnel management systems are being explored
and a research Master Plan has been prepared and revised, and commodity action plans are being
adapted to this.
These developments are rapidly gaining momentum and DAR requires assistance in their further
refinement and implementation.
Scope
Reporting to the Chief Agricultural Research Officer (CARO) of DAR, the consultant will work with
the Deputy CARO and other officers as directed by CARO.
The consultant will help in the further development and implementation of all aspects of management,
in particular through assisting in the selection of persons to be trained in new methodologies such as
the MIS and the cost accounting system, and in supervising the implementation of them. The
consultant will assist in the development of new personnel management systems including, as
necessary, giving advice on improved job descriptions and on individual performance evaluation.
The consultant will participate in future reviews of the Master Plan and in the on-going modifications
to individual Action Plans, in particular through equating costs to expected economic returns, and
through developing cost-effective solutions. Duties will also include participating in technical reviews
of existing and proposed research, and advising on the prompt and appropriate reporting of results.
The consultant will advise DAR management on the effective use of the new management techniques,
and on the recruitment of additional assistance (both short term specialist consultants and permanent
administrative staff). As necessary, the consultant will propose and assist in the organization of
workshops and similar activities, and will advise on any fields which may have been neglected
previously, and where training may be required.
Employment will be required for 12 months in the first instance, followed by one visit per year, of
two month's duration for the balance of five years.
Qualifications and Experience
The consultant will have extensive experience (at least 15 years) in agricultural research in developing
countries, and will have had at least 5 years in a senior management role. The capacity to understand
economic implications and financial management systems and computer literacy is essential. The
consultant will also have sufficiently broad experience to understand a wide range of technical
subjects.



92
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 26
APPENDIX 2: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR EXTENSION MANAGEMENT TRAINING
Background
Inadequate extension skills stifle an extension system which aims to be flexible and creative. The
objective is to develop a style of extension management which is consistent with an interactive
extension system based on principles of adult education and level of skill which facilitates efficient,
effective and creative functioning among sub-ordinates.
Scope
Technical assistance will be necessary to build the capacity of extension managers in a re-oriented
extension system. This will be provided in response to the training needs identified by the MOA.
The focus will be on people-centered management which is consistent with an extension approach
based on principles of adult education. Training will be for upper, middle and lower level managers
in ADDs, with SMSs also being included to enhance their supervision abilities. TA will involve one
person for 2 years, with short-term follow up for 2 months in each of the remaining 4 years of the
project. It is expected that a local institution could provide this TA.
In the first year of the project, following all training in PEMs, three workshops will be run in each
ADD: (1) a five day work shop on extension management for upper and middle level management
in the ADD; (2) a five day workshop on extension management for lower level management (DOs
and ADOs); (3) a th;ree day workshop for SMSs on supervision. The three workshops will be held
consecutively with each ADD. Each workshop will be moderated by the same consultant. The
workshop design must be done in collaboration with MOA and be consistent with the extension
approach being developed under ASP. All training will take place in RTCs.
In subsequent years of the project, each ADD will have one week of follow-up where the consultant
will meet individuals and small groups to monitor progress and give relevant advice. This will be
followed by a one week workshop for new management staff. If there are not enough staff in new
management positions, then numbers can be made up with those thought in most need of a refresher.
Qualifications and lExperience
The training institutions which provides the TA will be able to demonstrate considerable experience
in management training. It should also have experience of training in "people-centered" management
skills which constructively build creativity and performance amongst subordinates.
Previous experience of training in agricultural extension management skills would be beneficial, but
not essential. However, a willingness to tailor training to the specific requirement of the MOA with
its interactive extension approach based on principles of adult education will be essential.



93                        ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 26
APPENDIX 3: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TA IN EXTENSION COLLEGE
STRENGTHENING
Background
Currently there is a primarily didactic style of pre-service training for prospective entrants into the
agricultural sector, which does not match the task requirement for an interactive extension system.
The objective is to develop a learner-centered style of pre-service training for entrants into the
agricultural sector, consistent with the style used in the extension system.
Scope
Technical Assistance will be necessary to facilitate a reorientation from a didactic teaching style to
a more learner-centered style. This should be in the context of collaboration with an agricultural
college which uses a learner-centered approach throughout its syllabus. Twelve person months of
TA in the first year of the project have been planned for.
The consultant will divide their time between Bunda College and the Natural Resources College and
be answerable to the Principals of these two colleges. Primary duties will include:
assisting in comprehensive curricula development with the intention of making subject matter
and extension teaching more learner-centered and responsive to the needs of ADDs;
training colleagues in classroom- and field-based learner-centered teaching techniques;
emphasis should be on techniques that do not add extra burden to the colleges' recurrent
costs. This will be done through in-class coaching and an intensive two week workshop.
Qualifications and Experience
The consultant must be able show experience in using teaching and learner-centered approaches to
agricultural training at various academic standards. They should have experience in learner-centered
approaches to agricultural training in Sub-Saharan Africa; a postgraduate qualification in agriculture,
extension or training and experience of curriculum development and working in a team environment.



94
ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 26
APPENDIX 4: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR FOOD AND NUITION EDUCATION
EXPERT
Purpose
To assist the Food and Nutrition Unit (FNU) in initiating the food and nutrition training program for
Ministry of Agriculture staff. To be based in the FNU for 1 year.
Duties and Responsibilities
The Nutrition education expert will work with the Food and Nutrition Unit and collaborate closely
with the Senior Food and Nutrition Officer to:
(a) Conduct a training needs assessment to identify the knowledge gaps amongst Ministry of
Agriculture staff, lparticularly field level staff;
(b) identify priority areas in which training in food and nutrition would most benefit rural populations
- including defining which staff should be trained in which subject areas;
(c) Develop a nutrition education program based on the above, including improving knowledge and
skills amongst the extension field staff to enable them to identify nutritional problems; analyze their
causes and take action to improve the nutritional status of the population in their Sections;
(d) Develop the detailed training modules of the education program to be imparted to various levels
of staff; for field staff this is likely to include the development of extension messages on food
production; food storage and preservation; choice of foods; feeding infants and young children;
promoting child growth and preventing infections;
(e) Assist the Food and Nutrition Officers to conduct the first round of the training program
developed in a manner which covers all the levels of staff and modules identified;
(f) Evaluate and report on the impact of the first round of training, and adjust the program and
modules accordingly;
(g) Assist in the development of nutritional education aids (posters, leaflets, radio and video
programs) to be used by field staff in imparting information to farmers;
(h) Supervise the implementation of the incorporation of the food and nutrition training into field
assistants' work programs;
(i) Assess the initial irnpact of the above on the field assistants' work and on farmers nutritional
interest/knowledge;
(.) Finalize the design of the education program based on initial implementation of training and its
incorporation into the extension work of field staff.
Qualifications and Experience
A nutritional expert (with at least an M.Sc. in Food and Nutrition), preferably with 5 years experi-
ence in nutrition education in developing countries, and with experience in designing and executing
nutritional education programs in developing countries.



95
ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 26
APPENDIX 5: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TRANSPORT SYSTEMS ADVISOR
Background
Following a review of transportation management done for MOA in 1991, funding for the
introduction of a MOAIADD Transportation Management System (TMS) will be provided under the
ASP. MOA intends to secure the services of Transportation System Advisor to assist in the
development and implementation of the TMS.
Scope
The Transportation System Advisor would assist the MOA and its ADDs on all aspects of
transportation management, whilst concentration on the following activities:
1. Review and classify the existing transportation management policies and procedures;
2. Review the existing transportation management structure;
3. Reorganize or modify existing transportation management structure:
- identify the most effective organizational structure for the Transportation Departments;
- identify lines of communication and reporting requirements for the Transport Departments;
- clarify the responsibilities of the Transportation Directors;
- activate the Transportation Departments;
4. Define personnel needs;
5. Define responsibilities and work methods for each organizational level and position;
6. Develop Terms of Reference for Workshop Management Advisor;
7. Develop and implement vehicle allocation procedures:
- develop allocation methodology;
- develop standard procedures for quantifying vehicle needs;
- assist MOA/ADD personnel to carry out the initial allocation exercises;
8. Survey commercially available transportation information systems:
- procure transportation information system;
- develop a comprehensive and consolidated vehicle inventory program, including installation
of computer hard- and software;
- train MOA/ADD personnel in the use of the inventory as the first step in gaining control
of ADD fleet operations;
- assist MOA/ADD personnel in the preparation of the initial inventory;
9. Inventory the condition of the existing fleet and maintenance facilities;
10. Define vehicle and facility holdings;
11. Develop vehicle utilization reporting program:
- develop the data collection and analysis procedures for a weekly vehicle trip sheet to
supplement the current log book procedure;
- train MOA/ADD personnel in vehicle utilization data collection and analysis methods;
- assist MOA/ADD personnel with the implementation of the trip sheet;
12. Develop a uniform consolidation vehicle maintenance reporting program:
- develop procedures for data collection and analysis;
- train MOA/ADD personnel in vehicle maintenance data collection and analysis methods;
- assist MOA/ADD personnel with the implementation of the program;
13. Identify cost and budget control requirements;
14. Develop a uniform program for the collection, analysis and allocation of vehicle-related cost
data:



96
ANNEX 11
Page 7 of 26
- develop procedures for data collection and analysis;
- train MOA/ADD personnel in data collection, analysis and allocation methods;
- assist MOA/ADD personnel with the implementation of the program;
15. Consolidate system, run pilot test and modify as necessary;
16. Identify and classify training needs;
17. Develop training plan;
18. Develop implernentation plan;
19. Develop system procedure manuals;
20. Implement the (system;
21. Monitor systemr operation and modify where necessary.
Qualifications and Experience
The Transportation System Advisor should have a higher engineering qualification in transportation
management systems and/or related subjects with more than ten years experience dealing with the
development and implementation of transportation management systems, transportation management
information systems and vehicle maintenance management. Experience in developing countries as
a senior-level government advisor is important.



97
ANNEX 11
Page 8 of 26
APPENDIX 6: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR FINANCLAL MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Background
ASP aims to support the implementation of an improved planning and financial planning system in
the MOA. A financial management specialist would be engaged to assist MOA implement this
program, and especially to enhance the capacity of its personnel to sustain the improvements. The
expert would address the following areas:
a)    Computer Technology
b)    Budget Planning and Accounting
c)    Use of Management Information Data
d)    Training of Staff and Management
The implementation of a packaged accounting system would require about three years, as tailoring
training and modification in the accounting practices would be required throughout the ministry.
MOA needs a faster solution. Retraining of all accounting staff and practices would be one of the
main jobs for the expert.
Expected Results Achieved
a)    Staff from planning, accounting and data processing unit must be able to do the
budget planning without faults.
b)    It must be ensured that all relevant persons are secure in handling all aspects of the
budget planning system by themselves.
c)    The computer system must be well understood so that selected personnel are able to
manipulate data e.g., for MIS-modelling purposes, i.e., to ask 'what if' without
damaging active data.
d)    Fields on which technical assistance is recommended.
T-he task will be to exercise all elements of the budgeting computer program, including practical as
well as theoretical aspects.
Planning of Activities
* techniques in planning of activities (annual workplan scheduling, personnel planning,
costing)
* working with ceilings
* working with limited budgets
* streamline the procedure to plan activities
* formulate the activities as deep as described in the proposed format
* an important part of the training is to teach how to plan the personnel involved
directly or indirectly in each activity per man day (md) or man month (mm) and the
grade of the staff. Staff planning in the action planning includes the planning of
alternative activities for those staff members who became theoretically jobless if
activities in which they are involved are cancelled for financial or other reasons. For
those events it has to be planned from the beginning of the technical assistance in-
house staff training to use unused staff power for upgrading of knowledge mainly in:
budget, finance, and liquidity planning.



98
ANNEX 11
Page 9 of 26
Work Plan Preparation
* Forrnulate job related training programs for work plans and activities, based on job
description and a zero budgeting system.
Technical Assistance in the Planning Department
All development budlget plans pass through the planning division before forwarding to Treasury. The
main aim of the projects planning section is to optimize inter-sectional resources. Special tasks are:
* securing funds within the development budget
* coordination of external evaluations
* securing that planned activities are realistically costed
* ensuring that all available resources are well utilized.
Use of Yardsticks
A computerized budget system is a permanent ongoing process. It includes a whole range of
management, budgeting and finance planning information for day to day management purposes,
namely indicators and financial yardsticks for comparison of plan and execution. The inherent
possibilities for using finance data for management decisions is one of the key features of the
computerized finance system. Professional training has to be foreseen for motivating and enabling
management to make optimal use of the data available.
At least five one day seminars for professional training have to be used with practical experiences
to even motivate management in increasing their capability.
Additional Technical Assistance is proposed in the following fields:
- bookkeeping
* forrnulation of work plans, specific to costing of activities
 budget planning
* finance planning
* liquidity planning (cash flow)
* management training (use of yardsticks for MIS and strategies)
In particular the activity of the expert is directed to:
* techniques in the use of MIS
development of MIS
decision finding
decision distribution
* cost efficiency and output oriented activity planning
* find out what kind of expenses under the right cost code are necessary
* computer handling and program packages
* reviewing annual budget estimates and work plans to ensure that these are within the
scope of the project design and are realistic, in light of past performance and in line
with donor expectations
* ensuring that despite cancellations and delays priority work can continue



ANNEX 11
Page 10 of 26
* review requests for budget revisions. Show clearly the circumstances surrounding
any impacts when activities can not be executed when funding fails to be provided
* techniques in and coordination of external evaluation of project progress
* keeping salary scales as well as other data current by development of data banks
* enhance and standardize formulation of work plans to accommodate computer inputs
* interplay and coordination of monitoring, evaluation, and planning.  Collect
aggregated data on project progress for MIS and use this information for more
accurate budget planning
* ensuring that formal requirements confirmed in project agreements with donors must
be met and donors must be kept and adequately informed of project progress so that
they will not be reluctant to issue funds
* conduct a six month review of the physical and financial progress of the projects and
providing feedback to executing agencies
* training for cash office in use of FINASYS to record revenue collections to eliminate
ad hoc revenue collection report. FINASYS can presently produce the return for
revenue collections if the information was inputted
* training of current systems must begin at once, with emphasis on computerization as
a standard, not as an option
* implementation should be phased with ample training and involvement of
management throughout the entire development period, especially Planning Division,
DPU, accounts, and personnel
* introducing further interviews and demos to all ADDs to ensure local acceptance
* building groups for training of staff with similar capability
* determine if the used expenses from the pricing table are still valid or have to be
updated.
Technical Assistance for the Research Department Budget Planning
Training has a very high priority. In-house training has to be planned as early as possible. Specific
training must be provided to both the managerial staff and the trainers. The courses given to
managers and trainers should be different in focus and course material.
Training for Managers
The training for managers is directed primarily at the use of management information generated with
the system; investigating alternative decisions, controlling the work process, dealing with budget and
treasury data, action planning in cases that treasury confirmed money is not available in time (or
other assumptions which are not fulfilled in time).
The duration of the course presented to management including practical experience will be at least
one week for each research station or experimental station.
Training for Trainers
The instruction for trainers will focus on the direct use of the programs to input correct information,
and to communicate a clear understanding of the budget philosophy. Every component of the system
must be understood and be reinforced through practical exercises. For each course 10 days of
exercises are planned. The expert must be present during the initial courses given by each local
trainer. The expert will advise on the methods of teaching and provide expertise on answering
questions fielded by the students. The expert should be present for at least two courses given by each
instructor.



100                        ANNEX 11
Page 11 of 26
For each local trainer, 4 weeks of consultancy, by the expert, is indicated.
Where courses given by new trainers can be conducted in parallel, the expert will be able to save
time by alternating between the classes. Preparation for the training phase can start parallel with the
development of the proposed computer program. Training should start early February or March
1993. The entire training component of this project is the responsibility of the Training Department.
Remarks to Training
Lessons from past experiences, indicate that training is critical to the future of a successful working
MOA. The training environment may require some adaptation to meet our needs. People sent for
training must be motivated and prepared to invest extra time and effort to maximize the benefits of
this sophisticated training schedule. This will require that training is not interrupted by absenteeism
and that students should be prepared to complete follow-up exercises in the evenings.
The expert must make a big effort to the Training Department to ensure training starts with the most
appropriate staff members first, so that a multiplier effect may take place. Staff expertise and
comfort level might eventually be monitored by tests for key personnel (to be discussed).
Estimated Time Required to Fulfil the Targets.
To fulfil all described activities the time of 28 man month (mm) is required for technical assistance.
The time takes in consideration that special tasks like formulating work plans and preparing of
budgets could only be executed in a certain time of the year. Once Treasury has approved the budget
the expert should assist in budgeting adjustments. The cycle of different jobs has to be repeated at
least three times before a certain guarantee could be given, that the proposed computerized budget
planning system will work without external assistance.
Qualifications
* Master Degree in Business Administration
- Minimum five years of experience in finance or budgeting planning
* Experiences in project planning, organization, account and management
* Experiences in cost planning
* Background experience is preferred in PC's network and the software programs
Lotus 123, dBase IV, Paradox and Foxtrott



101
ANNEX 11
Page 12 of 26
APPENDIX 7: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PROCUREMENT MANAGEMENT
SPECIAUST
Introduction
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), Government of Malawi (GOM) has identified the need to have a
Procurement/Materials Management Specialist to provide services in the area of Procurement
Management to enhance the institutional capacity in the area of Procurement Materials Management
for speedy implementation of various projects and activities in MOA and other ministries.
Objective
The objective of this assignment is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of Procure-
ment/Materials Management functions by working in the MOA, liaising with consultants, contractors,
donors, other government authorities and concerned entities to effectively manage the procurement
function.
Scope of Work
1.    Review the organization structure of procurement and stores division. Recommend and
implement necessary changes to effectively improve reporting lines of communication, data
flows etc. Determine the staff required to meet organizational needs and assist MOA to
recruit and train the personnel.
2.    Review the organizational links with other Govermment organizations and MOA offices,
including accounting and finance, and develop clear organizational and operational procedures
and guidelines to ensure adequate communication links and accountability.
3.    Review and analyze the existing local procedures process etc., especially critical to
procurement of spare parts. Determine which systems lend to computerization using PCs or
micro computer based applications.
4.    Review MOA's procurement procedures and bid evaluation procedures; recommend and
implement necessary changes to ensure MOA maximizes its ability to obtain value for money.
5.    Review MOA's stock control plans and procedures, including receiving, distribution,
stocking, recording of parts etc..
6.    Develop fundamental inventory standards, including stock cards, receiving and distribution
systems, economic order quantities, recording of inventory, stock control etc.. Develop
standard formats, procedures or instruction manuals and guidelines consistent with the general
accounting plans, and provide the necessary accounting information to finance as well as
adequate internal control over the stores. The system developed should be easy to operate,
simple to understand, easily maintained and capable of providing management with key
performance indicators.
7.    Develop and install a PC based software application for tracking inventory, minimi7ing
discrepancies, updating and maintaining accurate valuations and levels, and ensuring adequate
control over all spare parts and components. Use of the IDA funded parts as a pilot case for
the system is to be encouraged prior to expanding the inventory control system to the entire
store.



102
ANNEX 11
Page 13 of 26
8.    Provide basic book keeping, inventory and procurement training and education to the clerical
accounting personnel aligned with the responsibility of maintaining the system above.
Coordinate the development and design of training courses, and on-the-job experience with
MOA staff and equipment service representatives.
9.    Review internal control over purchasing, procurement and inventory.  Implement as
necessary improved controls to ensure effective accountability.
10.   The specialist will be directly responsible for:
(a) Overall day to day control and operation of procurement/materials management;
(b) Identifying and prioritizing areas where changes are necessary and implementing such
changes;
(c) Ensuring that changes are practical and relevant to the operating environment;
(d) Developing, installing and maintaining procurement monitoring systems with respect to
goods, wo:rks and services;
(e) Providing on-the-job training to local staff of the procurement section, MOA;
(f) Coordinating the efforts of consultants, contractors and project officials in the above
functions;
(g) Liaising with accounts in the preparation of the withdrawal applications for donor
funded projects; and
(h) Monitoring and supervising the status of procurement, commitments and disbursements
of ASP components.
Qualifications and Experience
1.    EDUCATION  A University Degree and the ability to prepare and present various reports
and monitoring data.
2.    EXPERIENCE - Seven years experience reflecting increased levels of responsibility and
management experience in public procurement/materials management; experience in
developing and operating procurement/materials management on PCs/computers; interper-
sonal skills; dernonstrable ability to transfer skills to local staff.
Duty Station - Lilongwe, Malawi
Reporting Relationship
The Procurement/Materials Management Specialist will report to the P.S. in MOA who will designate
a local counterpart member of staff.
Duration of Assignment - 2 years with possibility for extension, depending on project.



103
ANNEX 11
Page 14 of 26
APPENDIX 8: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TA TO ASSIST BUNDA COLLEGE IN
DEVELOPING DETAILED MODULES OF POLICY ANALYSIS TRAINING COURSES; IN
TRAINING TRAINERS AND IN IMPLEMENTATION PLANS - AGRICULTURAL POLICY
ANALYSIS TRAINING SUB-COMPONENT
Purpose
The technical assistance will be to assist in developing the detailed design of agricultural policy
analysis training modules, in relation to MOA requirements and in detailing the implementation
arrangements, including planning the collaborating institution's precise role.
Scope
The component provides for 46 days of technical assistance. The consultant will support Bunda
College and the Planning Division, Ministry of Agriculture draw up the detailed design of the content
of the course modules to be offered under the component; the staffing arrangements (including precise
input from collaborating institution) and the annual organization and time-tabling of the courses.
Specific Activities
1.    In collaboration with Bunda College, MOA and collaborating institutions, define detailed
contents (including teaching materials necessary) for each training module. The most
important of these are likely to include:
- commodity and market price analyses in the context of liberalization;
- food security and nutrition policy analysis;
- the policy analyst's tool box;
- environmental and natural resource policy analysis;
- project preparation and management;
- monitoring and evaluation.
2.    Finalize institutional and staffing arrangements to meet the needs of the detailed course
designs, particularly with reference to US collaborating institution and nature of collaboration
with IFPRI and EDI.
3.    Define precise role of collaborating institutions.
4.    Define program implementation arrangements - including staffing; timetables; teaching space;
computer time.
5.    Define terms of reference for any additional TA required - including that of supernumerary
manager/administrator.
6.    Explore options and make recommendations for ensuring the sustainability of the training
program beyond the life of the current funding.
Experience - Academic manager/program designer with 10 years of experience.



104
ANNEX 11
Page 15 of 26
APPENDIX 9: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR IRRIGATION SPECIALIST
Background
There is only a small number of professional staff in the Departnent of Irrigation (DOI). More staff
will be recruited in the near future. To ensure efficient management of the DOI and implementation
of pilot schemes, technical assistance is required.
Responsibilities and Duties
In the first year the irrigation specialist will assist the Chief Irrigation Officer in the restructuring and
overall operation of the DOI, focusing on the following tasks:
- determination of person-power requirements in DOI;
- reviewing existing M&E system;
- defining participation of NGOs, private companies and individuals in small scale irrigation develop-
ment;
- coordinating activities of all participants in SSI development;
- coordinating donor funding for irrigation development;
- assessing training requirements;
- providing training in multi-disciplinary project planning and implementation;
- adjusting the DOI structure to SSI scheme development needs;
- establishing the national SSI development program;
- establishing ADD task forces;
- completing the detailed design of SSI pilot schemes;
- formulating cost sharing schemes for SSI development;
- developing an awareness program in environmental issues for farmers and staff;
- preparing intensive irrigation courses at Bunda College;
- providing management training for DOI staff at PO level.
In years 5-71i, the irrigation specialist will further assist the DOI in overall operation, supervision
of on-scheme agronomy and water management research; providing on the job training and at Bunda
College and supporting the monitoring and evaluation of all pilot schemes.
1/ In years 2-4 a permanent aasignment of an irrigation specialist is provided by GTZ through a separate TA agmement.



105
ANNEX 11
Page 16 of 26
APPENDIX 10: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR SHORT-TERM M&E ADVISOR IN THE
DEVELOPMENT OF ANNUAL WORK PLANS, BUDGETING AND PROGRESS REPORTS
FOR ASP
Purpose
The technical assistance will support the further development of the annual work plan, budgeting and
progress reporting systems (AWPB/PR) being implemented in Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
Agricultural Services Program. The aims for these systems are (i) to better allocate scarce budgetary
resources based on a more rational system of prioritized goals, outputs and activities set by each
Department and (ii) through regular monthly and quarterly reports provide an objective means of
monitoring progress towards those goals through the year.
Scope
Within the Central Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture, the consultant will
seek ways to strengthen the links between the annual work planning activities already in wide use at
ADD level and the budgetary allocation process involving the Ministry of Finance, Economic
Planning and Development (OPC) and the MOA. This will involve working with MOA Department
heads, and with ADD Program Managers, to work out specific procedures and actions that will result
in more realistic plans, more rational setting of budgets, and more relevant and functional progress
reports.
Specific Tasks
1.    Review the present annual work planning and budget setting procedures within MOA and
related ministries and departments, and identify constraints within the system. Draft a
working paper outlining the present status and providing possible options for reform. (1
month)
2.    Through discussions at Section, EPA, RDP, ADD and Headquarters levels, assess the
content, timeliness and use made of the existing progress reporting system (monthly,
quarterly and seasonal progress reports). Include in this assessment, the progress made with
the Irrigation M&E system introduced in 5 ADDs in 1992. Prepare a short discussion paper
on these points, and identify options for overcoming present shortcomings.
3.    In coordination with the Central and ADD M&E Unit, assess the extent to which the new
quarterly reporting formats being introduced meet the shortcomings identified. Through
discussion with management at all levels, propose specific measures that can be implemented
to increase management interest and use of the revised reporting system both at ADD and
Headquarters.
4.    Prepare a summary report with guidelines on the continued development the AWPB/PR,
including recommended measures at the inter-ministry and ADD levels. Include staff training
and possible additional consultancy needs.
Tliming
The consultancy should begin in November/December 1993 to coincide with the cycle of work plan
and budget preparation, and should last a total 2 months in the first year and 1 month in subsequent
project years.



106
ANNEX 11
Page 17 of 26
Qualifications and Experience
A graduate economist with relevant experience in agricultural project planning, budgeting and
management reporting systems.
FUNDING
Funds for the TA would need to be provided from an ongoing World Bank project since ASP is not
due to commence until July 1993. Early implementation of the TA is necessary to ensure improved
planning and budgeting procedures are developed for ASP and that the momentum of institutionalizing
the improved reporting system is maintained.



107
ANNEX 11
Page 18 of 26
APPENDIX 11: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR A LIVESTOCK EXTENSION TRAINER
Background
A number of important livestock messages have been developed by DAHI for dissemination to
smallholder farmers. However, the design of particular extension packages and their applicability
and economic effects at the farm level need to be refined. Additionally, there is a need to further
define smallholders' priority needs in relation to livestock and inform researchers about various
options which may meet these needs, so that they can be tested.
Specific Tasks
1. Prepare a detailed status-quo description of available extension messages and prioritize them
according to their potential viability and applicability to various smallholders' needs and farming
systems.
2. Work with DAHI/ADDs to match available extension messages to various farm types, taking into
account resources available, agro-climatic conditions, previous livestock experience etc..
3. From the review of farm types, identify any further, realistic means by which, or areas in which,
livestock production could be incorporated into various farming systems in order to increase
smallholder incomes. Identify methods by which these could be tested on-farm on a trial basis.
4. Review existing research facilities to assess capacity to carry out trials.
5. Investigate the experiences of the small ruminant project in Salima under the Malawi German
Livestock Development Program and examine the options to reproduce the scheme in other ADDs.
6. Work with DAHI/ADDs to establish the priority needs of, and advice for, poultry farmers
(including vaccination programs and marketing associations).
7. Assist DAHI in the preparation of detailed workplans for the first 12 months of the project.
8. Assist CAETO and CVO in detailing the role of FAs and VAs in the field.
TIMING
The consultancy should be undertaken in July/August 1993 (assuming ASP implementation by July
1993).
Qualifications and Experience
The consultant should be a veterinarian and have extensive (more than 5 years) experience of
livestock extension among smallholder farmers in Sub-Saharan Africa.



108
ANNEX 11
Page 19 of 26
APPENDIX 12: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR LOCAL TA TO AGRICULTURAL
SCIENCES COMMITrEE
Background
The Agricultural Sciences Committee (ASC) of the National Research Council of Malawi
(NSCM), Department of Research and Environmental Affairs (DREA), Office of the President, is
responsible for advising the Government of Malawi on all matters pertaining to agricultural sciences
research. It will be the agency through which all Research and Development (R&D) activities (public
and private) are coordinated. It will ensure that the national agricultural research program is
supportive of Government policy for the agricultural sector, that its scale and scope is compatible
with the availability of human and financial resources, and that it answers to the needs of farmers and
agro-industry.
Membership of the ASC will consist of senior representatives from the different ministries
concerned with the natural resources sector; the tea and tobacco research institutes; the University
of Malawi; and the farming and scientific communities. The ASC will meet regularly (three or more
times per annum) and will be responsible for:
1.  fostering the development of Agricultural Research Policy for Malawi;
2.  the preparation and periodical updating of a National Agricultural Research Master Plan
(NARMP) which would establish the priorities of commodity/factor research programs
and allocation of resources. The NARMP would be set within the context of National
Agricultural Policy, the demands of the different socio-economic groups of the farming
community and the need for conservation of the natural resource base;
3.  the review and ranking of proposed Research Action Plans (comprising crop and animal
husbandry; agroforestry, soil, water and natural resources management; farm
machinery, plant protection and other related subjects) as to their conformity with the
priorities established in the NARMP;
4. advice to Government on appropriate allocations and accountability for public resources
(human and finance) to ensure the effective implementation of the priority Research
Action Plans;
5.  identifying problems and constraints in agricultural sciences research, determining their
significance and making recommendations for their solution;
6. ensuring the provision of sufficient and effective support services, including soil, plant,
feed and water analysis; pest and disease identification; agro-meteorology; seed services
etc. for agricultural research and the farming community;
7.  overseeing a monitoring and evaluation system of research programs that will ensure
that priority problems are being tackled effectively with the production of the targeted
output;
8.  ensuring that all agricultural research conducted in Malawi is documented in a timely
fashion in order to facilitate collaboration among researchers and minimize the
duplication of efforts and ensure the earliest dissemination of results;



109                       ANNEX 11
Page 20 of 26
9. promoting collaboration among scientists involved with the implementation of national,
regional and international agricultural research programs; and, organizing occasional
scientific fora, such as workshops or symposia, for the scientific and academic
communities.
The ASC would be serviced by a 3-person Secretariat, comprising a Head, a Research Officer
and a Secretary. The Secretariat would be responsible for developing and circulating an annotated
agenda, to all members of the ASC, at least seven days in advance of the next scheduled meeting of
the Committee. The Secretariat would also be responsible for recording the minutes of the ASC
meetings and for preparing the draft Minutes for finalization by the ASC Secretary. To enable the
Secretariat to provide the members of the ASC with the comprehensive and detailed information that
they will require for decision-making, the Terms of Reference for the 3-person Secretariat will be:
(1) HEAD
Duties and Responsibilities
The Head of the ASC Secretariat will be responsible to the Principal Secretary, DREA for managing
the work of the Secretariat and providing efficient support for the ASC. The Head will liaise closely
with the Chairman, ASC and will be responsible for providing the ASC with the information it
requires to make decisions on the allocation and use of resources for agricultural research. The Head
will be required to develop and maintain close links with the heads of the different institutions
undertaking agricultural sciences research in Malawi.
Specifically the Head will:
(a) Ensure that the NARMP is periodically reviewed and updated.
(b) Review the Research Action Plans (RAP), prepared by the various research
teams/scientists each year, as to their conformity with national Agricultural Research
Policy and the NARMP.
(c) Provide advice to the ASC on the recommended priority ranking of each of the RAPs,
given the anticipated availability of resources for the next year.
(d) Prepare regular progress reports for the ASC including details of: (i) major problems
that are constraining the implementation of agreed RAPs, including the timely and
sufficient release of finance; (ii) technical problems being encountered by the farming
community; (iii) recent research findings of significance; (iv) status report on the
numbers, grades, training plans and current viewpoint(s) of the scientific manpower; and
(v) tabulation of appropriate performance indicators.
(e) Prepare an annotated agenda, complete with the minutes of the last meeting, for each
meeting of the ASC in consultation with the ASC Secretary.
(f) Organize occasional scientific fora, workshops and itineraries for visiting scientists as
may be requested from time to time by the ASC.
Qualifications and Experience
The Head of the ASC Secretariat should have a post-graduate degree in agriculture, plant sciences
or agricultural economics and several years experience in the implementation and management of
agricultural research. He/she should have a proven track record of achievements in research and
successful interaction with senior government officials, with donor representatives and with members
of the public. Preference will be given to a candidate who has considerable experience in the



110
110               ~~~ANNEX 11
Page 21 of 26
preparation of research budgets and who is computer literate. The appointment will be for a period
of two years, with renewal subject to evaluation by the ASC and the PS, DREA.
(2) RESEARCH OFFICER
Duties and Responsibilities
The Research Officer (RO) will be responsible to the Head of the Secretariat. The RO will be
responsible for collecting, collating and analyzing data obtained from the different institutions
undertaking agricultural research in Malawi as the basis for the preparation of reports to the ASC.
The RO will make the arrangements for ASC meetings, for workshops, for inspection visits etc. as
requested by the HIead, ASC.
Specifically the RO will:
(a) Maintain the detailed financial accounts of the ASC and ensure that all properties of the
ASC are inventoried, maintained and secured.
(b) Make the detailed arrangements for: (i) the periodical ASC meetings and any visits of
inspection; (ii) for occasional scientific fora, workshops and visits by international
and/or regional scientists; and (iii) employment of auditors and other specialist
consultants.
(c) Collect  all  annual  progress  and  financial  reports  from   all  research
teams/institutes/scientists that are in receipt of public (including donor) funding.
(d) Collect annual progress reports from all other persons/organizations undertaking
agricultural research in Malawi.
(e) Maintain an up-to-date library of national research reports (quarterly and annual).
(f) Ensure that all RAPs are sent to the Secretariat, ASC at an appropriate time.
(g) Undertake any work as requested by the Head, of the Secretariat, ASC.
Qualifications and Experience
The Research Officer should have a degree in agriculture, biological sciences or agricultural
economics and at least five years field experience of agricultural research in Malawi. Preference
would be given to a candidate with a postgraduate degree and with skills in the use of a personal
computer and word processing and spreadsheet software. The candidate should have experience of
working within a team. The appointment will be for a period of two years, with renewal subject to
evaluation by the ASC and the PS, DREA.
(3) SECRETAR (
Duties and Responsibilities
The ASC secretary would be responsible to the Head of the ASC Secretariat for the typing/word
processing of all letters/reports as may be required. The secretary would also be responsible for
maintaining the ASC filing system and would assist the RO with the organization and servicing of
ASC meetings.
Qualifications and Experience
The secretary should have a typing proficiency of 50-60 wpm and ability to take dictation in
shorthand. Preference would be given to a candidate experienced in the use of a computer and word
processing software.



ANNEX 11
Page 22 of 26
APPENDIX 13: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR A FINANCIAL SYSTEMS ANALYST (based
on the report prepared by F. Allwardt and discussions with MOA staff)
A.    ENHANCEMENTS TO THE EXISTING BOOKKEEPING SYSTEM (FINASYS)
1.  Expand the voucher tracking system to include the Creditor's Ledger, Cash Book, and
Expenditure Ledger systems.
2.  Subitem table must be expanded to identify fixed and variable cost codes.
3.  Improve import/export feature so budget data can easily be delivered to headquarters,
or to the ADDs.
4. Preserve monthly expenditure information either in a history file or on diskette.
FINASYS must be able to recall past expenditure data.
5.  Provide ability to select different budget years. Information could come from diskette.
6.  Expand budget key for vouchers to accommodate activity number.
7.  Enhanced to accommodate Novell Network multi-user format.
8.  Secure the system against unauthorized entry.
B.    ENHANCEMENTS TO THE EXISTING PERSONNEL SYSTEM (PERSYS)
1.  Posts must be associated with FINASYS budget codes.
2.  PERSYS must produce partial estimates correctly.
3.  Standardize and validate all coded fields. Use FINASYS coding.
4.  Improve import/export features so personnel records can be easily updated at
Headquarters from the ADD.
5.  Accommodate Novell Network multi-user format.
6.  Secure the system against unauthorized entry.
C.  DESIGN AND CODE A BUDGET SYSTEM WHICH ACCOMMODATES THE ZERO
BUDGET PLANNING CONCEPTS AS DESCRIBED.
The computerization of the Budget Planning process as described in section 5.2, Workplan
for Computer Budget System and 5.3, Proposed Computerization Scheme, has the following
specific requirements.
1. Accommodate the following INPUTS.
1. 1.    The user will input definitions of MOA Activities as described in the annual
workplans incorporating the following data:
Activity Definition:
-     Brief description of activity
-     Goal description of activity
-     Assumptions
-     Outputs
Scheduling Information
-     Which months will incur cost
-     How many times per month
-     Relative priority to other activities
Cost Information
-     Budget code from which activity is funded
-     All subitem expenses, divided into fixed and variable costs.



112
ANNEX It
Page 23 of 26
1.2.     The user will define items in a Price Table which will standardize chosen
items, such as fertilizer, subsistence allowance, seed, etc. Costs in activities
which are linked to this table will be calculated using the current price in the
table.
-      Item description
-      Cost code
-      Unit price
-      Unit measure.
1.3.     The budget code associated with an activity will relate to the FINASYS
expenditure codes, allowing the relationship between actual expenditure and
activity.
1.4.     If the activity is Development fund, the budget code will relate to a specific
donor. The following Donor information will be input by the user.
-      Organization (donor)
-      Project
-     Project approved cost by donor category
-      Translation of donor categories to government cost codes
-      Percent paid by donor and government per cost code
-      Cumulative amount spent on project by government cost codes.
1.5.     The system will receive actual expenditure data from FINASYS by month
per budget code. This is the input for MU budget estimation.
1.6.     The system will receive salary information from PERSYS to form subitem
001 costs.
1.7.     The user will define the calculation of yardstick measures.
1.8      The user will define valid budget codes and the system will ensure validity
of input data.
1.9      The user will select the budget year.
1.10.    The user will input the amount of money treasury supplies per month.
1.11.    The user will input Treasury Approved estimates.
2.  The system must process data in the following manner:
Tlhe following list of calculations are done separately for vote-program code. That is,
Revenue and Development budgets are always kept separate by Program.
2.1.     Calculate activity costs:
-     Total cost of each cost code for an activity.
-     Total cost of each activity using price table input where applicable.
-      The system will recalculate activity costs upon user request. No past
activities will be eligible for recalculation.
2.2.     Sum by cost code, all activity costs per month:
EPA calculations
-      by section within EPA
-      across all sections for an EPA total expense
RDP calculations
-     by section within an RDP
-      across all EPAs within an RDP
-      if MU has activities, sum into MU section
ADD calculations
-      across all sections in RDP for an RDP total
-      if MU has activities, sum into MU section.



113
ANNEX 11
Page 24 of 26
2.3.     Sum by cost code, MU expenses (based on actual past expenditures, but
modified by management to fit new year requirements) per month:
-     for an RDP
-     across all RDPs within an ADD
-     ADD MU expense plus it's RDP MU expenses for a total ADD MU.
Any defined activities are included.
2.4.     Sum all monthly cost codes together to form an annual estimate:
-     by section for each RDP
-     by section for ADD MU
-     by RDP
-     for ADD MU
2.5      For annual development budget estimates, divide at the RDP level (use
calculations 3 and 4 under 2.4) the total estimate into Development Part I and
Part II portions based on the contractual percentages as defined in the donor
table.
2.6      Recalculate proposed estimates on user request (once treasury approved
figures are input) to form an adjusted estimate budget. These figures can
then be used as a base for reworking the proposed figures by cancelling or
rescheduling activities. The recalculation of the adjusted figures is always
the product of a proportionate factor an the proposed figure.  The
proportionate factor can be defined in several ways:
*     calculated for each cost code separately at the vote-program-item
level. That is, each RDP will have it;s own factors (Treasury
Approved)/(Proposed Estimate).
*     calculated based on an overall percentage. Only variable costs will
suffer adjustment in this case.
The development factor is calculated using the total development expenses,
the sum of Part I and Part II. Then after adjustment this total is once again
split as in process 2.5.
2.7.     Sum all expenses regardless of cost code per month for the ADD. From this
total calculate Liquidity Plan.
-     total monthly expense for the ADD
-     quarterly money demand (forecasted expense over next 3 three
months)
-     subtract demand from treasury input to produce balance. Recalculate
Liquidity upon user request.
3. The system produces the following report output:
Listed here are the final outputs, although any of the intermediate calculations could be
requested as report output
-     Activity sheet
-     Proposed estimates by section
-     Revenue proposed budget
-     Development proposed budget
-     Revenue adjusted budget
-     Development adjusted budget
-     Liquidity plan



114
ANNEX 11
Page 25 of 26
4. The computer system has the following miscellaneous features:
-     Backup to diskette
-     Restore from diskettes
-     File maintenance and index rebuilding
-     Import and export of data
-     Novell network multi-user format
-     Secure the system against unauthorized entry.
5. Delivers the following historical data:
-     past year's budget figures for proposed, approved, and revised
estimates
-     particular data will be define by Management.
D.    PROVIDE TRAINING FOR THE TECHNICAL TRAINERS ON THE USE OF THE
COMPUTER SYSTEM.
E.    ENSURE SUSTAINABIL1TY BY INVOLVING MOA DPU PERSONNEL.
F.    DEVELOP USER'S DOCUMENTATION
G.    SPECIFY HOW THE SYSTEM COULD BE ENHANCED TO PROVIDE SOME MIS
REPORTING
Enhance activity tracking to record completion status
Enhance activity definition to include personhour estimation and
actuals
Provide status of donor offshore account
Particular data will be defined by management.



115
ANNEX 11
Page 26 of 26
Estimated person months to complete the contract.
Action                                         Person Months
1.  Research the following:                           2.0
- Creditor ledger system
- Expenditure ledger system
- Cash book system
- Needs of ADDs
- Needs of research, extension
- Variation in donor requirements
- Historical data requirements
- Audit requirements
2.  Enhance existing system (FINASYS, PERSYES)         2.0
Includes design, coding, testing, implementation
3.  Design new budget system                           1.0
4.  User review                                        0.5
5.  Code                                               2.5
6.  Test                                               1.0
7.  User acceptance                                    0.5
8.  Training of trainers                               1.25
9.  Training of DPU staff                              0.5
10. Documentation                                      0.75
TOTAL                                             12.0
QUALIFICATIONS
Masters degree in computer technology
10 years work experience.



116
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TA ASSISTING IN DESIGNING AND UNDERTAKING PERIODIC
POLICY AND PROJECT EVALUATIONS FOR MONITORING AND EVALUATION SUB-
COMPONENT
Purpose
The periodic evaluation studies of the project and associated policies in the M&E sub-component are aimed
at assessing longer term changes occurring in the agricultural economy as a result of project and policy
interventions. Analysis of the results of policy measures falls under the Planning and Budgeting and the
Pricing and Marketing Sections of the Planning Division of the MOA.
Specific Activities
1.     Assess the extent to which data on the specified performance indicators is available within existing
data banks or emerging from the ASP M&E system;
2.     Specify the contents of regular monthly and quarterly bulletins to be issued internally by the above
mentioned sections of the Planning Division, building in flexibility to allow additional impact/policy
issues to be addressed as they arise;
3.     In collaboration with the Planning Division, and based on the outcomes of activity 1, identify
where additional special studies focusing on policy-related interventions are likely to be necessary;
4.     Draw up preliminary designs for evaluation studies, in particular the data requirements, methods to
be used and implementation arrangements. These studies should cover the following:
a)     a review of the baseline situation, based on the NSSA results to be published by end 1993;
b)     an evaluation in PY2 and PY4 to gauge the wider effects of ASP implementation,
including an analysis of all relevant project documentation and survey findings up to those
points in time;
c)     a project completion report to be undertaken at the end of PY7, following MOA and IDA
proceclures;
d)     an ex-post evaluation, not less than 2 years after project completion.
5.     Assist the Central Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to review the baseline situation (Activity 4a
above) and to write an analysis of the baseline situation using data from NSSA and giving emphasis
to those characteristics which ASP is intended to address.
6.     Assist in identifying directions and magnitudes of change predicted (ie. targets) as a result of ASP
implementationi.
7.     Assist in the development of a clear set of guidelines to define performance indicators for
monitoring the project's impact on the environment. These indicators should be defined in such a
way as to indicate whether the project is having adverse environmental effects.
Timing
Periodic evaluations of the impact of ASP interventions, and related changes in policies, will be undertaken
in PY2 and PY4. In each case four and a half person months will be needed.
Qualifications and Experience
The agency should have successfully undertaken previous evaluations of project and policy effects in Sub-
Saharan Africa and should have extensive experience of farmer surveys and M&E methodologies.



117
ANE 12
Page 2 of 2
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE TERMINAL EVALUATION OF ASP AND RELATED
POLICY REFORMS
Background
Whilst the M&E Unit of the MOA, together with its constituent units in the ADDs, will undertake the
monitoring of the implementation and immediate effects of ASP and related policy reforms, it has been
agreed that the evaluations of the more fundamental and longer term impact of ASP and related policy
interventions will be contracted out to an independent agency within Malawi, to enhance the degree of
objectivity with which the project is assessed.
Scope
Working closely with the Central Monitoring and Evaluation Unit within the Planning Division of the
Ministry of Agriculture throughout, the agency appointed to undertake the terminal evaluation of the project
and related policy interventions will:
1.     Review in detail project objectives, activities and costs.
2.     Explicitly define the methodological means by which the evaluation will be undertaken, including a
detailed specification and justification of outputs.
3.    Identify and specify in detail types of data required to assess the degree to which project objectives
have been attained, includi' g quantified targets and coverage of all types of smallholders contained
within the typology on whi h project design has been based.
4.     Review existing sources oi lata to determine their relevance to the data requirements of the
evaluation;
5.     Identify gaps in the existio  iata with reference to the objectives of the evaluation, as determined
under activity 2.
6.    Identify the most effective   -ns of meeting full data requirements.
7.     Execute necessary data coliecrion exercises.
8.     Evaluate the impact of the project and related policy reforms on smallholder farmers in relation to
objectives and costs, using financial, economic and social criteria.
Timing
The evaluation of the project and related policy reforms should be undertaken a year after project
completion at the earliest, and not later than two years after project completion. Twelve person months
should be adequate for this exercise.
Qualifications and Experience
The agency should have successfully undertaken previous evaluations of project and policy effects in Sub-
Saharan Africa and should have extensive experience of farmer surveys and M&E methodologies.



MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Project Implementation Sehedulel/
Fsal Year (GOM)                                    92/93       93194        94195       95196        96197        97198        98/99
12__ _34_12_34_12    34   12   34   12   34    12    34
A. IDA
Negotiations                                         (       
-Board Ptpsentation   M     o
E ffectiveness*l
-Completion Datel*I
B. OVERALL PROJECT                                                                                                                                            0     l
1. MOA/consultants to preparecASP                                      *                        
2. MOA to establish Agricultural Sector Coordination Committees (ASCC)*l
3. MOA to appoint senior M&E officef for ASP                                                                                                                  l     l
4. ASCC to meet on quarterly basis                                                                    o            o           a            0
C. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH COMPONENT                                                                                                                            |     1
1. DAR to fmnalize and implement commodity research action plans                    .          .       -                                                            11 00
2. DAR to update annually research action plans and budget                                 O0                                    0            0            0
3. DAR/DAET/DAHI to fmalize and implement research-extension-farmer
action plan                                                                          o            O                                     o            o
4. Progress Reports on contract research to be submitted to DAR/ASC                                     o                        o            o            o 
5. DAR to assess scope for increasing contract research (annually)
6. DREA to finalize proposal on ASC
7. DREA to establish ASC secretariat
8. DAR to prepare and implement action plans for improved management
systems                                                                         .                                                       - -               l
9. MOA to finalize and implement proposal for improving researcher
motivation                                                                                                                               0 - -            l     1
10. ASC/DAR to prepare action plan for improved DAR/research structure              _                 -!
ii      *       Target date for initiation and completion of action                                                                                        @ I
-       Refers to implementation                                                                                                                     X
       Refers to periodic action                                                                                                                   W



Fiscal Year (GOM)                                 92/93       93/94        94/95       95/96        96/97 |   97/98          98/99
12   34   12   34   12    34   12   34   12   34    12    34    1 2    334
D. AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION COMPONENT                                                            _
1. MOA to prepare action plan and schedule for delinking credit and                *
extension
2. DAET and ADDs to implement research-extension-farmer action plans                .
3. DAET and ADDs to promote priority low-cost extension messages
4. DAET to organize forum with NGOs to foster coUaboration
5. MOA/DPMT to assess staff establishment, develop and implement action             .   -      -                                                                  |
plan
6. DAET and DAHI to finalize and implement crop and liverstock                      .
responsibilities
7. DAET to finalize detailed 'core' construction program
S. MOW/contractors to execute 'core' consturction program m                                                      *
9. DAET and ADDs to prepare annual work plans and budget (annually)                       o           o            o           o           0            0
10. LRCB to promote sustainable land use systems and improved land husbandry                                                                                      |
Extension Training Subcomponent
1. DAET to finalize Extension Training Implementation Report
2. DAET to execute participatory extension method (PBM) workshops
3. ADD training officers to provide training in PEMs to core trainers,
trainers and TAs                         -0
4. ATB to design course in extension management                                                0
5. ATB to train line management in extension management
6. BundaWNRC to develop improved curriculum for pre-service training
7. NRC to train underqualified staff
8. NRC/Dept. heads to upgrade fieldstaff course                                           o            o     *     o            o           o            o
9. ATB/Colleges/Dept. heads to prepare annual work plans (by Sept. 1)
Food and Nutrition Subcomponent
1. FNU to finalize Implementation Volume
2. FNU to participate in study tour
3. FNU to arrange baseline survey of staff knowledge
4. PNU and others to prepare training modules and nutrition extension
mssages
S. FNU/TA/ADDs to provide training for FNOs, DO, ADO, FAs
6. FNU/ADDa to supervisePAs                                                                                                                                         a _  z
7. FNU to prepare annual work pla (by Sept. )                                                                                                                       ( D x
Crn
0 tA



120
l    9                                                                      ANNEX 13
_ __________                                                             Page 3 of 5
_ 9                  a
_                     a-
.9                  a
e  _-
59 =



Fiscal Year (GOM)                                92/93       93/94        94195       95/96       96/97        97/98       98/99
12   34   12    34   12    34   12   34   12   34   12   34    12   34
F. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Planning and Fmancial Management Subcomponent
1 MOA/Planning and Finance Division to finalize detailed action plan for
improved planning, budgetting and financial management
2. MOA/DAET/ADDs/Finance Division to finalize and implement                            .
improved budget planning action plan for extension program
3. MOA/DAR/Finance Division to finalize and implement improved budget            .
planning action plan for research program
Transport Management System Subcomponent
1 MOA to finaEze detailed action plan for improved transport management
system in MOA/ADDs
2. MOA/ADDs to implement phased program of improvements
Procurement Subcomponent
1. MOA to implement procurement action plan for MOA
2. Treasury to finalize TOR and solicitation package for invitations for national  *
public sector procurement and supply management study
3 GOM to select consultants for study
4. Study to be implemented
5. MOA to select procurement specialist for MOA
6. MOA to prepare detailed procurement plan for ASP
7. MOA to monitor procurement progress (on-going)
Agriultural Policy Analysis Subcosponent
1. Bunda Colege to prepare draft fina MOU and detailed program proposal
2. MOA and Bunda College to finalize and sign MOU
3. Bunda Colege to finalize conract with eidxemal institution
4. Bumda Coliege to complet needs assessrent of training
S. Bunda College to complte training modules (first year)                                *                                                                        *  >
6. Boads College to arrange consuwction of building                                    *     _.
7. Bunda ColDge to begin teaching of modules 
S. Begin training of MSc candkiates                                                          *.
9. Bunda to prepa  annual work plam and budgets                                               *                 _     _      _     _     __                       o
%n



Fiscal Year (GOM)                                  92/93       93/94        94/95        95/96        96/97       97/98        98/99
12   34   12    34   12    34   12   34   12   34    12    34    12    34
Smailscale Irrigation Subcomponent
1. DOI to fill approved establishment                                                    0
2. DOI to fmnalize SS Irmplementation Report
3. DOT o Of ga.nize ar.d implem-et workshops 
4. DOI to carryout topographical survey opf pilot schemes
5. DOI to implement training program
6. DOI to complete detailed design of pilot schemes (yr. 1)
7. DOI to implement pilot schemes (first phase)
8. DOI to implement second phase schemes
9. DOI to assess SSI experience
10. DOI to prepare national SSI program                                                                        *
Monitoring and Evaluation Subcomponent
1. MOA/CMEU to fnalize M&E Implementation Report                                     *   0
2. MOA to appoint senior M&E officer for ASP responsibilities
3. CMEU/ADDs to implement monitoring of key ASP performance indicators
4. MOA/PD to establish and implement core survey program
5. EWP to design and implement extension monitoring survey                                 *    _ __
6. MOA/DPMT to fill essential vacant posts (evaluation officers)                                                                                                    |
7. ADD Evaluation officers/PMs to improve progress reporting system
B. CMEU to arrange for essential training
9. CMEU to carry out local and national surveys on ASP performance                                *_
10. CMEU/ADDs to prepare annual work plans and budgets                                     0                                     .
11. CMEU to finalize TOR for evaluation study                                              0      0
12. MOA to contract local institution for evaluation study                                       *      *
13. CMEU to provide secretariat and progress reports to ASSC for quarterly ASP             *     *      0      0    *                 *     
review meetings                                                                                                        0 *
14. Biennual evaluation to be carried out
15. Terminal evaluation to be carried out
ci Z
(a Z
'a m
lX
oLpJ
-+b
I-n



123
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 1
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Project Supervision Plan
1.    Significant multi-disciplinary resources will be required to supervise effectively the
project.  Given that the project involves national policies and investment programs, the
supervision of ASP will also be used to deepen IDA's sector dialogue with Government and
donors. This approach will include portfolio supervision missions involving other on-going
IDA-supported projects, and therefore achieve efficiencies in supervision and preparation of
proposed projects.
2.    IDA supervision of the project would be closely linked to the agreed plan of action
(Annex 3) and summary implementation schedule (Annex 13). The schedule of missions include
two formal missions per year (including one portfolio supervision mission), and on-going
implementation assistance to be provided by the staff from the Resident Mission (especially the
senior agricultural services specialist, agricultural program officer, in addition to the assistance
from the Resident and Deputy Representatives on policy and institutional issues).
3.    It is anticipated that in the initial two years there will be a larger input from IDA to
ensure that the improved actions are implemented on a timely basis and are ready to collaborate
closely with the participating agencies in making any necessary adjustments. IDA expertise
would also include research and extension specialists who are experienced in similar programs
in other SubSaharan countries. The formal reviews would be timed to coincide with key periods
in the project's action plans, especially review and finalization of annual work plans and
preparation of annual budgets (around September/October of each year). The review of ASP will
also be closely coordinated with the visits by other donors who are and will be supporting parallel
agricultural service projects. It is envisioned that joint multi-donor reviews could be arranged
about once every two years, especially to ensure consistent views on policy and institutional
issues (e.g. fertilizer and seed policies, budgetary priorities, procurement matters).
4.    The supervision of the project will include biennial evaluations which will provide the
basis for any changes in project design and implementation arrangements. The project's
strengthened M&E arrangements, which will be assisted by a local institution contracted to
evaluate the project's impact.
5.    The supervision plan can be summarized as follows:
Activity        FY93/94   FY94/95   FY95/96  FY96/97  FY97/98    FY98/99
Supervision*    2           2          2         2         2           2
(Staff Weeks)    25        25         20        20        15           12
Biennial Review            X                    X
Evaluation                                                             x
* number of formal missions per year



ANNEX 15
124                         Page 1 of 6
STeberM: FJnvm 731g31                                       MXNILrER OF FINANCE
Telgom: LUlong73l 311             <*
raki: 4"M                          %   ?P.O. BOX 30049
LILONGWE 3
MALAWI
Ref. No.: C32/1/60/II                    20th April, 1993
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
World Bank
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Washington D.C.
USA
Dear Mr Preston
RE: MALAWI'S AGRICULTURAL SECTOR POLICIES AND STRATEGIES
The agricultural sector continues to be the backbone of
Malawi's economy.  The Government attaches high priority to
the sector's role in promoting growth and reducing poverty.
This letter highlights the sector's main constraints and the
Government's strategies to address them.  This policy and
strategy f'ramework will be used by Government to underpin the
design and implementation of the proposed IDA-supported
Agricultural Services Project and Rural Financial Services
Project, as well as other donor supported programs.
BACKGROUND
Economic   adjustment  programs   in  the   1980s  made
substantial progress in achieving macroeconomic growth and
stability.  Agricultural growth has been a major contributor
to positive macroeconomic performance, but has been led
primarily  by  the estate  sector.   The smallholder sector,
which comprises about 1.8 million families and about 97% of
rural population, has stagnated due to high population growth
and the persistence of various other constraints including
declining   soil   fertility   and   deforestation;   limited
appropriate agricultural technology, especially for maize and
affordable   yield   enhancing   technologies;   and  limited
availability of, and access to, key inputs, especially
improved seeds, fertilizer and finance.
As detailed in the Statement of Development Policies
(1987  - 1996), and updated in the Policy Framework Papers
(PFPs), the Government's objectives for agriculture are to
promote economic growth, raise rural incomes, ensure food
security and increase export earnings, while conserving
natural resources.   The Government's medium term investment
program gives priority to agriculture and ensures that the
level and content of public investment are consistent, with
sound economic management and stability and with expanding
the role of the private sector.
To achieve these objectives, the Government's main
strategies include: increasing smallholder productivity



ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 6
125
(especially through promoting the adoption of the improved
flint hybrid maize varieties); expanding the availability of
key inputs (especially improved seeds and fertilizers);
expanding smallholder access to high value cash crops;
maintaining   competitiveness   in   agricultural   exports;
promoting export diversification; enhancing the efficiency
and   sustainability  of  land  utilization,  and  improving
incentives  for  the  private  sector.   Both the estate and
smallholder sectors will play an important role in carrying
out  these  strategies.   Government  has  been implementing
these strategies through several policy and investment
programs, such as the multi-donor supported Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC, beginning in 1991) and the
USAID-supported   Agricultural   Sector  Assistance  Program
(ASAP, beginning in 1992). Some of the main achievements
include:   increased  smallholder  production of cash crops;
wider availability of fertilizer; moves towards market-based
pricing of agricultural produce, and inputs (including
substantial progress in phasing out fertilizer subsidies);
increased private sector participation and competition in
agricultural produce marketing; increased efficiency in
agricultural expenditures, and cessation of the transfer of
land from smallholders to estates in areas where there is
acute  land  shortage.   While  smallholder productivity has
shown some dynamism, progress has been set back by the
1991/92 drought and is impeded by some of the structural
constraints outlined above.
STRATEGIES AND ACTIONS
The   section   below   highlights  some  of  the  main
strategies and actions which Government will implement in
the medium term to deepen recent and on-going reforms and
provide the framework for donor assisted programs-in the
agricultural sector. These measures are aimed at promoting
a dynamic supply response, particularly from the smallholder
sector.     The    main   elements   involve:    maintaining
macro-economic   stability  in  the  domestic  and  external
accounts and ensuring that macroeconomic policies promote an
efficient   and   dynamic  agricultural  sector;  increasing
reliance   on   market-determined  pricing  and  competitive
marketing; expanding smallholder access to high value crops;
reforming   agricultural   inputs   markets,   research  and
extension systems to develop and promote the adoption of
yield-augmenting   technologies  and  diversification,  with
particular     emphasis      on      further     strengthening
research-extension-farmer   linkages;  expanding  access  to
finance in rural areas in a sustainable manner; promoting
environmentally sustainable resources use; and rationalizing
sectoral public expenditures and management.             i
Pricing  and  Marketing.   During the 1980s, Government
progressively liberalized its pricing and marketing policies
for smallholder crops. Government's policy is to continue



ANNEX 15
Page 3 of 6
126
this process of liberalization by the following actions:
relying increasingly on market-based prices for all crops;
lifting   remaining  restrictions  on  private  agricultural
produce   traders   in   1993   by  reviewing  the  relevant
legislation and take appropriate action with a view of
lifting   remaining  restrictions  on  private  agricultural
produce traders in 1993; improving traders' access to
finance and market information through implementing the
on-going   Agricultural  Marketing  and  Estate  Development
Project; over the next 3 years descheduling all crops
(except the main food staples) from the official price and
market support system; transforming ADMARC into a buyer and
seller of last resort for maize; providing ADMARC with
timely budgetary subventions to cover the costs of its
social role and monitoring its performance against agreed
performance targets, as reflected in the Memorandum of
Understanding between the Government and ADMARC to be
finalized in 1993, and to be updated periodically.
Smallholder Access to Cash Crops. Beginning in 1991,
Government   initiated   the   pilot   phase   of   allowing
smallholders   to   grow   and  market  burley  tobacco,  by
allocating   licenses   totalling   1.5   million   kgs.  to
smallholder farmers out of the total national quota of 90
million  kgs.   Government  is  committed  to increasing the
allocation. of quota to a larger number of resource poor
smallholders. This will enable smallholders to purchase the
inputs necessary to adopt the improved maize varieties, and
thereby enhance food security and reduce poverty. Over the
next three years, Government will progressively increase the
quota to smallholder farmers (to at least 10.7 million kgs.
by 1995/96, consistent with world market demand trends for
Malawi); in 1993, it will rationalize the tobacco quota
allocation system with the aim of promoting greater equity
in the agricultural sector by specifying the criteria which
is used to establish the national export crop target as well
as the criteria used to distribute the quotas among the
leasehold and customary land sectors. As part of a long
term strategy of diversification, over the next two years
Government will also prepare a private sector-led program to
promote diversification away from tobacco to other high
value cash crops.
Inputs.   Government is committed to promoting policies
which  wil,l  increase the availability of improved seeds and
fertilizers  to  smallholders.   In  1993,  Government  will
liberalize seed production, marketing and pricing with a
view   to  reducing  seed  costs  and  promoting  the  wider
availability of improved seed. Government's role will focus
on promoting private sector entry into all aspects of seed
production and marketing, thus providing a greater range of
choice   to  smallholder  purchasers.   Government  is  also
finalizing a fertilizer policy paper, which defines reforms
to be implemented in the 1993/94 season. The main thrust of



ANNEX 15
Page 4 of 6
127
the reform program is to further liberalize fertilizer*
markets in order to promote greater competition and more
efficient pricing, with an initial emphasis of the domestic
market, and, progressively, on the import market. The main
elements   include   removing   licensing  restrictions  for
potential importers, wholesalers and retailers; phasing out
all fertilizer subsidies by 1995/96 (subject to the opening
of Mozambican transport routes); liberalizing fertilizer
pricing within the framework of a target maximum retail
price;    further    liberalizing   the   domestic   market;
commercializing the role of the Smallholder Fertilizer
Revolving Fund of Malawi; further simplifying licensing
procedures for the importation of fertilizer; and, depending
on   availability  of  foreign  exchange,  ensure  that  all
eligible importers obtain the necessary foreign exchange.
Agricultural  Research:   The Government's objective is
to establish a cost-effective and sustainable research
system that will generate technology responsive to farmers'
needs, especially of the resource poor. While this work
will be primarily accomplished through the Department of
Agricultural Research designing and implementing appropriate
research action plans, beginning in 1993 Government will:
activate the Agricultural Sciences Committee to help update
the national research master plan and advise Government on
the allocation of all public expenditures (including donor
funds)   for   agricultural   research  in  accordance  with
priorities and budgetary ceilings; diversifying the bodies
which   undertake   the  research,  including  expansion  in
contract research, consistent with their growing capacities;
and the implementation of sustainable measures to enhance
the motivation of researches.
Agricultural    Extension:      Building    on    recent
improvements in the agricultural extension system, in 1993
Government will carry out three additional reforms: (i)
unifying the agricultural extension service, under which the
various technical disciplines in the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA)   will   channel  their  messages  through  the  field
assistants; (ii) shifting the focus from credit groups to a
wider   range   of  smallholders  through  informal  groups;
expanding   collaboration   with  NGOs  and  completing  the
separation of credit from extension, in order to reach a
larger   proportion  of  smallholders;  (iii)  strengthening
extension service by rationalizing extension staffing and
emphasizing greater field supervision and planning personnel
needs to ensure that the supply of trained extension staff
to MOA is within its requirementss and budgetary resources.
Rural  Finance.   Government  has fully liberalized the
interest rates in the financial system. This allows the
financial   institutions   the   freedom  to  charge  market
determined interest rates on their products. Government
policies are to expand the provision of finance in the rural



ANNEX 15
128                       Page 5 of 6
sector by improving access to financial services for farm
and non-farm activities; increasing competition in the
financial system, and improving the institutional framework
for financial intermediation in the country. By October 1,
1993, the Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration
will be converted into a limited liability company (Malawi
Rural Finance Company, Ltd), with the aim of transforming it
into a full fledged Rural Bank within three years, operating
on  a  commercial  basis.  By October, 1993, Government also
plans to delink credit from extension. Government's policy
will be to retain the 100% credit recovery rule for farmers'
clubs and to expand the number of groups and farmers
obtaining   credit   for   the   adoption  of  the  improved
agriculturaLl  technologies.   The  Government  will not take
measures that are inconsistent with the financial sector
reforms aimed at deepening rural financial markets.
Natural Resources/Environment. One of the main policy
objectives  involving  all  sectors  is  the conservation of
natural resources and the promotion of development patterns
which   are  environmentally  sustainable.   In  late  1992,
Government embarked on the preparation of a Forestry Policy
Review (FPR) and a National Environmental Action Plan
(NEAP). 130th of these studies are addressing key areas,
such as dleforestation, which if not effectively addressed,
will constrain future sustainable development of Malawi's
agricultural  sector.   Government plans to finalize the FPR
and NEAP by( mid-1994. Both of these studies, especially the
NEAP, will provide the policy, institutional and investment
framework for a more comprehensive strategy and program for
promoting environmentally sustainable development in all
sectors.    In   addition,   Government   will  improve  the
monitoring of land use and adjust land rents to promote a
more efficient and sustainable use of land resources.
Public  Expenditures.   The  Government  attaches  high
priorlty to improved public expenditure management in all
sectors.   The  five  year  rolling Public Sector Investment
Program provides the framework for planning and scheduling
investment projects in light of long-term national policy
objectives and short-term macroeconomic constraints. In the
agricultural   and  natural  resources  sectors,  from  1993
onwards actions will be taken to further improve this
process, including: (i) improving investment criteria used
by MOA and the Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources
(MFNR) to prioritize investment projects (including economic
viability for appropriate projects, completion of on-going
projects before starting new ones, quick generation of
benefits   for   a   large   number   of  smallholders,  and
environmental sustainability); (ii) a review in 1993 of MOA
and MFNR's organization and staffing, and, if necessary,
preparing   an   action   plan   to   rationalize  staffing,
organizational   arrangements,   and,   intake  of  training
colleges, to increase the efficiency of resource use in the



ANNEX 15
Page 6 of 6
129
public sector; (iii) developing improved "yardsticks" to
provide a better basis for allocating the resources for
nonrsalary recurrent costs in MOA and MFNR, from 1994/95
onwards; (iv) actions to improve public sector management,
including implementation of action plans prepared by MOA for
improving planning and financial management, procurement,
accounting, sectoral and project monitoring and evaluation.
Conclusion.   In recent years, the Government of Malawi
has undertaken policy reforms which have promoted growth and
reduced poverty. It is however recognized that substantial
progress is needed to meet the challenges of the 1990s. It
is believed that the implementation and adjustment as
necessary of the above measures will address the sector's
constraints and hence promote widespread growth and poverty
reduction.   Government  also  believes  that  the  proposed
Agricultural Services Project, the proposed Rural Financial
Services Project, and other donor assisted programs will
play an important role in facilitating the implementation of
these policy reforms.
Yours sincerely
L. J. Ch ngo, M.P.
MINISTER OF FINANCE
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



130
ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 7
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
BENEFITS ANALYSIS - METHOD, ASSUMPTIONS AND RESULTS
1.    The potential benefits of the project have been assessed using farm budget and linear program
analyses based on the sinallholder typology illustrated in Table 1, page 5. Basically, a limited set of
attainable changes in smallholder agriculture, and their effects on agricultural incomes, were projected
and compared with a continuation of recent trends.
2.    The typology was used to take into account different agro-ecological zones in the country and the
different constraints and opportunities faced by various socioeconomic strata of smallholders. Agro-
ecological diversity, and hence the potential productivity of agricultural land, was crudely based on
ADDs, while socioeconomic differences between smallholders was based on landholding size. The
typology relates to potential, rather than current, actual capacity to respond to available opportunities.
The choice of ranges for areas cultivated for each cell (or smallholder size categorization) was guided by
an analysis of the MOA's Annual Survey of Agriculture (ASA) data, as well as secondary sources,
interviews etc..
3.    The typology is crude because there is considerable agro-climatic variation within each ADD;
household size is not explicitly considered (although does tend to correlate positively with holding size);
household composition, in particular the ratio of economically productive to dependent members, is not
taken into account and off-farm earning opportunities are not included. However, these deficiencies are
inherent in any analysis based on representative farms or households.
4.    Data on current cropping patterns and yields were taken from the MOA's ASA in constructing
"representative" status quo ante farm budgets for each of the cells in the typology in Table 1. This
source of data was used because it is nationwide. Official 1992/3 input and output prices were used (and
later adjusted for economic analysis) to calculate gross margins, with a weighted average where quality
differences are important; fertilizer application rates were estimated from the ASA data; seed application
rates were taken from the GOM's Guide to Agricultural Production and labor requirements were drawn
from a recent FAO study. Additionally, it was assumed that all fertilizer and hybrid maize seed was
purchased on credit, at an annual interest rate of 12%. Results, in terms of cropping patterns and gross
margins, were compared with other research in this area and found to be consistent.
5.    The 'representative" status quo ante budgets were based on data for all households in each
particular cell. They therefore included cropping patterns and input utilization rates that reflect average
practices for all the households in the cell and described a composite household, rather than any



131
ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 7
individual one.' The construction of representative farm models was necessary in order to make the
analysis manageable.
6.    Partial budgets were then calculated for "new" crops - ie. those which the project will promote
and which did not appear in the existing representative farm budgets, either because they are not used
or because they are used by very few farmers. These include hybrid and local maize grown under a
canopy of Acacia Albida (with and without inorganic fertilizer); maize grown in rotation with Magoye
soybeans; burley tobacco, and hybrid flint maize, with and without fertilizer. The agro-forestry and
soybean budgets were based on on-farm trials being undertaken by Chitedze research and assumed that
trees were already established.
7.     A simple linear programming (LP) model was then used to analyze the impact of the project's
promotion of these "new" options, singly or in combination, on key economic variables for 12 types of
household. The twelve types were defined by combining the following types from Table 1: (a) the
sporadically and chronically food deficit households and (b) the relevant household types in Karonga and
Salima ADDs; Mzuzu and Kasungu and Liongwe ADDs, and Liwonde and Blantyre ADDs.
8.    The objective function was maximization of net monetary returns (ie. gross margins) to 37
cropping and non-cropping activities, subject to a set of 22 constraints on resource availability and
subsistence needs. The activities included, for example, purchase of maize; repayment of credit with
interest; off-farm employment and hiring in labor. Constraints included access to land, labor, cash,
credit, burley tobacco quota, and crop rotations. All labor activities were divided into 6 time periods to
reflect seasonality.
9.     Two scenarios were predicted for the year 2002 - a continuation of recent trends and an increase
in incomes as a result of project activities plus recent trends. Three assumptions cut across all three
scenarios, namely that the smallholder population growth rate will be 3.25% annually; the total land
available to smallholders will not increase and that relative prices remain the same in all cases.
10.   In the project scenario it was additionally assumed that research and extension improvements will
permit the adoption of agro-forestry and soybeans; maize yields will increase (local by 100 kgs/ha and
hybrid by 200 kgs/ha) due to improved cultivation practices and location-specific advice (particularly on
fertilizer application rates); flint hybrid maize seed supply will NOT be constraining; credit supply will
double to MK 165 million and that 39 million kgs of burley tobacco will be grown by smallholders in
0. 1 hectare lots.
11.   The results of the LP models for the 12 representative farm types were aggregated to show the
predicted effects on the cropping patterns and incomes of small, medium and large smallholders. This
was done using distributions of households by area cultivated, based on the 1987 census data (with
appropriate adjustments to show population growth based on recent trends and static land availability).
1V The budget were constructed by joining relevant variables (including mean proportions of total cultivated area under each
crop or crop combination; mean yields and standard deviations from the mean; fertilizer application rates etc.) and calculating
summary statistics for four groups of smallholders in each ADD.



132
ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 7
12.   Tables 1-4 of this annex summarize the results of this exercise. The main effects of the project
are predicted to be substitution away from local maize without fertilizer and maize/pulse intercropping,
towards local maize with fertilizer; hybrid maize with fertilizer and maize grown in nitrogen-fixing
rotations (ie., with agro-forestry and/or soybeans). These substitutions, together with higher yields
resulting from improved cultivation practices, lead to an increase in the aggregate net value of smallholder
production of about MK 214.5 million (1992/3 prices) in the year 2002/3 with the project, over the
situation that would obtain in 2002/3 based on current trends. Table 1 illustrates the changes predicted
in cropping patterns, whilst Table 2 illustrates the incremental net benefits of the project in terms of the
increases in the value of smallholder output in 2002/3 which result from the projects activities. Table 3
predicts that the economic rate of return to the project's investment will be about 23.8% over 20 years.
The numbers of small, inedium and large smallholders that are predicted to be involved in substituting
between crops as a result of the project is illustrated in Table 4. In summary, it is estimated that by
2002/3, with the project, an additional 450,000 smallholders will adopt hybrid maize with fertilizer (of
which about 95% will be in the small category); an additional 115,000 smallholders will use fertilizer on
local maize varieties and an additional 149,000 will adopt nitrogen-fixing cultivation practices in
combination with local maize. All these figures are relative to the situation which would obtain in 2002/3
if current trends were continued. Thus with the project it is estimated that about 2 million smallholders
(about 84%) will adopt hybrid flint maize, in pure stands, in rotation with soybeans and/or in combination
with agro-forestry techniques. This, in combination with other changes, like more efficient fertilizer
applications and increased burley tobacco production, leads to an estimated increase in the real value of
smallholder production of about 35%.



TABLE 1:  CHANGES IN AREA PLANTED BETWEEN 1992/3 AND 2002/3, WITH AND UITHOUT PROJECT
CROP              AREA PLANTED '000 HA 1992/3                    WITHOUT PROJECT 2002/3                         DIFFERENCE WITHOUT PROJECT 1992-2002
SMALL    MEDIUM   LARGE    TOTAL              AREA PLANTED '000 HA                           AREA PLANTED '000 000 HA
SMALL    MEDIUM   LARGE    TOTAL              SMALL    MEDIUM   LARGE    TOTAL               X INCREAS
LMNF                    151        4        5       160 LMNF           86         3        7       96                -65       -1         2      -64 LMNF           -40
LMF                    326       156        4      486 LNF             28         6        3       37               -298     -150        -1    -449 IMF             -92
HMNF                      0        0        0        0 HMNF             0         0        0        0                  0        0         0        0 HHNF     N/A
HHF                      6        24      102       132 HMF            62        78       78      218                 56       54       -24       86 HMF             65
HZPUL                   102      216      430       748 MZPUL         518       304      369     1191                416       88       -61      443 MZPUL           59
LMNITFIX                 0         0        0        0 LMNITFIX        15       .1         2       18                 15        1         2       18 LMM      N/A
HMNITFIXNF               0         0        0        0 HMNITFIXN        0         0        0        0                  0        0         0        0 HMAAF   N/A
HHNITFIXF                 0        0        0        0 HMNITFIXF       66        42       49      157                 66       42        49      157 HHAAF    N/A
RICE                     29       23       83       135 RICE           33        26       29       88                  4        3       -54      -47 RICE           -35
MILLET                    0        0        7         7 MILLET          0         0        2        2                  0        0        -5       -5 MILLET         -71
COTTON                    0       12        5        17 COTTON          0        13        3       16                  0        1        -2       -1 COTTON          -6
BURLEY                    0        0        0         0 URLEY           2         1        1        4                  2        1         1        4 URLEY   N/A
CROP              WITHOUT PROJECT 2002/3                         WITH PROJECT 2002/3                            DIFFERENCE BETWEEN W'UOT AND UITH PROJECT 2002/3
AREA PLANTED '000 HA                          AREA PLANTED '000 HA                           AREA PLANTED '000 HA
SMAIL    MEDIUM   LARGE    TOTAL              SMALL    MEDIUM    LARGE   TOTAL               SMALL    MEDIUIM  LARGE    TOTAL               X INCREAS
LMNF                    86         3        7       96 LMHF            16         3        0       19                -70        0        -7      -77 LtNF           -80
tMF                     28         6        3       37 LtF             85         6        5       96                 57        0         2       59 LMF            159
HMNF                      0        0        0        0 HNNF             0         0        0        0                  0        0         0        0 HHNF      N/A
HMF                     62        78       78      218 HHF            287        72       92      451                225       -6        14      233 HMF            107
MZPUL                   518      304      369      1191 NZPLIL        302       308      354      964               -216        4       -15     -227 MZPUL          -19
LHNITFIX                15         1        2        18 LIMNITFIX      15         1        2       18                  0        0         0        0 LMNITFIX         0
HMNITFIXNF                0        0        0        0 HMNIFIXNF       61        11       27       99                 61       11        27       99 HHNIFIXNFN/A
HMNITFIXF               66        42       49       157 HMNITFIXF       5        35       25       65                -61       -7       -24      -92 HMNITFIXF      -59
RICE                    33        26       29       88 RICE            16        22       26       64                -17       -4        -3      -24 RICE           -27
MILLET                    0        0        2         2 MILLET          0         0        6        6                  0        0         4        4 MILLET         200   w
COTTON                    0       13        3        16 COTTON         11        14        5       30                 11        1         2       14 COTTON          88   w
BURLEY                    2        1        1        4 BURLEY          12         3        2       17                 10        2         1       13 BURLEY         325
KEY
LMNF              Local maize, no fertilizer
LHF               Local maize, with fertilizer
HNNF              Hybrid maize, no fertilizer
HNF               Hybrid mize  with fertilizer
NZPUL             Maize and pulses intercropped
LMNITFIX          Local mize with nitrogen fixing rotation/mix ie., maize and agro-forestry; maize rotated with soya beans
HHMITFIXNF        Hybrid smize with nitrogen fixing rotation/mix, but no inorganic fertilizer
HMHITFIXF         Hybrid mize with nitrogen fixing rotation/mix and inorganic fertilizer
RICE              Rice
MILLET            Miltet
COTTON            Seed Cotton
BURLEY            Burley tobacco
40 2
IZ 
o ol



TABLE 2:  INCREMIENTAL BENEFITS OF PROJECT BY 2002/3 (1992 ECONOMIC PRICES)
StAtUS uO ANTE 1992/3
AREA PLANTED '000 HA                GHs/HA   NET VALUE
SMALL    MEDILM   LARGE    TOTAL   HlK       OF PROD *000 MK
LINF                   151        4        5      160      379   60640
LMF                   326       156       4      486       447   217242
HMF                     6        24      102      132      713    94116
HZPUL                  102      216      430      748      272   203456
MiLLET                   0        0        7        7       47      329
RICE                    29       23       31      83       352    29216
COTTON                   0       12       5        17      400     6800
VALUE OF SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION           611799
CROP             UITHOUT PROJECT 2002/3               GROSS MARGINS     VALUE OF                   UITH PROJECT 2002/3                 GMs      VALUE OF           INCREMENTAL
AREA PLANTED '000 HA                MK/HA (1992/3)    PRODUCTION                 AREA PLANTED '000 HA                MK/HA    PRODUCTION         BENEFIT
SMALL    MEDIUM   LARGE   TOTAL                       '000 HK                    SMALL    MEDIUM    LARGE  TOTAL              '000 MK            '000 HK
LMNF                   86        3        7       96      379              36384 LMNF                    16        3        0       19      379     7201             -29183
LNF                     28       6        3       37       502             18574 LMF                     85        6        5       96      502    48192             29618
HHNF                     0        0       0        0       334                 0 HMNF                     0        0        0        0      334        0                  0
HNF                    62       78        78     218      825             179850 HMF                    286       72       92      450      825   371250             191400
MZPUL                  518      304      369     1191      272            323952 MZPUL                  302      308      354      964      272   262208             -61744
LMNITFIX               15         1       2        18      510              9180 LHNITFIX                15        1        2       18      510     9180                  0
HMNITFIXNF               0       0        0        0       709                 0 HHNITFIXNF              61       11       27       99      709    70191             70191
HMNITFIXF              66       42       49       157      907            142399 HMNITFIXF                5       35       25       65      907    58955             -83444
RICE                   33       26       29       88       352             30976 RICE                    16       22       26       64      352    22528              -8448
MILLET                   0        0        2        2       47                94 MILLET                   0        0        6        6       47      282                188
COTTOM                   0       13       3        16      400              6400 COTTON                  11       14        5       30      400    12000               5600 w
BURLEY                  2         1        1       4      7718             30872 BURLEY                  12        3        2       17    7718   131206              100334  -
NET VALUE OF OUTPUT UITHOUT PROJECT IN 2002/3 (1992 PRICES)      778681 NET VALUE OF OUTPUT UITH PROJECT 2002/3 (1992 PRICES)            993193             214512
ASSUMPTIONS:
Opportunity cost of labor * 0
Local maize seed price * MKO.56/kg
Hybrid maize seed price   HK4.63/k5
Soybean seed price = MK1.05/kg
Uresa = K1.55/kg
DAP - NK1.70/kg
0' copfpound = MK1.84/kg
CAN = MKI.37/kg
Maize producer price * MK0.56/kg
Maize consumeer price * MKO.85/kg
Yield increase in fertilized tocal maize * 100kg/ha
Yield increase in fertilized hybrid maize = 200kg/ha
Soybean producer price a MK0.65/kg
Burtey nonfert costs * MK754.50/ha
Burley producer price   MK6.75/ha
-UD
O Z
's m
'1.
o or
-j



TABLE 3: NET INCRENENTAL BENEFITS OF PROJECT OVER 20 YEARS
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS ARE DERIVED FROM CHANGES IN IECTARAGE AND GROSS MARGINS AT 1992/3 ECONOMIC PRICES (see previous table)
INCREMENTAL COSTS ARE DERIVED FROM THE PROJECT RESEARCH AND EXTENSION BASE COSTS AT 1992 VALUES and INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS POST 1998/9
YEAR              INCREMENTAL BENEFITS                INCREMENTAL COSTS          NET INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
MK '000                             MK '000                    MK '000
WITH PROJECT                                                   WITH PROJECT
1993/4                  0                              10588.7                   -10588.7
1994/5            3459.870                             28943.8                   -25483.9
1995/6           6919.741                              26110.3                   -19190.5
1996/7            10379.61                             22719.9                   -12340.2
1997/8           20759.22                              24344.5                   -3585.27
1998/9            27678.96                             18789.5                   8889.467
1999/0            31138.83                              7712.5                   23426.33
2000/1            34598.70                              7712.5                   26886.20
2001/2            38058.57                              7712.5                   30346.07
2002/3            41518.4                               7712.5                   33805.94
2003/4            4978.31                               712.5                    37265.81
2004/5            48438.18                              7712.5                   40725.68
2005/6            51898.05                              7712.5                   44185.55
2006/7            55357.92                              7712.5                   47645.42
2007/8            58817.79                              7712.5                   51105.29
2008/9            62277.66                              7712.5                   54565.16
2009/0            65737.53                              7712.5                   58025.03
2010/1            69197.40                              7712.5                   61484.90
2011/2            72657.27                              7712.5                   64944.77 
2012/3            76117.14                              7712.5                   68404.64                                                                                n
TOTAL             91061.54                            239471.7                   580517.6
IRR                                                                              0.237m76
I- >
0 Z
to z
(D mT
x
0o o
..4



TABLE 4: CHANGES IN NUMBER OF FARMERS GROWING EACH CROP BETWEEN 1992 AND 2002, WITH AND WITHOUT THE PROJECT
CROP              AREA PLANTED '000 NA 1992/3                            WITHOUT PROJECT 2002/3                        DIFFERENCE WITHOUT PROJECT 1992-2002
SMALL    MEDIUM   LARGE    TOTAL                       AREA PLANTED '000 HA                          AREA PLANTED '000 000 HA
SMALL    MEDIUM   LARGE    TOTAL             SMALL    MEDIUM   LARGE    TOTAL
LHNF                   151        4         5      160 LMNF                     86        3        7       96                -65       -1        2      -64 LMNF
LMF                    326       156        4      486 LMF                      28        6        3       37               -298     -150       -1     -449 LNF
HNNF                     0        0         0        0 HMNF                      0        0        0        0                  0        0        0        0 HNNF
HHF                      6       24       102      132 HMF                     62        78       78      218                 56       54      -24       86 HMF
MZPUL                   102      216      430      748 MZPUL                   513      304      369     1186                411       88      -61      438 HZPUL
LMNIFIX                  0        0         0        0 LMNIFIX                  15        1        2       18                 15        1        2       18 LMAA
HMNIFIX                  0        0         0        0 HMNIFIX                   0        0        0        0                  0        0        0        0 HHAANF
HMNIFIXF                 0        0         U        0 HMNIFIXF                 66       42       49      15                                            17 HrA
RICE                    29       23        31       83 RICE                     33       26       29       88                  4        3       -2        5 RICE
MILLET                   0        0         7        7 MILLET                    0        0        2        2                  0        0       -5        -S MILLET
COTTON                   0        12        5       17 COTTON                    0       13        3       16                  0        1       -2       -1 COTTON
BURLEY                   0        0         0        0 BURLEY                    2        1        1        4                  2        1        1        4 BURLEY
TOTAL                  614      435       584     1633 TOTAL                   805      474      543     1822                191       39      -41      189 TOTAL
H'HOLD POP '000       1099      380       321     1800 H'HOLD POP '000        1614      433      354     2401               1614      433      354     2400 HN'HOLO POP '000
HA/CAPITA             0.56     1.14      1.82     0.91 HA/CAPITA              0.50     1.09     1.53     0.76               0.12     0.09    -0.12     0.08 HA/CAPITA
CROP              '000 FARMERS GROWING CROP 1992/3              UITHOUT PROJECT 2002/3                        DIFFERENCE WITHOUT PROJECT 1992/3-2002/3
(TOTAL AREA/HECTARES PER CAPITA)              '000 FARMERS GROWING CROP                     '000 FARMERS SWITCHING CROPS
SMALL    MEDIUM   LARGE    TOTAL              SMALL    MEDIUM   LARGE    TOTAL              SMALL    MEDIUM   LARGE    TOTAL
LMNF                270.25     3.50      2.75   176.40            172.43      2.74     4.56   126.52            -97.83    -0.76      1.81  -813.67 LMNF
LMF                 583.46   136.37      2.20   535.81             56.14      5.48     1.96    48.76           -527.32  -130.89    -0.24 -5708.42 LMF
HMNF                  0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00              0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00              0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00 HMNF
HMF                  10.74    20.98    56.10   145.53             124.31    71.26    50.86   287.30             113.57    50.28    -5.24  1093.37 HMF
MZPUL               182.56   188.82   236.49   824.66            1028.55   277.72   240.60  1562.99             845.99    88.90      4.11  5568.57 MZPUL
LMNIFIX               0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00             30.07      0.91     1.30    23.72             30.07      0.91     1.30   228.85 LMNIFIX
HMNIFIX               0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00              0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00              0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00 HMNIFIX
HMNIFIXF              0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00            132.33    38.37    31.95   206.91             132.33    38.37    31.95  1996.04 HMNIFIXF
RICE                 51.90    20.11    17.05    91.51              66.16    23.75    18.91   115.97              14.26      3.65     1.86    63.57 RICE
MILLET                0.00      0.00     3.85     7.72              0.00      0.00     1.30     2.64              0.00      0.00    -2.55   -63.57 MILLET
COTTON                0.00    10.49      2.75    18.74              0.00    11.88      1.96    21.09              0.00      1.39    -0.79   -12.71 COTTON
BURLEY                0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00              4.01      0.74     0.65     5.02              4.01      0.74     0.65    48.44 BURLEY
TOTAL              1098.91   380.27   321.19  1800.37            1614.00   432.85   354.06  2400.91             515.09    52.58    32.87  2400.46 TOTAL
CROP              AREA PLANTED '000 HA 2002/3 WITH PROJECT      '000 FARMERS 2002/3 WITH PROJECT              DIFF BETWEEN WITH AND U'OUT PROJECT 2002/3
SMALL    MEDIUM   LARGE    TOTAL              TOTAL AREA/HECTARES PER CAPITA                '000 FARMERS SWITCHING
SMALL    MEDIUM   LARGE    TOTAL              SMALL    MEDIUM   LARGE    TOTAL
LMNF                    16        3         0       19             31.87      2.73     0.00    34.61           -140.55    *0.01    -4.56  -145.13 LMNF
LHF-                    85        6         5       96            169.32      5.47     3.32   178.11            113.18    -0.01      1.36   114.53 LF
HMNF                     0        0         0        0              0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00              0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00 HMNF
HMF                    287        72       92      451            571.71    65.61    61.00   698.32             447.41    -5.65    10.14   451.90 HMF
HZPUL                  302       308      354      964            601.60   280.67   234.71  1116.98            -426.95      2.95    -5.89  -429.89 M2PUL
LMNIFIX                 15         1        2       18             29.88      0.91     1.33    32.12             -0.19      0.00     0.02    -0.17 LMAA
HMNIFIX                 61        11       27       99            121.51    10.02    17.90   149.44             121.51    10.02    17.90   149.44 LMNIFIX
HMNIFIXF                 5       35        25       65              9.96    31.89    16.58    58.43            -122.37    -6.47   -15.37  -144.22 HMNIFIX
RICE                    16       22        16       54             31.87    20.05    10.61    62.53             -34.29    -3.70    -8.30   -46.30 HMNIFIXF
MILLET                   0        0         6        6              0.00      0.00     3.98     7.92              0.00      0.00     2.67     2.67 MILLET
COTTON                  11        14        5       30             21.91    12.76      3.32    37.99             21.91      0.88     1.36    24.15 COTTON                   -D D
BURLEY                  12        3         2       17             23.90      2.73     1.33    27.96             19.89      1.99     0.67    22.56 BURLEY                   w Z
TOTAL                  810      475       534     1819           1613.55   432.85   354.06  2400.46              -0.45      0.00     0.00    -0.45 TOTAL                    X  m
o ol



137
ANNE 17
Page 1 of 1
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
A. Project Preparation Documents
Project Preparation Documents for the Agricultural Services Project were compiled by
Government of Malawi, Ministry of Agriculture and Danish Rural Development Consultants in
June 1992, and include the following:
Project Preparation Report
Project Preparation Report Annexes
Sectoral Background and Analysis Working Paper
Input Supply WorLdng Paper
Extension Component Working Paper
Research Component Working Paper
B. Agricultural Sector Memorandum Papers
The following working papers, written as part of the on-going preparation of an Agricultural
Sector Memorandum, have also guided project design:
Agricultural Policy and Technology Options: Modeling Responses and Outcomes in the
Smallholder Sector, Ken Simler, Cornell University, March 1993
Poverty Profile of Rural Households in Malawi: A Summary of Recent Findings, Agnes
Quisumbing World Bank and Ken Simler, Cornell University, November 1992
Research Issues and Strategies In Malawi
The Inputs Sector: Fertilizer and Seed, Anne Conroy, Rockefeller Foundation, Malawi
November 1992
Public Expenditure Review for Agriculture, Stanley Hiwa, World Bank, November 1992
Women In Agriculture: Issues and Strategies, Agnes Quisumbing and Lisa Schwartz (World
Bank) and C. Chibwana (Ministry of Agriculture), November 1992
Women In Agriculture in Malawi, Esther Gadzama, World Bank, November 1992



To Dor Es                                                                       so         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 2457
OMi                                                          MALAWI
hir P.
tererogoADMINISTRATIVE
kbosaaa                       DIVISIONS
This mop has bee   preporee                 70REGON
by The  WoId  Bo-b's st.ffilabaR GIN
~~~i-ly f., th.  ~~~AND
of-eaer  and  is for the
ammo.1 -o of The Worlo Bach                                                                              DISTRICTS
G-op.The denoinotion  -sd                                    0'iono
one  the  bo-daris h,,  o                       RUMPHI
on this, -op do not imply, on the
part of The Wombd Bo1b Groop,So
any  ,d-et on tErn teBa grcsRAD
-trs ray ert-ory or any                       BonPRINCIPALROD
RT   E                                  ~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
too eden  Lake               0     TOWNS
Ninhato                  ~~~DISTRICT CAPITALS
~~'  R  IC  Bay    ~ ~ ~ ~~~                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
NKA
Mo moo  BAY       /                           ~~~~~~DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
2                                          OJosomala                     -      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION BOUNDARIES
ZAMBIA                                                              (Uon.-                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
A4citcxwi         ~~~~KILOMETERS 0    20   40   60   BO   tBO
MILES 0        20      40        60
K-~~~~~~Nhtbt
MOZAMBIQUE
T. L-k.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aeapt9



