Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2514 MAI
                   Development Credit Agreement
                  (Agricultural Services Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated October 1, 1993
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2514 MAI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 1, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated
April 20, 1993, from the Borrower describing a program of
objectives, policies and actions designed to strengthen the
Borrower's agricultural sector (hereinafter called the Program) and
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
      (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
      (b)   "DREA" means the Department of Research and
Environmental Affairs within the Borrower's Office of the President
and Cabinet;
      (c)   "DAR" means the Department of Agricultural Research
within the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
      (d)   "ASC" means the Agricultural Sciences Committee;
      (e)   "ADD" means an Agricultural Development Division;
      (f)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated November 20, 1990, December 18,
1990, February 26, 1993, and March 16, 1993 between the Borrower and
the Association; and
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-
three million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 33,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in US dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1999 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
Page  3
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15
commencing November 15, 2003 and ending May 15, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2013
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
Page  4
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOA
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement; and (ii) make adequate annual budgetary allo-
cations and promptly release the appropriated funds to MOA and other
Project implementing agencies consistent with the plan of action,
work plans and criteria approved in accordance with the Imple-
mentation Program, and the Borrower's medium-term agricultural
investment program, which shall be updated periodically and continue
to be satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) by not later than
October 1, 1995 and October 1, 1997, respectively, carry out,
jointly with the Association, comprehensive reviews to determine
progress achieved in the implementation of the various components of
the Project; and (b) thereafter promptly carry out any modifications
and improvements in Project implementation recommended as a result
of such reviews.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than 9
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
Page  5
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant portion thereof, will be carried out.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   DREA has: (1) established, and appointed the head of the
technical secretariat for the Agricultural Sciences Committee whose
qualifications are satisfactory to the Association; and (2) has
approved the secretariat's method of operation and work plan;
      (b)   MOA has issued an administrative circular formalizing
the role of the Agricultural Sector Steering Committee including the
committee's schedule of meetings for 1993/94; and
      (c)   MOA has appointed a procurement specialist, a transport
systems advisor and a financial planning and management specialist
whose qualifications are satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
Page  6
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 30049
            Capital City
            Lilongwe, 3
            Malawi
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   FINANCE                   44407
                   Lilongwe
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                         By /s/ Louis Chimango
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Stephen Denning
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works                2,600,000       90%
(2)  Consultants'              10,670,000       100%
     Services and
     Training
(3)  Vehicles, Equip-           2,450,000       100% of foreign
     ment and Supplies                          expenditures and
Page  7
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
(4)  Fertilizers under          2,600,000       100%
     Part C of the
     Project
(5)  Operating Costs           10,600,000       100% through
                                                December 31, 1996
                                                and 60% thereafter
(6)  Refunding of                 870,000       Amounts due
     Project                                    pursuant to
     Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                    of this Agreement
(8)   Unallocated               3,210,000
                               ----------
      TOTAL                    33,000,000
                               ==========
2.For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "operating costs" means incremental
expenditures for fuel, lubricants, vehicles maintenance, subsistence
and field lodging allowances for staff.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) payments
made or expenditures under Category (4), unless the Borrower has
implemented policy reforms on fertilizer and an action plan,
satisfactory to the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist the
Borrower's efforts to improve institutional and management reforms
in research, extension and input supply with the aim of providing
cost-effective and sustainable technologies suitable for smallholder
farmers; and (b) to improve smallholder farm incomes and food
security by increasing productivity and diversifying production on
a sustainable basis.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Agricultural Research
      Establishment of a cost-effective and sustainable research
system to generate technology responsive to smallholder farmers'
needs through:
      (1)   the formulation and implementation of research action
plans;
      (2)   strengthening linkages between beneficiary farmers and
providers of research and extension services;
Page  8
      (3)   expanding research bodies' participation in publicly
funded research consistent with their growing capacity;
      (4)   improvement of research priorities and funding through
the strengthening of the Department of Agricultural Research and
activating the Agricultural Sciences Committee; and
      (5)   improvement of DAR's management and staff incentives.
Part B:     Agricultural Extension
      Improvement of the efficiency and effectiveness of
agricultural extension services to smallholder farmers, and
development of appropriate management systems for the services.
Part C:    Agricultural Inputs
1.    Carrying out of a seeds multiplication, pricing, distribution
and stocking policy to enhance the increased availability of
improved seeds to smallholder farmers.
2.    Increase the availability of fertilizer to smallholder farmers
through: (a) the formulation and implementation of reforms to
further liberalize the importation, pricing and distribution of
fertilizer; and (b) the acquisition of incremental fertilizer
through private sector importers.
Part D:     Institutional Strengthening
1.    Strengthening MOA's planning and management capability through
training and technical assistance.
2.    Improvement in the transport management system of MOA and ADDs
through training, technical assistance and the acquisition of
workshop equipment and computer hardware and software.
3.    Improvement of the Borrower's procurement procedures.
4.    Strengthening MOA's capacity in the analysis, formulation and
planning of agricultural policies.
5.    Strengthening the MOA's Department of Irrigation and farmers'
groups capability to design and implement pilot small-scale
irrigation schemes.
6.    Strengthening MOA's capacity to carry out monitoring and
evaluation of projects and policies.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1999.
                           SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the
invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines
shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will
be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
Page  9
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into
account in bid evaluation.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for office equipment,
vehicles and equipment shall be grouped into bid packages estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
3.    Goods to be procured through international competitive bidding
shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by third
parties.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Malawi may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$5,300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to the Association which shall include:
(a) public opening of bids; (b) specified evaluation criteria;
(c) confirmation of foreign bidders eligibility to participate in
the bidding process; and (d) awards to be made to the lowest
responsive competitive bidder.
2.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $1,400,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.    Proprietary equipment and spare parts estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $5,000 each, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $25,000 may be awarded after direct negotiations with
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
Page  10
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ experts and consultants whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single
source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association and to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Project Coordination
1.    The Principal Secretary, MOA, with the assistance of the
Agricultural Sector Steering Committee (ASSC) shall be responsible
for the overall implementation of the Project. ASSC, under the
chairmanship of the Principal Secretary MOA, shall: (a) include the
heads of MOA's departments responsible for the implementation of
Project components, ADD program managers, senior officers from the
Ministry of Finance, the Department of Economic Planning and
Development and DREA; (b) meet quarterly to review the status of
Project implementation based on progress reports to be prepared by
MOA's Central Monitoring and Evaluation Unit; and (c) review and
approve annual work plans and budgets and resolve any policy and
coordination issues that may arise during the implementation of the
Project.
2.    To facilitate Project implementation the departments or units
responsible for the implementation of the various components of the
Project shall: (a) adopt and implement, for its respective
component, a plan of action (the Plan of Action), satisfactory to
the Association, including key actions, responsibilities and
indicative timetables; and (b) prepare updated work plans and
budgets consistent with: (i) the plan of action referred to in (a)
above; and (ii) MOA's project planning and budgeting cycle,
including the planned activities, budgetary resources required for
investment and recurrent costs. With respect to activities in ADDs
the work plans and budgets shall identify the administrative
(including salaries) and operational expenditures.
3.    Each implementing department shall, by not later than
September 15 of each year of Project implementation, with effect
from September 15, 1993, prepare and submit to ASSC, with copies for
the Association, for their review, draft annual work plans and
supporting draft budget estimates for the following fiscal year.
4.    The Borrower shall: (a) release the annual budgetary
allocation on a timely basis, consistent with criteria for
operating expenditures, satisfactory to the Association to be
finalized by August 1 of each year, with effect from August 1, 1993;
Page  11
and (b) progressively increase its share of financing for operating
expenditures commensurate with the decrease in the Association's
share of financing operating expenditures under this Agreement.
5.    The Borrower shall ensure that the implementation of the
Project is carried out in accordance with environmental guidelines
to be developed in the context of the National Environmental Action
Plan.
Part A of the Project
6.    DAR shall be responsible for the implementation of Part A of
the Project, and as part of the work plan and budget to be submitted
to ASSC and the Association as stipulated in paragraph 3 above,
shall, by September 15 of each year, with effect from September 15,
1993, prepare and submit revised research action plans which are
consistent with the national agricultural policy, National Research
Master Plan and realistic budgetary ceilings; take account of the
existing state of knowledge; estimate anticipated impact on farmers'
production levels; ensure that technologies are environmentally
sound; cover the entire spectrum of work from laboratory to the
farmers' fields; be based on transparent cost estimates; defined
types of cooperation planned with other research units and with
extension; and list verifiable objectives.
7.    DAR with the assistance of the Department of Agricultural
Training and Extension, shall carry out an action plan, satisfactory
to the Association, to strengthen linkages between research,
extension and smallholder farmers, and by September 15 of each year
during the implementation of the Project, with effect from September
15, 1993, submit a draft work plan and budget for the following
year.
8.    (a)   DAR shall take appropriate measures to expand the use of
contract research with suitably qualified research bodies including
Chancellor College, Bunda College of Agriculture and the Tea
Research Foundation, consistent with their growing capacity, and
ensure that progress reports on contracted research are submitted to
DAR by May 1 of each year of Project implementation.
      (b)   MOA shall, by July 1 of each year of Project
implementation, with effect from July 1, 1993, advertise all
contract research opportunities available in the ensuing year.
9.   ASC, as the Borrower's advisory body on all matters pertaining
to agricultural research, will be responsible to assist in the
determination of research priorities and funding. ASC's main
functions, method of operation, composition and action plan shall be
satisfactory to the Association, and shall include converting the
present research master plan into a comprehensive national research
master plan; periodic revisions of the national master research
plan; monitoring research programs funded by the public sector;
promoting improved accountability; advising the Borrower on the
allocation of public funds to program and research units (including
private bodies); and fostering stronger links with regional and
international research bodies. ASC will comprise senior repre-
sentatives from public and private sector entities involved in
promoting agricultural research and will meet at least three times
a year to review progress and provide guidance in the above areas.
DREA shall implement the action plan for ASC's operation, and with
ASC's assistance, will update ASC's work plan for the ensuing year
by September 15 of each year of Project implementation with effect
from September 15, 1993 and submit it to the Association for review.
10.   DAR shall: (a) prepare and, by September 15, 1993, commence
the implementation of an action plan, satisfactory to the
Association, for improving its management system, staff incentives
and accountability; and (b) update the action plan annually and
furnish it to the Association by September 15 of each year.
Part B of the Project
Page  12
11.   While the Chief Agricultural Extension and Training Officer
(CAETO) will have overall responsibility for the implementation of
Part B of the Project, extension activities within ADDs will be
implemented by the program manager of the respective ADD. The CAETO
will be responsible for coordinating implementation of field staff
training.
12.   MOA shall prepare and, by not later than June 30, 1993,
commence the implementation of an action plan, satisfactory to the
Association: (a) to delink credit and extension services; (b) to
rationalize MOA's organizational structure and staffing; and (c) to
improve field supervision, program budgeting and planning, and staff
incentive system. MOA shall annually review and, as necessary,
revise the action plan referred to in (c) above.
13.   In order to ensure that field staff have mobility to fulfill
their responsibilities, MOA shall prepare and implement a motorcycle
ownership scheme for such staff, satisfactory to the Association.
Part C of the Project
14.   MOA's Pricing and Marketing Unit will be responsible for the
implementation of Part C of the Project, and shall adopt and
implement policies, and action plans, satisfactory to the
Association, for: (a) increasing the supply of improved maize seed
by liberalizing production, pricing, marketing and formulating an
improved stocking policy; and (b) increasing the supply of
fertilizer by liberalizing the importation, pricing and distribution
of fertilizer.
Part D of the Project
15.   The Chief Accountant of MOA, as head of MOA's Finance
Division, will be responsible for the implementation of the planning
and financial management sub-component of Part D of the Project and
shall adopt and, by July 1, 1993, commence the implementation of an
action plan, satisfactory to the Association, to improve financial
management and accounting systems.
16.   MOA shall: (a) for the duration of Project implementation,
assign to a senior officer at its headquarters the duties of
coordination and monitoring of transport operations of ADDs and
MOA's departments; and (b) implement a transport management action
plan, satisfactory to the Association, to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of the delivery of agricultural services.
17.   (a)   MOA's Procurement Unit, with the assistance of the
Ministry of Works, for civil works, and a procurement specialist,
will be responsible for carrying out procurement work, and for
formulating and implementing an action plan, satisfactory to the
Association, including in-service and on-the-job training, to
strengthen the capacity of MOA to handle procurement matters.
      (b)   The Ministry of Finance shall carry out an inter-
ministerial procurement study, satisfactory to the Association,
consistent with the Plan of Action.
18.   MOA, through the Bunda College of Agriculture, will be
responsible for the implementation of the agricultural policy
analysis and training sub-component of the Project, and shall
prepare and implement an action plan, satisfactory to the
Association. The memorandum of understanding between MOA and Bunda
College of Agriculture furnished to the Association for its review
shall be satisfactory to the Association and finalized in accordance
with the Plan of Action.
19.   The Department of Irrigation within MOA shall carry out the
small-scale irrigation sub-component of the Project, in accordance
with criteria and an action plan satisfactory to the Association.
20.   MOA shall carry out the monitoring and evaluation of the
Project, in accordance with the Plan of Action, including: (a)
Page  13
arranging for the evaluation of the Project by a suitably qualified
institution, satisfactory to the Association; (b) preparing and
submitting to the Association semiannual and biennial progress
reports based on performance indicators satisfactory to the
Association; and (c) preparing the Project Completion Report.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
Page  14
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
