Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C i. /-S2 5- 7Ts
Report No. P-4064-TO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF
SDR 28.1 MILLION (US$27.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
FOR A
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
May 1, 1985
This document has a restricted distributhon and may be used by recipients only in the performnee of
their ficiad dutes. Its contefts may not otherwise be disclosed withon Wodd Dank audmorizaton. |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0 = CFAF 490
(West Africa Regional Rate for April 1985)
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
1 meter (m)   =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)   =  10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (mn3)   =  35.30 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)   =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (kM2)   =  0.39 square mile (sq ml)
1 hectare (ha)   =  2.47 acres
1 metric ton (t)   =  2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACP         = African, Caribbean and Pacific States
BCEAO       =  Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de l'Ouest
BTD         = Togo Development Bank
CEET        = Togo Electric Power Company
CFT         = Togo Railway Company
CIMAO       =  West African Clinker Company
CNCA        =  Agricultural Credit Bank
DRDR        =  Regional Rural Development Office
FNADP       = National Fund for Public Debt Amortization
IMF         =  International Monetary Fund
IOTO        = Vegetable Oil Processing Company
ITP         =  Plastic Manufacturing Company
ITT         = Togo Textile Industry
MAR         = Ministry of Rural Works
MDR         = Ministry of Rural Development
MPI         = Ministry of Plan and Industry
MSE         = Ministry of State Enterprises
OPAT        =  Export Crop Marketing Board
PAL         = Lome Port Authority
OTP         =  Phosphate Marketing Board
RNET        = Togo Water Board
RPT         = Togo People's Party
SAC         =  Structural Adjustment Credit
SALINTO     =  Togo Salt Mining Company
SDR         =  Special Drawing Right
SNI         =  National Investment Company
SNS         = National Steel Company
SODETO      = Togo Detergent Manufacturing
SOPROLAIT   = Dairy Processing Company
SOTEXMA     =  Agricultural Equipment Company



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SOTOMA      = Togo Marble Mining Company
SOTOCO      =  Cotton Development Company
SRCC        = Coffee and Cocoa Development Company
TA          =  Technical Assistance
STH         =  Togo Oil Refinery
TOGOGRAIN   =  Togo's Grain Marketing Board
TOGOFRUIT   =  Togo Fruit Company
TOGOTEX     =  Togo Textile Company
TOGOROUTE   -  National Trucking Company
UAPA        =  Agricultural Price Analysis Unit
UNDP        = United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January i - December 31
I This document has a restictd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
tbei ofiial dutis Its contents may not otherwie be discosed without Wodd Bank authoriation.



REPUBLIC OF TOGO
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:           The Republic of Togo
Amount:             SDR 28.1 million (US$27.8 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA
Program
Description:        The proposed credit would support the second phase
of the Government's structural adjustment program
which a-ms at reversing the economic decline of
the country and laying the foundation for
sustainable growth over the medium-term, while
continuing to improve the balance of payments and
the public finance position. The second phase of
the structural adjustment program is based on (i)
real producer income increases through
agricultural incentive reforms in order to expand
production of export crops, together with a
liberalization of foodcrop export, in order to
give farmers access to regional markets; (ii) an
action program to raise foodcrop output through
upgraded extension services and improved input
supply;  (iii)  continued  improvements  in
macroeconomic management, particularly in public
investment programming and execution with primary
emphasis on maintenance and rehabilitation of
existing assets; (iv) a public enterprise sector
reform through restructuring, privatization where
possible, and closure if necessary of the bulk of
Government-owned enterprises; and (v) preparation
for an industrial promotion policy as part of the
continuing structural adjustment process. The
?rogram is described in the attached Government's
Statement of Development Policy (Annex IV).
This report is based on the findings of IDA appraisal missions that visited
the Republic of Togo from November 30 to December 14, 1984 and from
February 15 to March 8, 1985. The missions' members were Messrs. R.
Westebbe (senior economist and mission leader), I. Thiam (economist), L.
Boya (Loan Officer), R. Crown (economist), H. Hansen (economist), A.
Covindassamy  (financial analyst), J. Nellis  (economist). L. Lekeux
(engineer), C. Vuylsteke (senior Counsel), and Ms. Triche (consultant)



Estimated           The credit would be disbursed in two tranches
Disbursemnts        for eligible imports submitted to the
Association. The first tranche of US$15 million
would be available for disbursement upon credit
effectiveness. Disbursement of the second tranche
of US$12.8 million would be contingent on the
Government taking the actions enumerated in
paragraph 72 of this report and in Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement in a manner
satisfactory to the Association. Disbursements of
the entire credit are expected to be completed
within 18 aonthe after credit effectiveness.
Staff
Appraisal Report:   Not applicable
NM_:                I-RD 13601 R
West Africa Programs II
May 1985



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO TOGO
FOR A SECOND STPUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Togo for SDR 28.1 million (US$27.8
million equivalent), to help support the second phase of the Government's
structural adjustment program. The credit would be made on standard IDA
terms. A companion third technical assistance project is being submitted
to you separately (see President's Report No. P-4063-TO dated May 1, 1985).
2.        Part I of this report describes the economy, and Part II presents
the progress achieved by the Government under the first structural
adjustment program. Part III outlines the Government's second structural
adjustment program and Part IV analyzes the expected economic impact of the
program. Parts V and VI describe the Bank's role in the proposed credit
and other Bank Group operations in Togo.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
3.        An economic report entitled "Togo: Country Economic Memorandum"
(3416-TO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in January 1982. Its
assessment of the country's economic prospects has been updated by recent
Bank missions and is reflected in the following paragraphs. Annex I
provides basic country data.
Introduction
2
4.        Togo is a small country (56.800 km ) with a population of about
2.8 million and a per capita GNP of US$280 (1983).  Between 1980-84,
phosphate mining accounted for more than 40 percent of exports, and
contributed to about 17 percent of government revenues. The three main
agricultural export crops (coffee, cocoa and cotton) accounted for 25
percent of exports and about 10 percent of government revenues. Political
stability has prevailed since 1967, when General Eyadema became President
after a military coup. The Government has gradually become civilian. The
politburo of the Rassemblement du Peuple Togolais (RPT), the country's only
party, is the center of power. The party is making cautious moves toward
liberalization, starting with the competitive elections held in March 1985,
during which 77 representatives to the National Assembly were elected for
the first time out of more than 200 candidates. Togo's external policy
favors regional and international cooperation. The country has hosted the
three Lomz conventions between the African, Caribbean aud Pacific States
(ACP) and the European Economic Community.



-2-
Background
5.        Until 1974, the Government of Togo pursued cautious economic and
financial policies and succeeded in achieving rapid economic growth, with
an average annual growth rate of 7 percent in real terms, while maintaining
internal and external financial equilibria.  This economic growth was based
on a significant change in the structure of the economy, with the share of
mining and trade increasing rapidly while agriculture declined. The
expansion of retail trade activities stemmed from the role of Togo as a
regional trading center for Nigeria, Ghana, Burkina Faso and Niger. The
growth of the mining sector was the result of increased phosphate rock
production which reached 2.6 million tons in 1974 from 1.5 million tons in
1970. In agriculture, Togo largely achieved food self-sufficiency, except
in years of severe drought. Concerning export crops, cotton production has
grown significantly since 1970, even during drought years; but production
of other export crops (cocoa and coffee) stagnated in the early 1970s due
to insufficient incentives for farmers and poorly conceived investment
projects in the sector. Despite this rapid economic growth, consumption
and investment were kept under control. The economy became more and more
export-oriented, mainly due to the significant development of phospnate
rock exports. The balance of payments was in equilibrium while the public
finance deficit remained modest as a result of prudent fiscal policies.
6.        In 1975, government revenues doubled as a result of a fourfold
increase in phosphate prices. The Government embarked on an ambitious
public investment program and undertook expansionary fiscal and monetary
policies. A number of state enterprises were created, and new investments
were implemented in the social sectors, infrastructure, luxury hotel
construction, public buildings and industry.   Many of these proved
unprofitable and contributed little to long-term growth. To compensate for
falling phosphate revenues, the Government resorted to large scale foreign
borrowing on commercial terms to finance investments. Economic growth was
initially boosted by the investment program. However, by the end of the
1970s and the beginming of the l980s, the economy started to slow down and
then declined, while serious imbalances occurred in the public finances and
balance of payments. This decline was due to low returns on public
investment, a deterioration of the terms of trade and increased financing
constraints. The gross domestic product (GDP) declined in real terms by
4.1 percent per year on average between 1980 and 1983. As early as 1978,
the Government began to accumulate payment arrears to external creditors as
well as to its local suppliers. By 1979, the overall fiscal deficit had
reached 14.3 percent of GDP and the balance of payments current account
deficit 23.1 percent of GDP.  Under two IMF-supported financial
stabilization programs, Togo negotiated external debt reschedulings in 1979
and 1981; the Government began to reduce its investments and to limit the
growth of its current expenditures. Consequently, the fiscal deficit and
the current account deficit were reduced significantly in 1982 to 6.9
percent of GDP and 11.7 percent of GDP respectively. Nevertheless, the
stabilization programs were not fully implemented and the external debt
service continued to increase as well as domestic and external arrears.



7.        Faced with a worsening economic and financial situation, thrt
Government recognized the need for a more comprehensive recovery policy.
In 1983 and 1984, it adopted additional and more stringent financial
stabilization programs supported by two IMF stand-by arrangements and a
first structural adjustment program supported by a SDR 36.9 million IDA
credit in May 1983. Togo made goo' progress in implementing the first
structural adjustment program and in achieving the objectives of the
financial stabilization programs.
IMF-supported Financial Stabilization Programs
8.        The performance  criteria under the  1983/84 and  1984/85
IMF-supported financial stabilization programs were met and successfully
implemented. The Government made all purchases provided under the 1983/84
and 1984/85 stand-by arrangements (SDR 21.4 million in 1983/84 and SDR 19.0
million in 1984/85). The last purchase was made in March 1985 on the
strength of the December 1984 performance criteria. Under the financial
program for 1984, a further debt rescheduling of about CFAF 23.4 billion of
external debt service obligations falling due in 1984 was arranged with the
Paris Club, including 50 percent of principal amounts of debt previously
rescheduled in 1979. The objectives of the 1984 stabilization program were
more than met with the reduction of the overall 'iscal deficit to 2.2
percent of GDP compared to 4.0 percent progranmed and that of the balance
of payments current account deficit to 5.0 percent of GDP, compared to 9.6
percent programmed. These results were obtained from a combination of a 14
percent increase in government revenue, strict limits on the current
expenditures for both personnel and operating spending, and large inflows
of grants.  This enabled the Government to eliminate all its external
arrears while reducing its domestic arrears by CFAF 12.1 billion. For
1985, the Government and the IMF have agreed on another stand-by
arrangement of SDR 15.4 million to be considered by the IMF Board of
Directors on May 17, 1985. A meeting of the Paris Club to consider
rescheduling Togo's 1985 debt is also scheduled for the week of May 20-24,
1985.
9.        A general assessment of the macroeconomic policies in Togo
indicates that significant improvement has taken place since the end of
1982. However, deficiencies remain in national economic management and the
reforms in policies and public sector institutions initiated under the
first phase of the structural adjustment program need to be completed.
With regard to the exchange rate, Togo's currency, the CFA franc, has
depreciated substantially since 1981, in line with the French franc to
which it is pegged. The nominal exchange rate against the US dollar was
depreciated by 16.6 percent per year between 1980 and 1984 and thc real
exchange rate by 13.2 percent. Therefore, the exchange rate is probably
not seriously overvalued. Nevertheless, distortions still exist between
the prices of tradable and non-tradable goods and between the urban and
rural sectors.  In particular, further actions need to be taken to
accelerate the growth of rural incomes in order to give maximum returns to
the productive potential of the rural sector. In addition, the system of
industrial incentives does not encourage exports. The Central Bank has



- 4 -
maintained positive real interest rates since 1980, and, until recently,
Togo has succeeded in attracting large foreign deposits in its banking
system, mainly to finance its regional reexport trade. Price controls are
limited to fixing profit margins for a number of basic products. Utility
tariffs are periodically adjusted in relation to costs and there are no
subsidies on fuel, electricity and water. Finally, the Government is
improving public investment programming, public enterprise sector
management and its fiscal policy. A renewed effort is undervay to attract
private investments in Togo. As a result of these macroeconomic policies,
resource allocation is being improved and the external current account
deficit and budget deficit have been significantly reduced.
Recent Economic Developments and Prospects
10.       Despite the significant progress made under the Bank- and IMF-
supported programs and the related substantial non-project external
assistance, Togo's economic and financial situation and prospects remain
precarious. In 1983, the combined adverse effects of the drought, the
reduction in regional trade, and the worldwide recession, caused the GDP to
fall by 5.3 percent in real terms. In 1984, improved economic performance
in certain sectors were offset by a decline in others. On one hand, owing
to favorable weather, food crop, cocoa and cotton output rose.  In
addition, phosphate rock production and export increased. On the other
hand, economic growth was hampered by the closure of the Nigerian borders,
the suspension of production by the multinational cement clinker plant,
CIMAO and by the sharp decline in coffee output. Overall, the real GDP
stagnated in 1984. In the depressed economic conditions of 1983 and 1984
due to exogeneous factors and stabilization policies, the share of
consumption in GDP declined as did the investment ratio. As a result, the
resource gap/GDP ratio decreased in 1983 and 1984 and the current account
deficit declined from 11.7 percent of GDP in 1982 to 5.0 percent in 1984.
Regarding the capital account and the overall balance of payments, large
inflows of short-term capital from neighboring countries together with
accelerated SAC I disbursements and the Paris Club debt reschedulings more
than offset the current account deficit, leading to a balance of payments
overall surplus of CFAF 18.7 billion in 1983 and CFAF 15.1 billion in 1984.
11.       Over the medium-term, the rate of economic growth will rise only
slowly while external debt service will continue to be high, even after
debt  rescheduling.   Balance  of  payments  projections  indicate  a
deterioration in the current account deficit. The projections depend on
the world market prices of phosphate and agricultural products, and on the
construction of  the Nangbeto hydroelectric dam.   Along with the
deterioration of the current account, the projections of the capital
account show a decrease of capital inflows due mainly to tbh expected
reduction of short-term capital from neighboring countries because of
persistent recession in the area and the continuing closure of the Nigerian
borders. Moreover, government revenues will continue to be insufficient to
cover current expenditures, maintain an adequate level of public investment
and meet substantial debt service obligations. Therefore, the need for
external financing for the balance of payments and for the public sector



will remain strong over the next few years, in the form of both non-project
aid and debt rescheduling.
12.       The Goverment request for a second IDA structural adjustment
credit (SAC) reflects this financial need but is also based on a
recognition that structural changes in income and output will be required
to return the economy to the path of self-sustained growth and that lasting
internal and external financial equilibrium can be achieved only in this
context. The IDA credit would support measures aiming at consolidating and
expanding in significant ways the progress achieved under SAC I with regard
to government finance, the public sector investment program, public
enterprise rehabilitation, and small- and medium-scale enterprise
promotion. It also calls for initiating the reorganization of key economic
ministries. Most important, SAC II would support an action progr.m to
expand output and exports in the agricultural sector which contains the
main supply side potential of the economy. This action program Includes
rises in real producer incomes of both export and food crops. This would
be done through producer price increases for coffee, cocoa and cotton, and
liberalization of food crop export as well as a greatly improved system of
extension services and input supply, in order to give farmers the incentive
and means to increase output yields and acreage cultivated. IDA is also
playing a catalytic role in helping mobilize external financial assistance
for Togo's development. In this context, the World Bank will join the UNDP
in supporting the Government organize a Donors' Round Table to be held in
LomA from June 26 to 23, 1985 for both project and non-project assistance.
PART II - THE FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
13.       The first structural adjustment credit for an amount of SDR 36.9
million (US$40 million equivalent) was approved by the Executive Directors
on May 17, 1983, of which SDR 18.45 million were contributed by regular IDA
funds and SDR 18.45 million by the IDA Special Fund. Funds were to be
disbursed in twG tranches of SDR 23.1 million for the first tranche and CDR
13.8 million for the second tranche.  The credit became effective in
September 1983 and the first tranche was fully disbursed by January 1984.
The second tranche was released in July 1984 following a review which found
progress satisfactory under the SAC I program.  It was fully disbursed in
February 1985. This operation supported the first phase of the s --ctural
adjustment program described in the Government's "Memorandum of Economic
Policy." The objective of this program was to create conditions for
sustained growth over the medium term, while stabilizing the financial
situation in the short-term by reducing the fiscal deficit and the balance
of payments current account deficit.
14.       The SAC I program sought to restructure the economy in a more
productive dirertion through:   (i) improvements in public investment
planning and execution; (ii) rehabilitation of public enterprises in
association with the private sector; and (iii) improved rural development
strategy, through appropriate price and marketing policies for both export



-6-
crops and foodcrops. The implementation of the SAC I program has been
satisfactory, even though some studies and actions (particularly in the
public enterprise sector) have been delayed due to the limited capacity of
the Togolese administration to carry out the structural adjustment process.
The G-'vernment met all four specific conditions for the release of the
second tranche, namely: (i) a satisfactory review by the Association of
the 1984-86 public investment program; (ii) adoption of a medium-term
export crop price policy; (iii) adoption of a food crop marketing policy;
and (iv) the decision to convert the tanks of the oil refinery Into a
storage facility for refined petroleum products.
15.       During SAC I, significant progress was made in reforming economic
policies and institutions, and in stabilizing the public finances. A new
system of public investment programming was launched, producer prices for
key export crops were raised, and a number of uneconomic state enterprises
were closed and the national steel company (SNS) was leased to a private
company. During this period, preparations were also made to intensify the
reforms of the economy in such areas as agricultural policy, restructuring
of state enterprises, and national economic management. This laid the
foundation for a more intensive reform effort oriented towards more rapid
economic growth and a more efficient use of existing assets.
16.       Technical Assistance.  The progress in implementing the first
phase of the structural adjustment program has been made possible with the
help of two technical assistance projects financed by the Association.
Indeed, in the case of Togo where technical and managerial skills remain in
short supply, the implementation of numerous and far-reaching structural
adjustment measures will continue to require technical assistance in
several areas, including preparation and execution of institutional
reforms, and training of local staff. Thus, a third technical assistance
project has been prepared concurrently with the second phase of the
structural adjustment program as an implementation tool to help carry out
the reforms.
PART III - TRE SECOND PHASE OF THE GOVERMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
PROGRAM
17.       The basic objective of the second phase of the Government's
structural adjustment program is to lay the foundation for the resumption
of a sustainable rate of economic growth over the medium-term. Continued
progress in financial stabilization is a prerequisite for success.
However, structural adjustment means exploiting the areas of greatest
comparative advantage. These lie in both the export crop and food crop
sectors which contain the bulk of the country's population and where land
resources would permit expansion. To a lesser extent, Togo has development
potential in industrial processing for export and in efficient small- and
medium-scale enterprise production for the domestic and regional markets.
Phosphate mining represents an important source of export revenues which
could be greatly enhanced, should the market prospects for the proposed
phosphoric acid plant currently being studied improve significantly.



-7-
18.       The strategy to accomplish these growth objectives is based on
two major thrusts. First, it requires a shift from direct involvement by
the Government in the production process in favor of inducing private
sector supply responses through an expansion of incentives. Second, it
requires much greater efficiency in the use of public resources through the
disengagement of the Government from the inefficient public enterprise
sector, a compression of public expenditures, redirection of spending
towards economic priorities and finally an efficient economic management
and policy decision-making system.
19.       The program to carry out this strategy, with the support of SAC
II, would have the following main features grouped around the two main
themes described above:
a.   Private Sector Incentives
i.   agricultural incentive reforms including real increases in
producer prices for coffee, cocoa and cotton, in order to
expand production of export crops and ir_ome as a basis for
rural investment; and liberalization of food crop marketing
including exports, in order to give farmers access to
regional markets where there is a potential to sell
increased output;
ii. an action program to raise food crop output through improved
quality of agricultural services (extension services, input
supply, etc.);
iii.   preparatory studies for an industrial incentive reform in
the areas of customs tariffs, taxes and small- and
medium-scale enterprise promotion;
b. Public Sector Efficiency
i.   concentration of public investment on productive sectors,
high-return projects which clearly identify recurrent costs,
with primary emphasis on increased returns from existing
assets through maintenance and rehabilitation; the first
stage of reforming the operational efficiency and
organization of the key economic ministries would be
initiated and an increasing emphasis would be placed on the
review of the composition of both current and investment
spending; and
ii.   reduction and reform of public enterprise sector through
restructuring, closing if necessary, and privatization where
possible, of the bulk of state-owned enterprises, taking
into account prospective industrial incentive reforms.



- 8-
A. Private Sector Incentives
a.   Rural Development
20.       In its overall development strategy, the Government gives
priority to rural development and to increased agricultural production and
exports. The Government's objective is to increase food production so as
to ensure food self-sufficiency and make available a marketable surplus,
while continuing to increase the production of the country's three main
export crops, As Togo is a predominantly rural economy, this policy is
critical for the country's overall development, incomes and public
revenues. Moreover, Togo's major agricultural exports (coffee, cocoa,
cotton) are important foreign exchange earners with considerable growth
potential. '
21.       To achieve this objective, the SAC II program calls for: (i) a
realignment in real export crop producer prices in order to stimulate
production and rural income; (ii) a liberalization of foodcrop marketing,
including export; and (iii) a reorganization and reinforcement of
agricultural services.
Realignment of Export Crop Producer Prices
22.       As part of the preparation of the SAC IT program, the Government
increased producer prices for cocoa and cotton in October 1984 as follows:
cocoa from CFAF 275 per kilo to CFAF 300 (9.1 percent) and cotton from CFAF
75 per kilo to CFAF 90 (20 percent). During SAC II appraisal, in November
1984, it also raised the producer price for coffee from CFAF 290 per kilo
to CFAF 315 (8.6 percent).
23.       For the next three years, the Government would continue to
increase the producer prices for coffee, cocoa and cotton. These increases
should be higher than the inflation rate and lead to a significant
improvement in rural income. The Government medium-term objective is to
substantially increase real incomes of producers of coffee, cocoa and
cotton.   An understanding was reached with the Government during
negotiations that quantitative objectives will be established in agreement
with the Association before the second tranche release. These quantitative
objectives would be achieved by a combination of annual adjustments of
prices and increases in output at the producer's level (increases in yields
and acreage), taking into account the international market prices of the
products in question and other factors. For crop year 1985/86, the
Government increased the real incomes of producers of the main export crops
by 5 percent by setting the following new producer prices: CFAF 365 per
kilo for coffee (15.9 percent), CFAF 330 per kilo for cocoa (10.0 percent);
and CFAF 105 per kilo for cotton (16.7 percent). Further increases in
producer prices would take place after consultation with IDA for crop year
1986/87, in the light of the objectives and principles set forth above, as
a condition of release of the second tranche (Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement). These increases, in conjunction with other factors, would
aim at accelerating the growth of real producer incomes.



- 9 -
Liberalization of Foodcrop Marketing
24.       Food crop marketing is mainly handled by private merchants with
limited Government involvement and prices are set by market forces. Togo
has succeeded in achieving food self-sufficiency, except in years of severe
drought. The country has even produced significant food crop surpluses
when good rainfall occurred such as in 1984-85. However, there are
important seasonal variations in food crop prices due to wide fluctuations
in the size of marketable surpluses, erratic climatic conditions and a
shortage of storage facilities. In 1971, the Government created a grain
marketing board (TOGOGRAIN) in order to stabilize the market and secure the
food supply.  This direct intervention has been reduced since the
Government has limited the role of TOGOGRAIN to maintaining a maximum of
10,000 tons of cereals for food security purposes. The main policy
constraint on food crop marketing is the present limitation imposed by the
Government on food exports through regular commercial channels, as informal
border trade cannot be controlled. Government policy would reinforce this
non-intervention po'icy in food crop marketing in three ways.
25.       First, in order to take advantage of the growing demand for food
imports by neighboring countries, the Government has in principle agreed to
liberalize the export of foodcrops, except in periods of food shortages.
However, the implementation timetable should coincide with the definition
of detailed programs to be carried out in the context of upcoming
agricultural projects. This liberalization would permit market forces to
raise the producer prices and give incentives to farmers to produce a
larger marketable surplus of food crops for both the domestic market and
exports.
26.       Second, the Government would establish new operating guidelines
for TOGOGRAIN, including buying and selling procedures, maximum amount of
security stock, appropriate cash flow and necessary investments. To help
establish these operating guidelines, the Association is providing funds to
analyze TOGOGRAIN's present management and also a management adviser to
TOGOGRAIN, under the proposed third technical assistance credit. Further,
the Government would establish an early warning system in the Ministry of
Rural Development (MDR) to forecast harvests and analyze markets.
27.       Third, the Government would actively promote increased output of
food and encourage farmers to increase their own storage capacity through a
program for small and inexpensive storage structures patterned on
traditional methods. These objectives would be achieved by an expansion of
extension services and the supply of modern input such as improved seeds,
fertilizers and insecticides as well as the introduction of a system of
credit to farmers under the forthcoming IDA agricultural projects now under
preparation and scheduled for fiscal years 1986 and 1987. Both these
projects and the SAC II program would contain the objective of removal of
foodcrop export licensing as soon as appropriate.



- 10 -
Improvement of Agricultural Services
28.       The Togolese agricultural sector is served by two ministries, the
Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) and the Ministry of Rural Works (MAR),
five Regional Directorates of Rural Development (DRDR), and two major
export crop companies (SOTOCO and SRCC). The ministries and the DRDR
employ nearly 3,000 civil servants but they are poorly funded. More than
90 percent of MDR's budget is for personnel, and less than 10 percent for
materials aud service spending. As a result, the official agricultural
extension and support services, input supply and research are weak, and
several individual projects have had to organize their own agricultural
services. This situation is unsatisfactory due to the dispersion of
efforts amongst diverse projects and donors. Thus,the agriculture sector
does not benefit from adequate extension, input supply, seed distribution
or applied research. Less than a third of Togolese farmers appear to be
reached by the development projects in place and official institutions are
generally not organized sufficiently to service the rest of the rural
farming comunity.
29.       Under the SAC II program, the Government has agreed to achieve a
better balance between personnel expenditures and material spendlng in
MDR's current budget, and to strengthen and expand agricultural services,
particularly the extension services, in preparation of a specific
IDA-supported agricultural extension project which could be based on the
training and visit system.  It has already increased the MDR non-personnel
budget from CFAF 95 million in 1984 to CFAF 265 million in 1985; part of
this amount comes from the state's current budget (CFAF 90 million) and
part from the investment budget (CFAF 175 million). Before the release of
the second tranche, the Government would allocate at least 25 percent of
the MDR's 1986 budget to non-personnel spending, to support improved
extension services and input supply, and 11mit personnel expenditures to
not more than 75 percent of the total (Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement).
30.       In addition, a series of coordinated actions would be designed
through our future agricultural projects under preparation and implemented
to raise output as follows:
i.   the input supply system would be improved through an
increased budgetary allocation starting in 1985;
ii.   a national seed plan would be prepared by the end of 1986
covering the organization of seed multiplication farms, and
linking their activities to existing research stations;
iii.   future foodcrop research efforts would be coordinated on a
national basis and linked to the training and visit system
mentioned above (para. 29); assistance in this area would be
provided by the proposed third technical assistance credit
under revised terms of reference for the expert working on
agricultural research;



- 11 -
iv. an experimental system of credit to farmers would be
introduced within the framework of village groups by the
agricultural credit bank (CNCA) and the DRDRs;
v.   improved farm technologies such as ox-drawn traction would
continue to be encouraged, while small scale irrigation
systems aud feeder roads would be constructed or
rehabilitated; and
vi.   subsidies  on fertilizers  and insecticides would be
progressively phased out as farm output and incomes rise.
In total, subsidies represent about CFAF 330 million (US$0.7
million) a year in budgetary outlays. Fertilizers to cotton
account for two thlirds of the total distributed to farmers.
The rate of subsidy on these fertilizers has been reduced
from 40 percent in 1983/84 to 20 percent in 1985/86 and will
be phased out completely by 1987/88 in the context of the
cotton development project.
A precise timetable for proposed actions such as development of a
national seed plan, coordination of research, experimental credit
to the farmers, use of improved farm technologies and phasing out
of remaining farm subsidles will be agreed upon with the
Government in the context of an agricultural extension services
project and an agricultural services rehabilitation project
currently under preparation.
b.  Preparatory Studies for Industrial Policy Formulation
31.       The decreasing role of the public sector in industry would create
a climate for an enhanced role of the private sector. Under the structural
adjustment process, the Government's second area of increased incentives to
the private sector would consist of systematic efforts made to improve the
policy environment and institutional framework for private investments.
32.         The Government has recently revised the Investment Code with a
view to extending its benefits to small businesses and making value added a
criterion for eligibility. It has agreed to an industrial incentives and
fiscal study to be undertaken by the Association by September 1985, as part
of its economic and sector work. The Government would examine the
recommendations of the Association study before deciding on customs tariff
reform and long-term industrial policies. Togo maintains an exchange
system free of restrictions on payments and transfers for imports.
Quantitative restrictions are limited and the customs duty varies from 5 to
40 percent. However, the customs tariff system is complex and should be
simplified and standardized with a view to promoting domestic output of
both intermediate and final goods for efficient import substitution and
export, protecting Togo's transit trade and raising fiscal revenues.



- 12 -
33.       The Government would also undertake a study of the banking system
and of the small and medium scale enterprises to identify the constraints
which limit the financing of the industrial sector, and to make
recommendations to remove them. The proposed third technical assistance
project would help finance such a study.
B. Public Sector Efficiency
a.   Public Investment Program
34.       Under the second SAC program, the Government would consolidate
the new three-year investment programming system adopted under the SAC I
program. Assurances were obtained during the negotiations that the
Government exchange views with the Association on the public sector
investment programs from time to time (Section 3.03 of the Development
Credit Agreement) through ex-ante reviews of their consistency with the
overall macro-economic projections, starting with the 1985-87 Investment
Program. These reviews would take into account the readiness of
feasibility studies and availability of concessional loans to finance
specific projects.  A satisfactory review of the latter program was
completed in February/March, 1985. A satisfactory review of the 1986-88
Investment Program would be a condition of the release of the second
tranche (Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement).
35.       The Government has prepare. its 1985-87 public investment program
in the framework of medium-term macroeconomic projections described
earlier. This program is consistent with the Government's statement of
development policy outlining the structural adjustment program. It gives
priority to rehabilitation and maintenance of basic infrastructure and
ongoing projects with the objective of enabling Togo to use more
efficiently existing economic assets. Excluding the Nangbeto hydroelectric
project under construction and due for completion in the late 1980s, new
public investments would consist of a core investment program in priority
sectors (agriculture and rehabilitation of existing assets) in order to
keep the investment/GDP ratio within manageable levels. The phosphoric
acid project under preparation would not be ready for consideration before
1988. During the February/March, 1985 investment review, a total public
investment program of CFAF 155.0 billion, representing 11 percent of the
GDP, was agreed upon for the 1985-87 period. This program is consistent
with an investment/GDP ratio of 24 percent on average between 1985 and
1987.  Tne program allocates 36 percent for agricultural projects, 30
percent for transport and 10 percent for the Nangbeto hydroelectric
project.  The objective is to carry out projects with an economic rate of
return of at least 10 percent in the productive sectors. For the social
sectors, least-cost solution criteria will apply.  The recurrent cost
implications of all projects of more than CFAF 300 million as well as their
impact on the balance of payments and external debt would be fully
evaluated and reflected in the Government budget. The investment review
classified the projects in four categories:  (i) the first category
contains thoroughly prepared projects which are entirely funded and
underway; (ii) the second consists of projects which are consistent with
the Government's policy objectives of giving priority to agriculture and



- 13 -
rehabilitating and maintaining existing assets sucht as road and rural
waterworks; (iii) the third category consists in 55 projects requiring
further study and modifications; the Government has agreed to scrutinize
and modify these projects as appropriate and to discuss them with IDA
before implementing them; and (iv) the fourth category contains 30 projects
which are not consistent with the Government's priority for rehabilitation
and maintenance, or are poorly designed; the Govermnent has agreed to
remove them from its 1985-87 investment program.
b.  Public Sector Management
36.       Public Expenditures.  Due to the financial constraints of the
Government, it is not possible to significantly increase public investments
over the next three years. However, the Government needs to improve the
allocation of expenditures to better cover recurrent costs in rural
development, waterworks, road maintenance, education and health.  In the
case of rural development, the budgetary allocations to the regional rural
development directorates have been raised so that they can provide
essential support services to the farmers. For road maintenance, quarterly
allocations would be made to the special Road Fund account at the Treasury.
The 1985 allocations for road maintenance and for the regional rural
development directorates have been raised to an adequate level as indicated
in paragraphs 29 and 46; for 1986, these allocations would be increased
further. The Government would also continue to make more efficient use of
budgetary resources allocated to other sectors. Education, with 28 percent
of the current budget, has the largest share of Government spending. In the
context of an  IDA-supported educational improvement project, the
Government is attempting to achieve a more efficient use of the education
budget and improve the distribution of funds in favor of lower level
education.  The health sector is insufficiently funded and the Government
is requesting assistance to cover recurrent costs in this sector in the
context of the forthcoming Donors' Round Table. IDA is also considering a
possible health project.
37.       Public  Revenues.   To raise revenue,  the Government has
increasingly relied on the agricultural marketing board (OPAT) and the
Togolese phosphates board (OTP) surpluses. In the case of OPAT, this
practice has considerably limited the potential for improving the prices
paid to producers and for providing adequate agricultural services, thus
conflicting with the structural adjustment program objectives. In keeping
with the new rural development policy, the Goverament gives priority to
adequate producer prices. However, given the outlook for commodity prices
in CFA francs and the expected supply response to producer price increases,
OPAT should have no difficulty in continuing to make additional financial
transfers to the Treasury.
38.       The increase in tax revenue would come from the effective
implementation of the domestic tax reform enacted on January 1, 1984. The
new general Tax Code would significantly increase the domestic tax base and
the number of taxpayers; it would provide an anticipated tax yield increase



- 14 -
when it would be fully enforced. In 1985, while OPAT and OTP transfers to
the Treasury are being stabilized, the fiscal receipts are expected to
increase by 11.1 percent, thus providing the only source of growth for the
Government's revenues. Over the medium term, improvements in revenue
allocation would also come from customs tariff reform.
39.       Reform of Institutions Responsible for Economic Management and
Policy Formulation. Undertaking the various reform policies outlined under
the proposed SAC II program would require major improvements in the
efficiency and decision-making-of the economic administration, including
the Ministry of Planning and Industry, the Ministry of Economy and Finance,
the Ministry of State Enterprises, the Ministry of Rural Development, the
Ministry of Rural Works and the High Commission for Tourism. There is also
a need to improve the incentives and the morale of the civil servants. To
achieve these objectives, the Government has decided to undertake a reform
of the key economic ministries. This is obviously a long and politically
sensitive exercise which would require careful preparation. The Government
plans to start with an organizational study in late 1985 in order to
prepare these reforms. The Association would be consulted on the terms of
reference of the preparatory studies and their progress, and would be
prepared to finance limited technical assistance services under the
companion third technical assistance project.
C.  Public Enterprise  Management
40.       The public enterprise sector plays a decisive role in Togo's
economic activity, investments and public finance. The State has long been
involved in water and electricity distribution, the marketing of
agricultural products, transportation, and postal services. In 1974, with
the quadrupling of phosphate prices, a major expanslon in public industrial
units and hotels took place. However, public enterprise management has not
been satisfactory. Most firms incur excessive costs and operating losses,
and therefore constitute a drain or. the State's budget through the
subsidies they require. The Treasury has assumed their foreign debt
service obligations since 1978, but state enterprises have also accumulated
arrears with the commercial banks and their local suppliers.
41.       Reorganization of the Public Enterprise Sector.  Before the
cabinet reshuffle of September 13, 1984, the technical ministries and the
State Secretariat for the Budget exercised control over the public
enterprises, often going beyond a supervisory role and interfering with
their administrative and financial management.  Following the cabinet
reshuffle, a new Ministry of State Enterprises was established. Under its
economic reform program, the Government is determined to improve the
management of the public enterprise sector by establishing a monitoring
mechanism for the financial performance of state-owned enterprises,
enforcing the Government oversight system, and clearly defining supervisory
functions.  The Ministry of State Enterprises will also coordinate
accounting standards and keep the consolidated accounts of the parapublic
sector. The Government intends to develop a management information system
in public enterprises and generalize the practice of auditing tne accounts.



- 15 -
The autonomy of public enterprises in accomplishing their goals would be
recognized and maintained. The role of the boards of directors and
managers of public enterprises would be strengthened.   Satisfactory
progress in achieving efficiency and an appropriate supervision system in
the new Ministry of State Enterprises would be a condition of SAC II second
tranche release (Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement).
42.       The Ministry of State Enterprises has prepared a preliminary
classification of state-owned enterprises into four groups, namely: (a)
state-owned enterprises which are of strategic importance and are to be
retained in the Government's portfolio; (b) mixed enterprises in which
financial profitability is the evaluation principle for future decision;
(c) enterprises to be privatized or liquidated; and (d) enterprises yet to
be studied and classified. The objective of the Government in the public
enterprise sector is to restructure, privatize or liquidate public
enterprises in its portfolio before December 31, 1988, except for a certain
number of key enterprises including, among others, Compagnie Energie
Electrique du Togo (CEET), Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo (OPAT),
Office Togolais des Phosphates (OTP), Port Autonome de Lome (PAL) and Regie
Nationale des Eaux du Togo (RNET). For the nine public enterprises already
studied under SAC I, the Government will implement restructuring,
privatization, and liquidation plans before second tranche release. Steps
have already been taken to privatize the following enterprises: ITT,
TOGOTEX, SOTOMA, TOGOROUTE, SODETO, and SOPROLAIT. The Bank's Industry
Department is studying ITP and IOTO as a basis for their privatization. In
the case of OPAT (export crop marketing board), we intend to reach
agreement on the reform of internal financial management as recommended by
the diagnostic study. The Government will complete before December 31,
1985 the classification of the remaining public enterprises in four
categories as follows: enterprises to be retained in the public sector,
enterprises to be liquidated, enterprises to be privatized and enterprises
to be restructured and then privatized. Out of these companies, ten
enterprises will be selected for the second phase of implementation. By
June 30, 1986 those to be liquidated will be closed. For those to be
privatized, the search for private partners or buyers will commence no
later than March 31, 1986.  For those to be rehabilitated prior to
privatization, rehabilitation and financing plans will be prepared no latr:r
than March 31, 1986 and the search for private partners will start no l.cer
than September 30, 1986.
43.       Concerning SOTOMA, ITT and TOGOTEX, the Government plans to make
rehabilitation investments of approximately CFAF 4 billion (already
included in the 1985-87 investment program reviewed by IDA). The Minister
of State Enterprises visited the Bank and IFC, in early 1985, to discuss
strategies for his search for private partners. IFC would be prepared to
help the Government find favorable solutions to the problems of ITT and
TOGOTEX in association with a private partner.   Overall progress
satisfactory to the Association in implementing the program of
restructuring, privatization and liquidation of the twenty public
enterprises would be required before the release of the second tranche (see
above timetable, para. 42). To help the process of privatization, IDA



- 16 -
would finance under the third technical assistance project an adviser to
the Minister of State Enterprises to facilirate contacts with private
investors potentially interested in taking over public enterprises. Two
other resident advisers would be financed under the third technical
assistance project and deployed in the technical departments of the
Ministry.
44.       Tn support of its action program in the public enterprise sector,
the Government would implement locally a two-year training program for
management controllers, accountants, and financial auditors. This training
is intended for young Togolese with graduate degrees in econumics and
finance. Training assignments and short-term training seminars would be
organized for accountants and public enterprise officials under the
companion third technical assistance project.
45.       The Transport Sector.  The transport network consists of some
7,000 km of roads and about 490 km of railway lines (Lome-Aneho,
Lome-Kpalime, and LomE-Blitta), the port of Lome and the international
airport of Lome. The network serves the needs of Togo as well as the
transit trade of landlocked Burkina Faso and Niger, and East-West trade
between Nigeria, Benin and Ghana.  Existing transport infrastructure,
particularly the railway system, is generally adequate but is r-t down due
to inadequate maintenance. The railway company (CFT) which employs about
1,200 workers has also been losing money to the tune of US$1 million a
year, thus requiring subsidies from the Treasury.  In the absence of
restructuring measures, the subsidies would increase sharply in the future.
Institutional weaknesses in planning and administration constitute another
problem.
46.       The second structural adjustment program focuses on road
maintenance funding and railway restructuring including increases in
railway tariffs and phasing out of two uneconomic lines. In the 1985
budget, the Government allocated CFAF 950 million for road maintenance;
part of this amount comes from the state's current budget ICFAF 550
million) and part from the investment budget (CFAF 400 million). The
1985-87 investment program reflects the priority now given to road
maintenance and rehabilitation, and, except for completion of ongoing
projects, it includes no new road construction. To improve rail services,
the Government has prepared small investments for rehabilitating the tracks
and rolling stock for the central railway line (Lom6-Blitta) which have
been included in the 1985-87 investment program reviewed by IDA.
Additional restructuring measures in the transport sector would include:
a.   a progressive increase in the budgetary allocation for road
maintenance, with a target of reaching 2.5 percent of the
Government current budget by 1988. For 1986, the Government
would establish a special Road Fund account in the Treasury to
which all road maintenance funds would be deposited in a timely
manner. The budget for 1986 would allocate CFAF 1.2 billion for



- 17 -
this special Road Fund account as a condition of release of the
second tranche (Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement);
b.  railway tariff iucreases of 10 to 15 percent depending on the
type of traffic (passenger or freight) by June 1985 on the
central line (Lome-Blitta), and further increases of 15 to 20
percent by February 1986 as a condition of release of the second
tranche (Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement);
c.   a phased introduction of a bus service on the Lome-Aneho and
Lom6-Kpalim6 lines, followed by the closing of the rail service
after satisfactory initial operation of the bus service. A
franchise agreement for the Lome-Aneho bus service would be
awarded by March 1986 as a condition of release of the second
tranche (Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement). The
Lcae-Kpalimi bus service franchise would be awarded following
successful bus service operation on the Lome-Aneho line.
47.       The Tourism  Sector.  An extensive and high-class hotel
infrastructure has been built since 1970. However, Togo's investment
efforts in tourism have as yet shown only modest results. Since tourism is
the third largest export revenue producer (after phosphate mining and
agriculture), the objective is to enhance its earning potential by
improving services and equipment available to tourists, and organizers of
conferences and international meetings. The hotel infrastructure includes
nearly two thousands rooms divided among arou;a forty establishments,
twenty of which are in Lome. The state-owned hotels account for nearly 70
percent of the lodging capacity.
48.       Between 1977 and 1982, the gross operating loss of public hotels
accounted for an annuAl deficit of US$1.0 million mainly from a few luxury
hotels which, with a low occupancy rate, were unable to balance their
operating accounts, while depreciation of invested capital and debt service
are directly borne by the Treasury.
49.       In view of the impact that these hotels will continue to have on
the overall profitability of tourism, the objective is to improve the
efficiency of the sector and to reform the financial management of key
hotels and to promote a large flow of tourists to improve the occupancy
rates. Accounting would be improved, and annual financial audits initiated
for each hotel. A new strategy was drawn up for the hotel sector aimed at
improving the financial performance of the hotels, by making their
accounting systems uniform by establishing performance criteria and by
renegotiating management contracts for the larger hotels.
50.       Under the second phase of the structural adjustment program, four
kinds of measures were discussed and agreed upon with the Government to
support the hotel sector reforms. These measures would be implemented with
the help of technical advisers financed by the companion third technical
assistance credit as follows:



- 18 -
a.   An institutional reform which would strengthen the technical and
human resources of the High Commission for Tourism to exercise
its promotional role and sectoral control functions more
effectively. New administrative measures governing the tariffs
in the hotels and the salaries of personnel in the tourism sector
have already been adopted. The Government intends to restructure
the state-owned hotels by creating a holding company to manage
the hotel portfolio.
b.   A program of renegotiating major hotel management contracts.  The
Government has already renegotiated a management contract with
FRANTEL (a French company) for Hotel de la Paix. The Government
would also renegotiate similar management contracts for Hots' du
2 Fevrier, Hotel Sarakawa, and Tropicana in which financial
rewards will depend on profits. During negotiations, it was
discussed and agreed upon that by December 19853 the Government
will select the best offers from a call for bids and by June
1986, it will negotiate new management contracts for these three
hotels.  The objective is to increase the hotel management
responsibility and to improve the profitability of the hotel
sector. The third technical assistance project would provide
consultant assistance in renegotiating hotel management contracts
and monitoring the progress of hotel restructuring plans.
C.   A promotional plan is being devised to attract more tourists to
Togo through the opening of two new tourism offices abroad and
the creation of a travel agency with the participation of private
partners, and by negotiating new charter flight arrangements. A
study of air access to be financed under the companion technical
assistance project would be undertaken aimed at improving
tourists' access to Togo. Local handicrafts intended for
tourists would be developed, especially by strengthening the
distribution centers for Togolese handicraft items.
d.  Sectoral human resources would be  strengthened  through
accelerated training of five high-level Togolese in hotel
management, of two high-level managers in marketing, and of three
managers in general tourism administration under the proposed
third technical assistance project.
51.       Over the 1985-90 period, a modest program would be implemented of
priority investments for rehabilitation and repair of some hotels, a
handicraft village in Loms, and for developing major tourist sites. These
investments, which amount to CFAF 1.6 billion, have been discussed and
agreed upon with IDA during the February/March 1985 public investment
program review.



- 19 -
PART IV - EXPECTED ECONOMIC IMPACT OF THE SECOND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
52.       The Government's second structural adjustment program outllned in
Part III would continue to improve the overall economic management in Togo
and lead, over the mediu-term, to greater economic growth and better
allocation of resources. For the next three years, the structural
adjustment process is expected to reverse the economic decline of the
recent past, while consolidating the flnancial stabilization program
supported by the IMF. Assuming adequate incentives to productive sectors,
the structural adjustment policies would make better use of development
potential in agriculture and industry, improve the prospects for commerce
and services, lay the foundation for greater private investments and
thereby ensure sustained real economic growth. As a result, real economic
growth is expected to outstrip population growth between 1988 and 1990.
Outlook for Growth
53.       Successful implementation of the SAC II program would arrest
economic decline in Togo and lead to conditions of greater economic growth.
Table 1 (in Annex VI) on macroeconomic projections presents three scenarios
for the economy: (a) a scenario without the SAC II program, (b) a scenario
with the SAC II program but without the possible phosphoric acid plant, and
(c) a scenario with both the SAC II program and the phosphoric acid plant.
54.       Under the first scenario, the economic forecasts for the six-year
period ending in 1990 do not allow for a real economic growth rate of more
than 3 percent per year, while the population growth is projected at 3.3
percent per year. Thus , the GDP per capita would continue to decline
throughout the 1980s. Under these conditions, the share of consumption in
CDP would be stabilized around 85 percent, reflecting the reduction of real
per capita consumption. Furthermore, investment is expected to decline
until 1987 before starting to increase in real terms in 1988. The growth
of gross domestic investment in real terms over the period 1987-90 would
lead to a significant deterioration of the resource gap which could reach
11 percent of GDP, thereby jeopardizing further the financial situation.
55.       Under the second scenario, the SAC II program is expected to
improve growth over the medium-term (3.6 percent between 1987 and 1990
instead of 3.0 percent) and also in the short-term (3.3 percent between
1984 and 1987 instead of 3 percent). This improvement of the economic
growth rate is based on the assumption that the implementation of the
agricultural policies leading to sharp real increase in export crop
producer prices, improved food crop marketing, including food crop exports,
and improved extension services would mobilize the unused potential of the
rural sector. It is also based on the assumption that the efficiency of
public investment would be increased through streamlining of investment
programming, and that the private sector would respond positively to
Government's industrial inceutives by setting up small- and medium-scale
industries.



- 20 -
56.       Under the third scenario,  the construction of a possible
phosphoric acid plant would imply higher investment ratios, 32.2 percent of
GDP on average between 1988 and 1990, compared to 23.5 percent in 1984.
Although the share of consumption in GDP would be reduced, the resource gap
would deteriorate dramatically, rising from 9.2 percent of GDP in 1984 to
14.3 percent on average between 1987 and 1990, reflecting essentially the
phosphoric acid plant construction. However, if a decision is made to
build the phosphoric acid plant, the Government should ensure that its
financing, as an enclave project, would in large part come from abroad on
terms that would place minimum financial liability on Togo. A phosphoric
acid plant with accepcable economic and financial rates of return would be
able to produce sufficient domestic and foreign exchange to service its
debt. Furthermore, it would boost annual economic growth to 5.1 percent,
in real terms, between 1988 and 1990.
Poverty Alleviation Impact
57.       Togo is generally self-sufficient in food supply when the
rainfall is good. However, the per capita income in real terms declined by
8 percent per year on average between 1980 and 1984. affecting both rural
and urban populations. The incidence of poverty has thus become of greater
concern. For several years, the Government has imposed heavy taxation on
the agricultural sector by resorting to the profits of the export crop
marketing board (OPAT) to finance the budget.  Under   the   structural
adjustment program, the Government has consecutively increased the real
income of producers of cash crops in 1983/84 and 1985/86. thereby relieving
poverty in rural areas.
58.       One of the critical objectives of the SAC II program is to reduce
further the taxation by increasing producer prices and real farmers'
income. In addition, the liberalization of food crop exports by improving
agricultural services (extension and input supply), yields and acreage
cultivated would contribute to improving rural incomeK and increasing food
marketing opportunities. As the growth of the economy as a whole begins to
outstrip population growth, the urban poor should also benefit from
increased employment opportunities.
Government Financial operations
59.       The implementation of the second structural adjustment program
wculd also continue to improve the public finance situation as shown in the
Table 2 (Annex VI) on government financial operations. The target of the
1985 stabilization program is to reduce the government deficit, excluding
grants, from 7.3 percent of GDP in 1984 to 7.0 percent in 1985. Over the
medium term, the projections show an overall fiscal surplus after 1988.
This improvement is due to the fact that the current expenditure is
expected to increase less than the GDP while the government revenue will
grow at the same rate as the GDP. The current expenditure part in GDP
would decline from 19 percent in 1984 to 14 percent in 1990 in line with
the government fiscal policy, and the revenue part would stabilize around
27.5 percent, thus, improving the public savings.



- 21 -
Balance of Payments
60.       The second structural adjustment program would strengthen the
balance of payments current account as indicated in Table 3 (Annex VI).
The 1985 IMF stabilization program targets an external current account
deficit, excluding grants, of 20.6 percent of GDP in 1985 compared to 12.9
percent in 1984. The current account, excluding grants, would improve
significantly between 1986 and 1990 and decline to 11.0 percent of GDP by
the end of the period.
61.       The short term deterioration of the current account in 1985 is
due to the construction of the Nangbeto hydroelectric dam which will
increase imports of goods and services. However, from 1988 onwards, the
completion of the Nangbeto dam will contribute significantly to improving
the balance of payments, by reducing fuel oil imports and providing
hydroelectricity.
62.       Over the medium term, the expected favorable impact of the
restructuring measures on the current account would offset the
deterioration forecasted in cocoa, coffee and cotton world prices for the
next five years. In addition to the strengthening of the current account,
direct foreign investment is expected to respond positively to the
structural adjustment measures, in particular to the public enterprise
sector restructuring and privatization program and after 1987, to the
private investment promotion policy. In spite of the expected decrease in
short-term capital inflows from neighboring countries (para. 11), the
balance of payments deficit could be financed by Togo's external reserves.
However, the country would continue to require substantial non-project
assistance.
63.       The external debt service of Togo will continue to constitute a
heavy burden on the Treasury and the balance of payments. During 1985-90,
the debt outstanding would represent nearly 80 percent of GDP on average
and the debt service (before rescheduling) more than 35 percent of the
exports of goods and services or 44 percent of government revenues. This
situation leaves no room for additional non-concessional financing over the
next few years. Moreover, it makes it necessary for Togo to continue to
seek debt rescheduling.
64.       The Government, with assistance from IDA, has strengthened its
external debt monitoring and reporting system and its capacitv to analyze
the future financial impact of debt transactions through the secondment of
an IDA special technical assistant to the debt management unit (FNADP/SNI)
to help the Government improve debt management. Under the IMF stand-by
arrangements, the Government has rescheduled its external debt four times
since 1979. It would continue to do so for the next few years. The IMF
stand-by arrangement also precludes new loan commitments with maturity of
less than twelve years. The Government has agreed to the Bank's suggestion
to avoid all commercial term borrowings, excluding bilateral assistance and
lending for enclave-type projects, such as the possible phosphoric acid



- 22 -
project. This effectively gives a clear signal that Togo requires more
concessional terms for both project and non-project financing.
PART V - THE BANK'S ROLE AND THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.  Credit History
65.       The Government's program to be supported by the second structural
adjustment credit is comprehensive and is judged appropriate to address the
current macroeconomic, sectoral and policy issues of the Togolese economy.
Initial preparation of the program took place ir July/August 1984 followed
by IDA appraisal missions to Togo in November/December 1984 and February/
March 1985. The February/March mission also reviewed the 1985-87 public
investment program. Technical discussions took place in Washington from
April 22 to 25, 1985 and negotiations were held in Washington on April 29,
1985 with a Togolese delegation headed by Mr. Yaovi Adodo, Minister of
Planning and Industry who submitted to the Association the Government' s
statement of development policy dated April 23, 1985 (Annex IV)
B.   The Proposed IDA Credit
66.       The proposed second structural adjuqtment credit would amount to
US$27.8 million, of which US$15 million would be made available imediately
after credit effectiveness. The remaining uUS$12.8 million would be
released after the Government has made significant and satisfactory
progress in implementing the structural adjustment program, notably in
completing the specific actions described in paragraph 72 below. The
credit is expected to be disbur...d over the 18-month period ending March
1987. It would finance 5.6 percent of Togo 1985/86 imports of goods and
would meet about 21.0 percent of the 1985/86 gross external capital
requirements of the country.
67.       In meeting the gross external capital requirements of the
country, the second structural adjustment credit would be complemented by
the net IMF disbursements, other non-project financing, official grants and
project foreign borrowings.
C.  Role of IDA and Monitorable Actions
68.       The second structural adjustment credit is based on the
continuation and reinforcement of policy reforms started under SAC I and
provides tle Association with maximum influence in promoting these changes.
The objectives are the restructuring of the economy and higher economic
growth through policy and instltutional reforms and production incentives.
As is discussed in more detail in Part VI, the program is fully
complementary with the other IDA lending in agriculture, industry and
transport sectors in which Togo has a comparative advantage and undeveloped
potential. IDA projects in these sectors seek to support high-return
investments, a major goal of structural adjustment. Future projects will
reinforce the sectoral and institutional reforms accomplished under the



- 23 -
structural adjustment program and translate them into longer-term
development gains.
69.       The action program discussed in the paragraphs below reflects the
agreement reached with the Covernment as to the level of price increases
and budgetary adjustments needed to obtain the incentive effects sought,
and the reforms required to achieve greater efficiency in the use of public
resources.  The close and comprehensive policy dialogue with the
Government, necessary for the preparation and implementation of the
structural adjustment program, has been enhanced by the ongoing techbical
assistance projects and by our economic and sector work. An ancillary
benefit of our structural adjustment work is the positive training impact
of the program on the local economic staff through the current intensive
policy exchange and constant interaction between the To&olese officials and
Bank staff.
70.       A detailed program of monitorable actions under SAC II is
described in the matrix table (Annex III), which provides a schedule and
identifies actions to be monitored during supervision of the proposed
second structural adjustment program.
71.       The following actions have already been taken by the Government
under the proposed program:
a.   a 1985 stand-by arrangement with the IMF;
b.   an increase in the producer prices for the 1985/86 crop year as
follows: coffee, from CFAF 315 per kilo to CFAF 365 per kilo;
cocoa from CFAF 300 per kilo to CFAF 330 per kilo; and cotton
from CFAF 90 per kilo to CFAF 105 per kilo (para. 23);
c.    an increase in the MDR's budgetary allocation for material
(non-personnel) costs from CFAF 95 million to CFAF 265 million in
fiscal year 1985 (para. 29);
d.   adoption of a satisfactory 1985-87 public investment program
(para. 34);
e.   budgetary allocation for road maintenance to a level of at least
CFAF 950 million in fiscal year 1985 to be deposited in a special
account at the Treasury on a quarterly basis (para. 46); and
f.   agreement to increase the rail rates on the Lome-Blitta railway
line by 10 to 15 percent depending on the type of traffic by June
1985 (para. 46).
72.       Disbursement of the second tLanche would be contingent upon the
Government taking the following specific actions in a manner satisfactory
to the Association (Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement):
a.   increasing producer prices of the three main export crops
(coffee, cocoa, cotton) to an adequate level for the 1986/87 crop



- 24 -
year by April/May 1986. in any case, before the planting season
starts (para. 23);
b.   adoption of new operating rules f or the grain marketing board
(TOGOGRAIN) acceptable to IDA (para. 26);
c.   allocating at least 25 percent of the MDR's budget to non
personnel operating costs in fiscal year 1986 (para. 29);
d.   satisfactory review by the Association of the 1986/88 public
investment program (para. 34);
e.   establishment of a satisfactory and efficient supervision system
in the new Ministry of State Enterprises, including the control
mechanisms of public enterprises (para. 41);
f.   substantial and satisfactory progress in implementing the
restructuring/privatization/liquidation  plans  for  public
enterprises which have been already studied under SAC I program:
ITT, TOGOTEX, SOTOMA, TOGOROUTE, SODETO, ITP, IOTO, SOPROLAIT and
OPAT (para. 43);
g.   agreement with the Association_on a satisfactory restructuring/
privatization/ liquidation schedule for approximately ten more
public enterprises (para. 43);
h.   opening a Road Fund account at the Treasury and increasing the
budgetary allocation for road maintenance to a level of CFAF 1.2
billion in 1986 (para. 46);
i.   increasing the rail rates on the Lome-Blitta line by 15 to 20
percent depending on the type of the traffic by February 1986
(para. 46); and
j.   agreement with a bus company to operate the route between Lome
and Aneho by March 1986 as a prerequisite for closing the railway
line between the two cities (para. 46).
73.       The structural adjustment program would be implemented by the
various government departments involved in the reform measures, under the
overall responsibility of the Minister of Planning and Industry. To
monitor and control the day-to-day execution of the structural adjustment
program, the Government organized under SAC I an interministerial committee
of higher-level officials who are to follow up with the ministerial
departments responsible for the various components of the program, the
timetable of key actions and measures to be undertaken, and ensure
satisfactory and timely implementation of these measures. The committee
would make a monthly report to the Minister of Planning and Industry. It
includes representatives of the Ministries of Planning, Finance, State



- 25 -
Enterprises, Rural Development, Rural Works, Equipment and Mines, Commerce
and Transport, the High Commission for Tourism, the Central Bank and
various other institutions. The committee will also continue to monitor
the IMF-supported financial stabilization program.
74.       The Association's supervision and monitoring process would
include at least three supervision missions and two investment reviews.
The first investment review took place in February/March 1985 and agreed on
a satisfactory investment program for 1985-87. The supervision would enable
the Association to maintain a close dialogue with Togo in order to provide
advice and support at crucial stages of the program implementation.
D.  Procurement and Disbursement
75.       The SAC II credit would finance 100 percent of the foreign
exchange cost of eligible imports. Procurement procedures have been
designed to permit rapid use of the funds while ensuring efficiency and
economy in the process. The eligible imports include a wide range of
goods. Except for a few standard exclusions, any imports would be eligible
for financing, but not more than US$6.95 million would be used for
petroleum imports and not more than US$6.95 million for food imports
(Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement). Imports by public
entities exceeding US$1.5 million would be through international
competitive bidding. Imports by private entities would be in accordance
with normal commercial practices, which are acceptable.
76.       Under the SAC I program, an account was established at the
Central Bank on behalf of the Treasury to facilitate disbursements. This
account would also serve for disbursements under the second structural
adjustment credit. The arrangements for the administration of the import
component of SAC II would be the same as for SAC I. The Togolese
Government would be the borrower. The Central Bank would be responsible
for maintaining the credit account and for submitting withdrawal
applications and supporting documentation to the Association to be
aggregated into amounts of not less than US$1 million equivalent (Section
2.10 of the Development Credit Agreement). Imports of goods procured under
contracts costing less than US$10,000 equivalent would not be financed
under SAC II (Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement). The CFA
franc counterpart funds generated by the proposed credit would be deposited
in the above-mentioned Treasury special account in the Central Bank and
would be used to finance operations designated by the Government in support
of its structural adjustment process and its development policy (Section
3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement).
77.      The credit proceeds would be disbursed in two tranches as
foliows:
a.   a first tranche of US$15 million would be available immediately
upon effectiveness (expected in September/October 1985) of the
Development Credit Agreement; and



- 26 -
b.   a second tranche of US$12.8 million would be available around
April 1986 after a review of performance to be carried out before
then, and if the conditions mentioned in paragraph 72 have been
met.
Benefits and Risks
78.       The principal benefits of this wide-ranging structuiral adjustment
program are the expected improvements in the growth prospects of the
Togolese economy with sustained and more widely distributed income effects,
increased public savings and reductions in the country's budgetary and
balance of payments deficits and external debt service burden. The
macroeconomic management reforms and sector policy improvements would
increase productivity and the return on investments. The main risks of the
program include delays or slippage in completing the studies and analyses
underlying the structural adjustmeut measures which may cause the
Government to postpone critical program decisions. Also, the Government
privatization program for the numerous state-owned enterprises may be
hampered by a continuing poor international economic environment.
Nevertheless, in the light of the Government's strong commitment to the
program. timely adjustments in some schedules, if necessary, need not
jeopardize the entire program.
PART VI - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TOGO
79.       Bank Group lending to Togo totals 23 credits, including eight
fully disbursed, amounting to US$239.74 million of which US$95.13 million
is undisbursed, and two fully disbursed loans totalling $53.0 million. IDA
lending has financed roads; agriculture (cocoa, coffee, cotton and food
crops); education; technical assistance to the Ministries of Planning,
Rural Development and State Enterprises; a regional DFC operation; and
credits for the feasibility studies for a phosphate fertilizer project and
for the Nangbeto regional hydroelectric power project and a further credit
for the development of the Nangbeto hydroelectric project. The two Bank
loans (US$3.5 million to Togo and US$49.5 million to CIMAO jointly and
severally guaranteed by Ghana, Ivory Coast and Togo) have provided
financing for the CIMAO reglonal clinker plant. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank Group operations in Togo as of March 31, 1985.
80.       In the past, project lending has dealt with development needs and
policy issues in specific sectors. However, following the deterioration of
the overall economic situation in the late 1970s, sector specific actions
are not sufficient and therefore emphasis in our lending to Togo has
shifted. A more comprehensive approach supported by policy-based lending
such as that envisaged under the first and the proposed second structural
adjustment programs is required. Moreover, in a small country like Togo,
where it is not possible to be involved in all sectors, structural
adjustment lending provides an opportunity to support development 'rzm a
broad range of sectors. In those sectors where the Association is already
involved, not only has project lending been consistent with the goals of
the structural adjustment program, but in addition, components of new



- 27 -
projects particularly in agriculture and transport will be designed to
prepare for and support the adjustment measures.
81.       The first and second technical assistance projects have assisted
the Government to formulate sound investment and macroeconomic policies.
Through these projects, the Association initiated a fruitful policy
dialogue which has been essential for the preparation of the first and
second structural adjustment programs. Consultant studies of several state
enterprises have been financed in order to determine their potential
viability, and in the Lase of those which are, to identify measures
necessary to improve their performance. A capacity to conduct project
evaluations and to monitor the performance of ongoing development projects
is being established in the Planning Ministry. A planning unit has been
established in the Rural Development Ministry to anAlyze agricultural
project proposals. Under its auspices, a review of all rural development
projects has been conducted in order to provide the basis for the
formulation of a rur.ml development strategy. In addition, a price analysis
and monitoring unit located in the agricultural marketing board, OPAT, and
a research group in the Ministry of Rural Development have been created.
82.       IDA has made five credits for agricultural projects designed to
increase farm incomes and to stimulate food crop production through
development of major cash crops such as cocoa, coffee, and cotton. Under
the latest such credit for the Second Rural Development Project in cotton
areas, subsidies are being phased out and producer prices are L'ing
adjusted annually.
83.       A water supply project approved in 1983 has improved Lome's water
supply and contains provisions for future project preparation and other
studies. The water and sewerage agency (RNET), an economically viable
state enterprise, is being strengthened as a result of the project. The
four credits in the road sector supported efforts to build up an efficient
maintenance service, upgrade the country's main roads, and start
comprehensive transport planning and coordination. A separate project for
feeder road development provides for improvement works and rural
maintenance operations.   The first education project financed the
construction of teacher training facilities and the expansion of existing
facilities, and fellowships. A second educational improvement project
signed on April 29, 1985 seeks further improvements in the education system
through teacher training, organizational and management reforms.
84.       Togo's performance with respect to project implementation and
disbursement is generally satisfactory. The Government is now familiar
with the Bank Group's procurement and disbursement procedures. Delays in
disbursement are frequent, however, because of the cumbersome
administrative regulations governing public contract award in Togo and
recently established procedures for withdrawal application processing. The
Government has been made aware of this problem and is working with the
Association to find appropriate means to simplify procedures. There have



- 28 -
been a few cases of project delays caused by shorvages of counterpart
funds.
PART VII - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
85.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Togo and the Association, and the Recommendations of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
86.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are referred to in Section III of Annex V to this report. The
conditions for the release of the second tranche are described in Schedule
3 to the draft Development Credit Agreement.
87.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VIII - RECOHMMATION
88.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 1, 1985



- 29 -
ANNEX I
T A t L Z 3^                                  (Page  1 of  5)
TOGO                   - 90CIAL IND!C=d   DATA S9EET
wSe                        S~~~~UtSDIC cmun (mcICI=  A  
mo                       ISEEIZIICE@05CEGTD ASIANS ) /1.
UCIIIIT                  CM"i 5  REOUT l   TDIUAT) lb
L96Ob      1970tb  nTDLATY-         soon oir sAR          AMICA S. OFSM
rors.                   so.a        n~~~    ~~~~~~.m                                      _    -
TOTAL                                ^*.         56.        .
ACSIOILTUL                           11.         16.t      16.2                 .
CAlERA (03$)                    70.0       150.0    340.0               249.1                    ti12.9
r OIL 0 QUIVALSNT)         13.0       43.0    127.0                42.1                     529.0
voumnn - mus sns
POPULATIO.NAID-TEA  (?OSANDB)      1504.0      2020.0   2754.0
UNA  Po0ul.o0 (5 01 tAL)              9.1        13.1      21.2               19.2                     29.7
PoeULTl  iS nA  2000 (KILL)                               4.9
srTIOauu  morATtO. (HILL)                                16.7
POFUTIOL IUNIIM                                           2.0
IOPUIAT10   5ITY
PER SQ. M.                         26.5        35.4      46.9               32.5                     35.6
Mgt SQ. M. AGRI. LUID             131.2       125.8    104.0               119.2                    111.5
rOPUATION AGE STRIICTum  (C)
0-14 u5                           44.0        45.3      46.5               45.6                     45.4
15-64 13S                          53.4        52.0     50.0                51.5                     51.7
65 AM ABOY                          2.b         2.7      2.7                 2.9                      2.9
POPULflTIOS CTH0  ATZ (2)
T-wAL                               2.2         2.9       2.6                2.8                      2.6
IUIN                                5.2         3.9      6.6                 6.2                      5.2
CRUDE sUHTH mAT r (R TmouS)          50.6        50.1      49.4               4.6                      47.0
CUIDt DEATH RATE (PEA T130)         23.1        19.6      19.0               17.7                     15.2
CEROS REPROODUCTION  ATE              3.3           3       3.2                3.2                      3.2
PA513. PLAMING
ACCEPTOS. AIUL (THOUS)               ..
USERS T OF HARIEUD SOlK)             ..          ..
INDEX OF roaM rmoo. a  CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        99.0       102.0     69.0                85.6                     91.6
rU CITA SumnLr or
CALORIES (S OF RIQUIREHENTS)       97.0        95.0      33.0                6.4                     96.2
utEINS (CRAM  rut DTY)             46.0        46.0     41.0                49.9                     56.7
or mhICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        11.0        12.0      12.0 IC            18.3                     17.0
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE          S5.0        36.0     25.0                23.H                     13.7
Sam=
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (EAMS)         41.0        41.5     47.3                48.4                     51.7
INFANT sI. RArE (PER TS)            201.0       164.0    122.0               117.5                    102.7
ACCESS TO SAIFE WATE (EZrO)
TOTAL                                .-        17.0      16.0 Id            21.8                     35.6
URBAN                                ..          ..     49.0 /7             61.5                     54.1
UtL                                  ..         5.0    I1.O A               14.2                     27.3
ACCESS TO EZCETA DISPOSAL
(C OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *.         1.0      15.0 /d            32.0
URN                                  ..          .0      36.0 id            69.2
RURAL                                ..         1.0      12.0 /r            24.8
POPULATaS rEM PHlSICUI            .7060.0    28860.0  15100.0 /a           27477.6                  1194S6.3
POF. MER IWU1NG PERSON             5340.0 If  4310.0   1430.0 r             3396.2                   2246.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL aED
TOTAL                             760.0       670.0 Ij  750.0 Ia          1069.0                    91U.9
UR13                              210.0 if   160.0    250.0 /;7            395.2                    368.7
RIUAL                            1030.0 if  1500.0   1190.0 /7            3094.0                   4012.1
AIHIISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        24.3
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..        5.8
UOU                                  ..          ..        .                   ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
AVERAGE H0. OF PE3ESONSIp0O
TOTAL                                .            .        ...
URA                                  ..          ..
RURA L.                                          ..
ACCES TO ELECT. (E Or OWELLINS)
T.L                                  -.          ..        .                   ..
ma                                   ..          ..        .                   ..



- 30 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                              (Page  2  of  5)
TOCO                   - SOCIAL INDICAtOU DATA SHEET
TOCO                                 BPUEUNCE cGoUrs (MEIGHTED AVERAS) t
O NST                     (lOST RECENT ESTIIATE) /b
-   RECENT          LOW INCOIE AFRICA        MIDDLE WtnE
19601b     1970L  isTtrATZb          SOUtr OF SAHARA       AFlICA S. OF SAHAIA
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                     44.0        69.0    111.0                 69.2                     91.0
KALE                     63.0        95.0    135.0                 78.8                     90.5
FEMALE                   24.0        43.0      87.0                57.6                     73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     2.0         7.0      31.0                13.1                     17.4
MALE                      6.0        11.0      46.0                17.6                      23.7
FINALE                    1.0         3.0      16.0                 1.3                     14.8
VOCATIONAL (C OF SECONDARY)           10.1         9.6       5.3                 7.2                      5.3
PUPIL-TECH    RATIO
PRIMARY                             60.0        58.0      52.0                46.1                     3S.6
SECONDARY                             ..        25.0      40.0 Ic             25.9                     24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)                9.7 /f    15.9       IS.0 /h             44.3                     35.6
COII_IGU
PASSENCER CARS/THOUSAND POP            1.9 /1      3.6        ..                 3.8                     20.7
RADIO RECILVERS/TIOUSAND POP           3.5        19.8    213.3                41.9                     100.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               ..          ..       3.9                 2.0                     18.5
NEWSPAPER  'DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION
pER THOUSAND POPULATION              1.3         6.4       2.3 /I              5.4                     17.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        0.2 /I        *       1.0 Id              1.4                      0.3
LARG FORMH
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            690.0       885.0   1101.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    39.2        41.3      41.3               36.5                      33.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               80.0        73.0      67.0                77.4                     57.;
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   8.0        11.0      15.0                9.8                      17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               45.8        43.8      40.0               41.0                      36.3
MALE                                56.8        52.3     46.9                 52.1                     47.6
FEMALE                              35.3        35.6      31.8                30.2                     25.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1.1       1.2                 1.2                      1.4
If_z DISIRXBUTIN
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED Br
HIGHEST 5S OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..
HIGHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS             . -
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..
LOWEST 40 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..
turi TAST CCCU'S
ESTINATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PEA CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..    243.0 lh             168.3                    525.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..    118.0 IE              90.8                    249.0
LWA&LU KLLALLVL ebCLttLt LMJflS
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     121.0 lh            107.7                    477.4
RURAL                                 ..          ..    121.0 lb              65.0                    186.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POvERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URB.                                  ..          ..      42.0 th            34.7
RURAL                                 ..         ..        ..                65.4
NOT AVAILABLE
NoT APPLICASLE
H O r E S
/a The group averages for each indicator are populatlon-weighted arithmtlc manas. Coverage of countries amon the
Indicators depends on availability of data and ta not uniform.
/b  Unlesa  otherwise noted. -Deta for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970' between 1969 and
1971; and daca for -)ost Recent Estimate between 1980 and 1982.
/c  1977; /d 1975; /e 1979; If 1962; /. Goverment hospital establishments; /h 1978; Ii 1964; /.1957.
JUNE. 1984



-31-ANNENU I
________o _____"IC                                                                        (P-age       3  of   5)
,aa  ats   t dna,"o  seadra,  Ste "caneM tia-            ..tl h s ape.-des cath1lsaIsaiatddrd e .1.tl.i  t  tita   acts Vha  shatatdertaste sc. tctscail
detweaskh  bm Sl Of    l  itSe"  atftsssic-dta dslsll    adLEOK1  acasapi as'djh dktett isal  I. -Meilclgl  ea-.             aa   .ieals*-lti
dacrfth  ftea  at"    v alta ct. I"dltata en  BMd. theatacatas actat   aMa  lCZ) accceta, iart asees'A s.0     n wdvV IdVchEPeaRr,l.W 
-tsr.=tat   wande -   l isa-   a    asaysle M        etgamd ne    a W     sttp tIes SIb  can                  , bloc- aat        . san   she tha  ttain teata  b
sejas asp. 1 tamsm rfwate AKVOL tae cilmtlt5dat    tdi aac"  tact afflit    mIdl Saite it it-a Icaca  ci cite.. aaia-salsEaid
atI=eslaI.  Is   ams 1seaPsa  ecu dtaa, Itse --tWt ass e-rlias desie, atl-heftla  eatd  Ca.at  tadla6sase ade tt ale a. C jest% aStha ants  as
jVea tat dat tar thu8 ld-latsc.1 Sa Itsftee asetif 5t i t-no.Its "ifsse Va.sads OE- Its eckattt at. dat tad 5tE saC ait_ccaaE cast a, ha
te  eea'ased tr  tnma   t-lditf      stt    eeaaeesaseS   th   a   tt    baI   ta   testatea i16e sly                                      it madeey ad
_-_E_ a"d  eaddeed~   ~           ~ ~~~~tsitse laa  ~cieaslac
apj,za  -tett    Et tewtc.Ilsra  are accdS       -osatlf Wmachedectl,             VLa1-     se-sac atla-sESa  ar                    -29 eat sttre
H   ei '" state.          1MIE od         ~       111f cache                    anlg satllselas.
f.1           OW P. -ptfad beat Easast athemahl -ba                                -ItIt.f pMlal            r&siam.dd  MLL_d%19
tts flh flf    e              asmls as" a a-It1" areas ache41 paLace.ssactlg it- act"s  a    tastPt a btadfalasta   ""Iptts.401
silo.  II.. aM sis1 daed.                                                               k,at ee  at    tlcsae. bsbla s  pea"Il  pe1sieitley -fitseal
ass  n   sItlaa.4     b-an napict.. beas.  -Iwes hatlsb ad
I   - _w   MI                 scss- l S.)  a  a4 tgdA-. eatlac                       eee5aaat  ant. teda1fta  aCOt sbtate SatC ltP--psa  atbmls 
ad 0-abiLN.  atas1si p)"  .9esepjI    Laeat at aO  tets-lcas P., asp"Is  itS.            .sid, a 16aLsd eps ad asdlacl tsalllslsa
soN, atE Ill date.SS n                                                                              laL          - Ttseal    e at.9 seidaSasi   ao de dlattm
- he M J. IV II                       lheheust. Ion.dW  lb l              ad nd
-an    Lat si  na    av iela,stn     liesMA                 u m          Mas     ,ai.e~,~~~n    a
lUCasddiiiceMahectata,  155   setattlls at  data                               ad SIr  ti npas      y.A  aDelnate dif bias.   -Pas asp s ha leadidev  5s
COM     sesa-ssa, 593, ad             Frede."e tiltdes                            sa.deeplid Mtatscltal.tea
L-9. Vedeels at     D"Lmw a Um* Itc Le - - a"                                           r  ast -ecial          -c nraCstar. Pt.
Reere. 11. PEVELLIVEL e    reelat1tv  "' 71- le-  bwed 3-1.tMhat,. dMA eat.--Ieae11Ldem-ssIesF
asst. 1tsfh   cats-Ces31  P-e edl1ilEy ec-a *VcIa at P  theseeaspsdnts
ccs -t delld atallpaat IlIt, sVean nd       last)  Let meats  ta,          dly                                                  P          E-    -P-
slattag parteasat.  SaSs s-clay It she s-lead at ad shet tactlr a ee., eMaget e
S.Vrcl, ee      awef a lamev sepast. si  adrape Lil  CetellipM                    an a9    testeat it  ll                iftel  a   -%-Isda aseap tse
saeha  iaisatsdi    stpacat  es tat                                                   ptlars1' caltlsele a,pa .c,lsaP  assail. latest" EldCa ajad b-fie
satshatlad eai. k1ac  t msstat.seta. sh  Mitt   n  tans                               pn   iciaei t 1 t     dlt absnatVis    dsLtSe1-
hiiasla.setatcsmtase-Iat   anslIEtly   its t.     at;shepatl assletegL all)d-  1est  at55  te..tasdaaeacasK                                c
is. ca  elIt lb ae ripsssl  eat  i sa Itsd  Ss.  It                       wards,  stdcd.        "VM   ff_ d
ab  a el   stat, CtsIe   al       c ma    ..  etmaelsssal a       sea   tacasrtsttl
eas  -tO at                                                                    taai..vits  saee  -V atqac.    qtesa"dIV _-tA-a   aaa  aald
h Mv,PMiasta se,a stts hi saes assm hiee) 51
,has tug, tint, as  itst dats                                              e1 ats    - sracI es  tsega,qt  - Uste-  tals   utaht-ca          ilta
~~~~~~~~..   as she  tat ase-tasla     Led                                     a    -eps.. a sees s.lt  actaitl  cad Ii macs adsEp
- CIltds la-se Pa-)c. -rstatlcta Sit-
~ftfi t    w,Pal    l.s*  pew  a CM-n a yare-ss asd-pea                                                                        r- yeac     en eaWel   ea
Pseissla  tsatst ate fpcpaa*i -  aul - aal tiaae  -ac at.tt-i Cd  atltiaeCablale
Psaaia  rek ba        IS1a  - sat   -   1aaat  teeh  at   at as A_                 heaties  -   wslmatsse .                 tpaaae  ttee
s        ppsnLaeteta  JI-al  ta-a.c   O-i                                              st.a    als Ia eo-h.            med it peas asf ca5at-el-  at  Vate
p.c.ccunatat he. ttO  aSlit et.4                                                  -    -tasla ta L.a ilaat.L--    .7        WLEIIEC-             a
______________ -,__)  A- eat Lath parf sta  a-t cad e-_-ee                       P  ssirr         ateac  ftesl -`dE  Mr esLast  ta   e.Esa- 5.
.SEnkiS11.M   - strat  act.  a   atmtt                   lthre                        tsre..     adL ig   IpEn tI   nlectt  aTiVte-I etate
tsr ateet rriacatlla  shlad It S        saslee   seas  -taitl                basat  Cftae,ljte  Mc ste          cale  tle- -9 TV sMe  starsee
IS         MMh..ttalte daRe                                                                          tad pctacilp It eta-tadise.seeti  an. IiItcaadsa
taalt atl- lqtay 0ss-ac    .... nt- LIased bmea   cttt                             .h   at 5 isilspe   as lea 9 C'       t. sits. an.
sled fttead   taatcsettaSast  atymccttneae   A-scLe"  ta1rCasl re - EdaLse -                                                            a  s.      le
ell. TMela  - 1b-rC (trsi at e-reti we. - verea-sta  it aeIaleast.  sIad.
C-d"M ~~~~~~tftehett- -"P 9tamle.it atal  5t   Sadsqla  Iticit-sca  a
eLLA.cah  tito,.& tPt' as ICR  et.  - - ~ I
ted  a a  tt-ar tte  Il.. CELa ttdstl5as pelada  te   a                     Je-hhSLhh9uut-l.aac  es  it Pt.sse. tsaetIr -has1ise ad
&CC.-a       ..  ft Mbmlted awLe mlata _cede (a.a.                     sat   t   ess  tIt  Isne~ tet   ttWn as til                  dt
head as sattat tise5 pistae alias wIshe )  ll-t.. la.Ead  tilt             as fli  Za..'
daF    tIt ta.                                                                      reresere~g.1ELre  -lawnclve.St SascI"IsTreal ale  sa tLaer-  tsc.xElE1ma Mr
a  ae.sak. atIalded ECe Sttr M at  relrs-t  - O4,10 .d tae                     atat_  rcest an atad e1-  tai   tt             aaelha ee
_sri aaltie   at  "At Ca    de pblaS aateMd l -dts at VC Ilpa                " alais  at0 teal  Ule Sa fel  mapeat a S alt  ssCitaels
a..  tattltbd h-&.lt t-awels d-arsl-ct mesdpslc,ten   lest                            itS   it.       sild te,ita  cta i-de  Wi elemllr
M"atue   a 4th"at lt cent,  h   stlEM  astad- chi  tact aeda-a csItae    tetr  tl   eaa,edi    lttn
qadllteAed Is-& tas       . gmsate  as least` medactes,btla                            a   snt    t  e    sse           ia
an  a E eitdh  tttd Whaeatt  teat=',2     Mh  V- s.1 -tm  -tL.ps     laa staeaut  icIitaecI
at tapdr .1 PI-   h-. J.te caSl adn tat C"Ia  alsa  ht,a                               ata.eti  open   ari  imvst ad estrti tO sR-". a
jal 1. t,e ECt assee -.st.hliad """  oM-d byi FM elts. hL                             ele-l  Id. .C-                 ftb
atChild     stl aa easqa Pat lb weld   trpsd  hr    en Rb        ts-                   she   elscesdas    ssdctest
ikrdWed1 55  Sa-P     l llt- .-iPi ad- IWdeet                                       s.ea  aaitaeir eIae  cl55  t  aptl-eti   d  a
dates                                                                                atte -F   rtabELtL,
Ldhev -spat                    mt atpe. 5 lpsralalc                           ss    t  trsas ddamlsustlats  -  neaLLk) an  `-1  LeaDepe
i....tesetni Sale Sea !atbaa C-e Sreti  deat brat laEs.A"as asI"
mead"sev    at1. stsa lIeN iltb   less _lPSad sils ate..i
s-     ..aty astlt) atmaasas  at- sfteM4  deasiapprepeslas. sa   .
bes  S. tNeedles -. atable           saI  lul se  b k-cua
sate      1         "-  V        .)0   -P   ".6     s.   -
-           taR  a1i     at,    asawit            hrat,s             a



- 32 -
A.4  I
(a4of 5)
ECONOMIC  INDICATORS
CIS NWIWAL YBV= IN 19814          $ millim        z        Al zta of griwth (Z. iuit price)
197884
QI at      t prices                624.0         92.7          6.4
CEP at sunet price                 673.0        100.0          7.6
Grms dintlc Ineots                 157.8         23.4         -7.4
Grmas datc sa8rq                    96.3         14.3         -2.9
Carrent acat bel                   -32.9          4.9
Exports (G+ NES)                   236.2         35.1          7.6
imports (G + NFS)                  297.7         44.2          1.6
OmIr, LABOR  AE  PN) DUIV]Tr IN 1984
Vahe added        Labor fonre      V         added per  m
ll$-dllimn    %  7hirad          Z       _   Z of avZrp
Agriculture                                187.6    32.1    850        77.3     220.7     41.5
Inmistry. coostructim & public iworks     126.1     21.6    31         2.8    4067.7    765.6
Goverzment                                 59.3      10.1    39         3.5    1520.5    286.2
Commerce and transport                     167.7     28.7    90         8.2    1863.3    350.7
Other services                             43.7      7.5    90          8.2     485.5    91.4
GDP at factor casts                 584.4    100.0   1100       100.0    531.3    100.0
GOVEW*= FIIIAICE                            CFA biflimi         Z of GDP
1979     1984     1979     1984
Resume                                     58.2     88.6      27.4     30.1
Tam receipts                              49.9     67.4     23.5     22.9
Other                                     8.3      21.2      3.9      7.2
r. - nd1u-n =                              94.0    109.9    44.3      37.4
urrent buidt                             46.5      76.5     21.9     26.0
Imnestt budget                           40.4     33.4      19.0     11.4
Otber                                     7.1      -         3.3      -
ped1   _mts                  _ 
OveraLl deficits                          -35.8    -21.3    -16.9    -7.2
(MP anrr-m  prices                       212.1    294.1     -         -
KHEY, CrrM   AID PSICE                1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
CPLUlma CEFM . u_stn^qgen pn )
Moby and quasi wr^-y                  48.1   64.9   69.2   80.0  107.0  124.7  130.1  154.1
BRnk credit tV public sector           1.8    6.2    6.6   11.9   20.7   20.3   22.3   22.8
Bank credit tD g.vrat* sector         44.2   51.0   57.1   65.2   62.7   68.0   65.3   63.9
(Nramise  or I   uaber)
Money and quasim noqy as Z of GDP     25.1   32.4   32.6   33.9   40.9   46.2   46.2   52.4
COmin   price juiez (1978 - 100) 1/   99.6  100.0  107.5  120.8  145.7  160.7  176.3
Amza pereetge dbm     I:
Cumr price inlDe                    22.4    0.4    7.5   12.4   20.6   10.3    9.7
BRok credit to public awetor        50.0  244.4    6.4   80.3   73.9   -1.9   -1.5    2.2
Book credit to private secor        37.3   15.4   12.0   14.2  -3.8    8.4  -4.0   -2.2
.t applicable
Noen-vailabea
I/ Amisi averalp                                                            Apri 1985



- 33 -
AM~ I
VM  PUIDS AI CUTEAL MM1                         Oi5 5of 5)
BAICE ON PAUIIS                              190      1961     1982     1983      1984
Thq2arta (G + IPS)                          543.8    380.5    336.9    274.5    279.9
lizu (G +NS)                                692.8   -529.2   -452.2  -337.7   -321.1
Bescarce Sp (df    * -)                    -149.0   -148.7   -115.3   -63.2   -41.i
lT t  W-                                    -55.8    -49.3   -49.6   -56.7    -8.5
Imm' t_z m-                                   6.1      11.0     12.2     13.1     16.0
Ot.ra F   Orr pgym   t (z)                    11.4     33.1      7.9   -13.4   -16.0
Net t                                        36.4      29.5     27.4     23.9     24.5
Balac Ca curr nt a cmmt                    -150.9   -124.4   -117.4   -96.3    -65.2
nDI=   filonia fnavt n.                       14.2     18.4     12.2     13.1      9.2
Not M3r borranmg                             36.4      43.8   -17.3      84.0     40.0
Cagtl lgrts                                  47.3      29.4     21.3     18.4     32.0
Otbw caitald (nt)                            22.2      78.5     26.8     29.9     18.5
tb.r itm nue.i.                              44.0      43.4    110.1     34.2      3.5
Chwge in emvs (In se - -)                   -13.2   -89.0   -35.6   -14.9   -38.0
Not eseu   (er (der) 1/                      82.8    160.1    171.6    189.2    214.9
MKSI)ISE          (avqcw  1960-84 rz 1)
Ut;$ u411-IOpccnq
Exmq.ta                                      99.0               46.2
Ca= been                                     29.7               13.9
cbffee                                        16.4               7.6
cotem                                         14.0               6.5
AUl ober c-ditea-                            55.2               25.8
Total                                ;214.3              1M.
Ei      Mr.1E. Derer 31, 1984             11$ illlIM
Public dbt (dlaz  rns n cL gsatad           732.3
-            prit- Idgt
Total -utetsiftg md dekwmd                  732.3
DM SEVIC RUM 1M 1984 2V                                 MM,IE R<  (a& per IS$)
-      VP               Yaw       P       eLod EaAd of peiod
Pdblic debt, 8. g     e     /    31.2                  1977        245.67              235.25
Mi.-SMEMMMd prVafte dsibt          -                   1978         225.64             209.00
Total Owntsiza*  _e didxwmd      31.2                  1979        212.72              201.LO
1980        211.30             225.80
1981        271.73              287.40
19B2        32B.62             336.25
1983        381.07             417.38
1984        437.00             479.60
1)/]D    iawM, MHrdi 31, 1985 (1$ idUi'2)                        4/            MA
aMomdft ad  d*ind                                            52.9            239.74
_xHdx=wd  -    95.13
O_ttadiu  hu1ildb  iHdixzm                                   52.9            239.74
1/ Not forai aas  of the         flc a
I Dee srim as pint of X (G + IUS)
_I Aftr det xmdm&dft
4/ $53.0 cf ilA $5  fIttl1  a:  lm to 7bip ad $49.5 -d.11UI  to ClDI with the Si8       Of mia.
Ivy Coast ad Tkip



- 34 -
A= 31
Oi1of 2)
SDms CF BM   MM OFUA1EL1S IN MM
A. Statment of MA, Credits (as of Ifrd 31, 1985)
i$ CnIM
ADmt (law cm3latkuu)
Credit ND.   Year   Borrwer                                   link      ID 1/      msbu md 1/
El&t credits an e low fully dixsused                            3.50    89.96          -
810-M       1978     Topb     PeRvoads                          -       5.80         0.73
930-r       1979     Togp     Tecmical                          -       2.20         0.17
945-T       1979     ToR     CocoffeeDeer  U                   -      14.00         8.59
1018-M       1979     ToD      Pi= F]dwati                       -      11.00         2.72
1139-rn      1981     Togo     Fairth BWy 2/                     -      20.00         5.50
1169-M       1981     Tog      P      te Bgae                    -       5.70         3.11
1190-TO      1982       P      lr Bg            and TA           -       1.98         0.24
1270-M       1982     T        Ts                                -       3.50         1.23
1302-n       1983     To       Se        brwl D&r. Cottm Areas   -      23.50        16.34
1326-rn      1983     Toga     RsMtnh  Project                   -       5.70         5.05
1354-M       1983     Toa      Ib Water azVply                   -      12.0I        10.59
1365-M       1983    Tbgp      First S9=Ucd1  Ajustnut           -      20.00          -
3-M          1983     Togo     First Structuznl Adjuinit         -      20.00          -
3.0-r        1984     To       Naigeto 1~ droelectrLc Project    -      15.00        13.98
1.568-T 3/   L985     Top      Fucation Iupmeznit Project        -      12.40        12.40
:TOhL                                    3.50   222.74        80.85
Of -Ahas bees  pid                       1.05     0.44
,-1 w  outstmxdig                        2.45   222.30
tt sMMl
Of dch bas bem repaid                          -
Total nwr held by Bank ad ID             2.45   222.30
Total udisbuirsed                          -     80.85        80.85
1/ Prior to embiu,g adjUment.
2/ Bend  with Coedit 1139--D. credits bu.ve bem       -i n Sfecial Dang Rights.  lae dollar
amDt in thse cob    repreat the dol  equiralent at the timd of cxdit                  for the
IDA axUlmts anxd the dollar eqtivalmt as of 11da 31, 1985 for the         11t8urd amts.
31 Not yet effective.



- 35 -
(Pag a2of 2)
B. Statt oE B.k La=i Q          lr T    0y QUxR, Iir-y Coast an! Tou
w61n or
Credit lb.   Yew    Ionaw                                     Bmk       MID     Phdlsbzmd
12854WAF    1976     CIwO    Rqkowal aud                      49.5      -            -
Repaid                                 12.72      -
Now utastudla                          36.78      -
C. State   of Regul Boi  ax! CLedit to:
B.dn, &Mm Paso, IhaLy Cast, MM, S1mgl, Toso
Credit No.   Yew   Bozrro*                                    BM*      MA, 1/      1s        
969-WF      1980     B=       Project YPzpmi :m Cdt            -       3.0         1.93
131-W       1983     BOAD       qiamal Developmet               -      14.0        12.36
IUEAN                                     -      17.0        14.28
,w   omt
I/ Prio to  odzaie  adjiuuLt.



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Iu Ftj}TxfPage 1 o   10
I  1
~1           ii iXtJi!
I1             iii tIjilX'l|
,               ,
M
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
X    l:Ii anI
I   ,  I
ii!  Jl ) 0 ltl!]j
I jiIil_jI



Structural Isaus and            Actin 1 n        by the            res to be TMi           Mxdtorable Policy Actic.          Pulated    ProMect
Policy CbJectives                 G     aerrmt                                                   and Tldi  and IW l?m
2. Fiscal Policy
- Ewessive reliance        - New tax code adoption in     - Reduce the taxtim  of         - Piscal study, effective      - 1w  a       arraw.-
of Goverm t                Dec1 er 1983                   spicultural seetor              protectim by the Bek           meats
reveue m a1P             - Increase of water and        - Pursue the                      staff with a viw to          - Possible SAC M  pI m
(pbsliates) and OPAT       electricity rates              ipleintation of the            imcreasing inport duties
(export crops)                                            now tax code                   yield, steulidn
- Over-taxation of                                        - Prepare for a fiscal            industrial incentives
agricultural sector                                       reform for import               and effective protection
- tcessive rnuber mid                                       duties: simplification,         (Septeuer 1985)
low yield of InVort                                       yield increase,               - Diatussian between
duties                                                    industrLal ixxatives            Covenunt and Bunk on
the results of the study
- Inplmmtaticn of study
re~umatimcs
- Hg level of per-         - Freeze of civil              - Icrease the budgetary         - Ruview of the 1986           - Preparation of
smel expeaditue            servant recruibmt,             allocations to DR              budget by IW in                 Agiotual uteuio
- Insufficient afloca-       salarie  mid prartimns       - creation in the Treasury        tvember 1985                   Services project;
tion of budgetary          as of Jauary 1983              of a Special "Rd              - CFAF 1.2 bilim                 Buuuy   O5intmi)
funxds to maintenance    - 5% national solidarity         pun" Acwxmt                     sllocation to the              project
and current costs,         tax on salaries              - Stabilize the fical             "Road Fund" nY 86            - IM  stard-by
particularly in          - Omiprehnsive survy of          deficit                         (Canditimon of 2nd             arrmawomnts
agriculture and road       civil service personmel      - Stre.ml.iu the use of           tranchm   elease)
maintenmice                (Icamber 1983)                 other budgetary               - Allocation of at least
- Inmfficient public       - Reduction of ourrent ex-       allocations                     25% of Wb budget to non
savlngs and exces          25% of HMR budget to non     - Control personnel              personnel costs
sive fiscal deficit        penditure                      exidiCtdres                     (Citic of Release of
- Reducticn of fiscal def-                                      second
icit between 1982 and
1984                     *                                                                                        '
- Satisfactory Review of
the 1985 budget by IM                                                                                          
in Dwcmnber 1984
- DW stand-by armrmngenct
for FY 85



Structural IssLes a            Actiox. Ta1'n by the         Maaare to be Mk*            Hmztorable Pblicy Actims           ulated m  Pject
'olicy CbJectiveI   Govuni  t                                                                 and T                          adin   d I rfwk
- Threefold increae of
D non persmxl
bWgetary allocation
for EY 85 incl4ing
CFAF 175 mLLUhi special
allocatic n frm BIE
Ghrch 1985) )
- CPAF 950 mlllm
allocatmon for road
I3tnawe In FY 1985
ncluding CFAF 450
mllll special
tion fmm BE
Obrch 1985)
- Ehcessive ecternal          - Debt reschndling             - Reschlirg of debt due         No emmrcIl term             - TA -
public debt an                thrcu  the Paris Mtu          in 1965 wd beyal               foreign borrming,           - MI Speca TA
payment arrears               in 1979, 1981, 1983 aid      - Furtheir I    spommts in      oexdding bilateral
1984 aid with private         octemal debt  n       t       loom and enlav-type
creditors In 1980           - hAidance of cinrciul          projects
- MA special TA in debt         tam borroing
recording aid armlysis -
- Reiuctiom  in foreip
borroixg aid avoidance
of rxn-cowAssincary
tE
- Repaymet of all
extel pp taymen
arears by May 1984
- Repaymnt of CFAF 13                                                                                         w .
biUli onin in (stic                                                                                         0
arrears in 1983 .nd CFAF                                                                                    ,1
12 billion in 1984



Stnu;tal eeS  WAi              Actii Takm by the            Massr  to be Take           Mitorable Pul Acy Mtions         hI.  MA, Pmiect
Pblicy Objectives                Gover(met                                                   ad TI)  i                     g N! mdIF Pzr aa
3. Publicr. in    t
- inadequt policy         - large reductlcm             - ic ol thd level of           - Bauat1t1  of rem.rut        - TA proects
aE! pluxdm                pjsbc iwests                  imw atat  put                 costs for ach project       -  W standl-by
ulirlul;       &Wksrln  1981 - 1984           ampisi a                      of mre than CMA 300           arramts
iefficint               - Adcptlm of a thre-year        raai x                        mli                          - Posible amOg ic ad
Usret                     rolllmg lnvint                iuntinwe opersat             - PurFa projert analysia        project
wal t8                    progrudg                     - Caitkm in new                 for part of t  1985-87      - Nmgeto regliul
- hitic'   tmeat          - Prqartim of 198-86            invintit dcedMs,              pibic  mestuat                 project
targets am                Investment prog               pardhrly                       prm
ex ssive                - Pavin wE appzval by    p       OqtKnric acg plmt           - 1oldIzlg a DowOtst' RoLnd
upmfitable               tde Bark of 1984              - Impwnre ectoral               Tabl (Jam 1985)
projects                  Invasbits                     allAcitci of                 - Pr}aatiL  of 1986-88
- Deficient project       - Bank TA In izvesbmt              8fro  t: priarity to        puiblic    t                                     W0
sleitim ax!               prog dlg                      ruNal devulopment and          prga by           1985;
uvawltmo                - Stisfactory rvls by            road mintme                   s fto  Inveetllst
- lack of cooTdlnhtiml      the Bank of th              - Us cost/banefit               p!og    rw   by
In nctol                  1985-1987 pbli                analyis, evale                 the Bfk is conditim of
AfllatliM of              iat  progn                   re amt costs and               seccu truich  rlae
Invuesmet                 (Mrch 1985)                   eabzatim                       b1lwge of pWmmts
- Inzafffmici  cmtrl      - Pwe,v  imetLg, of the       - Iuhrve Invinst
of  vintmet               Dcst PRl Table                 prvpmi%: by fitting
prqm and project          (Jw#ary 1985)                 the Snwtut progr
implementation                                          into uudlm-     uncro-
ml I r pi budgetary                                     e .camdc projectiaos
ea uibmw                                              -   1n   tim coatrl of
- ro fwu.g for                                            project iz,mlmtation
Minteaa and                                            - Inprovuwent in plming
re5wrsit costs                                          MrAge=it
- npovmie of aid
coordimatim
0



-40-                          ANNEX III
Page 5 of 10
El-~~l 
^sa
I~~           1$ a   i 0 !  8oS 8      i   l    
lI   IE         fli ;0s31 I5IX:I|45



-41-                ANNEX III
Page 6 of 10
AIiiIhd  II
I""'~~~ IiI~I           1



Strutural Im s adx            tctim Tar by the             Msmures to be Tlr          Mdtorable Pblicy kAtios         Relatd UM1 Project
Policy (bectives                Goventdt                                                                           1modiIg and M Pro&a
- Re    fertLlizer
_    trwge  PAT
intoty wzdtori%
syata
2. Food co warket:ig
- Gaoermut               - Adoption of nudha-term      - Purmd  the ai.-term        - Adoptim of 1tK10PAIM
lntsnvtim in food        food crop mirketk             food crW mntiTg              opertirg gudu:liig by
crop muireting           policy: limitatim of          policy                       April 1986 ( itm  of
- Irquag te                TO1OIN role                 - LAberlizing export for       release of 2ad trhane)
Irowtives to                                           food crops
probrs: fixation                                     - IAutirz the role of
of       r prices                                     T1OMAIN to mintdniTg
of food                                                a grain stock of 10,000
- Restrictim on food                                     twos ,mdn, for food
crop eports                                           swirity porposes
- Streami1niag TO00MAIN's
operatiLws
- .rm'E gin itncrseaa
of fanurs' (or grmp of
famners') ain
-v          apacities
- EBabliddii in MR a
syutx of forecast1n
lbvetst aid aulyzln%
MUrkAts of food crops
0 F



Structunal Isaj  and           Action Taka by the           Mamuxs to be Takmi         Mbtorsble Poicy kctime             lated MIL Pmzoa$
Policy abJectives                Govermt                                                     a    e                  Iaf~d u 12M  Pam
3. Rural delt
straL*ff
- Slav grOth in           - Priority asssui to          - Str.nthu  ertesim           - Pzvgrm  of stzeaitbuiln     - TA II aod m  projCts
agrinl1bire              rnral sector in the            servies a  iaproe              mm eewm servis,             - Promg    Ag1azltura1
- Lack of coherent          inveemt proi           input swly to fai rs                  UpTowiDB inp mwly.    eimtum project
strateW                 - Tecdical assistarce for       (fertiliers,                  md fandr gmps
- lac of aid                rural developmt               pesticides)                   accs to credit
coordination In           plannin and                 - Streatn famdr               - In Pi 1986, Alloate at
agrirultural              ai       uralsarch            gie (         mits             leat 25S of  s'
policies, project         coordinatimn                  vflpois) am                    bzie,t to mn  permil
lnlentatim             - Wark be am                    encmurqe private              eqniboe (Cmlitim
- Institutional             pruparatit of a rural         nurdlnts                      of relse of 2ad
weL?m8                    de"elopint strategy          - Iprve famur access            t
- Plethora of staff in    - Creation of Liaism            to credit by introducing    - PFvamtIon of a
mural developmet           mittee betwem HR             a 8mtee fmd for               natil seed plmn
aganis                    and M'R                       credit neo to farmim         - HDilHii  a aid
- Insufficiset fuwxIig    - Increasing bjudgtary          groups                        cooIdinatizm ieeting in
of reglmal tural          allocation for IRs          -      ero  sd productim,       AgriUlbire in late 1965
developmet                for nmt persorial             agrioilWral reeArch
directorates              speding to CFAP 270           and farming techiques
- Inadequate road           uilLin in FY 85 Gbrdi)      - Bstabliftet of
MEintenwce In rural     - Nw 1T  for the                coordination meai
sector aid                AgrlLltural research TA       betMg sR d IAR -
inefficieacy of the                                     Thprove aid coordinatim
Feeder Road Service                                     in agiltue
0 m
II



Strnturaml Iues ard             Acti  Taken by the            bAms to be Taem nrdtorable Policy  tlxms                      RelAted Ik Mect
Policy Cbjectives                Govenwit                                                       aiLk d                            d ndI Pkpm
IV. INWSXI
- Inadequate               - Revisioo of the              - Prazting private             - Start of a fiscal            - Poble mF project
irntives to                IrMsMtt Code                   irmnw   t in industry          sector/effective             - TA m  project
irxustrial sector;       - Study of mmAl 1 and          - Inprovivg the strucYture      protection study by the       - Possible SAC m  pgr
lack of private             ediln scale enterprises       of effective protection        AsaoIuatioM (Septeer
interest in industry     - Preliminary study of         - Rewving constraints to         1985)
prcwtian                   hxlustrial inrentives          the provisLon of bank        - Start a bankddn  systen
- Excesaive Gbvernmet                                       credit for wmll.               study with a vim to
inwlvemnt in the                                          enterpriss                     iuprme Industrial
aector                                                  - Supplyilg tedical and          sector fi-irg and
- Lack of interest of                                       accoumting aasistmcs           prazi servics for
the baikng system                                         ad pcticoal servies   .          s
in finaIc                                                 to sli enterpm s .           - Dlmodm  of the
Industry,                                                                                studies      t dt h vid.
particularly MS                                                                          the riws w  t Code and
the amti  tariff
V. DUN S
- Inadequate fudif    i   - Study of trsportatm           - CoAr    revair of the        - Crte  a s-ecial              - Hlumy Ibitin V
for road ualntenance       sector                         inveset projects in            "Boaa d E sw ms t and          project
- Poor phyimcal            - Allocatimo of CWAF 950         transportatiom sector an       dqiost CAW  1.2 bIl1ku
coxdition of               udllion for road               part of the iuvusb.mt          In 1986 (q      hrit n of
riroa  avs m                  nte e In EY 1965            review                         ram.  of 
eacesai-ve 1mess of        in nasxIiq C(AW 400          - Lsprove the fird   of          I.t  . 
the ralway cc'w            million specal                 read *-rrintem Ace:          - Izrmem the rail my
- Inaituional                allocatim from BIE             bap tary allocatinn for         t     brffs by 10-151 for
wa^inamm in                Olrdh 1985)                    road tsintaxnre sholdI         the Ic iztILUM  lizu by
transportaticn                                            reach 2.51 of the total        Jim  1, 1985
plming and                                                currnat budget by 1988       - Izrmuse the raihzy
admInistration                                          - Prstnac    r the d
railroasd inetor
o I



Structal IT         an        Actiam Ti& by tie res to be Taka                      Mbitorible Poicy Actsm          Relate I  Pzject
Poliy (biectives               Goasemmt                                                   and Timsa                       and Dr 
- Inpzue  fUnuxdal             tariff by U5-20 for the
_agt of  ail.y               Lad-Blitta liz by
ccqrany                      FelxtP r   1986 (Cauitim
of the s.cd    ho)
- Frma#ie  gq r  for
sevie  in 11 A  1986
(Q~!tt1m of r:las of
sd trnmbe
- Cloe of tbe
- FrLse agret for
tls toSqii buss
ervic  id cI*elo   of
the r       servile
VI. TORNKA  HM  SEMCE
- EKcessive  er  of      - Dagi1oetic study of        - Stretbr tte High           - Adopt a tuiflad syst9      -   II m  pwjmt        LA
stat.e-md hotels         hotel sector                 Cauici of Touria             of accts for botels                                I
- Cactration of          - Mew _aint oatract          - ResP_utue the ector,         by Jm  1966
lodgin capacity in       for Hotel de la Psix         by rMaDtatig botel         - Rmugstinat   of
SCMI                                                      amt   O ltrwta Ax!       m to amCts for
- mesve pesrumal                                        by specsllyl  hotels,       IHtel dlu 2  vrwr,
costs                                                 rehobilitAtlng ix            Saralr, is Benin et
- 1 ssiwe operatig                                      rlpariz  ac  botels          Trcpin
aid laW                                       - Iprove the fiawxlal
stte  sdIMA                                              _i t of
-   1xte:nul debt of                                     ab otels
state-ownd hotels                                   - Air acom  sbtdy to
aaamdby the                                           detemd  potmtial for
Tzawzy                                                nw tOA18t arrivula
II4
o 6
No
0 



- 46 -
ANNEX IV
Lomf, April 23, 1985
Mr. A.W. Clausen, President
International Development Association
Washington, D.C. 20433
Mr. President,
I have the pleasure to submit to you the attached development
policy statement that the Government of Togo has adopted. This statement
outlines the main features of the economic and financial policy that the
Governmenr intends to follow over the coming years, within the context of
its structural adjustment program prepared in consultation with IDA staff.
Since 1983, the Government has undertaken a program of economic
and financial adjustment supported by two IMF stand-by arrangements and an
IDA structural adjustment credit. In spite of financial stabilization and
economic reorganization efforts carried out in this context, Togo's economy
has not fully recovered and its prospects remain precarious.
The Government is thus determined to pursue the adjustment
policies begun in 1983. It has decided to adopt a second structural
adjustment program, while preparing a financial program with the IMF for
fiscal year 1985.
In support of the new structural adjustment program, the
Government is formally applying to the Association for a second IDA credit
equivalent to US$27.8 million. The foreign currency fron this credit will
be used to finance Togo's imports, and the counterpart funds in CFA francs
will make it possible to reduce the internal financial constraints during
the structural adjustment period. We are also requesting a technical
assistance credic equivalent to US$6.2 million to support our Structural
Adjustment Program.
The Togolese Government is convinced that the policies described
in the attached statement are appropriate and that they will make it
possible for the Government to achieve the goals of its adjustment program.
Of course, if necessary, we will consider additional measures to achieve
these objectives in close consultation with the Association. In order to
monitor the progress of the program, we intend to remain in contact with
your staff and to supply IDA with all the necessary information relevant to
the implementation of the specific measures.
Sincerely yours,
Yaovi Adodo
Minister of Planning
and Industry



- 47 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 32
April 23, 1985
Lome, Togo
PREAKBLE
Over the last decade, the extensive and persistent recession has
been a crucial turning point in the world economy, exposing the structural
weaknesses of developing countries. If developed and developing countries
hope to emerge from present problems and avoid future uncertainties, a
profound change above and beyond present efforts must occur.
In its quest for endogenous development, the Republic of Togo is
determined first of all to rely on its own strengths.
With its self-sufficient food policy, started in 1977, Togo is
today able to endure this difficult period. Sufficient quantities of
quality supplies and services have guaranteed our population's survival,
freed them from the obsession of an uncertain future, increased Togo's
creative potential, and provided possibilities for development.
To this end, Togo will continue to pursue policies designed to
secure water supply both for irrigation and consumption, to foster
scientific research, particularly in the agriculture field, provide
incentives to the farmers and rationalize the sector organization and field
extension service. Mindful of the industrial sector's potential
contribution to development, the Government is eager to develop its mining
and energy resources, to promote small- and medium-scale companies, and to
reorganize its public sector enterprises. The large investments made in
the tourism sector since 1970, require that priority be given to the
rationalization of the Government hotels and an increase in their
profitability. The Government also considers the development of human
resources, particularly the promotion of women, as a major policy
objective.
No far-reaching development effort can be successful without
peace and political stability.  To optimize its potential over the last 20
years, Togo's institutions have worked towards strengthening natioaal peace
and political stability. Externally, by mediation efforts and search for
collective security, Togo hopes to create political conditions which will
increasingly strengthen economic development and lead to regional
integration.
It is therefore obvious that our present sacrifices, necessitated
in part by difficult international economic circumstances, are only
meaningful to us if they lead to a better future and increase our ability
to promote lasting development.



- 48 -
ANMEX IV
Page 3 of 32
To affirm our commitment to this required development, the
Govornment of the Republic of Togo has adopted this statement as a program
of short- and long-term measures and actions to be taken to Improve the
national economy.



- 49 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 32
STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY OF THE TOGOLESE GOVERNMENT
I.        INTRODUCTION
1.1       Until 1974, the Togolese Government followed an economic policy
which led to aa increase of approximately 7% in gross domestic product
(GDP) in real terms, while maintaining internal and external financial
equilibria. However, beginning in 1975, revenues from the quadrupling in
the world market price of phosphates allowed the Government to implement an
ambitious investment program adopted under the Third Economic and Social
Development Plan (1976-80). The investments were financed in part by
foreign loans and were used essentially for economic and hotel
infrastructures, social and administrative buildings, and for industrial
projects which were not entirely profitable. The majority of public
enterprises created in the industrial sector showed significant losses and
their foreign debts must be covered by the State budget.
1.2       Aggravated by the world economic situation, the ambitious
investment program led to a serious imbalance in public finances and in the
balance of payments at the end of the 1970s.
1.3       Faced with the burden of the debt service and accumulated
arrears, the State had to negotiate debt reschedulings with the Paris Club
in 1979 and with the London Club in 1980.
1.4       Reductions in public investment and budgetary austerity were not
enough to reduce the arrears which continued to increase until 1981. In
addition, the GDP decreased in real terms by 3.3Z in 1981 and by 3.6% in
1982.
1.5       Faced with a deteriorating economic and financial situation, the
Government undertook a recovery program at end-1982. In 1983, it adopted a
stringent financial stabilization program supported by an IMF stand-by
arrangement and a structural adjustment program supported by an IDA credit.
II.        PERFORMANCE OF THE FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM, AND
MEDIUM-TERM ECONOMIC PROSPECTS
2.1       The objectives of the Government were, in the short-term, to
reform the country's financcs by reducing the public finance deficit and
the balance of payments current account deficit, and in .ne mnedium-term to
create conditions for sustainable economic growth. Significant progress
has been achieved in financial reform, but the foreign public debt remains
worrisome. Although a start has been made on restructuring the economy,
economic recovery prospects remain weak.
A. THE 1983 AND 1984 FINANCIAL PROGRAMS
2.2       Under the 1983 IMF-supported financial stabilization program, the
Government adopted a domestic tax reform, increased water and electricity
tariffs, froze recruitment in the public sector, and instituted a 5Z



- 50 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 32
national solidarity tax on salaries. Other current State expenditures were
reduced by 13.8% and capital expenditures by 19.2%. The Government also
repaid 4.4 billion CFAF in domestic arrears and 13.0 billion CFAF in
external arrears. With the 1983 consolidation of external debt arrears,
only 0.5 billion CFAE remained at end-December 1983, but internal Treasury
arrears reached 16.4 billion CFAF.
2.3       Between 1982 and 1983,. the overall fiscal deficit (Lncluding
grants) fell from 6.9% to 4.7% of GDP, and that of the balance of payment
current account from 11.7% to 10.6%. Progress under the 1983 financial
program was satisfactory, and a 1984 program was agreed upon with the IMF.
2.4       In the revised 1984 program, Togo is committed to reduce its
domestic arrears by CFAF 10.2 billion and its overall fiscal deficit
(including grants) to 3.9% of GDP. and that of the balance of payment
current account to 9.6%. Provisional data on the implementation of the
1984 program show a reduction of 12.1 billion CFAF in domestic arrears, or
1.9 billion more than expected, and an overall fiscal deficit of 2.2% of
GDP (including grants).
B.  THE FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
2.5       Under the First Structural Adjustment Program, the Government has
undertaken new public investment programming, and has begun to prepare a
rural development strategy and to reorganize the public enterprise sector.
2.6       As with its development strategy, the Government has now adopt2d
a medium-term producer price policy for export crops, as well as a
marketing policy for food crops.  The primary objective is to offer
remunerative prices to export crop producers, which will also bring
significant revenues to the State. Increased prices were already paid to
crop producers because of the significant increases iu cotton, coffee, and
cocoa prices between 1983 and 1985 (coffee: 43%, cocoa: 28%, cotton: 38%).
Efforts will also be made to reduce marketing costs for export crops. In
food crop marketing, the Government has limited TOGOGRAIN's role to
maintaining a supply of 10,000 tons of grain for national food security
purposes. When conditions permit, it will improve producers' prices by
liberalizing food product exports to neighboring countries.
2.7       At end-1982, the Government began to reduce the financial burden
of public enterprises by closing unprofitable State-owned and semi-public
enterprises, and by initiating studies to produce recovery plans for those
that appeared viable. SALINTO (salt production), TOGOFRUIT (fruit
production), CNPPME (promotion of small businesses), Compagnie du Benin
(food industry), Togoprom (industrial, commercial and real estate
promotion), AGETU (urban infrastructures) and the Regie Municipale des
Transports Urbains have been closed. SOTEXKA's equipment fleet
(agricultural equipment) was leased to a private company and the
privatization of TOGOROUTE (a trucking firm) is presently being negotiated.
The plants of SNS (Societe Nationale de Siderurgie) were rented to a
private company which began production in December 1984. The petroleum



- 51 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 32
refinery (la Societe Togolaise des Hydrocarbures) closed in March 1981, and
while awaiting the allocation c' the refinery, the Government transferred
management of the storage tanks to the "Togo Shell" company.
2.8      In the hotel sector, several measures have been taken to reduce
costs, notably by regrouping services, closing small hotels during the slow
season, and stopping the price war between the large hotels. To improve
the State-owned hotels, the Government has established an action plan to
standardize accounting systems, establish management performance criteria,
and strengthen the High Commission for Tourism.
2.9       The Government has adopted a three-year rolling investment
program, and the 1984-86 program was reviewed by IDA; the *.nvestments
planned for 1984, which show a trend toward productive sectors, were
approved. To define the macroeconomic framework of the public investment
program, the Government created in 1983 a working group, named Group for
Macroeconomic Projections (within the Commission Nationale
Interministerielle de Stabilisation), responsible for formulating
medium-term economic projections. In 1984, it also began preparing the
1985-90 master plan for the State and public enterprise sector action
program. The Govermment is also concerned with improving the monitoring
and implementation of public investments, and public investment expenses
were computerized in September 1984.
2.10     On the whole, the structur_l adjustment program is being
satisfactorily implemented, and on July 9,1984, IDA released the second
tranche of the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC).
C. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND PROSPECTS
2.11      In spite of recovery efforts agreed upon by the Government, -IOA
and the IMF, Togo's economic and financial prospects remain precarious.
GDP dropped by 5.3% in real terms in 1983, and by 0.8% in 1984.
2.12     The medium-term economic prospects (through 1990) indicate that
real rate of economic growth will not exceed 37 per year, which is less
than the annual population growth of 3.3%. Given this situation, the
Governr.ant is anxious to improve the standard of living for its people.
2.13     Even though public debt reschedulings have been higher than
expected, and progress has been made in reducing the public secLor deficit
through spending cuts, a mandatory austerity program is needed to improve
internal and external financial equilibrium. After the 1984 rescheduling,
the debt service accounted for 33% of export revenues and 36% of State
revenues. By end-1990, the debt burden is stil1 estimated to be 36% of
export revenues.



- 52 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 32
Z.14      The Government is therefore determined to continue the adjustment
eiforts begun in 1983 by introducing a second structural adjustment
program, while preparing a financial program with the IDF for fiscal year
1985.
III.      THE SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
3.1       The objectives of the Second Structural Adjustment Program are to
consolidate the gains of the first program by (1) improving the structure
of public finances; (2) strengthening the quality of investments; (3)
reorganizing agriculture; (4) reforming public enterprises; (5) p; .moting
small and medium-scale businesses; and (6) reforming public administration.
A.  REFORM OF ECONOMIC ADMINISTRATION AND MONITORING OF STRUCTURAL
ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
3.2       The Government is aware of the organizational and operational
problems of public administration services. To improve the efficiency of
development policies and economic and administrative reforms, the
Government has set up an Organization and Methods Office within the
Ministry of Planning and Industry. Computerization of the State's accounts
has proven satisfactory, and efforts are underway to computerize those of
the entire Administration and the parapublic sector.
3.3       Under the Second Structural Adjustment Program, the Government
will reorganize the major economic ministries (Planning and Industry,
Economy and Finances, State Enterprises, Rural Development, Rural Works,
the High Commission for Tourism), according to the following Government's
objectives:
-    improve existing agencies, redefine each administrative unit
responsibilities, improve administrative comunnication and
coordination;
-    seek improved production by better defining positions and
periodically recycling Government personnel; and
-    reorient certain personnel categories.
3.4       Reorganizational studies will be carried out to strengthen
administrative reforms.  Certain aspects of these reforms will be
re-examined in sections on fiscal policy, public investment program, public
enterprises, rural development policy, and industrial policy.
B. FISCAL POLICY
3.5       After a sustained effort to reduce domestic and foreign payment
arrears in 1983 and 1984, the Government's medium-term fiscal policy will
be to maintain the overall fiscal deficit at a level compatible with GDP
growth. A marked increase and significant change in the composition of



- 53 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 32
SLate revenues will be sought, as well as more adeqaate sectoral
allocations.
i)   Public Revenues
3.6       Due to the severe deterioration in international trade, the
Government has made increasing use of OPAT and the Togolese Phosphates
Board (OTF). In spite of the rural development strategy objective to
improve prices paid to producers, OPAT will continue to make significant
appropriations to the State budget.
3.7       To reduce its dependence on OPAT and the OTP, the Government must
find new fiscal revenues. As of January 1, 1985, a new General Tax Code
was implemented, whose full effect will be felt beginning ,n 1987.
3.8       Computerization of customs statistics is part of the regional
SYDONIA project (Automated Customs System). It is too early to plan a
customs tariff reform since the systems within the Hinistries of Finance
and the Treasury are being computerized and tax laws are being strengthened
under the new tax code. In certain cases, however, if customs tariffs
prove to be an obstacle to starting or continuing economically beneficial
industrial activities in Togo, some tariff structure changes could be
planned.
3.9       The Government understands that IDA is ready to use its own
resources and staff to prepare a study on customs tariffs and effective
protection level. This study would make recommendations to improve customs
tariffs in Togo and Benin, guarantee adequate protection to maintain the
competitiveness of Togolese transit trade in West Africa, and increase
export production.
ii) Public Expenditures
3.10      The Government's efforts to substantially reduce civil service
personnel expenditures have not been sufficient to cover current
maintenance and operating expenses. Nonetheless, the 1985 budget includes
more substantial allocations to cover these expenses. Financial
constraints have also led to reduced capital expenditures.
3.11      As for operating expenses, the Government will better cover
recurrent costs in such priority sectors as rural development, waterworks
and road maintenance.
3.12      In the case of rural development, budgetary allocations to the
DRDRs will cover essential support services to the farmers. For road
maintenance, allocations will be made to the special "road maintenance"
account at the Treasury.
3.13      Concurrently, normal retirement vacancies will permit selective
recruitment of competent personnel in various services, and of needed
technical staff in areas where skills are lacking.



- 54 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 32
iii) Reorganization of Economic and Financial Departments
3.14      The Ministry of Economy and Finance is being reorganized under
the Government's administrative reform. Enforcement of the new Tax Code
requires a countrywide restructuring of tax administration, a general
reform of public accounting and of the Treasury administration, and
computerization of departments.
C.   PUBLIC SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
3.15      The Government adopted a three-year rolling investment program at
end-1983 and, as a first step, the 1984-86 program has been prepared by the
Ministry of Planning. The 1985-87 program, now under preparation, will be
consistent with 1985-90 medium-term macroeconomic projections. The
Government will also strengthen controls for monitoring investment
performance.
3.16      The above initiatives demonstrate the need to strengthen the
Ministry of Planning and Industry around its five essential functions:
(a) planning and economic analysis;
(b) programming and financing of investments;
(c) financial performance and control of investments;
(d) statistics; and
(e) industrial policy.
3.17      In June 1985, the Government will organize a Donors Conference
with the assistance of the UNDP and IDA. The investment program to be
presented to this Conference will consider macroeconomic projections and
structural adjustment policies, with emphasis on rehabilitation and
maintenance needs for infrastructure and existing facilities. New public
investment projects will be limited to the priority sectors of agriculture,
irrigation/water supply, and infrastructure maintenance.
3.18     During this conference, these projects' priority and coherence to
existing strategies will be discussed. During the three-year investment
program review, a list will be made of projects to be evaluated, according
to their importance and their proposed date of effectiveness. Productive
projects will be evaluated using cost/benefit analysis and, in principle,
projects with an economic rate of return of at least 10% will be kept.
Social sector projects will be evaluated using the least cost approach.
Recurrent costs of projects with total costs exceeding 300 million CFAF
will be evaluated, along with their impact on the balance of payments and
foreign public debt. These evaluations will be taken into account in
preparing the Government's annual budgets.



- 55 -
ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 32
3.19      Under the Second Structural Adjustment Program (1985-86), the
Government will use grants and concessional Icans to finance its public
investments, according to the Development Aid Committee's definition (i.e.,
when the "grant" element exceeds 25Z of the face value). It confirms its
commitment to IMF not to apply for commercial loans with maturity of less
than 12 years. For the last five years, the Government has neither
contrac! ad nor guaranteed any commercial loans. It intends to pursue this
prudent policy throuzhout the Second Structural Adjustment Program, except
for public debt reschedulings, lending for enclave projects and loans
granted by by developmant assistance agencies. For cofinanced projects,
the "grant" element will be calculated on the total financing plan.
IV.       RURAL DEVELOPMENT
4.1       The  -   -ce Government gives priority to rural development and
to increased agricultural production and exports. Increased agricultural
produc:ion will increase State revenues, improve living standards,
guarantee food security, and enhance rural employment opportunities. It
will also stimulate domestic demand for products and services whlle slowing
rural migration.
4.2       Under the First Structural Adjustment Program, the Governent
adopted price, subsidy and marketing incentive policies intended to
increase agricultural production and revenues. It created a planning unit
within the Ministry of Rural Development and began to formulate a strategy
for the entire sector.
4.3       Over the short term, emphasis will be given to implementing
recently-adopted incentive policies and increasing efficiency of extension
services by improving basic training and the supply of inputs.
4.4       Details of the medium-term strategy are currently under
preparation, but they are expected to focus on improving production systems
by strengthening applied research and extension services; increasiug seed
production; improving farmers' access to credit to obtain necessary inputs;
introducing new techniques (access to auimal-traction farming, storage of
food products on the farms); and, establishing new feeder roads and
irrigation/water supply infrastructures.
4.5       Implementing such expanded activities will depend on the
organization and efficiency of Togo's agricultural services and on the
availability of funds to cover the operating costs. Consequently, while
emphasizing increased short-term production, the Government will
concurrently prepare a program of institutional reforms for the
agricultural sector, a national seed pJ.kn, a water management plan, and a
program to fight drought and desertification as part of its medium-term
strategy.
4.6       To assure continuity, however, the short-term institution-
building measures will be considered as part of the medium-term strategy,
not merely in terms of production results but by considering the general



- 56 -
ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 32
improvement in farmers' revenues and living standards, from an integrated
and regionalized perspective.
A. SHORT-TERM MEASURES
i)  Implementation of price, subsidy and marketing incentive policies
(a) Price Policy
4.7       Prices paid to producers of production crops will be set at
levels reflecting world market prices, taking into account:
-    insurance and freight costs;
-    packaging and handling costs;
-    charges incurred by the State for actions taken to increase
agricultural production and for rural development in general.
4.8       In setting net prices (world market prices less intermediate
costs), priority will be given to providing remunerative prices to the
producers and to using a stabilization factor to protect them against
fluctuations in world market prices. In 1982, the Government created an
Agriculzural Price Analysis Unit (UAPA) which analyzes world market prices
and production costs, and makes yearly recommendations for setting prices
paid to producers. These prices will be announced during the planting
season of the crop cycle.
(b) Subsidy Policy
4.9       Three basic principles will govern the Government's actions on
subsidies:
-    all subsidies must be of an exceptional nature;
-    only activities which are profitable for the farmer will be
subsidized;
-    recipients of a new subsidy will be informed of its exceptional
and temporary nature.
The Agricultural Survey and Statistics Department will monitor this policy.
(c) Marketing of Food Crops
4.10      Marketing of food crops will remain in the hands of merchants and
farmers, eventually organized in village groups. The Government's policy
consists of gradually liberalizing the export market for food products.
4.11      The major role of TOGOGRAIN will be to maintain a grain stock of
between 5,000 and 10,000 tons. To improve TOGOGRAIN's management, the



- 57 -
ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 32
Government will define this agency's procedures for intervening in the
marketplace, and will improve its storage capacities. A study will be
initiated shortly to determine the optimum amount of safety stock, buying
and selling procedures, TOGOGRAIN's estimated cash flow, and additional
investments. As part of its liberalization policy, the Government will
also establish, within the Survey and Statistics Unit (DESA), a system to
forecast harvests and analyze markets.
4.12      The Government plans to encourage farmers to increase their own
storage capacities for optimal marketing capacity, through a broad-based
development program for small, inexpensive storage structures patterned on
traditional methods. An action plan to prepare and implement this program,
which could be included in numerous rural development projects, will be
drawn up no later than December 1985. It will also be necessary to
guarantee better credit access to village groups for financing the
stockpiling.
(ii)      Immediate action program to increase agricultural production
4.13      In the short term, the Government aims to upgrade and strengthen
the extension system, furnish inputs, aind organize credit.
(a) Restructuring of the extension system
4.14      Production crops (cotton, coffee, cocoa) presently benefit from a
specific extension system provided by SOTOCO and SRCC. Certain production
areas are also covered by these projects. As part of the Government's new
strategy, the DRDRs (Department Regionale de Developpement Rural) will be
responsible for regionalizing the extension system for yearly crops. To
achieve greater efficiency at reduced cost, a study of extension services
is being undertaken with the aim of examining:
-    the training and selection of extension service trainers;
-    the choice of public awareness advertisements; and
-    the supervision and monitoring system.
The progressive introduction of this system will require increased
budgetary allocations to the DRDRs, the redeployment of personnel within
the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) and, eventually, the use of
specialized technical assistance. An action plan to this effect is
currertly being prepared.
(b) Provision of Inputs
4.15      Efforts will be made to increase the availability of inputs, and
the extension system will help farmers to organize village groups to obtain
necessary inputs which, over time, will reflect market prices.



- 58 -
ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 32
(c) Access to Credit
4.16      So that frarmers can directly purchase needed inputs, their access
to credit will be improved by developing CNCA's services, i.e., collecting
local savings, increasing number of agencies and, over the longer term,
implementiug a credit system of the "varrantage" type (crop collateral).
4.17      The Togolese Government intends to establish a coherent rural
finance system to include lines of credit within the banking system and an
agricultural subsidy and guarantee fund. This fund will improve farmers'
access to credit by reasonably limiting the risk assumed by their banks and
by reducing the finance charge on authorized credit.
B.   MEDIUM-TERM MEASURES
(i)      Institutional Reform
4.18      The Government is concerned with improving the efficiency of
rural development agencies, which include two ministries (MDR and MAR)
responsible for their regional departments, support services, research
agencies and externally-financed projects. It is an established fact that
the following weaknesses exist:
-    a lack of clearly and coherently defined objectives and duties;
-    a lack of adequate software for personnel within the the central
administration and the DRDRs;
-    information is not easily conveyed between the DRDRs and the
central administration;
-    a lack of coordination between the two ministries; and
-    numerous criteria and financing procedures generate too many
independant and autonomous projects.
4.19      Some project agencies (SOTOCO and SRCC) have taken charge of the
entire gamut of rural development services, thus diminishing the role of
the DRDRs and other agencies. Elsewhere, certain DRDRs manage projects
which cover limited areas, but not the entire region.
4.20      To remedy these difficulties, the Government created an
interministerial committee between the MDR and the MAR. The Government
also plans to extend the DGDR's planning and programming procedures to the
DRDRs.
4.21      The Government will study the possibility of improving the DRDRs'
operations within the regionalized network of agricultural benefits, the
extension system, seed production, distribution of inputs, and agricultural
credit.



- 59 -
ANNEX IV
Page 14 of 32
4.22      Structures introduced will focus on decentralizing the central
administration responsible for sectoral planning and coordination, and
strengthening the DEDRa who will execute and monitor the projects and
regional development agencies.
(ii)      Applied Res' - ch on Food Crops
4.23      The results of applied research are essential to the long-term
growth of the sector, and a strong effort will bc made to improve food crop
research and to facilitate its nationwide distribution. The applied
research agencies will identify production constraints and will distribute
their findings.
(iii)      Formulation of a National Seed Plan
4.24      The Government will continue to improve production of selected
seeds while preparing a national seed plan to include:
-    assigning the preparation of basic and prebasic seeds to the
research department;
-    increased production of basic seeds by specialized farms and
commercial seeds by a network of seed growers;
-    formulation of legislation concerning quality and choice controls
for seed production.
(iv)      Water Management
4.25      The Goverment's water management policy will be based on
developing small sprinkler irrigation works, well drilling, and providing
multi-use water reservoirs in rural areas. To achieve these goals, the
Government has begun studying a water developme..t plan and has prepared
projects to submit to donors.
(v)       Livestock
4.26      To increase meat production and improve the quantity and quality
of the nation's protein ration, short-cycle animals will be bred (small
ruminants, pigs, poultry) within Togo's ecological conditions and human
resource constraints.
4.27      Cattle breeding will not be neglected, but the key objective will
be to furnish draft animals for animal-traction farming, thereby increasing
the profitability of significant investments made for livestock. Sale of
draft animals sent to slaughter will increase the national production of
beef and variety meats.



- 60 -
ANNEX IV
Page 15 of 32
(vi)      Fishing
4.28      Despite Togo's low fishing resources, the Government plans to
strengthen lagoonal and continental aquaculture, and traditional sea
fishing. Projects for these activities will be discussed at the Donors
Conference.
4.29      As for industrial sea fishing, the possibility of reaching an
international agreement to develop outlying areas will be studied.
(vii)    Drought and Desertification
4.30      The Government's figh- against drought and desertification is
part of a global policy to protect the environment, fight erosion, and
provide energy. Interrelated efforts to these ends include:
-    protecting forested areas and existing gallery-forests;
-    reafforestation of outlying areas and villages (individual,
family or community);
-    fodder production;
-    regulating tree cutting and charcoal production;
-    fighting brushfires;
-    using new and renewable energy sources (wind energy, solar energy
and biogas);
-    encouraging the use of gas in outlying and urban areas to limit
deforestation and allow restoration of our national forests;
-    teaching energy conservation to rural households; and
-    introducing water management measures and increasing anti-erosion
measures.
V.        PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
A.  IMPORTANCE OF TOGO'S PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
5.1       The public enterprise sector plays a decisive role in Togo's
economic activity. In 1974, public industrial units and public hotels were
also promoted. On the whole, public enterprise management has not been
satisfactory, and has only been aggravated by the world crisis. Most firms
show excessive costs, low profitability, and excessive arrears which the
State's budget nas assumed.



- 61 -
ANNEX IV
Page 16 of 32
B. PROPOSED PUBLIC SECTOR REHABILITATION
5.2       In 1982, the Government decided to close six unprofitable
enterprises and to denationalize TOGOROUTE. Under the First Structural
Adjustment Program, timely measures were taken for several important firms:
-    SNS was denationalized;
-    STH's storage facilities were transformed into a petroleum depot;
-    TOGETEX and ITT (textile companies) were merged; and
-    diagnostic studies were carried out for SOTOMA, SOPROLAIT, IOTO,
SODETO, ITP and OPAT.
5.3       By creating a new Ministry of State Enterprises during the
cabinet reshuffle in September 1984, the Government is determined to pursue
necessary reforms to rehabilitate the parapublic sector. Under the Second
Structural Adjustment Program, the Government's policy will be based on:
-    the reorganization of the Ministry of State Enterprises, whose
new mission is being discussed internally. Erphasis will be on
anagement control of State and semi-public enterprises through a
Standardized data system, and management assistance for the
enterprises through formulation of recovery programs.
-    public awareness/training program, intended initially for
professional staff in the Ministry who will be introduced to
management control, tax system, financial analysis, accounting,
and diagnostic analysis. The program will later be available to
management and finance personnel within the enterprises
themselves. Members of the Board of Directors will also be made
aware of the prerogatives of the Board, which is the governing
body within the enterprises; and
-    a preliminary discussion on the State's intervention role.  The
State's involvement will be examined in the light of the mandate
given to the firms, to their influence on the State's finances,
to their public service function, and their strategic role.
Although certain firms have already been examined, the majority
of them will be studied over the next few months. An evaluation
of the State's holdings will result in an indicative
classification of public and semi-public enterprises depending
on whether they will remain in the public sector, be reorganized
by the State, denationalized, or closed.
Over the next few months, the Government will implement proposed
restructurations, denationalizations or liquidations proposed for
enterprises which have been part of the diagnostic study.



- 62 -
ANNEX IV
Page 17 of 32
C. SELECTIVE WITHDRAWAL
5.4       The State's withdrawal from enterprises it has promoted is a
complex undertakin;g, and the following activities must be considered:
-    auditing: to facilitate the State's withdrawal, it is necessary
to clarify the legal, accounting, and financial situation of each
enterprise. This cannot happen without appropriate expertise
(accounts review, legal advice, stock evaluation, etc.) and
without flexible financial resources (to perform the audits and
to assume past debts). Initially, enterprises which have closed
or are partially closed will be audited.
-    partner search: the State cannot withdraw without simultaneously
adopting a dynamic industrial promotion policy and clearly
outlining regulations for eventual partners or purchasers. The
Government intends to carry out specific actions necessary to
implement this policy, i.e., feasibility studies, active
national and international partner searchs, technical and legal
consultations before negotiations, etc.
-    supporting social measures: to defray the public costs of
restructuring, closing or denationalizing certain firms, the
Government will make donors aware of resulting social measures
for which they will be responsible and especially of their
involvement in the productive investments policy to create new
jobs.
-    access to bank financing: after the State's withdrawal, each
enterprise will need to replenish its capital and conduct
productive investments in order to operate from a financially
sure base.
D. MANAGEMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT'S PORTFOLIO
5.5       For reasons of strategy, public service, or absence of immediate
interest from the private sector, the State plans to retain control of
certain public enterprises. It will need the funds necessary to optimally
manage these enterprises, so they can operate under the best conditions and
without burdening public finances. Certain measures will be taken to
improve management of the Government's portfolio, increase the enterprises'
profitability, and provide them with necessary operating capital.
5.6       A study will be done on:
-    the State's intervention procedures by updating company charters
to conform to organizational laws;
-    management agencies, including powers of the Boards of Directors
and General Directors;



- 63 -
ANNEX IV
Page 18 of 32
information and control systems, including budget estimates,
accounting and audit offices, etc.
This study will:
-    greatly increase the responsibilities of the Boards of Directors;
-    promote an accounting system and establish a homogenous data
information system so the State can regularly monitor the
economic and financial performance of its enterprises;
-    generalize auditing procedures to guarantee the reliability of
the accounts and internal management control in the enterprises.
After the extensive or limited studies, the restructured Mlinistry of State
Enterprises will provide management assistance, and the State and various
banking agencies will contribute to financing public enterprises retained
by tbe State.
VI.       THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Geographic Position of Togo
6.i       Given the importance of transport in the development plan and the
importance of investments made in this sector over the last 20 years, the
Government intends to consolidate existing equipment, improve their
maintenance, and ensure the economic justification of new infrastructures
planned as part of national resources development.
6.2       This policy includes road infrastructure and transport, railways,
the independent port of Lome, and maritime transport.
A.  ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AND TRANSPORT
(i) Road Infrastructure
6.3       With 7,000 km of roads, the nation's infrastructure is
satisfactory. Transversal lines and feeder roads must be progressively
developed to facilitate the flow of agricultural products and to speed the
national integration process. However, lack of maintenance funds and the
poor quality of maintenance services are still major constraints.
6.4       To improve this situation, the Government will take the following
steps:
-    under IDA's Fifth Roads Project, provide equipment to improve
routine and periodic maintenance and train personnel in the
public works subdivisions;



- 64 -
ANNEX IV
Page 19 of 32
-    strengthen budgetary allocations for road maintenance and,
beginning in 1982. deposit all allocations for road maintenance
into a Special Treasury "road maintenance account";
-    mobilize foreign aid on concessional terms for maintenance of
existing roads and feeder roads.
(ii)     Road Transport
6.5       The Government hopes to have private enterprises take over its
role in this sector, and negotiations are taking place for the
denationalization of TOGOROUTE. However, the Government will continue to
update the sector's regulations and tariffs.
B.   RAILROADS
6.6       Because of low traffic and tariffs, poor infrastructure and
rolling stock, the railroads require large public subsidies which result in
losses for the State. For these reasons, the Government plans to:
-    improve the management of the railroads;
-    increase tariffs and improve service;
-    successively replace deficient lines with an appropriate bus and
road transport system;
-    eventually use the central rail line between LomE and Blitta to
transport merchandise, and upgrade the Blitta train station;
-    allocate funds to renovate economically viable lines.
6.7       If their profitability were guaranteed, regional investments
could be made with other countries of the subregion.
C.  THE 'ORT OF LOME AND SHIPPING
6.8       The efficiency of the port of Lome is indispensable to Togo's
development. A second landing pier was recently constructed, and the
Government hopes to develop maritime radio-communications to provide
increased safety for port operations. By mobilizing freight in the
subregion and by soliciting private investments, the Societe Togolaise de
Navigation Maritime (SOTONAM) will be more commercially competitive.
VII.      TOURISM AND HOTEL SECTOR
7.1       The Government has long understood the economic importance of
tourism in generating capital and new jobs. The State has made significant
investments in the hotel sector to attract tourists and provide conference
and international meeting organizers with a large lodging capacity (more
than 2,000 rooms), quality services and equipment. State-owned hotels



- 65 -
ANNEX IV
Page 20 of 32
account for three-quarters of the lodging capacity and include high class
international hotels such as the liotel du 2 F6vrier, Hotel de la Paix, and
H^otel Sarakawa.
7.2       As the fourth largest export revenue producer (after phosphates,
coffee, and cocoa), the economic success of the sector cannot be
overlooked, since it provides many job opportunities and contributes to
Lomn's reputation as a regional and international meeting center. However,
poor management of the State-owned hotels and a low occupancy rate have
resulted in a deficit, and internationatl loans to finance hotel
construction must be reimbursed by the Treasury, there3y diminishing public
finances.
A. THE ADJUSTME   PROCESS
7.3       In early 1984, under the first structural adjustment program, the
Government made a detailed sector study, with the following
recommendations:
-    to avoid a price war, establish a rate schedule based on
classification of different hotels;
-    renegotiate management contracts with hotel chains to better
protect the interests of the State-owned hotels;
-    standardize the hotel accounting system and establish a set of
performance indicators to monitor hotel management;
-    standardize relations between the State and the hotels, by
creating an owner company for each hotel.
7.4       The Hotel de la Paix is now being managed by the FRANTEL hotel
chain. Other management contracts have been suspended, and while new
contracts are being negotiated, the hotels have been placed under an
interim management. An updated price schedule was introduced at end-1984,
and the HoBtel du 2 FPvrier, which showed the largest deficit, received an
incentive subsidy of 300 million CFAF, which will be rolled over in 1985,
and adopted a rigoro"s management savings plan.
B. FUTURE TRENDS
7.5      Under the Second Structural Adjustment Program, the Government
will continue its reform efforts through:
-    Improved hotel management.  In 1985, the Government will
renegotiate management contracts of the major hotels, and include
the hotel chains' profits as part of total revenues.  It will
establish a homogenous legal structure (owner entities within a
holding company) and will introduce a detailed hotel accounting
system for large hotels and a simplified one for smaller hotels.
It will also take necessary administrative measures to enforce



- 66 -
ANNEX IV
Page 21 of 32
the new price schedule. A hotel managment specialist will be
used to implement these measures, and hotel accounts will be
auei ted annually.
-      i-jmoting Togo's tourism sector.  With the help of a tourism
promotion company, the High Commission for Tourism vlll carry out
a market study, including an analysis of the present situation
and the formulation of a coherent tourism policy to optimally
develop Togo's potential. This oolicy will be divided into
action plans by topic, and will specify the timetable for actions
to be taken, the expected results and necessary funding.
Particular emphasis will be given to tourism offices abroad, air
travel, the possibility of new charter flight arrangements, and
promoting Tcgolese handicrafts.
-    Organizing the High Commission for Tourism and sectoral
regulations. The High Commission for Tourism will be
reorganized, and sector regulations (protection of sites, health
and safety standards, hotel classification, tariffs, personnel
statutes) w-ill conform to recommended strategies.
C. PT-ANNED INVESTMENTS
7.6       Investments planned as part of the above strategy will be limited
to large repairs, rehabilitation of existing structutres, and developing
major tourist sites.
VIII.     PROMOTING PRIVATE INVESTMENT IN IF'DUSTRY
A. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
8.1       Until the end of the 1970s, the private sector's role in industry
decreased.  Concerned with introducing industrial foundations in a
traditiounally agricultural country where private enterprises only played a
role in business activities, the (overnment made large investments whose
profitability was uncertain.
8.2       Strengthened by this experience, and with the backing of a group
of Togolese businessmen who wanted to take over the State's role in small
and medium-scale companies, the Government declared the following economic
development options:
-    a policy of selective withdrawal from the industrial sector;
-    promotion of a private industrial sector; and
-    increased role of craftsmen.



- 67 -
ANNEX IV
Page 22 of 32
8.3       The artis   trade sector has many economic advantages:
-    it employs 20Z of the total work force and 2/3 of the urban work
force;
-    it maintains a good balance between technology and level of
professior3al competence;
-    its production meets the essential needs of the largest part of
the population; and
-    it concrib-ites lOZ to the GDP, slosw rural migration, and
contributes as much as 9Z to vocational training.
8.4       The Government will encourage small businesses to use local
resources.
8.5       To encourage private investment, the Government will create an
attractive institutional, economic and financial environment. The
Investment Code has been revised and a charter for Togolese businesses was
formulated in 1984. These documents define investors' guarantees and
applicability criteria (national value added, wages paid to the Togolese.
level of equity financing). Degressive exemptions have been granted to
promote a return to common law rule. The Charter provides a strong
incentive system to nationalized small businesses, and the Investment Code
deals with extensions, modernizations, restructuration and rehabilitation
of existing enterprises. The operations of agent.ies responsible for
enforcing the Charter and the Code have been simplified.
8.6       The Government also made a detailed study of industrial policies
available to it (customs, tax, trade, transport, price, credit, labor,
infrastructure and services, direct incentive measures), and its
recommendations, which will be announced shortly, will improve the
efficiency of industrial policies.
8.7        We aiso understand that IDA will carry out a study on improving
effective protection measures for industrial enterprises.
B. TRAINING PROGRAM FOR SMALL BUSINESSES
8.8       Based on past experience or the experiences of other countries,
and on the needs of small businesses, the Government will define a new
promotion and training program for small businesses (businessmen search,
project studies, preparation of investment proposals, technical support,
management assistance, etc.). It will also define the organizational and
operational framework (statutes and internal regulations), its action plan,
the estimated budget, and financing sources. As part of its banking
policy, the Government will facilitate small businesses' access to bank
credit (see below).



- 68 -
ANNEX IV
Page 23 of 32
C. BANKING SYSTEK
8.9       The Government's monetary and credit policies for the banking
system are formulated by the National Credit Committee. yet it is concerned
by the low level of financing for productive economic activities, despite
the banks' enormous liquidity. Consequently:
-    the sectoral credit policy, dating from the BCEAO reform in 1975,
has not shown the expected results because of the banks'
reticence to finance risky, priority sectors, and the difficulty
in establishiug supporting structures.
-    financial institutions created by the State to compete for
development of the economy (Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole,
Banque Togolaise de Developpement and Societe Nationale des
Investissements) have not met their responsibilities because of
insufficient funds and structural difficulties which must be
overcome before efficiently intervening in agriculture and in
small businesses.
-    projects submitted for the banks' consideration have not always
been sufficiently prepared to justify the requested loan.
8.10      Within the spirit of the New Investment Code, the State wants to
replace its investments and public financing by an incentive policy for
productive investment in agriculture and industry by economic partners.
Since this policy can only succeed through large development financing
contributions from banks and financial institutions, the State will be
committed to:
-    revitalizing commercial banks, by means of:
-    strict application of the sectoral credit policy;
-    providing banks access to refinancing mechanisms and
sectoral guarantees;
-    increasing competition by establishing banks which have
substantial creditworthiness and extensive experience in
developing new projects that they can efficiently evaluate
and monitor; and
-    establishing, within the banks, resources to study and
monitor medium-term industrial and agricultural credits.
-    restructuring the State's banking sector by:
-    thoroughly analyzing public financing institutions'
accounting and management audits beginning in 1985 (BTD, SNI
and, eventually, CNCA);



- 69 -
ANNEX IV
Page 24 of 32
redefining the function and role of these establishments to
avcid duplication and to best meet the needs of the various
sectors of the economy. This redefinition will be agreed
upon by the banks in question, the guardianship authorities,
and financial experts.
IX.       ENERGY AND MINING
9.1       As with the first structural adjustment program, the Government
will pursue its policy of developing national resources in the energy and
mining sectors.
9.2       Until 1983, 90% of electricity consumed in Togo came from the
Akosombo Dam in Ghana. Because of the recent drought, Ghana's electricity
supply decreased by 502 in 1984, and Togo had to resort to more costly
thermal production.
9.3       With a capacity of 63MW, the Nangbeto Hydroelectric Dam will
significantly increase Togo's production of electricity and could later
become part of the West Africa Interconnection System. The Government also
reinforced the Kara thermal power station and is building a high voltage
transmission line between Kara and SokodE. The Government will also
examine the possibilities of using renewable energy sources (biomass, solar
and wind energy).
9.4       The Government's objective in the mining sector is also to
develop national resources. Phosphates account for 40Z of Togo's exports,
and their processing by a phosphoric acid factory is being studied. The
Government will carefully evaluate this project in light of the
uncertainties in the world fertilizer market. If undertaken, private
industry will finance this project, but the State will see that it has
minimal risks and impact on Togo's public finances.
9.5       In general, mining research and underground prospecting will be
pursued in order to diversify the country's exploitable mining resources.
Other than the development of marble and ornamental stones, studies are
planned on the iron deposits in Bandjeli-Bassar and the deposits of copper
sulfide and nickel in Yade-bohou, Assire-Somde and Farende.
X.         CONCLUSION
10.1      The following objectives of the Government's planned sectoral
policies will increase each sector's contribution to the development
effort:
-    Increasing revenues to rural areas through better prices and
improved productivity, and reorganization of intervening
institutions will lead to larger food crops.



- 70-                            1
ANNEX IV
Page 25 of 32
Denationalization of public enterprises and strengthening of
management controls of those which are of economic or strategic
interest remain the most likely policies to improve the State's
holdings.
Establishment of a more liberal industrial policy will stimulate
productive investments and create new jobs.
Improved hotel management and establishment of a tourism
promotion policy will help the sector make a positive
contribution to the national economy.
-    Emphasis placed on maintenance and rationalization of transport
and communications infrastructure will protect the transit
industry's role and guarantee service in rural areas.
-    Development of energy and mining resources will contribute to
improving the balance of payments.
10.2      The planned macroeconomic policies and institutional reforms will
also increase the national recovery effort: administrative reforms will
allow economic ministries to meet present demands; fiscal policy will be
inspired by the austerity effort; planning efforts wi,l help to better
define economic policies and their impact; and, the establishment cf a
public investments program will give the State control over its own
development.
10.3     However, the most worrisome constraint to the recovery policy
remains the size of the debt service over the coming years, which paralyzes
the current Administration and compromises new investments. The
contribution asked of the donors during the June 1985 meeting (especially
for assistance over and above project costs) will not be enough to entirely
resolve the problem. innovative measures such as multiannual debt
rescheduling, funding on concessional terms, moratoriums, etc., are needed
to loosen the stranglehold on the Togolese economy, failing which, all
commendable efforts undertaken will remain ineffective.



- 71 -
ANNEX IV
Page 26 of 32
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
LIST OF MEASURES AND ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN
I.  INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS AND MACROECONOMIC POLICIES
1.1 Administrative Reform (NPI/BOK)
a)   Preparation of a study on reform needs of. the major economic
governmental departments. Evaluation of BOM's capabilities and
needed support. Finalizing terms of reference by end-MARCH 1985;
b)   Competitive bidding end selection of experts to prepare above
study before end-JUNE 1985;
c)   Start of mission SEPTEMBER 1, 1985;
d)   Before end-MARCH 1986: Discussion of recommendations; agreement
on TOR for a Togolese organizational expert and agreement on
action program;
e)   Recruitment of expert before end-JUNE 1986.
1.2 Public Finances (MEF)
1.21 Expenditures
a)   Special allocation to DRDRs of 175 MILLION CFAF from BIE
financing to strengthen their rural training efforts for DRDRs
(FEBRUARY 1985);
b)   Strengthening of road maintenance effort: A special allocation of
400 million CFAF from counterpart funding in the First Structural
Adjustment Program will be deposited in a Treasury account, in
addition to allocations to general budget of 450 million CFAF for
roads, 300 million CFAF for urban road network, and
125 million CFAF for replacing equipment (FEBRUARY 1985);
c)   Beginning in fiscal 1986, all allocations for road maintenance
will be grouped within a special Treasury account called the Road
Maintenance Fund. Adoption of Road Maintenance Fund statutes and
allocation of 1.2 billion CFAF (above urban road network
allocations) for fiscal year 1986 (DECEMBER 1985).



- 72 -
ANNEX IV
Page 27 of 32
1.22 Fiscal Revenues
a)  Along with the economic ministries (MEF and MPI), IDA will carry
out a study on customs tariffs/effective protection. Start of
the study in SEPTEMBER 1985.
1.23 External Debt
a) Confirmation of commitments made with IMF and pursuit of policy
which avoids underwriting or backing of loans under commercial
terms except for rescheduling of foreign public debt with the
Paris Club and the London Club, enclave projects, and borrowings
underwritten by public development assistance agencies on soft
terms, according to the definition of the OCDE's Development Aid
Committee (i.e., when the "grant" element exceeds 25% of the face
value). For cofinanced projects, the grant element will be
calculated on the whole financing plan.
1.3 Public Investment Program (IIPI)
a)  Discusslon of 1985-87 investment program with IDA mission.
Adoption of list of projects to undergo economic and financial
evaluation (including calculation of recurrent costs and impact
on balance of payments) in the year prior to the project's
start-up (MARCH 1985);
b)  Report on performance of 1983 and 1984 public investment programs
(SEPTEMBER 1985). This report will be the first stage in
monitoring and controlling performance of public investment;
c)   Establishment of computerized programming of investment
expenditures (DECEMBER 1985);
d)  Discussion of 1986-88 program (same as "a"), DECEMBER 1985;
e)   Discussion of 1985-90 macroeconomic projections (FEBRUARY and
JUEE 1985);
f)  Improvement of project preparation and appraisal:
-    by strengthening of DGPD (DPD);
-    by creatiug sectoral planning units such as In MDR, within
the major technical ministries (Equipment and Health/Social
Security).



- 73 -
ANNEX IV
Page 28 of 32
II. PUBLIC ENTERPRISES (MSE)
2.1 Short-term actions
a)   Reorganization of departments to include the Ministry's new
mission, which emphasizes:
-   management control of the enterprises through introduction
of standardized information system;
-    assisting enterprises through formulation of recovery
programs.
This reorganization will be completed by DECEMBER 1985;
b)   Adoption of a training program for MSE's managers, company
directors, and members of the Boards of Directors (DECEMBER
1985);
c)   Indicative classification by MSE of public and semi-public
enterprises depending on whether they will remain in the public
sector, be restructured by the State, denationalized, or closed
(MARCH 1985).
2.2 State Withdrawal Actions
a) For enterprises which will be closed, adoption of a liquidation
program before DECEMBER 1985. For each enterprise, a timetable
will be proposed of actions to be taken, depending on the
complexity of the dossier (list);
b)   For enterprises to be denationalized, definition of an approach
strategy for partners sought: preparation of descriptive briefs,
contacts made, checking referencias, etc. In each specific case,
it !s Impossible to determine dates in advance. However, a data
sheet monitoring actions undertaken, necessary studies,
expertise, and contacts made will be updated for each
enterprise (list).
2.3 Improvement of the Government's Portfolio
a)   For public and semi-public companies to be reorganized by the
State following the NARCH 1985 decision (nominal list),
nomination of "ad hoc" reorganization committees to formulate an
action program to be submitted to officials, and supervise its
implementation (list);
b)   Updating of public enterprise statutes according to arrangements
in organic texts;



-74 -                        ANNMEX IV
Page 29 of 32
c)   Introduction of a standardized management information system;
d)   Introduction of budget management in the major enterprises
(nominal list);
e)   Establishing a financial monitoring sheet to guarantee monitoring
of the companies;
f) Description of an accounting, audit, and management analysis
program (list).
2.4 Additional Information
a)   Monthly transmittal of data on phosphate exports specifying
counterpart export investments offset by phosphates.
III. TRANSPORT SECTOR
a)   Strengthening of road maintenance effort (see 1.21.b);
b)   Establishment and allocation of Road Fund (see 1.21 c);
c)   Discussions with IDA on 1985-87 investment program for the
transport sector (MARCH 1985);
d)   Discussions with IDA of December 1984 mission report on railroad
transport and alternatives, and establishing timetable of
action (MARCH 1985);
e)   Start-up of study to create a bus company between Lome and
ArLeho (April 1985);
f)   Start of competitive bidding for a concession to develop bus line
between Lome and Aneho (December 1985);
g)   Decision on award of contract to a development company
(MARCH 1986);
h)   Closing of Lome-Aneho railroad will be planned when the bus
company's development will have been found satisfactory;
i)   The above procedure will be implemented for the Lome-Kpalime line
when definitive conditions on the Lome-Aneho line are available;
J)   Increase in freight and passenger tariffs from 10% to 15% on rail
line from Lome to Blitta (June 1, 1985);
k)   Increase in freight and passenger tariffs from 15Z to 20Z on rail
line from Lome to Blitta (February 1986).



- 75 -
ANNEX IV
Page 30 of 32
IV. TOURISM AND HOTEL SECTOR
4.1 Improved hotel management
a)   Establish owner companies for State-owned hotels;
b)   Start management contract negotiations for the major hotels
(2 Fevrier, Sarakawa, Benin, Tropicana) in APRIL 1985;
c)  Adopt unified hotel accounting system and finalize monthly data
monitoring sheet (DECEMBER 1985).
4.2 Promoting Tourism
a)   Start study on tourism strategy in order to place Togo in the
tour operator's market, to finalize promotion policy and to
improve charter service (APRIL 1985);
b)   Based on this study, adopt a promotional action plan which the
High Comission for Tourism can follow ove. the next two years
(DECEMBER 1985).
4.3 Organization of The High Commission for Tourism
a)   In conjunction with above study, examine internal organization of
ECT and sector regulations (APRIL 1985);
b)   Based on thbi  study, redefine HCT's organization and reform
regulations (DECEMBER 1985).
4.4 Sectoral Investments
a)  Discussions with IDA on 1985-87 planned sectoral investments
(renovation of Hotel de la Paix and Hotel Benin; development of
tourist sites and handicrafts village).
V. RURAL DEVELOPMENT
5.1 Food Crop Marketing
a)  Discussions with IDA og Technical, Accounting and Financial
Analysis of TOGOGRAIN (MARCH 1985);
b)   Strengthening of TOGOGRAIN's management capabilities through
recruitment of technical assistant (SEPTEMBER 1985);
c)   Start food crop storage program in rural areas;
d)  Definition of TOGOGRAIN's operating guidelines.



- 76 -
ANNEX IV
Page 31 of 32
5.2 Export Crops
a)   Following analysis of OPAT, examine recommendations already in
use and proposed implementation timetable for decisions approved
but not yet Implemented;
b)   Annual adoption, during planting season of crop cycle, of prices
paid to the producer. For the 1985-86 season, the following
increases are planned:
-    for coffee: an increase of 15.9Z, from 315 CFAF/kg to
365 CFAF/kg;
-    for cocoa: an increase of 10.0%, from 300 CFAF/kg to
330 CFAF/kg;
-    for cotton: an increase of 16.7%, from 90 CFAF/kg to
105 CFAF/kg.
c)   Beginning with 1985-86 coffee harvest, establishment of a bonus
for pruning the trees.
5.3 Administration
a)   Preparation of a new rural training program based on
strengthening DRDRs' role, improving Aupplies of inputs and
access to credit (DECEMBER 1985);
b)   Allocation of 175 billion CFAF from BIE for equipment
expenditures for DRDRB (see 1.21.a); the amount to be determined
during the annual budget preparation for the coming year;
c) Readjustment of MDR budget in 1986, allocating at least 25% of
proceeds to materials expenditures;
d)   Discussions with IDA on 1985-87 work program for planning and
agronomic research coordination units (MARCH 1985).
VI. TNDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT/PROMOTION OF SMALL BUSINESSES
a)   Following adoption of Investment Code and Charter of Togolese
Enterprises, implementing the Code and strengthening those
agencies responsible for administering it (JUNE 1985);
b)   Discussion with IDA of industrial inceatives proposed studies
and definition of industrial promotion strategy;
c)   IDA study of customs tariffs/effective protection (see 1.22.a);



- 77 -
ANNEX IV
Page 32 of 32
d)  Determlnation of intervention means for agancies responsible for
promoting small businesses;
e)   Start of diagnostic study on public banking sector to identify
obstacles to financing industrial activities and to propose
changes which will fac'1litate companies' access to credit.



- 78 -
ANNEX V
rage 1
TOGO
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I: TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(i) Time taken to prepare  the program:       six months
(ii)  Initial discussion with IDA:             July/August 1984
(iii)  Appraisal missions:                      November/December 1984
February/March 1985
(iv)  Negotiations:                            April 1985
'v)  Planned date of effectiveness:           September/October 1985
SECTION II: SPECIAL IDA IMPLEMENTATION ACTION
None
SECTION III: SPECTAL CONDITIONS OF THE CREDIT
Disbursement of the second tranche (US$12.8 million) of the
proposed credit woulu be contingent on the Government taking the folloving
specific actions in a manner satisfactory to IDA:
(a)  agreeing a bus company to operate the route between Lome arI
Aneho by March 1986 (para. 46);
(b)  satisfactory review by the Bank of the efficiency and oversight
system of the new Ministry of State Enterprises, including the
control mechanisms of public enterprises (para. 41);
(c)  increasing producer prices of the three main export crops
(coffee, cocoa, cotton) to an adequate level for the 1986-87 crop
year, befcre the planting season starts (para. 23).
(d) adoption of new operating guidelines for the grain marketing
board (TOGOGRAIN) (para. 26);
(e) increasing the rail rates on the Lom&-Blitta line by 15 to 20% by
February 1986 (para. 46);
(f)  substantial and satisfactory progress in implementing the
restructuring/privatization/liquidation plans for public
enterprises which have been alre&dy studied under SAC I program:



- 79 -
ANNEX V
Page 2
ITT, TOGOTEX, STH, SOTOMA, TOGOROUTE, SODETO, ITP, IOTO,
SOPROLAIT, OPAT (para. 43);
(g) agreeing on a restructuring/privatization/liquidation schedule
for approximately ten more public enterprises (para. 43);
(h) adoption of a satisfactory 1986-88 public investment program
(para. 34);
'4) opening a Road Fund account at the Treasury and increasing the
budgetary allocation for road maintenance to a level of CFAF 1.2
billion in fiscal year 1986 (para. 46);
(j) increasing the share of spending for materials in the NDR and
reducing the share of personnel expenditures in the current
budget, so as to allocate at least 25 percent of the budget to
operating costs in fiscal year 1986 (para. 29);



- 80 -                          ANNEX- VI
Page 1 of 3
Td1 1
TOMD -        c Pmd   e      1984-90: Tzpac at SAC I    a
Witwut SAC II Progam           With SAC TI PMO
Scenario witbout   Scaria with
acid plat       meld plant
I                II               m
1984  1985-87  1987-90  1985-7  197-90  198547  1987-90
-   -      ~~~(il   &     ~;;;rT        -
Qawth of CDP at amtt prkes  -0.8         3.0      3.0      3.3      3.6      3.6      5.1
Popuat1m Groiwth                3.3      3.3      3.3      3.3      3.3      3.3      3.3
Grouthcf real CDP per cpcLta    -4.1    -0.3    -0.3        -       0.3      0.3      1.8
(As pFrcentas of CDP)
Cokiuplin                      85.7     86.4     85.0    86.0    83.4    85.5        82.1
Gross Dcmmstic Savblng         14.3     13.6     15.0    14.0    16.6    14.5        17.9
Gros DIestic Inuestment        23.5    24.2      26.0    24.3    26.2    27.0        32.2
Resource Blanlm               -9.2   -10.6   -11.0   -10.3    -9.6   -12.5   -14.3
Timorts, GMFS                  44.3     46.0    47.3    45.8    46.5    48.0         52.5
Exqorts. GasS                  35.1     35.4    36.3    35.5    36.9    35.5         38.2



- 81 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 3
Tmbl 2
I-  - G_             ma r.   4 , 1983-90
(In bWiUm of C2FAF
1983   1964   1965   1986   1987   4           1989   1990
1. Rave..    grsne               86.0  103.6  106.0  116.5  129.5  140.3  151.0  163.0
ReVW..                         77.4   88.6   93.7  103.3  114.9  124.5  134.0  144.8
-  o0p                         15.3   20.0   20.0   20.2   22.2   23.4   25.7   28.1
-  CPAT                         5.2    6.6    6.6    6.9    7.4    7.8    8.1    8.6
-  OCim fiscal rece3 pts       45.9   47.8   53.1   61.5   69.6   76.8   82.9   89.9
-  oWMr=                       11.0   14.2   14.0   14.7   15.7   16.5   17.3   18.2
(h>lta                          8.6   15.0   12.3   13.2   14.6   15.8   17.0   18.2
2. BTh.tinures o   t lzl4sg I/ 78.0   89.5   95.1  101.0  109.2  116.2  123.0  130.4
-rn cupqidlki.m  1/           54.4   56.1   57.1   60.1   64.0   67.4   70.5   74.0
OP%.onnel)                 (28.7)  (27.8)  (28.2)  (29.7)  (31.6)  (33.3)  (34.8)  (36.5)
(Odim) 1/                  (25.7)  (28.3)  (28.9)  (30.4)  (32.4)  (34.1)  (35.7)  (37.5)
CQxlzal .pa  itUre             23.3   33.4   38.0   40.9   45.2   48.8   52.5   56.4
3. PdbiiLc savings /              31.6   47.5   48.9   56.4   65.5   72.9   80.5   89.0
4. Ovl1ran buance 1/               8.3   14.1   10.9   15.5   20.3   24.1   28.0   32.6
5. Bjmna1. debt asmrcL            53.6   55.1   57.8   57.6   54.4   49.8   42_2   40.8
-  Tnte.rt                     21.5   2D.4   21.3   22.1   20.9   19.0   17.3   16.7
- AmDrtization                 32.1   34.7   36.5   35.5   33.5   30.8   24.9   25.1
6. Oeral defie-t, iw3uding
debt service                  -45.3  -41.0  -46.9  -42.1  -34.1  -25.7  -14.2   -8.2
7. aiam of  era                 -17.4  -10.6   -4.0    -                         -
- Daswt1c                      -4.4  -12.1   - 2.0    -        -       -       -      -
-  Extrz.                     -13.0   -1.5   -2.0    -         -       -       -      -
8. Fzckig rmquirsamsm             62.7   51.6   50.9   42.1   34.1   25.7   14.2    82
-  ka c  fininxtg               3.7     6.1   14.6   10.6    5.2   -3.2  -14.5  -22.7
-  hznaml debtre.dudulnfg   36.2   23.4   15.5    9.1    4.1    2.8    -              -
-  BEmulno  barzunx g          22.8   22.1   2D.8   22.4   24.8   26.1   28.7   30.9
(of -hidh SACIl)          (9.5)   (6.4)   (7.5)  (7-5)  {--)     G-)   (--)   t--)
1emmxa&m Itin                                (As per t   of CDP)
_M M                           27.5   30.4   29.0   28.0   28.5   27.9   27.5   27.4
Cirrao  emp.x1iure             19.3   19.2   17.7   16.6   15.9   15.1   14.5   14.0
Ebtic Eawdbys                 11.2   16.3   15.1   15.6   16.3   16.3   16.5   16.8
Cadta3l aenTsxbn=n              8.2    11.4   11.8   11.3   11.2   10.9   10.8   10.7
O 0a deficirt, IbNlin
debt servlio               -16.1  -14.1  -14.5  -11.6   -8.4   -5.8   -2.9   -1.6
Overanl be3ole wlda
aIrtlJizathf 2,             -4.7   -2.2   -3.2   -1.8   -0.2    1.1    2.2    3.2
Oberafl adficit ;it wr
tizfa-fm  & wdklnt xracts 3/   -7.7   -7.3   -7.0   -5.4   -3.7   -2.4   -1.3   -0.3
Smgcma: kW. MI, IM  and BFnk ta ff pIDjectsl
li   1,5    debt ece
2J Itax 6 - Det wnrtzt=tu
3/ Item 6 - Dbit anirtatim - _____



- 82 -                            ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 3
Thb3s 3
TM - Balunce of Paymuts 1984-90
(In bll-l  of CAP)F
1984   1985   1986   1987   1968   1989   1990
1. Exprts, FMB                104.7  100.3  117.2  139.2  148.8  162.1  176.2
of wbich:
-                            39.8   41.3   43.6   47.9   50.5   55.4   60.7
- Cocoa                      21.0   10.3   13.9   15.1   15.9   16.8   17.6
- Coffee                     3.0    6.9    9.6   10.9   11.9   13.2   14.6
_ cott                       7.4    8.1   13.3   15.2   17.2   19.7   22.0
2. Iqports, FM                103.8  123.9  134.6  147.9  157.8  168.2  180.0
Trade belanue (1 - 2)        0.9  -27.0  -17.4  -8.7   -9.0  -6.1   -3.8
3. Services (net)             -40.0  -44.4  -47.4  -49.2  -50.0  -50.8  -52.3
Intemest on debt         -21.2  -22.4  -23.6  -23.2  -22.0  -20.9  -20.2
4. Tansfers (met)              24.7   23.5   25.3   27.4   29.4   31.2   33.1
Current Aco=mt              -14.4  -44.5  -39.5  -30.5  -29.6  -25.7  -23.0
(1 - 2+3+4)
5. capital Acmmt               29.5   25.8   22.3   19.2   19.6   22.2   21.8
of bichdi
- kxtezPnl barxrungl 1/      29.2   28.7   3D.7   33.6   36.0   38.4   41.1
- Debt amrortzatkm          -34.4  -35.3  -34.1  -32.1  -29.5  -24.1  -24.9
- Debt reshaduling           23.4   15.4    9.1    4.1    2.8    -      -
- Other capital 2            11.3   17.0   16.6   13.6   10.3    7.9    5.6
Overan Balanr                15.1  -18.7  -17.2  -11.3  -10.0   -3.5  -1.2
(1 - 2 + 3 + 4 + 5)
INmxbou Item
Total debt service          55.6   57.7   57.7  55.3   51.5   45.0   45.1
Debt service rati I
Ekports, GNPS (Z)         53.9   52.6   44.2   37.9   30.5   25.0   23.1
Qmelt A Mt D!nd4
(DP (Z)                    4.9   13.8   10.9    7.5   6.6    5.3    4.4
Cozrit Acccimt Defi it
exclbzln3 grfta/GDP (Z)      13.4   21.1   18.0   14.6   13.5   12.0   11.0
Soms: Tog1_ee autlvrites, IaF ad Bgak staF pmJects:
1/    llg the SACII shareo      eto In 1985-89
21TnehingD R"rlna dh8c of meto iXl 19r1789



IBRD. 13601RI
___W__->; _-_   ~~~~~BURKINA                MA^URIlTANIA I  
___m  m                               .     !- _t o                     NIGER
------  /         ~DAPAON         .il                          NIGERIA,f   *w
S A V A Nl E 'S j                 "    OC rA N 
^          j ~MANGiO j-
_lo              CN .\    j ~K ANTE    X+            g1-
,, r ~K A R.,( A!
O         ~~~~NiamlcgouollCi p o
-     BASSARI    \vfKA,s
~~ )             1 ~BAFIL()O
o        -               ''\7              ' z~~~~~~~BFio 
<      CE      T\R}     LE 
~~.   So oub~~ow  t .o   -_ 
REGIONS AND                                                 ,
CIRCONSCRIPTIONS  ,)|jU
t '\ ATtAKPAME!
P  L  A i T  E' A  U X i ,
rf   AMLAME  l           ........ 
Amlameo        Alokwme      -
0   Rgzonol H..dQvotw  j-                     N OTSE  
-r     NO,-0D"O CopBBOl       _K LOLUTG C)        Ntse       vr
--egion Boundriebis j  
cR-s                             /MA  R I r I\  E 
Tseiae   %\Vq
0    20   40   60   so    0                       OME 
KILOMET ERS                        UX          EGv:so{s    
MIAY 1985



