AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-2 TO
African Facility Credit
Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the
SPECIAL FACILITY for SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Dated                /3   , 1985


﻿AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-2 TO
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     A 4e4*ut4    /J             , 1985, between
REPUBLIC 0 TOGO (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-
SAHARAN AFRICA (the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (IDA) have established by their Resolu-
tion No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, (the Resolution), a Special
Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African Facility) consti-
tutd by the funds which shall be contributed by the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstuction and Development (the Bank) and
other donors and administered by IDA, acting as Administrator of
the African Facility, for the purpose of, and in accordance with
the provisions of the Resolution;
(B) IDA has received from the Borrower a statement of
economic development policy dated April 23, 1985, describing a
second  program  of   structural  adjustment  of  the   Borrower's
economy, including: (i) a reform of agricultural incentives;
(ii) an action program to raise the output of food crops; (iii)
the preparation of an industrial promotion policy; (iv) the
improvement of macro-economic management; and (v) a reform of
public sector enterprises;
(C)  the Borrower has declared its commitment to the execu-
tion of such program;
(D) the Borrower has requested assistance from the re-
sources of the African Facility in the financing of urgent
imports to be made during the execution of such program, and the
Administrator has determined that such assistance would be in
accordance with the provisions of the Resolution;
(E) by agreement dated June 24, 1985 (the Development
Credit Agreement), IDA has agreed to make a development credit
(the Development Credit) to the Borrower in various currencies
eq%ivalent to SDR 28,100,000 to assist in financing the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement;
(F) the Borrower intends to contract from the Federal
Republic <of Germany a grant in the amount of 16,500,000 Deutsche
Mark (the German grant) to assist in the financing of the Project


﻿-2-
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreaent to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Federal       public of
Germany (the German Grant Agreement); and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the African Facility Credit to
the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the International Development Associa-
tion, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral pa,t of
this Agreement.
(a) the term "Association", when used in the General Condi-
tions, means the International Development Association acting as
Administrator of the African Facility, except in the phrase
"member of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.20 (b) and
6.02 (e) thereof;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account", when used in the General Conditions, are
amended to read "African Facility Credit Agreement", "African
Facility Credit" and "African Facility Credit Account", res-
pectively;
(c) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(d) the second sentence of Section 5.01 is deleted;
(e) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting
in its own capacity, and
(f) the term "Project" means the imports that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility Credit pur-
suant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the African Facility
Credit Agreement.
Section 1,02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set


﻿-3-
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)  "Part 11 member of IDA" means a member of IDA with
respect to which the terms and conditions of membership are those
prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for countries
whose names are listed in Part II of Schedule A to those Arti-
cles;
(b) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement
dated June 24, 1985 between the Borrower and IDA for the Project,
as such agreement may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of IDA, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Development Credit Agreement;
(c) "BCEAO" means Banue Centrale des Etats de l'Afriaue
de l'Ouest;
(d)  "CFA Franc" and "CFAF" mean the curreancy of the Bor-
rower;
(e)  "IOTO" means Industrie Olalineuse du Togo;
(f)  "ITP" means Industrie Togolaise des Plastiques;
(g)  "ITT" means Industrie Togolaise du Textile;
(h)  "OPAT" means the Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo
of the Borrower;
(i)  "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 2
(1975);
(j)  "SODETO" means Societe des Detergents du Togo;
(k)  "SOTOMA" means Societg Togolaise de Marbre at des
Mat&riaux;
(1)  "TOGOGRAIN" means the Office National des Produit
Vivriers of the Borrower;


﻿-4-
(n) "TOGOROUTE" means Societe Nationale des Transports
Routiers; and
(n) "TOGOTEX" means Societe Togolaise des Textiles.
ARTICLE II
The African Facility Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the
Borrower on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the African Facility Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to ten million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 10,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the African Facility Credit
may be withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Administrator, for expenditures made
for, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of imported gods.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi--
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories of: (i) any Part II member of IDA; (ii) any country
designated by the Administrator as meeting the provisions set
forth in paragraphs 4 (f) (ii) and (iii) of the Resolution.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987 or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Admin-
istrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the African Facility Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the African Facility
Credit Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the African Facility Credit
Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge 'iall be paid: (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)


﻿-5-
in the currency specified in this Agreement for purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the amount withdrawn from the African Facility Credit
Account and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the principal
amount of the African Facility Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each April 15 and October 15, commencing October 15,
1995, and ending April 15, 2035. Each installment to and includ-
ing the installment payable on April 15, 2005, shall be one-half
of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be one and one-1half per cent
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) BCEAO is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower shall entrust BCEAO with responsibility for the prepa-
ration of withdrawal applications under the African Facility
Credit and for the collection of the documents and other evidence
to be furnished to the Administrator in support of such applica-
tions; such withdrawal applications shall to the extent practi-
cable be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate
amounts of not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall open and thereafter
maintain an account (hereinafter called the Project Account) at


﻿BCEA0 and shall, upon each withdrawal from the African Facility
Credit Account, deposit in the Project Account the equivalent
in CFA Francs of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the
African Facility Credit Account (such equivalent to be determined
as of the respective dates of such withdrawals). The amounts so
deposited in the Project Account shall be used exclusively to
finance the Borrower's development-related expenditures and to
support the Borrower's economic adjustment program.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Administator all such
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request con-
cerning the utilization of the .amounts deposited in the Project
Account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower and the Administrator shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out the program for struc-
tural adjustment referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement
and the measures specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Administrator for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out said program, in
such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Administrator shall from'
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on
the Borrower's public sector investment programs in the light of
their consistency with overall macro-economic projections and
with the statement of economic development policy referred to in
the Preamble to this Agreement, taking into account the readiness
of feasibility studies and the availability of concessional
financing for specific projects.
Section 3.04. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the African Facility Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, subject to the eli-
gibility restrictions set forth in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿-7-
(a)  that an event has occurred which shall make it improb-
able that the program for structural adjustment or a significant
part of the program for structural adjustment referred to in the
Preamble to this Agreement will be carried out; and
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Development Credit or the
German Grant shall have been suspended, can-
celled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the Development
Credit Agreement or the German Grant Agree-
ment; or
(B) the Development Credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Administrator that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Development Credit Agreement
or the German Grant Agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditicns, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of sub-
paragraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the African Facility


﻿-8-
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement have been ful-
filled.
section 5.02. The date 90 days after the date of this Agree-
ment is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
Section 5.03. In the event that the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA as administrator of
the African Facility pursuant to paragraph 10 of the Resolution,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, designate
another party which, on the date specified in such notice, shall
assume part or all of the rights and obligations of the Adminis-
trator under this Agreement in accordance with the Resolution and
such decision of the Executive Directors, as specified in such
notice.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.09 of
this Agreement, the Ministre de l'Economie et des Finances of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de l'Economie et
des Finances
B.P. 387
Lome
Republic of Togo
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFIE                             5286
Lome, Togo


﻿9
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the African Facility
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
-Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cd,ble address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
By              44i/AMA
Authorized Re  esentative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY
for SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
By            /     t ~i'fl.O      A;re~S4
' Regional Vice Pr ident
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the African Facility Credit
1.   The reasonable cost of importation of any goods into the
territory of the Borrower may be financed out of the proceeds of
the African Facility Credit, except that no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of:
(a) goods included in the following SITC groups or sub-
groups:
Group     Sub-grou           Description Of Items
112         -               Alcoholic beverages
121         -               Tobacco, unmanufsctured,
tobacc( 'efuse
122         -               Tobacco, manufactured
667         -               Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
688         -               Uranium depleted in U235 and
thoriam, and their alloys,
unwrought or wrought, and
articles therefor, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of thorium
718      718.7              Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, n.e.s.
897      897.3              Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971.0              Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)


﻿(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of
another country from the territory of which goods are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such g-oods shall be eligible
for financing out of the proceeds of the African Facility Credit;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(d) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods, or on the importation, manufacture, pro-
curement or supply thereof;
(e) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
(f) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Administrator shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(g) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(h) expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equiva-
lent to $2,500,000 for petroleum products and $2,500,000 for
foodstuffs.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawal shall be madq and no commitment shall be entered into
to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect of expendi-
tures to be financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility
Credit unless the Administrator shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.02 of this Agreement,
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the -Carrying out of
the program- for structural adjustment referred to in the Preamble
to this Agreement and in particular that the measures described
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken.
3.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item to be financed under the African
Facility Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility


﻿- 12 -
Credit and the Administrator may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Administrator
under this Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
amount of the African Facility Credit as, in the Administrator's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which viould otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the African Facility Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods to be purchased
by public entities and estimated to cost the equivalent of
$1,500,000 or more each, shall be awarded through international-,
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Section I of the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), subject to the follo\ ing modifications:
(a) By the deletion of paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines and
the substitution therefor of the following:
"2.8. Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
bidder's  --vitation list, to apply for prequalification or
to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's territory
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication, Devel-
opment Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in these Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) By the deletion of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for goods to be purchased by other than public
entities or estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$1,500,000 each shall be awarded on the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.


﻿- 14 -
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal of funds from the African Facility Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids and
recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and
tendering procedures followed and such other information as the
Administrator shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first apppli-
cation for withdrawal of funds from the African Facility Credit
Account in respect thereof, such documentation and information
as the Administrator may reasonably request to support withdrawal
applications in respect of such contract or purchase order.
5.   The Administrator shall, if it determines that the award of
a contract or the documentation received, as the case may be, was
not consistent with the provisions of this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
6.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "public enti-
ties" shall mean the. Borrower, any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions and any entity owned or controlled by the
Borrower or any such subdivision.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Conditions of Second Tranche Release
(Schedule 1, paragraph 2)
1.   The Borrower has adopted a 1986-1988 public investment pro-
gram satisfactory to the Administrator.
2.   The Borrower prior to the crop season has increased the pro-
ducer prices of cocoa, coffee and cotton for the 1986-1987 crop
year to a level acceptable to the Administrator.
3.   The Borrower has made progress, satisfactory to the Adminis-
trator, for the restructuring, privatization or liquidation, as
the case may be, of the following public enterprises: IOTO, ITP,
ITT, OPAT, SODETO, SOTOMA, TOGOROUTE and TOGOTEX.
4.   The Borrower has agreed with the Administrator on a schedule
for restructuring, privatization or liquidation of about ten more
public enterprises.
5.   The Administrator is satisfied with the efficiency of the
supervision system of the Ministry of State Enterprises, includ-
ing the control mechanisms of public enterprises.
6.   The Borrower has established a Road Fund account in the
Treasury for the deposit of all road maintenance funds and has
increased the fiscal year 1986 budget allocation for the main-
tenance of roads, other than urban streets, to CFAF 1.2 billion.
7.   The Borrower has increased the railway tariff on the Lome-
Blitta line by February 1986 by not less than 15 percent over the
level prevailing on the Effective Date of this Agreement.
8.   The Borrower has informed the Administrator by March 1986 of
its decision of award of a concession for the operation of a bus
line on the Lome-Aneho route.
9.   The Borrower has allocated not less than 25 percent of the
fiscal year 1986 budget of the Ministry of Rural Development to
non-personnel costs.
10. The Borrower has established new guidelines, satisfactory to
the Administrator, for the opet dtion of TOGOGRAIN.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   3 day ofAe-             ,
198.
FOR SECRETARY


