Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No P-7249 MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND SOCIAL SECTOR LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$300 MILLION
TO MALAYSIA
June 1, 1998
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 27, 1998)
Currency Unit = Ringgit (RM)
RM 1  US$ 3.85
US$ 1 = RM 0.26
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           -      Asian Development Bank
AIM           -      Amanah Ikthiar Malaysia
ASEAN         -      Association of Southeast Asian Nations
BAFIA         -      Banking and Financial Institutions Act
BNM           -      Bank Negara Malaysia
BOP           -      Balance of Payments
CAS           -      Country Assistance Strategy
CEM           -      Country Economic Memorandum
CPI           -      Consumer Price Index
EPF           -      Employee Provident Fund
EPU           -      Economic Planning Unit
FC            -      Finance Companies
FDI           -      Foreign Direct Investment
FMM           -      Federation of Malaysian Manufacturers
GDP           -      Gross Domestic Product
GNP           -      Gross National Product
IASC          -      International Accounting Standards Committee
IDB           -      Islamic Development Bank
KLSE          -      Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange
LAR           -      Liquid Asset Ratio
LMU           -      Loan Monitoring Unit
MASB          -      Malaysian Accounting Standards Board
Ml            -      Narrow Money
M2            -      Broad Money
M3            -      Total Liquidity
NPL           -      Non-Performing Loans
PNB           -      Permodalan Nasional Berhad
RWCR          -      Risk-Weighted Capital Ratio
SMI           -      Small and Medium Scale Industries
SRR          -       Statutory Reserve Requirement
WTO           -      World Trade Organization
FISCAL YEAR: January 1 - December 31
Regional Vice President:                  Mr. Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director:                         Ms. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, EACSM
Sector Manager/Chief Economist:          Mr. Masahiro Kawai, EASPR
Task Team Leader:                         Mr. Ejaz Ghani, EASPR



- iii -             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND SOCIAL SECTOR LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pave No.
LOAN PROGRAM AND SUMMARY.Pz  o
LOAN PROGRAM AND SUMMARY ~~~~......................................................... .   iii. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .
I.  THE ECONOMIC CONTEXT                                                                  2
II. THE GOVERNMENT'S STABILIZATION & STRUCTURAL REFORM PROGRAM                             5
A. REBALANCING FISCAL AND MONETARY POLICY                                             6
B.  STRENGTHENING  THE  FINANCIAL  SECTOR  ....................................................9
C. IMPROVING CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND COMPETITION POLICIES .
D. STRENGTHENING SOCIAI SAFETY NETS                     .......1..7................. . 17
E. INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES                       ...                                    20
III. BANK GROUP STRATEGY .....21
A. RENEWED COUNTRY RELATIONSHIP            ... 21
B WORLD BANK GROUP STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES .22
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN   ....24
A. LOAN OBJECTIVES   ... 24
B. LOAN ADMrNIsTRATION ...                                                           26
C. BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                             ....27
V. RECOMMENDATION                                                                        28
ANNEXES:
ANN-EX 1:     Matrix of Policy Actions
ANNEX 2A:   Statement of Development Policy
ANNEX 2B:   Government's Detailed Matrix of Policy Actions
ANNEX 2C:   Selected Outcome Indicators
ANNEX 3:      Table 1: Selected Economic and Financial Indicators, 1994-98
Table 2: Balance of Payments and Financing Need, 1996-1998
Table 3: Summary of Public Sector Operations, 1995-1998
Table 3a: Malaysia: Social Services Expenditure, 1994 -1998
Table 4: Monetary Survey, 1996-1998
Table 5: Indicators of External Exposure, 1997-98
Table 6: Short-term Liabilities, end 1997
Table 7: Banking System Foreign Currency Position
Table 8: Money and Banking Indicators, 1993-1997
ANNEX 4:      Status of Bank Group Operations in Malaysia: IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Statement of IFC's Comnitted and Disbursed Portfolio
ANNEX 5:      Malaysia: Fund Relations
ANNEX 6:      Malaysia at a Glance
The task team includes: Natasha Beschorner (Institutional Development and Country Strategy); Arvind
Gupta, Saha Meyanathan (Corporate Governance and Competition Policies); Paul Heytens (Macro);
Emmanuel Jimenez, Chingboon Lee (Social Sector); David Marston, Mike Moore, Jonathan Sacks
(Financial Sector); Hoi-Chan Nguyen, Margaret Png (Legal); Carolyn Meyer Johnson (Operational
Support); Barbara Ossowicka (Research Support); Zelena Jagdeo (Assistance in Overall Coordination);
Joseph Israel, Daniel Renna (Word Processing Support).   The team benefited from advice by A.
Bhattacharya, H. Kharas, S. Khemani and A. Mody.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- iv -
MALAYSIA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND SOCIAL SECTOR LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:            Malaysia
Amount and terms:   US$300 million on standard amortization terms, grace period and interest rate
for fixed rate US Dollar single currency loan.
Description:         The proposed operation is a fast disbursing loan designed to support the
implementation of the Government's program of pre-emptive measures to:
*  Minimize the downturn in economic activity;
*  implement policy reforms to resume robust and sustainable growth;
*  expand safety nets to protect the hard core and the near poor from
the adverse effects of the crisis; and
*  protect investments in the human resource base.
The Government's strategy for achieving the above objectives is to implement a
series of structural reforms aimed at achieving financial stability, enhancing
efficiency and competitiveness, improving transparency and corporate
governance and strengthening social safety nets. The reform program is
focused on four key areas:
*   Maintaining sound macroeconomic policy with flexibility in the light of
uncertainties in the economic environment;
-   strengthening the financial sector in light of the regional crisis including
consolidation of finance companies and pre-emptive recapitalization of
viable banking institutions; improving the regulatory and supervisory
framework; and improving market based incentives for more efficient
functioning of financial institutions;
*   improving competitiveness by strengthening corporate governance,
enhancing transparency and disclosure of information; implementing
market-based  corporate  restructuring  procedures;  strengthening
competition policies; and liberalizing gradually and progressively foreign
equity ownership to facilitate early recapitalization; and
*   strengthening social safety nets to soften the negative impact of the
economic crisis on the lower income and vulnerable groups; maintaining
access to key social sector services; addressing the problem of graduate
unemployment and addressing medium-term social safety net issues.
The proposed loan will support and strengthen the Government's balance of
payments objectives in the context of the ongoing regional crisis.  The
Government's objective is to restore confidence and prevent the BOP situation
from deteriorating by implementing a pre-emptive reform program, and this
operation will act as a catalyst in supporting that objective. In addition, the



proposed loan supports the fiscal objectives of the Government aimed at
strengthening the social sectors.  Finally the loan will be instrumental in
establishing a renewed relationship between Malaysia and the Bank, providing
for a stronger partnership at this time of regional crisis and beyond.
The operation is strongly owned by the Government as it is based on policy
reforms announced by the Finance Minister in his Statement of March 24, 1998,
(Comprehensive Stabilization and Structural Reform Package) and the
Statement by the Governor of Bank Negara Malaysia on March 25, 1998. The
policy matrix has been discussed and agreed with the Government [see Annex
2B]. The Statement of Development Policy, prepared by the Government,
highlights the key pre-emptive policy measures being implemented and the
medium-term structural issues to be resolved [see Annex 2A].
While there would be no accompanying formal IMF program, the IMF is fully
supportive of the Government's reform program,and the Bank's support of it
through the proposed operation.
Benefits and risks:    The proposed operation will have three key benefits. First, by supporting apre-
emptive reform program, it will help prevent the present situation from
escalating into a crisis. Second, it will help minimize the downturn in economic
activity, while laying the basis for resuming robust and sustainable growth.
Third, it will help strengthen social safety nets. The loan will also assist to
protect the budget shares of education and health, increase public expenditure
on major antipoverty programs so as to protect real spending per beneficiary,
and strengthen safety nets for those who are made newly vulnerable by the
crisis but who may not be directly covered by the existing programs for the
hard-core poor.
A key risk to the program is if the downturn in economic activity turns out to be
greater than currently expected. This could arise if the regional crisis were to
intensify, or if business and consumer confidence were to decline further.
Malaysia has been adversely affected by unanticipated demand and supply
shocks. The fall in aggregate demand has adversely impacted the growth in non-
tradable goods sector; the expansion of the tradable goods sector has been
constrained by the regional downturn in activity. Supply side shocks have arisen
from the large depreciation in the exchange rate and the (modest) increase in
interest rates. These shocks have put increasing pressure on the financial and
corporate sectors. A prolonged downturn in economic activity could further
intensify these pressures. The Government's pre-emptive measures to deal with
the situation are reassuring, and the structural reforms are conducive to
improved transparency and governance, and early resumption of sustainable and
robust growth.
The risk of social tensions due to the crisis is being mitigated by the strong
safety nets, in particular programs to support the near poor in urban areas and
by the Government's continued credibility and a good track record in dealing
with social sector issues.



- vi -
Malaysia's short-term external liabilities remain small (although not without
vulnerabilities) and manageable.
Poverty category:    N.A.
Estimated
disbursemenws:       The loan would be disbursed in a single tranche of $300 million upon Board
approval and effectiveness.
Project ID Number:   58031



MALAYSIA--ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND SOCIAL SECTOR LOAN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY
AND SOCIAL SECTOR LOAN OF US$300 MILLION TO MALAYSIA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Economic
Recovery and Social Sector fast disbursing loan of US$300 million in support of the Government's
Stabilization and Structural Reform Program. The loan is designed to support Malaysia's program of pre-
emptive measures to stabilize the economy, resume medium-term growth, and protect the hard core and
the near poor from the worst effects of the crisis. It is a single tranche operation that supports measures
implemented or being implemented by the Government.
2.    Malaysia, under its Vision 2020, aimed to achieve developed nation status by the year 2020,
based on the develolpment of export-oriented, high value-added and efficient services and manufacturing
sectors, and a skilled labor force. A key objective of the vision is to eliminate hard core poverty by the
year 2000. This vision was being implemented through a series of Five-Year Plans. However, the
regional crisis, and the shift from high to low growth began to reveal structural weaknesses in the
economy. Even before the onset of the crisis, and in the context of the current Seventh Five-Year Plan
(1996-2000), the Government of Malaysia had recognized the need to introduce policy reforms to
strengthen the financial sector, shift from investment and input-driven to productivity-driven growth,
increase competitiveness, enhance the skill base, further strengthen investments in human resource
development, as well as maintain well-targeted and efficient social safety nets. The present crisis has
provided the Govemment with the opportunity to accelerate the implementation of policy reforms
designed to address not only the immediate challenges arising out of the crisis, but also the emerging
structural weaknesses relevant to its medium-term growth. The Government has reconfirmed its
commitment to poverty eradication and to a development strategy in which growth is led by private
entrepreneurs, equitably shared among Malaysians of all ethnic groups and states, and among both rural
and urban populations.
3.    The Government has been implementing its reform program since mid-1997. The objectives of
the program are to minimize the downturn in economic activity while laying the basis for resuming robust
growth. The program also encompasses measures to mitigate the social consequences of the crisis and
expand existing safety nets. To achieve these objectives, the program is focused in four key areas:
(a) maintaining sound macroeconomic policy with flexibility in light of uncertainties in the economic
environment; (b) strengthening the financial sector; (c) improving corporate governance and enhancing
transparency and switching from input driven to productivity driven growth strategy; and (d)
strengthening social safety nets to soften the negative impact of the economic crisis on the lower income
and vulnerable groups.
4.    The Bank has recently restarted its relationship with Malaysia after a four-year period of low key
contacts. Substantlial progress has been made in deepening the dialogue with the country, both through
the ongoing work on the current Country Economic Memorandum (CEM)I and in preparation of the
I The CEM is in draft form.



- 2 -
proposed Economic Recovery and Social Policy Loan. The Government has indicated an interest in a
renewed borrowing relationship, and continued policy dialogue.
I. THE ECONOMIC CONTEXT
5.     Strong initial conditions. Malaysia has been able to avoid the extreme dimensions of the
regional crisis, because of its relatively strong initial conditions, which have helped contain the extent
and depth of the regional contagion. Malaysia's traditionally strong fiscal policy over the years, the
prudent management of the country's external exposure, especially reflected in the low level of short-
term debt, and well developed supervisory and regulatory framework for the financial sector, were
significant factors that helped to ameliorate the immediate consequences of the regional turmoil on the
domestic economy. Unlike in other neighboring countries, where overheating pressures reflected in a
sizable current account deficit prior to the outbreak of the crisis, the timely implementation of a number
of policy measures in Malaysia had contributed to a moderation of real GDP growth and demand
pressures, and a halving of the current account deficit to 5% of GDP in 1996.
6.     Malaysia's external exposure, while not without vulnerability, has been carefully managed. Its
external debt is smaller (40% of GDP), and better hedged than many other countries in the region. The
banking system has maintained a broadly balanced overall foreign currency position. Private short-term
indebtedness is very small (about US$2 billion). Short-term corporate borrowing is permitted only for
Malaysian non-bank entities with hedging trade transactions. Exchange control regulations require
Central Bank's approval over RM5 million. The authorities approve short-term borrowing only for
foreign exchange generating purposes. The Central Bank has been reviewing the liabilities of off-shore
Malaysian-controlled banks and corporations, and has assessed that their net exposure is also small,
although significant losses related to the off-shore operations of one bank have been recognized.
7.     While gross official reserves fell significantly during 1997, they provide 145 percent coverage of
short-term liabilities of residents and remain equivalent to nearly four months of imports. In addition,
all reserves are freely usable, and the Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) has no outstanding forward or other
off balance sheet liabilities. About 10 percent of reserves were held with branches of Malaysian banks
abroad; these are diversified among several banks that have met BNM credit rating guidelines.
8.    Slowdown in Economic Activity: As the crisis has unfolded, Malaysia has been increasingly
affected. The ringgit has shown considerable volatility over this period, depreciating by 30-40 percent,
and there has been substantial weakening in the stock and property markets. The contagion effects and
structural weaknesses contributed to the loss in confidence, resulting in an abrupt slowdown in economic
activity. Real GDP growth is officially projected to fall from 7.8 percent in 1997 to 2-3 percent in 1998.
However, recent forward looking surveys show business and consumer sentiments to be at their lowest
level since mid-1980s (when the last crisis occurred), and real GDP growth may be lower, possibly 0-1
percent in 1998. In particular, consumer spending will likely grow only modestly, if at all, in 1998, due
to a loss in consumer confidence and the significant loss of financial wealth in the stock market. The
growth of investment spending will also slow significantly as firms postpone major projects until stability
returns, and sources of foreign capital dry up. Cutbacks in government purchases will also impact
somewhat negatively on domestic demand, but this will be offset, to some extent, by cuts in various taxes.
Given the significance of foreign trade in the Malaysian economy, the impact of the crisis will be
softened by the external sector. However, given the high share of ASEAN markets for Malaysian
exports, and the fact that many ASEAN countries will contract in 1998, export growth may also be lower
than expected. Assuming no further shocks to the economy, the macroeconomic impact of the crisis



should be temporary, although Malaysia may not return to the same rate of growth that it experienced in
the early 1990s.
Box 1: MALAYSIAN GROWTH PROSPECTS IN 1998
The growth of private consumption, which represents about 44 percent of GDP in Malaysia, has slowed
significantly over the past two years to below 5 percent in 1996 and 2 percent in 1997. This suggests that
although GDP growth continued at a rapid pace, an ultimate slowdown in growth was perceived and led to an
increase in precautionary savings. Increased incentives for saving, were probably another factor. The
Consumer Sentiments Index plunged to an all time low in the first quarter of 1998, while the Business
Conditions Index has dropped steadily in recent quarters to its lowest level in recent years. Overall, for the
year, private consumption is likely not to grow in 1998 because of several reasons. First, negative wealth
effect. Stock market capitalization fell by over US$100 billion in the second half of 1997. Despite some
recovery since then, the wealth decline has been about 100% of estimated 1998 GDP. This is the-largest fall
among countries in the region, due largely to the fact that initial capitalization was highest in Malaysia.
Property price declines, now estimated at 10-25%, depending on location, would worsen the wealth effect.
Second, negative income effect. Lower wages and higher unemployment will depress incomes. Recent
manufacturing sunreys show a fall in number of production workers and a decrease in overtime. Consumer
credit-is being cut back.
Investment, which represents about 47 percent of GDP, will likely decline in 1998. Government
development spending will decline marginally, and private investment will be negatively impacted by a loss of
business confidence, disruption of the financial system and capital outflows.
Private real investment may suffer a sharp contraction because asset prices (shares and properties) have
fallen by 30% and 20%, respectively. Interest rates were increased--average lending now stands at 16% plus.
Imported machinery and equipment have become more expensive relative to producer price increases. The
Business Expectations Survey shows firmns less able to finance capital expenditure through local or foreign
borrowings. The recent survey by the Chamber of Commerce shows a major shift in business expectations
with two-thirds of manufacturing companies replying that they have no plans to increase capacity, doubling
from one-third in the previous survey. Major privatization projects have been deferred or postponed. The
Industrial Production Index was down 1.1% in the first quarter of 1998, year-on-year.
The major offset to these factors will be the trade balance and the current account which could both
improve dramatically in 1998. The current account is likely to be roughly in balance in 1998. Although
export growth has slowed in recent years, this slowdown will likely be halted by the significant depreciation of
the ringgit. On the one hand, similar depreciation of the currencies of Malaysia's competitors will mitigate
this effect. On the other hand, imports will decline sharply, perhaps at the same pace as investment, by about
8 percent. On balance, this will contribute positively to GDP growth.
GDP growth in the first quarter of 1998 declined 1.8 percent. Dramatic drop in construction added to the
drag from manufacturing and banking sectors. Continuation of these trends could perpetuate the economic
slow down well into the second half of 1998, and real GDP growth may be lower than 2-3 percent in 1998.
Weak sentiments could result in even sharper decline in domestic demand than currently projected. In
addition, continued weakness in the ringgit and somewhat higher pass through to domestic prices could push
average inflation to near the double-digit level.
9.     The Slowdown and the Poor: While the 1984-85 recession affected the entire economy, the
current slowdown will have different effects on different sectors. Some sectors like construction, retail
and wholesale trade, banking and professional services have already been hurt. But the producers of
tradables, and in particular agriculture, will gain from the depreciation of the ringgit, although a part of
the gain will be eroded by similar or larger depreciation of other ASEAN currencies. Another issue is



- 4 -
that Malaysia is now a more urbanized society: according to the 1980 Census, only a third of the
population lived in the urban areas; the 1991 Census shows the proportion to be over 50 percent, and in
1995, it was estimated at 55 percent. Most labor is now employed in the formal sector. The implication
of today's greater urbanization and "formalization" is that a much greater share of people who may be
adversely affected by the slowdown will be urban, and the traditional cushion of "reverse migration"
(going back to the countryside), while still feasible for some, will by no means be available to all urban
laborers who may be retrenched.
10.    How many more Malaysians are likely to fall below the current poverty line as a result of the
crisis? Using the per capita poverty line of RM100 per month in 1995 prices (practically the same as the
official poverty line), the poverty head count in 1995 was estimated at 10.6 percent. If there was no
change in income distribution and we allow that real incomes have grown in the two years since the
survey by about 10 percent per capita, the 1997 poverty head count would have dropped to 8.2 percent.
TABLE 1: DIFFERENT GROWTH SCENARIOS AND THEIR OUTCOME ON POVERTY
Percentage of poor   Percentage of poor  Estimated number of  Estimated "neW' poor
households        individuals       poor indivduals   (in '000; compared to
(in '000)           1997)
1995 HIS                        7.6                10.6              2,190
Estima te fo^r 1997              5.                 8.                1,176--- - ---~------ -  
Estimates for 1998           ..
..............................  .....................  ....  .... .........  . ....... .......   .............
with 0% per capita growth      5.8                8.2               1,820               + 44
wth -2.5% per capitagro6vth    6.2                8.8               1,953              + 177
...............    ..................    ........... I... .... . ... ...... ........ . .. .. . I   ....... ...... .. ...... ... ..
with -5% per capita growth     6.6                9.3               2,065              + 289
Source: Calculations based on the individual data from the 1995 HIS.
Note: The poverty line is RMIOO per capita per month in 1995 prices. The difference between the percentage of poor
households and poor individuals is due to the fact that the average household size is greater among poor households
(6.2 vs. 4.6 in 1995).
11.    Under a scenario of zero real GDP growth in 1998, which translates into a drop in real per capita
income of about 2.5 percent, the poverty head count could rise to 8.8 percent (from 8.2 percent in 1997).
The total number of the poor would increase by about 175,000. With the other two assumptions ("good"
one of 2.5 percent real GDP growth, and "bad" one of 2.5 percent real GDP decline), the poverty head
counts would be respectively 8.2 and 9.3 percent, or between 50,000 and 300,000 persons would become
poor.  The data also reveal that each percentage point drop in real incomes is associated  with an
increasing poverty head count of between 0.2-0.25 points, that is about 45,000 to 55,000 people joining
the ranks of the officially poor.
12.    In addition to the above adverse income effect, the poor will also be impacted by the price effect
of the present crisis, i.e., by the differential increase in prices, if prices of the goods they consume rise
faster than the overall price index. There is some evidence for this as food prices have risen faster than
other components of the CPI; food accounts for almost 45 percent of expenditures of the lowest quintile
vs. only 35 percent for an average household.



13.    The present crisis also presents other social challenges:
*  A substantial switch in demand for social services (e.g., education, health) from the private to
the publiic sector;
*  critical imported intermediaries (e.g., medicine, textbooks) requiring higher expenditure
levels;
* migrant workers vulnerable to the construction sector slowdown;
* a double class of graduates in 1998, with 35,000 new graduates from public universities,
many of whom may not be able to find jobs;
* with a contracting economy, private transfer networks which are highly developed, not being
able to absorb income short-falls; and
* less developed regions (e.g., Terengganu, Perak, Sabah, Perlis, Kelantan) likely to be more
adversely impacted by the slowdown in economic activity.
II. THE GOVEIRNMENT'S STABILIZATION AND STRUCTURAL REFORM PROGRAM
14.    While contagion from the regional crisis has clearly been a factor in Malaysia's increasingly
difficult economic situation, weaknesses in key policies have also contributed. Against this background,
the Government announced a comprehensive approach in its economic policy statement of March 24-25,
1998. The first pillar of this program is rebalancing of macroeconomic policies, reducing the fiscal
surplus, allowing automatic stabilizers to work, and restraining excessively rapid credit growth.
Although Malaysia's public sector position retains structural strength, the challenge ahead is to
incorporate all quasi-fiscal liabilities of public sector institutions, including contingent liabilities, in the
budget. In this context, the Government is undertaking a detailed estimation of its contingent liabilities.
15.    The second pillar is the strengthening of the financial system which has come under increasing
stress as the economy has weakened, and is at potential risk from deflation in property and other asset
markets. The financial sector strategy is aimed at consolidating the finance companies through assisted
merger programs, promoting pre-emptive recapitalization of the core banking system and providing
greater transparency on the financial position of individual banks. While improved disclosure and a
further strengthening of the prudential framework are key elements of the pre-emptive strengthening of
the banking system, and will help to exert pressure on all financial institutions to remain adequately
capitalized, the challenge ahead is to introduce a deposit insurance scheme, which would substantially
reduce moral hazard implicit in the recently introduced comprehensive guarantee on financial system
deposits. The Government is presently conducting a technical study on international best practices on
deposit insurance and examining possible implications for Malaysia.
16.    The third pillar of the comprehensive package is to lay a solid basis for Malaysia to emerge from
its current difficulties and return to more rapid growth rate over the medium term by preserving the
private sector basis of the economy, deepening market institutions, and enhancing productivity growth.
Given market perceptions, Malaysia has given special emphasis in its reform program to improving
corporate governance and strengthening the commitment to market-based mechanisms. In this context,
eleven stockbroking firms have been placed under trading restrictions and two firms suspended to ensure
protection of investor assets. A high level Finance Committee has been established to develop an
effective framework for corporate governance and best practices. The Government has liberalized limits



- 6 -
on foreign investment in telecommunications, stockbroking and insurance markets and is committed to
further gradual liberalization. Foreign investors are now permitted to purchase all types of residential,
shopping, commercial and office properties, with prices exceeding RM250,000 and where financing
comes from overseas financial institutions. To improve transparency and increase competition, the
Government has announced that closed bidding is being replaced by open bidding for future projects to
be privatized. The challenge ahead is to continue to implement these policies vigorously and get rid of
some rigidities specifically in domestic distribution and marketing, which is being addressed through the
adoption of the Trade Practices Bill.
17.    Finally, an improved social safety net is an integral part of the Government's reform program and
is a key rationale for easing budget objectives. The Government has increased public expenditure on
major anti-poverty programs so as to protect real spending per beneficiary and expanded the safety net to
those who have been made newly vulnerable by the crisis and are not directly covered by the existing
programs for the hard-core poor. Recognizing that improving productivity is determined by the quality of
human resources, the Government is committed to preserving priority long-term investments in health
and education in the face of short-term crisis.
A. REBALANCING FISCAL AND MONETARY POLICY
18.    The policy approach adopted by Malaysia to contain the financial crisis has differed in some
respects from other countries in the region. In Malaysia, it was decided early in the crisis that interest
rates would not be raised for the sole purpose of supporting the ringgit. The authorities concluded that
under normal circumstances of isolated and limited currency pressures, raising interest rates sharply for a
short duration would be effective in curtailing loss of confidence against the ringgit. It was assessed,
however, that the crisis that engulfed the region in 1997 could persist over an extended period and that an
interest rate policy on its own would not stabilize the currency but rising interest rates could be effective
if implemented with a package of consistent policies to correct the imbalances in the economy.
Nevertheless, real interest rates have been maintained to contain inflationary expectations and the
Government has continued to promote a positive real rate of return to encourage savings.
19.    Fiscal Policy: Malaysia has maintained a surplus on the budget for the past five years and is
committed to maintaining sound fiscal policy. The fiscal position remained tight in 1997, despite the
crisis. A sequence of budget announcements in 1998 has gradually relaxed the stance of fiscal policy
from a high surplus towards a position closer to overall balance, as part of an overall rebalancing of
macroeconomic policies. In December 1997 the Government announced significant expenditure cuts in
order to maintain a surplus of nearly 2.5% of GNP in 1998. In March 1998, in light of the slow down in
activity, the Government scaled back the size of these cuts, having perceived the danger that drastic cuts
to expenditure might pose to the economy. By allowing automatic stabilizers to work, both on revenue
and expenditure sides, the fiscal policy has been eased for 1998, with increased public expenditure for the
social sector. The Government has included the proposed fast disbursing loan in its fiscal projections for
1998. Fiscal policy will be flexible in the year ahead, and critical social expenditures will not be cut just
to maintain an overall surplus. The Government's ongoing commitment to fiscal discipline should
nevertheless keep the fiscal position sound, consistent with low inflation, while minimizing the output
and social costs of the present downturn. However, the market has been concerned about the fiscal
implications of the Government's contingent liabilities, which are not presently reflected in the budget.
20.    Contingent Liabilities: The uncertainty with regard to the extent of Government's contingent
liabilities--particularly in large infrastructure projects--and its potential impact on the budget, has
adversely affected market confidence. As is true with most infrastructure development projects in other



- 7 -
countries, the Government played a central risk-bearing role in supporting the development of these
projects, either through direct lending or through the issuance of explicit or implicit guarantees.
21.    Recognizing the rising concern of the markets, the Government has taken immediate steps to
identify and manage the risks associated with its exposure. First, the Government has deferred any new
project that is still in the approval process or has been recently signed but not commenced. Infrastructure
projects, amounting ito 22 percent of GDP including the Bakun hydroelectric dam, the second phase of
the new federal capital city, and the Kuala Lumpur Linear City were indefinitely postponed. Given the
volatility and uncertainty in the Asian financial and property markets and the highly leveraged nature of
infrastructure transactions, this hiatus in new project commencement represents a prudent step to
minimize the Government's on-going risk exposure, as well as minimizing the possibility of undertaking
projects that prove unviable in the current economic environment.
22.    For projects that have commenced operations but are still in the construction phase, the
Government is systematically reviewing each project, starting from those projects deemed to be at the
greatest risk. During this process, the Government is engaging the private sector in on-going negotiations
to ascertain the net impact of the current crisis on project economics and, where necessary, is entering
into further negotiations on project terms to ensure long-term project viability. Finally, for those projects
that have completed construction and are in the operations phase, the Government is restricting its
reviews to those projects that are underperforming. In the wake of the recent financial markets turmoil,
this risk-focused approach for dealing with the most at-risk projects represents an appropriate tactic. The
Government effectively has stopped the issuance of new commitments on new projects and is attempting
to limit its exposure to existing projects at risk of failure. In this way, the response will serve to bolster
confidence in the market that the Government will stand behind its commitments to these projects without
simply assuming complete responsibility for project completion. At the same time, the Government has
undertaken a detailed accounting of contingent liabilities and is prepared to further refine this work.
23.   Monetary Policy: Policy makers recognize that monetary growth, particularly credit growth to
the private sector, has been exceptionally high in the past. In part, the rapid private credit growth over the
past three years and the high leverage of the corporate sector can be attributed to Malaysia's
overdependence on the banking sector compared to the capital markets. The Government recognizes the
risks associated with high rates of credit growth and corporate leverage. Since the middle of 1996,
monetary policy has been increasingly tightened, as indicated by the downward trend in monetary
aggregates.  The annualized growth of M3 had decelerated from 22 percent at end-June 1997 to just
above 12% at end-April 1998. This was initially primarily due to external outflows, as domestic credit
growth remained strong until recently. However, credit growth also slowed significantly in December
1997-April 1998, reflecting in part commercial banks' risk averse behavior. The year-on-year growth rate
of domestic credit slowed to about 15 percent in April 1998, from 27% at end-1997, which is already
within Bank Negara's end year target of about 12-15 percent. On a seasonally adjusted basis, the
annualized three month change in March/April was virtually zero. After having risen in March for the
first time in several months, loan approvals (which are leading indicators of future credit growth) fell
again in April, suggesting that loan growth could fall well below the end year target in coming months.
24.   Interest rates have increased, with the three-month interbank rate rising to about 11% at present,
compared with 7.5% at end-June 1997, in line with the rise in expected inflation. This implies actual
borrowing costs in the range of 13% to 16%.



-8 -
BOX 2 CORPORAT    B   SMAL   X RNAL
DEBT- .BUTSIGNIFICANT DOMESTIC iDEBT BURDEN
Althoug t theetrnaldebtburden tis relatively low, Xcorporations anidhouseholds are highly leveraged with
do0mestic-currency debt, but $lessso0inicomprison to other countriesl such as South Korea. Overall leverage
th eecongmy, i.e., domestic* and external debt, was 225 percent of GNP in 1997 compared; with 121
Ttpercent tin 1980(and apeak of73 2percent iini 1986). Among the corporations, the conglomerates and
contrut ion lcompr ies are the mostWleveragd. F or most corporations, the structire of liabilities iindicates
ai    l areelion shortm  debt, it is nearly 70 percent for constrctionb companies and conglomerates.
Theihlvrgn by cororaton and households and the lreshare of short-term  domestic debt in
itotl liblities tends to heighten sensitivity towaids domestic iterest rate movements (much more so
compared to exchange rate movements).
25.    Malaysia has followed an exchange rate policy where its currency was managed against the value
of the US dollar. Although the ringgit is allowed to float, its value had fluctuated within a relatively
narrow band up until the crisis in mid-1997. The authorities initially tried to support the ringgit through
foreign exchange market intervention and sharp rises in short-term interest rates, but this response was
quickly abandoned. As part of the March reform package, the Government has announced its
commitment to maintaining a flexible exchange rate policy.
26.    External Financing: The most significant and stable entry in the capital account in recent years
has been private foreign direct investment (FDI). As shown in Figure 1, during the 1990s, capital flows
other than FDI have played an increasingly important role, first as inflows, and in 1997 as rapid outflows.
The outflows of capital that occurred involved mainly short-term foreign investment with some outflows
of funds by Malaysians. Long-term direct foreign investment in Malaysia was for the main part
unaffected. Although the longer-term outlook for FDI is positive, it could drop in the immediate future in
the context of the crisis. The loss of confidence has mainly occurred among portfolio investors.
27.    Under the 2-3 percent growth scenario, the external current account deficit is projected to decline
from 4.8 percent of GDP (US$4.8 billion) in 1997 to 0.5 percent of GDP (US$400 million) in 1998.
These adjustments have been forced by the sudden compression of capital flows and weakening market
confidence. The,current account deficit in 1998 will be financed by medium and long-term borrowing.
The proposed loan of US$300 million will be part of the US$2.3 billion of medium and long-term
borrowing projected for 1998. With the vigorous implementation of the reform program, foreign
exchange reserves are expected to remain broadly unchanged at US$21.7 billion in 1998, and as a ratio of
months of imports, it is expected to increase from 3.5 months in 1997 to 3.8 months in 1998.
28.    The first quarter trade data in 1998 confirm that substantial adjustment is already underway,
primarily through import compression. Adverse terms of trade effects and an even sharper slowdown in
the growth of Malaysia's exports (in the Asia region, as well as reflecting the slow cyclical recovery in
electronics) would continue to dampen the positive impact on export performance of the weaker ringgit.
In the event confidence is slow to return, private capital flows could be even weaker than expected, with
the possibility of further net outflows. Gross official reserves could fall modestly under a downside risk
scenario.



- 9 -
FIGURE 1: FOREIGN CAPITAL FLOWS
1 2
10 
8
6
4
0                              17211ii    i I 
-4-                 im
-6
-8
1 974  1 977  1 980  1 983  1 986  1 989  1992  1 995
*FDI r-Portfolio r-0ther
B. STRENGTHENING THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
29.    The Government's long term vision, in the context of increasing globalization, is that the finance,
banking and insurance sectors will play a more prominent role in contributing to the growth of the
economy. The objective is to make the financial sector more effective in mobilizing domestic savings
and efficiently allocating them, thereby contributing to efforts in transforming Malaysia into a potential
regional financial center. Towards this end, the Government would like to maintain financial stability
and further increase its efficiency and competitiveness.
30.    Even before the regional crisis started, the Government had concluded that the financial sector
needed to be consolidated. As the regional crisis has deepened over the past one year, Malaysia's
financial system has come under increasing stress, notwithstanding Malaysia's generally well developed
supervisory and regulatory framework. Evidence of this surfaced with the deteriorating liquidity
positions at many Malaysian deposit-taking institutions, as it became necessary for Bank Negara
Malaysia to provide extraordinary support. BNM deposits with the banking system went from RM9
billion in June 1997 to RM35 billion at the peak in January 1998. At the peak, BNM deposits represented
10 percent of deposits in domestic banks and finance companies. In recent months, liquidity pressures
have subsided due to a return of confidence following the announcements in January of full government
protection of deposits and in February of the decision to reduce the statutory reserve requirement.
31.    While Malaysia's deposit taking institutions entered the crisis with relative capital strength and
low non-performing loans ("NPLs"), financial indicators have yet to reflect the full magnitude of
difficulties still to come. There remain significant downside risks, and these include: large, sluggish and
weakening property sector, which accounts for one-third of all banking system loans; weak and volatile
stock market which could adversely affect the 10 percent of loans extended for share financing and
stockbroking activities; high leverage (although less than in other neighboring countries) in the corporate
sector and for the overall macroeconomy; increasing volume of non-performing loans which have already
grown to 9.2 percent in March 1998 and to 10.6 percent at end-April; level of risk-weighted capital that is
moderately high (10.7 percent) in nominal terms, but which is yet to be tested in a market that could
deteriorate more over the next 12 months; segmented interbank market with deposits shifted from
domestic banks to foreign banks and from smaller to larger financial institutions; regime of banking



- 10-
supervision and prudential regulation that is relatively comprehensive, but which requires selectively
strengthened capabilities; and risk of substantially reduced economic growth which could be
accompanied by asset price deflation.
TABLE 2: INDICATORS OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTION SOUNDNESS, 1992-97
1992~   19931         1994,       19951      1996        1997
Loan-deposit ratio I/                                                                (Percent)
Commercial lanks                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~93.9.  83.5'  83.7.    88.9.      89.3        91.9
Fnance companies                                           86.8       85.'6      874         8.         90.8        95.6
Share of loans to broad property sector 2/                                           (Percent)
Cmercial banks                                          30.1        30.0       26.31      26.5        27.0        31.8
Finance compani es                                          27.9       28.51      26.'3       24.0       22.21       24.4
Ri sk-weighted capital ratio (RWCR) 3/                                               (Percent)
Comimercial banks                                           11.7.      12.91       1 1.7;     10.6:       11.2       10.7
Finance companies                                            9.21       8.8,       10.1        9.7       10.1        10.6
Non-performing l oans 4/,1                                                    (Percent of total loans)
Commercial banks                                           14.61      13.09.                  4.9.        3.8        4.5
Priinc_ipal p'ortioni                                     9.5        8.3,        7.5        3.6         2.9         .
Interest-in-suspense                                      5.1        4.71        2.3        1.6. .6
Fin a_nce',c6m_p-an-i es                                    160        1.5        1.           6.6.        4.7        7.8
on                           10.4.      ~~~~~~~9.9    T         45         3.4         7.0
Interest-in-suspense                                      5.61       4.6         3.1        2.11        1.          .8
General provision 6/                                                          (Percent of total loans)
Cmmercial banks                                             1.2        1.31       1.6         1.7        1.9         2.1
Finance companies                                           1..         1.1 ~    1.3           1.5.       1.5         1.7
Specific and general provisions for loan losses                                  (Percent ofNPLs)
Commercial banks                                          30.9       34.3        35.6.      57.5.       79.        61.4
Finance compamies                                          257         27.7~   34.0:          53.01      61.01       37.7
I/  Deposits including repos, and loans excluding housing loans sold to Cagamas Berhad.
2/ Lending for construction, real estate and housing purchases; extcludes loans sold to Cagamnas Berhad.
3/  Under the old system of classification, the minimum RWCR is 8 percent for all institutions; before 1995; it was 8 percent for finance companies
and domestic banks and 10 percent for foreign banks.
4!  Loans were classified as non-performing if payments were overdue for six months or more; beginning January 1, 1998, this period was
shortened to three months.
5/  Under the 3-month classification standard, the figures would be 5.3 percent and 9.9 percent for commercial banks and finance companies,
respectively.
6/  Percent of gross loans including housing loans sold to Caganmas Berhad, less interest-in-suspense and specific provisions; minimum requirement
provision increased from I to t.5 percent as of Janiuary 1, 1998.
32.      Government's Financial Sector Stabilization Package:   Recognizing that NPLs could grow
significantly in 1998, placing further pressure on the banking system, the authorities introduced a pre-
emptive package to strengthen the financial sector on March 24 and 25, 1998. The reform measures are
aimed at minimizing the use of government resources in restructuring of the sector, strengthening the
regulatory and supervisory regime, and introducing greater market based incentives. In par-ticular, these
measures are focused in four main areas:
*    Strengthening the finance company sector through its early consolidation into a much smaller
number of "core" companies;



*  rigorous assessments of the condition of the financial sector and where necessary the
preemptive recapitalization2 of financial institutions facing a threat of becoming under-
capitalized during 1998;
*  broad-based strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory framework; and
*  increased disclosure and changes to the liquidity support framework.
BOX 3: SAFEGUARDS IN THE MERGER PROGRAM FOR FINANCE COMPANIES
Final approval of mergers would be contingent upon completion of due diligence, conducted by
respected international accounting finns, with final payments to shareholders of acquired institutions based
upon the valuations established through this process. Due diligence would also cover the condition of the
merged companies.. Mergers would only be finally approved if there were substantial conviction that the
merged institutions would be fully capitalized.
*  Merger agreements would ensure that any liquidity support is collateralized with assets of the merged
institution, and time-bound arrangements for repayment are included;
* Although the acquiring institution would receive a 1-year government guarantee against any reduction
in the value of the acquired assets, the authorities expect claims to be minimized since they would be
based on values initially established through due diligence. In addition, the Government would receive
an 80 percent share in any eventual recovery of asset value;
*  Any use of government resources, following the expiry of the guarantee, would be done transparently
and explicitly, and within the budgetary framework;
*  The acquiring institution will have full authority to change the management of the acquired
institutions, and to undertake other cost-saving measures; and
*  Bank Negara's supervision will be directed at maintaining the full capitalization of the merged
institutions following the expiry of the guarantee and will encourage finance companies to achieve
capital-adequacy ratios above present minimum standards.
33.    Consolidation of Finance Company Sector: Against the prospect that a number of finance
companies could become undercapitalized during 1998, the authorities have given priority to the prompt
consolidation of the sector. On March 31, 1998, BNM announced the completion of the first stage of the
consolidation process with the agreement of all 39 finance companies to participate, leading ultimately to
just eight finance conmpanies, an important first step. The Government has promoted the consolidation of
the finance company sector through moral suasion and the added incentive to the acquiring finance
companies of a guarantee against any further reduction in value of the acquired assets. The Government
expects claims under the guarantee to be minimized since they would be based on values established
through due diligence that is subsequently verified by a reputable international accounting firm
representing the Government. As a further safeguard [see Box 3] to ensure the soundness of the finance
company sector, BNM raised the minimum risk-weighted capital adequacy ratio for finance companies to
9 percent beginning the end of 1998 and to 10 percent at the end of 1999. The minimum capital funds
required will be raised from RM 5 million to RM 600 million by year end 2000, with an interim RM 300
million requirement for June 1999. Institutions that elect to stay out of the merger program will have to
demonstrate they are able to comply with the capital adequacy requirements. Moreover, the Government
has announced the establishment of a special agency to acquire the non-performing loans of commercial
banks. The Agency will operate on market principles and all transactions will reflect fair market values
2 With emphasis on mobilizing private capital except for Government-owned banks.



- 12-
with loans sold to the AMC being at written down values. The AMC would manage and liquidate the
acquired assets with a view to maximum recovery. The Agency will be initially capitalized by the
Government but will attract private interest through maintaining transparent acquisition criteria.
34.   Rigorous Assessments and Pre-emptive Market-based Recapitalization: BNM is committed to a
proactive approach to maintain adequate capitalization of the core banking system with the primary
emphasis on mobilizing private capital, except for government-owned banks.  Through enhanced
monitoring of individual institutions and where necessary the use of enforcement actions, BNM will
promote the pre-emptive recapitalization of Malaysian institutions before they become under-capitalized.
Corrective measures will include restraints on dividends, limitations on credit growth, and strengthened
provisioning. In the event of noncompliance with corrective measures, BNM has assessed that it has
sufficient legal authority to take effective remedial actions under existing law.
35.   The authorities recognize that greater openness to foreign capital would facilitate the
recapitalization of the banking system and, as a first step, are encouraging individual institutions to attract
new foreign equity investment up to the existing limit of 30 percent. The authorities have committed to
gradual and progressive liberalization in the financial sector, and are reviewing an increase in this limit in
the context of WTO negotiations. Limits on foreign investment in the insurance sector have been raised,
from 30 percent to 51 percent; and in the stockbroking sector, from 30 percent to 49 percent.
36.   With market confidence already affected by concerns on potential bailouts, recapitalizations in
the banking sector are to be undertaken using a market-based and transparent approach. Specifically, the
Government has announced that the Employee Provident Fund (EPF), Permodalan Nasional Berhad
(PNB) and other quasi-public institutions will take an interest in a banking institution only if the
acquisition will maximize value for their shareholders or unit holders. These institutions will not be
required to recapitalize banks unless they already own a share in that particular banking institution or this
is done in conjunction with private investors participating on the same terms and conditions. The
Government will only be responsible for injecting capital in government-owned banking institutions.
37.   In early March, BNM announced that Sime Bank, Malaysia's fifth largest bank, was in need of
recapitalization, and that based on stress testing, Bank Bumiputra and two small finance companies also
may require additional capital. Because of an enormous loss, stemming from losses by its stockbroking
and offshore banking subsidiaries, Sime Bank would require a RMI.2 billion injection to restore capital
to the regulatory requirement. Bank Bumiputra, which is owned by the Government, may require new
capital of RM 750 million; the two finance companies together may require as much as RM 34 million.
Since the announcement, RHB Bank has concluded a deal to acquire Sime Bank, and the two finance
companies have agreed to be merged in conjunction with the finance company consolidation.
38.    With the enactment of the Banking and Financial Institutions Act in 1989 ("BAFIA"), BNM has
broad supervisory powers to oversee the banking industry, especially with regard to the imposition of
enforcement actions and a defined legal process for bank intervention. Under the BAFIA, BNM has a
range of actions that it may take against institutions that operate in a manner detrimental to the interests of
depositors, creditors or the public generally. Specific instances considered detrimental are (a) that the
regulated institution is or will likely become capital or liquidity insolvent or (b) has operated in
contravention of the BAFIA.
39.    BNM's powers include the ability to issue cease and desist orders to remedy unsafe or unsound
practices, as well as more strict measures to suspend institutions from banking, remove officials from
positions of authority and to appoint new officials in order to take control of a regulated institution. For



- 13 -
the more strict measures, such as writing down of capital or liquidation of an institution, BNM must
receive the concurrence of the Finance Minister and the approval of the High Court. Although concerted
action among the BNM, the Finance Minister and the High Court is required to exercise certain aspects of
the BAFIA, in practice this has not been an impediment to the expeditious resolution of ailing financial
institutions.
40.   Financial restructuring costs cannot be identified with any precision at this time. Very
preliminary estimates suggest that the total recapitalization need of the financial system could be less than
five percent of GDP, although much depends on the outlook for the economy during the remainder of the
year. Since the recapitalization process is to be private sector-led, and given the safeguards in the finance
company merger program, the cost to the Government is likely to be small. Nevertheless, these costs
need to be closely monitored, given the risks that developments could turn out differently.
41.   Strengthening the Supervisory Framework, Increased Disclosure and Liquidity Support:
Increased disclosure is aimed at improving the quality and reliability of information provided to
regulators, shareholders and the general public. Banks are required to publish data on key indicators of
financial soundness, including capital adequacy and NPLs, every financial quarter, not later than 6 weeks
after the close of the quarter. BNM already publishes monthly information of capital adequacy, NPLs,
and the provisioning levels of commercial and merchant banks, and finance companies. BNM will also
publish tables showing key indicators for individual institutions based on the data that they publish
themselves. The breakdown of NPLs by economic sector is now published by BNM every quarter
beginning with March 1998. To enable greater transparency, BNM's emergency liquidity support
mechanism will be separated from its normal liquidity management for monetary policy. Future lending
through the BNM support mechanism is to be fully collateralized and at penalty rates. Institutions
borrowing from the facility would need to present action plans to normalize their liquidity deficiencies,
which include the repayment of the BNM facility within a specified time.
42.   In tandem with the market-based incentives outlined above, the authorities have also sought to
strengthen the prudential regulatory environment and supervisory framework, utilizing measures that
have been adopted increasingly as best practices in a number of developed and developing countries.
This includes: (a) with effect from financial year 1998, banking institutions to make a 20 percent specific
provision against the uncollateralized portion of substandard loans; (b) off-balance sheet items to be
included in the loan classification and provisioning system; (c) increased capital adequacy thresholds and
ratios; and (d) the single customer lending limit tightened to 25 percent from 30 percent.
43.   A broad-based program for regulatory reform and improved disclosure of financial institutions is
also part of the comprehensive package. With tightened loan classification, the introduction of
provisioning against substandard loans, and intensified monitoring of off-balance sheet items, Malaysia
has improved standards and brought them into line with international best practices.
44.   BNM will review the legal framework for its operations, in particular for its support of weak
institutions, and it has reported its satisfaction with the independence extended to it under the existing
law. Finally, a range of enhancements to monetary management are being introduced that should
improve financial intermediation, deepen the capital market, and diversify funding sources for private
investment activity.
45.   Deposit Insurance: While not disputing the moral hazard implications of a full guarantee on
deposits, the authorities recognize the need for action to control deposit outflows from Malaysian banks
and finance companies. The existence of the guarantee has stopped market segmentation and prevented



- 14-
market risks from spreading widely. While hardly a perfect solution, it has been perhaps the most
workable one in the circumstances. The Government recognizes that there is a need to replace it with a
more formal, consistent and predictable mechanism. The strategy of the authorities is to review
alternative mechanisms for depositor protection, and take a decision about any replacement of the
guarantee only after the banking system has been demonstrably strengthened.
46.   On the legal framework, the authorities propose a review of legislation and regulations pertaining
to monetary management; investment in authorized securities by financial institutions; and further
liberalization of rules to enhance the ability of businesses to manage their foreign exchange exposure.
47.   Capital Market Development: The Government recognizes that the over-dependence on the
banking sector and the under-reliance on the capital markets (fund management industry and other
specialized non-deposit taking financial intermediaries) as sources of financing have exposed the
economy to a higher degree of liquidity and systemic risk, thus making its financial sector and economy
much more vulnerable to internal and external shocks. In this regard, efforts are underway to develop
capital markets (e.g., bond markets, more efficient fund management) and allow corporations to diversify
their sources of funding away from banks.
C. IMPROVING CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND COMPETITION POLICIES
48.   The interaction of incentives--corporate governance, state support for corporations, and product
market competition--collectively impact on corporate performance and accountability, and effective
deployment of assets and productivity. In this regard, the present crisis has revealed structural problems
that had been earlier masked by rapid growth. The Government has begun reassessing and reforming the
existing policy framework for conducting business activities with a view to modernizing it and making it
more consistent with the needs of globalization and deepening market institutions. A number of
weaknesses have been identified and are being addressed as part of the Government's reform package.
49.   The reform package reaffirms and strengthens the Government's long term growth strategy in the
Vision 2020. A number of strategic challenges have been identified in Vision 2020. These are: (a) a
diversified and well-balanced economy; (b) an adaptable economy; (c) a technologically proficient
economy; (d) an economy with strong domestic and international linkages; (e) a knowledge based
economy; (f) a productivity driven economy; and (g) an economy driven by private entrepreneurship. In
light of recent developments, the Government has recognized that good corporate governance is also a
strategic element of Vision 2020. Therefore, as part of the strategy to enhance productivity based growth,
the Government's reform package lays emphasis on establishing a corporate governance framework that
could more effectively harness market forces.
50.   Improving Corporate Governance. There has been considerable market concern over
thansparency in the operations of the corporate sector. In particular concerns have been raised about the
quality of disclosure of information, the responsibilities of directors, conflict of interest in related-party
and interested-party transactions, and protection of minority shareholders. The Government has taken a
number of positive steps to address these concerns which, taken together, should lead to greater
transparency. A review is proposed and to coordinate the review, a high level inter-agency Finance
Committee has been established by the Government. The agency is chaired by the Secretary General of
Ministry of Finance with representatives from various agencies and industry groups. The Finance
Committee is reviewing existing laws and their application with a view to introducing international best
practices. Under the Finance Committee two working groups have been established to recommend, by
August 1998, best practices in corporate governance and training and also identify legal reforms to



- 15 -
underpin good corporate governance. The main actions completed by the Government or that are
planned to be completed within the next six months are described below.
51.   Strengthening the Securities Industry and Protecting Investors. In line with ongoing efforts to
strengthen and enhance the efficiency of the securities industry in preparation for increased global
competition and liberalization, the Government is encouraging the mergers and branching of existing
companies in the industry. In addition, the Securities Commission (SC) has also directed the Kuala
Lumpur Stock Exchange (KLSE) to strengthen regulations and monitoring mechanisms in relation to
capital adequacy of brokerage firms and management of client assets. KLSE has circulated to member
companies an exposure draft relating to risk-based capital adequacy requirements. The proposed
requirements mirror very closely guidelines issued by the European Union. These requirements are
expected to come into force by the second half of 1998. KLSE has also proposed revised and
strengthened client asset protection rules in order to protect the interests of clients of the brokerage firms.
The proposals have been circulated to members and are expected to be implemented by August 1998.
52.   Meanwhile, the SC and KLSE have been conducting extensive and heightened surveillance
activity on the industry to assess the adequacy of their funds and to ensure that the integrity of the market
is not compromised. The reviews revealed inefficiencies in this sector requiring immediate attention.
Eleven stockbroking firms were placed under trading restrictions and two firms suspended to ensure
protection of investor assets. Many of the stockbroking companies need significant injection of capital to
meet the prudential standards expected by the Securities Commission. The Government has announced
that stockbroking firms that do not have sufficient capital to support their business will be required to
scale down their activities or merge quickly. The Securities Commission has set parameters for the Kuala
Lumpur Stock Exchange to effect these mergers or recapitalization exercises.
53.   Enhancing Transparency. The Government is taking a number of steps to improve the accuracy
and frequency of disclosure of information by companies. Companies will be required to disclose on a
quarterly basis financial results, shareholding structure, and borrowing positions. The accuracy of
financial data will be enhanced by requiring companies to comply mandatorily with the standards and
guidelines established by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board and the Financial Reporting
Foundation. This step will bring financial disclosure in line with international best practices since these
two bodies have adopted most of the accounting standards issued by the International Standards
Accounting Committee. To implement these requirements and ensure greater clarity the KLSE has
initiated a comprehensive review of its policies, guidelines and requirements for listing. As a step to
further enhance transparency the KLSE has commenced work on an electronic data management system
for more efficient dissemination of information on the listed companies.
54.   An important lesson from the current crisis is that good corporate governance practices makes a
difference in helping markets distinguish between fundamentally sound firms and those that are not
competitive. Effective monitoring and an appropriate system of check and balances is an integral and
crucial component of a well-managed company. There is a perception that directors in Malaysia may be
less mindful of their fiduciary and ethical duties, that independent directors are not very effective in
monitoring abuses and conflict of interest by owner managers and that the decision-making process is
not transparent and known to shareholders. The government is mindful of these concerns and has begun
addressing them. The working group on law reform issues in corporate governance will identify changes
in the Companies Act to strengthen governance structures and enforcement mechanisms. As part of this
exercise the SC has made preliminary proposals on introducing a system of incentives and penalties to
encourage companies to adhere to good corporate governance. The KLSE is also reviewing its listing
requirements from the standpoint of enhancing and strengthening provisions on corporate governance.



- 16-
The findings of the review will be implemented in the fourth quarter of 1998. In developing these
proposals the Finance Committee is using international norms and benchmarks such as the Cadbury
committee guidelines used in UK.
55.   Protecting Minority Shareholders. In addition to providing public companies with risk capital,
minority shareholders are a useful counterpoint to any excesses of the directors and major shareholders.
Currently minority shareholders do not have an effective voice and cannot fully protect their interests.
The Government is taking measures to redress this imbalance. Based on a review of the 1987 Code on
Take-overs and Mergers and international standards a new Code has been prepared. This Code requires
high standards of commercial behavior, so that in any take-over exercise, the minority shareholders are
given a fair and equal opportunity to consider the merits and demerits of an offer and to decide whether
they should retain or dispose of their share. This new Code will be adopted after discussions on certain
policy issues have been completed. In addition, the SC is also reviewing the Practice Notes including
those relating to the granting of exemptions, also with the aim of enhancing transparency and protecting
minority shareholders.
56.   In related party and interested-party transactions, the Government wants to ensure that the
interests of minority shareholders are not compromised. The legal and administrative provisions of the
Companies Act are being enforced in a more vigorous and consistent manner. A review is also being
undertaken by the SC to strengthen the KLSE rules governing related-party and interested-party
transactions. The revised rules will strengthen the role and responsibility of independent corporate
advisers in ensuring that the transactions are not done to the detriment of minority shareholders. In
addition, the voting rights of interested parties would be clarified. The Securities Commission will also
periodically check on adequacy and veracity of disclosures and compliance with relevant rules for
related-party and interested-party transactions. Strict sanctions, including non-acceptance of corporate
proposals for restructuring, merger and acquisitions, would be meted out against those who do not adhere
to good corporate governance and who do not have the interest of minority shareholders in mind.
57.   Facilitating Market-based Corporate Restructuring. Resolving corporate distress brought about
by the financial crisis is an important component of the recovery effort. This includes both voluntary
workouts as well as court-supervised reorganization and bankruptcy. Malaysia's bankruptcy and
insolvency (liquidation procedures) are governed by the Bankruptcy Act, 1967 largely modeled on the
UK system. The Companies Act contains provisions for reorganization and liquidation. The present
framework is comprehensive. However, positive steps need to be introduced to expedite the process and
make it more transparent, especially with regard to acquisitions and mergers. In this regard the SC has
commenced a review of guidelines relating to mergers and acquisitions. The Registrar of Companies
will also publish quarterly statistics on commencement and completion of winding-up and reorganization
cases.
58.    Competition Policies: Malaysia's ratio of foreign trade to GDP is around 150%, one of the
highest among Asian countries. External trade has been the key towards maintaining a high level of
productivity and in doubling Malaysia's share of exports in world trade in the 1990s. Malaysia has
significantly reduced tariff and non-tariff barriers in recent years, although tariff dispersion is still
relatively high and import licensing cover 18% of tariff lines. As shown in Table 3 below, Malaysia's
mean average tariff for all products at 9.1 percent in 1997 was low compared to South Korea, Thailand,
Chile, and Mexico. The trend towards liberalized trade, however, has been dampened by the tariff
increases and licensing requirements introduced in the October 1997 budget for selected items. These
measures were invoked by concerns regarding balance of payments objectives. These increases were
within the agreements made by the Government under WTO. However, the exchange rate depreciation



- 17-
has alleviated concerns on balance of payments objectives. The Government, therefore, plans to review
in the context of the ASEAN Free-Trade Area (AFTA) recent tariff increases and licensing requirements
to remove any market perceptions that Malaysia is reversing its path towards a more open economy.
59.    Some rigidities remain specifically in domestic distribution and marketing. In this context, the
Government plans to adopt Trade Practices Bill (with specific provisions against price-fixing, market
sharing and other collusive arrangements, and anti-competitive merger and acquisition activity) and the
Consumer Protection Bill, which is expected to be tabled in Parliament by September 1998. These Bills
will address concerns related to the licensing of distribution oligopolies in key domestic industries,
(particularly for products subject to price controls, e.g. flour, rice, sugar). The Government plans to
maintain the current price controls on key food products consumed mainly by the low income group to
protect their social well being in the present crisis. However, in the medium term, the Government will
review the policy on price controls, in particular, of non-essential goods. In addition the Government is
further improving privatization procedures to enable wider participation from the private sector in the
ongoing privatization program. These measures will contribute in maintaining competitive pressures on
firms and will enhance consumer awareness and choice, and protect their rights.
TABLE 3: TARIFF BARRIERS
All products            Primary products       Manufactured products
Standard   Weighted       Standard   Weighted       Standard   Weighted
Mean deviation of   mean   Mean deviation of   mean   Mean deviation of   mean
tariff  tariff rates   tariff  tariff  tariff rates   tariff  tariff  tariff rates   tariff
Malaysia        1997  9.1    19.4        11.9    4.1    21.2       9.4    12.2    17.5       12.8
Chile  ''  '''''~ -1997  1-1-.0  '0.6   1-0.9    1 1.0    0.0       11.0   10.9    0.7''    10.8
Japan           199' 60'    8.0         2.7      9.1     1'0.7     4.0    4.8      6.4       2.3
Korea, Rep.     1996  11.3    27.0       10.1   21.2    48.4       16.7    8.2    14.0       7.8
Mexico          1997  13.1    10.6       13.2   14.5    19.6       13.0   12.8    7.8        13.3
Singapore       1989  0.5      2.7       2.3    0.2      2.4       1,0    0.6      2.8       2.7
Thlaiand        1993  45.6    25.0      41.5   40.3    19:4        33.9   47.2    26.2       43.7
Source: World Develo pment Indicators, 1998.
60.    The Government's reform  package remains committed to the liberalization of investment
restrictions in order to deepen competition and accelerate the revival of long-term capital inflows. In this
regard, Malaysia's policy will aim to introduce more competition in key domestic trading activities
(particularly for products subject to price controls); and reduce investment restrictions (domestic and
foreign) in the financial sector, as well as in other key sectors, thereby alleviating capital shortages and
enhancing efficiency. To this end, the equity limits on foreign investment have already been raised for the
telecommunications sector (from 49% to 61% subject to reducing the level to 49% by the year 2003 by
divestment to local companies). Foreign investors are now allowed to purchase all types of residential,
shopping, commercial and office properties provided funds for acquisition emanate from external sources
and provided the transaction value is at least RM250,000.
D. STRENGTHENING SOCIAL SAFETY NETS
61.    A  Good Record of Achievement:  Over the last quarter of a century, Malaysia has made
impressive progress in targetted poverty alleviation and human resources development. Female literacy



- 18 -
has increased to 83 percent while female enrollment in secondary education compares favorably with
other countries at a similar level of development. The incidence of poverty in 1997 was 8.2 percent
(headcount index), hard-core poverty--defined as households with incomes 50 percent below the poverty
line (RM450 per month), and concentrated in rural areas--was reduced from 7 percent in 1985 to 3
percent of households in 1993 and is about 1-2 percent in 1998. The quality of life in rural areas has
improved: 97 percent of rural households have access to paved roads, 76 percent have piped water in
their houses, 80 percent have access to electricity supply, 94 percent have access to at least one primary
school, and village health teams provide rural health services. Malaysia had reached full employment
status (the unemployment rate had fallen to 2.5 percent in 1997). Malaysia has 1.7 million foreign
workers employed mainly in the non-tradable sector (e.g., construction). Poverty eradication has
remained an integral component of major policies such as New Economic Policy (NEP), National
Development Plan (NDP), and Vision 2020.
62.    Growth was the prime engine through which poverty was so spectacularly reduced, but growth
alone is not sufficient to explain Malaysia's poverty reduction record. The Government has committed to
spend about 1.2% of total budgetary allocations in 1998 on social assistance programs including new
initiatives to help the urban poor. At this projected level, spending on the social safety net would be
higher than the comparable figure for 1997. Spending on education as a percentage of total government
expenditure in 1998 would be maintained at about 22%, the same level as in 1997. Expenditures on
health are projected to increase from 6% of total government spending in 1997 to about 7% in 1998.
These projected increases are premised on the Government's total commitment to an additional allocation
of RM1 billion in enforcing social safety net programs, improving rural infrastructure, and promoting
human resource development.
63.    Among social safety net programs are income-tested ones providing direct support to the hard-
core poor through the provision of free housing and food supplements, as well as for income generation
through small grants (for agricultural projects) and agricultural extension services. To help needy
children, there are nutritional programs, scholarships/school fee aid and free textbooks. A third category
of assistance is non-income tested, primarily targeted to indigenous groups and includes microcredit for
income generating activities.
TABLE 4: EDUCATION
Secondary        Public expend.    Expenditure       Secondary
% of relevant    on education       on teaching         Pupils
age group                          materials
Gross        Net                       % of total
...  ...  ..    ..  .....   ..  .........   ........    ........   .......,,.......   ............   ..    ...........    ..   . ...........
enrollment   enrollment                   for lewI          % female
ratio      ratio      % of GNP    primary  secondary  general  vocational
1995       1995         1995        1994     1994      1994     1994
Malaysia       61                      4.0         6.0      8.8      51.0      27.0
Chile          69          55          2.9         0.0       ..       54.0     47.0
~~~~~~~~~~~......   -.._ _ .......................   ..   ...........-  ......  ..._   ............   ...   - 1-     ...   .....   I  -   .......    ..   ..   ... ..  . _    .. .......
Japan          99          96          3.8         4.8       ..       50.0     45.0
Korea, Rep. -~ 101 _ . 96              3.7         2.2      0.1      47.0      53.0
Mexico         58           .          5.3         1.3      0.0      48.0      59 0
Singapore      62           ..         3.0         0.0       ..      50.0     30.0
Thailand       55           .          4.2         1.0        ^ ^  50.0
Source: World Development Indicators, 1998.



-19-
64.   To cushion the poor and vulnerable from the adverse effects of economic slowdown, the
Government has taken actions on several fronts. First, access to key social sector services would be
maintained by ensuring that the budget shares for health and education in 1998 remain approximately at
their 1997 levels, even in the face of retrenchment in the overall budget. This is a key to preserving
priority long-term development investments in the face of the short-term crisis. As part of this effort, the
Government will:
* Restore the budget allocation for key human resource development programs, including
additional buildings for primary and secondary schools in rural areas, as well as the
expansion of education facilities for skill development and institutions of higher learning. In
addition, the Higher Education Loan Fund will be enhanced to help students who face
financial difficulties as a result of the crisis, to benefit from their investment in higher
education. The budget share of education will be monitored quarterly; and
* restore the budget allocation to build rural and urban health clinics and hospitals to its
original plan level and continue to provide adequate funds for the supply of drugs and other
essentials in public health services for the general public including those in rural areas. The
budget share of health will be monitored quarterly.
65.   Second, access to financial assistance and social sector services will be expanded to
accommodate those who are vulnerable to the crisis. To do this, public expenditure per beneficiary on
major antipoverty programs will be kept protected in real terms. As part of this initiative, the
Government has made additional allocation for expanding existing programs and implementing new ones
to help the hard-core poor. Specifically, these programs are meant to support:
*  The Fund :for Food scheme which provides low interest loans to small farmers and Farmers'
Association;
* an expansion of programs run by Amanah Ikhtiar Malaysia (AIM), a non-governmental
organization, providing small-scale loans to the poorest for income generation activities in
rural areas;
*  construction of rural infrastructure, including rural water supply improvement in the poorest
rural areas; and
* strengthening of welfare programs of the Ministry of National Unity and Social
Development.
66.   Third, the Government will also expand its safety net to those who are made newly vulnerable by
the recent crisis but who may not be directly covered by the existing programs for the hard-core poor.
This will include urban micro-credit programs to provide loans in a fast, simple and non-burdensome
manner to hawkers, traders and small entrepreneurs. This is intended to be the urban counterpart of the
programs run by AIM. The Government has also proposed alternative programs to deal with new
graduates who may have a more difficult time finding employment, including encouraging unemployed
graduates to take up self-employment, and allowing graduates sponsored by the Government to work
overseas after completion of their courses. In general, to stimulate new employment opportunities and
maintain current employment, the Government has established a RMI billion fund for small and medium
industries to increase their competitiveness and therefore viability.
67.   These programs are steps in the right direction to respond to the crisis. The Government does
have a large number of programs that provide a safety net for the poor. These programs are by and large



- 20 -
functioning well. Although most of these programs are appropriately targeted to the poorest in rural
areas, an issue is whether there is an adequate safety net for urban dwellers who may be vulnerable to the
crisis (although unemployment rate is extremely low in Malaysia at 2-3 percent). The announced
programs will increase allocations for some types of key programs, such as Amanah Ikhtiar, and extend
access to potentially vulnerable groups in urban areas, through for example, loans for single mothers and
hawkers. Finally, given that the economic slowdown has adversely affected poor households which face
increasing food prices at a time of falling real household incomes, the Government has intensified efforts
in food production as well as improving the distribution of foodstuffs through programs to release land
for agriculture, establish more outlets for farm produce, and encourage the public to grow their own
vegetables.
68.   Medium-term Issues: The crisis also provides the Government with an opportunity to look more
systematically at medium-term issues that are likely to become more important given the global,
structural and demographic changes that the country will confront in the future. These could include an
analysis of the adequacy of the formal safety net. As with many East Asian countries, the ultimate safety
net in Malaysia has been rapid growth and the extended family. This combination has served the country
well. But the Government will also address new issues in the social sectors as the country develops,
including a greater role for the private sector in provision of social services, an assessment of the
Government's regulatory role in an environment where there is greater private provision of social
services, expanded access to health insurance, and expanding coverage of pensions to the self-employed.
These efforts will be supported by analytical work, such as selective and periodic evaluations of key
social programs to ensure that they are cost-effective and a review of the method for computing the
consumer price index (CPI). Also, the implications of differentiated regional development will need to be
carefully reviewed. The Bank will help to address these issues through a possible Technical Assistance
operation and/or ESW. We also intend to support further social sector development (education, health)
through loans that focus on skill enhancement providing a cushion for the poor.
69.    During the remainder of the decade of the 1990s and continuing into the 21st century, human
resource development will assume new importance. Recognizing that competitiveness, productivity,
innovativeness and capability in management of new technologies in Malaysia will be determined by the
quality of its human resources, the Government will focus on meeting the country's short fall in high
level manpower in science and technology. Specifically, the Government will increase its efforts to
enlarge the pool of Malaysian scientists, specialists and technicians and provide them with proper
incentives to develop their careers in the country. Greater private sector participation in higher education
and industrial training will be encouraged to ensure that training programs will be more relevant to the
needs of the labor market, and develop the innovative skills and technical competencies essential to the
realization of Vision 2020.
E.    Institutional Issues
70.    Malaysia has well-developed public sector institutions. However, weaknesses in capacity in
some specialized areas have emerged, and implementation of policy reforms will increase demand on the
institutions concerned. Technical assistance may therefore facilitate this process. It would also serve as a
vehicle for continuing dialogue between the Government and the Bank on economic and social policy and
program implementation. In addition, the Government has indicated a need for capacity-building to
tackle some of the medium-term reform issues in the financial, corporate and social sectors.  Priority
areas for capacity building include: (a) development of an Early Warning System to enhance banking
supervision, (b) development of a deposit insurance or other financial sector safety net scheme, (c)
reform of healthcare financing, (d) labor market trends analysis, and improvement of labor markets



- 21 -
management information system, (e) review of the CPI/Poverty monitoring; and (f) measurement of
contingent liabilities through modeling approaches. Other technical assistance needs identified include:
improving competitiveiness, and development of a sustainable market for bonds, development of new
social security/pension instruments. A package of technical assistance is being prepared to address these
needs in the context of the Bank's medium-term country assistance program.
m. BANK GROUP STRATEGY
A.    RENEWED COUNTRY RELATIONSHIP
71.   Malaysia has had a long and productive relationship with the Bank, with a total of 99 loans
approved since 1958. The Bank has supported Malaysia predominantly in agriculture and rural
development, but also in industry, infrastructure (power, water supply and sanitation, transport and
communications), health and education, thus contributing substantially to Malaysia's strong economic
and social track record. A total of US$2.7 billion has been disbursed. The country now has US$775
million outstanding to the Bank with a total exposure in the Bank's portfolio of 0.6% (1997 estimate).
However, Malaysia has not borrowed from the Bank for the last four years, nor has it had a substantial
program of non-lending services. Country contacts in this period have been minimal. Consequently, our
level of knowledge on economic and social developments has been relatively limited.
72.   A concerted effort began in August 1997, just before the East Asian financial crisis hit Malaysia,
to renew the Bank-country relationship. The first stage entailed improving the Bank's knowledge of the
economy through analytical work (Country Economic Memorandum), and identifying best practices and
lessons learned which could be applied to other contexts. With the spread of the crisis to Malaysia, the
dialogue with the Banlk broadened and deepened. The CEM became an important vehicle for quick-
response policy advice to the Government on emerging crisis-related issues. The Bank has since
produced a series of policy notes with advice on crisis management. Through this process, country
knowledge is improving, and the Bank's partnership with the clients has been re-established.  The
Government has now indicated an interest in pursuing a medium-term program of Bank assistance, with a
primary focus on the scicial sectors.
73.   The last Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was presented to the Board in 1993.  It
acknowledged Malaysia's successful development efforts over the past three decades and recommended a
selective assistance program in line with the Government's priorities: human resources development,
urban infrastructure, environment and private sector development. The CAS envisaged a total lending
program of US$1.2 billion over FY92-97. In practice, lending declined more rapidly than expected as
Malaysia's high growth and budget surplus led to a decreasing need for external assistance. On the Bank
side, stretched administrative budget resources and the advent of new borrowing countries, such as
Vietnam, to the East Asia portfolio entailed greater selectivity, and a shift in resources to assist these
countries. Four projects totaling US$368 million were approved during FY92-94; there were no
commitments in FY95-97. There are two active operations (Health Project, Polytechnic Development
Project). A Montreal Protocol financed project is assisting selected industries in reducing output of
ozone-depleting substances. On the non-lending side, the Bank carried out analytical work on urban
pollution, labor market development and industrial technology policy. The Bank also provided technical
assistance on Employee Provident Fund investment strategies, and a program of policy advice to the
Economic Planning Unit (EPU) of the Prime Minister's office on a reimbursable basis. Recent activities
include: Malaysian Industrial Training and Productivity Study (MITP, 1994-1996); Malaysia Enterprise
Training, Technology and Productivity Study; and Malaysia Skills Needs Study and Interfirm Linkages



- 22 -
and Technology Transfer. The Bank's analytical work and technical assistance have been much
appreciated by the clients.
74.   Malaysia has had a stable and well-functioning system of government for several decades. The
Government is structured as a constitutional monarchy/parliamentary democracy modeled on the UK
system. Malaysia is divided into 13 states which enjoy limited executive authority. In September 1983
Parliament passed sweeping constitutional amendments limiting the powers of the monarchy and
transferring most of them to the Prime Minister. There are two main political parties: the ruling United
Malays National Organization (UNMO) and the opposition Democratic Action Party (DAP). UNMO is
largely Malay, while the DAP is predominantly Chinese. A small Islamic party, PAS, controls Kelantan
province. Malaysia's political history in the 1960s and early 1970s was characterized by frequent
tensions, particularly between Malay and Chinese and, to a lesser extent, Indian ethnic groups. This has
improved in recent years. The Government has implemented an affirmative action policy which focused
on improving access to education, public services, income-generating opportunities for Malays
(Bumiputra), particularly in rural areas. The policy, predicated on reducing income disparities and hence
reducing social and political tensions and ethnic conflict, did contribute to social development and to
political stability. It was aided by sustained high growth rates. However, tensions remain below the
surface, as the policy has become increasingly associated with elitism. The ongoing regional crisis has
also led to debate among the political elite on how to manage the economy in an increasingly globalized
and integrated world. In a sense, the divergences that have emerged have enabled good internal debate
and ongoing consensus-building that is leading to appropriate pragmatic strategies to deal with the crisis.
B.    WORLD BANK GROUP STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
75.   The World Bank Group will support the Government both with short-term preventive crisis
management and with managing the medium-term reform agenda as it faces emerging challenges on
structural reforms. The Bank Group will support Malaysia to take those measures that move it towards
a more open, transparent, competitive and liberalized economy--one in which market confidence is
restored and progress towards the ranks of the developed countries resumes. An integral part of this
vision is to assist Malaysia in maintaining its very good record on social sector issues, including attention
to the elimination of hard core poverty and preventing deterioration in the conditions of the near poor.
The present safety net programs are functioning well, and we intend to support and strengthen these.
Support tn the social sectors will be a key element in our proposed assistance program. Beyond
mitigating the immediate impact of the crisis on vulnerable groups, we will, at the Government's request
assist in improving access to health and education services, particularly in the poorer regions and among
poor urban groups. We shall also assist in designing a medium-term social safety net framework.
76.   This approach has been discussed with and broadly endorsed by the authorities, and will be
further refined. The authorities have indicated that the duration of a borrowing relationship could be 3-5
years, and a very preliminary, indicative amount of about $1 billion over the next two years has been
mentioned. Should a medium-term borrowing relationship develop as envisaged, the region will bring a
CAS to the Board in FY99 allowing sufficient time for full and effective consultation with the
Government and other stakeholders, as well as for nurturing the newly-established client relations. The
program set out below should thus be regarded as indicative pending the CAS preparation.
77.   Lending: The initial operation is the Economic Recovery and Social Sector Loan ($300
million)--a fast-disbursing loan to mitigate tne social consequences of the economic slowdown and



-23 -
support broad-ranging structural reforms in the financial, corporate and social sectors, primarily policy
actions completed or in progress. This could be followed by a second fast-disbursing operation to support
further deepening of policy and institutional reforms in the financial and corporate sectors, tackling such
challenges as set out in paras. 14-17 and a possible timeslice loan with a stronger focus on the social
safety net. At the same time, we will provide policy advice, both through formal and informal analytical
work, and a package of grant/loan financed technical assistance designed to underpin the reform program
in the four broad areas of focus as described in para. 70. The Government has raised the possibility of
investment operations in the social sectors: health, education andpossibly rural development, particularly
in the poorest states and in poor urban areas.
78.   Non-Lending. The Bank envisages a program of analytical work in: (a) medium term financial
sector issues, (b) comlpetitiveness, (c) poverty assessment-social safety net development; and (d)
environmental issues in particular urban pollution and forest management. A formal CEM will be
completed in FY98, covering short and medium term reform issues (financial sectors, competitiveness,
contingent liabilities and public finance transparency, and social sectors). The Bank will assist in
reviewing medium-term social sector issues, in particular adequacy of the social safety net, income
distribution, labor marlcet issues and regional development. The Reimbursable TA program may be
expanded to cover work in these areas as well as on technology skills development, environment and
agriculture. Malaysia is also going to be a pilot country for the proposed Structured Reviews as these
will provide an opportunity for continued dialogue after the lending relationship is over. Malaysia will
host the next Global Knowledge Conference, scheduled for late 1999.
79.   IFC. Prior to the onset of the current financial crisis in Malaysia, most private sector companies
had little difficulty raisiing funds from abroad. IFC's strategy therefore focused on supporting Malaysian
companies' investing in other countries and especially in Africa. IFC had not invested in Malaysia since
1991/92, and its portfolio is accordingly small. In light of the crisis and its impact on Malaysia, IFC
reassessed its role and strategy. The crisis has severely impacted the debt servicing ability of heavily-
geared private sector and in a deterioration in the access of the private sector to competitive funding from
international capital markets. The focus of IFC's strategy is on re-establishing its presence, both in terms
of support to the financial sector, provision of long-term capital for internationally competitive industrial
projects, and the provision of risk management facilities to the financial and corporate sectors. In
addition, IFC is consiclering infrastructure investment proposals in other countries in Southeast Asia
sponsored by Malaysian companies. IFC's current disbursed portfolio comprises four projects totaling
US$5.6 million. Given the small exposure, the impact of the economic crisis on held portfolio has been
marginal. Three of these projects (outstanding US$1.2 million) relate to investments in venture capital
funds and an asset management company. The fourth project, Twenty-First Century Oleochemicals Sdn.
Bhd. (outstanding debt and equity of about US$4.4 million), is currently shut down and under
receivership. IFC placed this company on non-accrual status in January 1994. Four projects in Malaysia
are currently under appraisal: (i) equity participation in a futures brokerage company sponsored by
AMMB and Macquarie Bank of Australia (currently on hold pending clarification of the market and some
technical issues); (ii) expansion of a clay roof tile factory; (iii) a greenfield PVC resin plant, and, (iv) a
semiconductor wafer fabrication plant.
80.    FIAS assisted the Ministry of Trade and Industry and the Malaysia Industrial Development
Authority in reviewing investment incentive systems, and establishing an investor tracking system.
Malaysia has been a member of MIGA since December 1991. However, MIGA has no exposure at
present. MIGA is more actively involved in activities related to investment promotion. For example,
MIGA arranged a symposium on Asian Outbound Investment Strategies for firms seeking partners
outside Asia in March 1996.



- 24 -
MIGA arranged a symposium on Asian Outbound Investment Strategies for firms seeking partners
outside Asia in March 1996.
81.    Coordination with other development institutions. The Bank intends to coordinate efforts very
closely with the IMF and the ADB, and develop partnerships with other multilateral and bilateral donors.
The IMF supports the proposed Economic Recovery and Social Sector Loan. While there would be no
accompanying formal IMF loan program, the IMF is fully supportive of the Government's reform
program. The IMF has been providing technical assistance to the Malaysian authorities primarily through
policy advice on macroeconomic management in the context of Article IV consultations. In addition, the
Fund has provided policy advice on financial sector support strategies, and technical assistance in central
bank monitoring, monetary and banking statistics, national accounts and Government financial statistics.
The Fund is expected to take the lead in reviewing implementation of macroeconomic policies, monetary
instruments and banking legislation, and will collaborate with the Bank on technical assistance for the
financial sector. The ADB is becoming active in the financial and social sectors. ADB is planning a
financial sector study covering risk assessment and management, bond market development, private
sector financing patterns and asset quality of commercial banks. ADB's current lending program is
modest: one loan of $30-50 million per year3 and about $2 million per year of grant technical assistance
for financial sector capacity building TA and a capital markets development TA scheduled for 1999.
However, the authorities may also be looking to ADB for additional fast-disbursing assistance. ADB is
preparing a Skills Development Program Loan in 1998, and is considering a possible financial sector
program loan. In addition, Japan and the Islamic Development Bank are expected to provide financial
support and TA in the short to medium-term.
IV.  THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.    LOAN OBJECTIVES
82.   The proposed loan is an integral part of the Bank's renewed country relationship and assistance
strategy. The key rationale for the loan is that it supports a pre-emptive reform program, i.e., it is aimed
at preventing the present situation from escalating further. Through this operation, the Bank's
involvement will help facilitate the timely implementation of the program. The proposed loan will support
and strengthen the Government's balance of payments objectives in the context of the ongoing regional
crisis, by providing medium- to long-term capital inflow. The Government's objective is to restore
confidence and prevent the BOP situation from deteriorating, and this operation will act as a catalyst in
supporting that objective. In addition, the proposed loan supports the fiscal objectives of the Government
aimed at strengthening the social sectors.
83.    While there would be no accompanying formal IMF loan program, the IMF is fully supportive of
the Government's reform program. This support of the Government's program was confirmed when the
recent IMF Article IV mission report was discussed by the IMF Board on April 20, 1998. The IMF
supports the proposed Bank loan. They will maintain frequent contact with Malaysia. The Bank will
consult with the IMF on macroeconomic issues.
3The current lending program for 1998 consists of one operation (Lower Saribas Agricultural Development Project in Sarawak--
$30.5 million. The loan program for 1999 will consist of the Daro-Mukah Coastal Zone Development Project, the
Project Preparation TA for which was completed in the fourth quarter of 1997. The Cleaner Technology for Small and
Medium-Scale Industries is scheduled for approval in 2000 and the Kota Kinabalu Industrial Park Project for 2001.
The Sabah Water Sector Privatization Project was added to the Program with scheduled approval in 2000. (ADB 1998
Country Programming Mission back to office report).



- 25 -
85.   Policy Actions supported by this loan: The program of policy action supported by this loan
covers the four key areas, as mentioned above, and summarized in Annex 1 (a detailed matrix of policy
actions setting out the Government's broad reform program is also attached as Annex 2B). These actions
directly address the key domestic causes of the present slowdown in economic activity. Financial sector
strengthening, improved corporate governance and transparency will help restore confidence and rebuild
efficient growth, while expanding social safety nets will protect the hard core poor and the near poor
from the worst effects of the crisis.
86.   The loan is in support of actions already taken by the Government of Malaysia. These actions are
listed in column 3 of Annex 1. They include:
*  Measures to maintain sound andflexible macroeconomic policy in view of the uncertainties
in the economic environment: macroeconomic policy has been rebalanced with the tightening
of the monetary policy and gradual relaxation of the fiscal policy. By allowing automatic
stabilizers to work, both on revenue and expenditure sides, the fiscal stance has been reduced
from maintaining a large surplus to a balanced budget or slight deficit in 1998;
*  measures to strengthen the financial sector--completion of first phase of a program of
assisted nmergers for its financial companies; adoption of a program of preemptive
recapitalization of the banking sector supporting : (a) intensified monitoring through monthly
stress tests performed by Bank Negara Malaysia on all banking institutions; (b) imposition of
prompt corrective actions to address the weaknesses identified through such stress tests and
other supervisory activities; and (c) strengthening of the loan classification and provisioning
standards and the capital adequacy framework. BNM is pursuing greater transparency on the
financial position of individual banking institutions; new guidelines have been issued for
individual banks to publish quarterly data on key indicators of financial soundness, including
RWCR and NPLs. BNM is publishing breakdown of NPLs by economic sector every
quarter;
*  measures  to  improve  corporate  governance  and  transparency  and  strengthen
competitiveness: enactment of legislation to establish the Malaysian Accounting Standards
Board and to require compliance with the accounting standards by all corporate entities;
adoption of a number of the accounting standards of the International Accounting Standards
Committee; enforcement of the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange regulations, including
imposing trading restrictions and suspension of stockbroking companies for failure to comply
with capital adequacy standards; liberalizing the permissible level of foreign ownership in the
telecommunications industry from 49% to 61% (subject to divestiture to domestic companies
down to 49% by 2003), stockbroking industry from 30% to 49%, insurance sector from
30% to 51%; and commercial real estate and condominium sectors up to 100% (provided that
the price exceeds RM 250,000 and the financing comes from overseas financial institutions).
A high level finance committee has been established to develop an effective framework for
corporate governance and best practices; and
* measures ,to strengthen social safety nets to protect the poor and the near poor: (a) increased
public expenditure on major anti-poverty programs so as to protect real spending per
beneficiary to help the hard-core poor. Specifically, these programs include Fund for Food,
small-scale loans to the poorest for income-generation activities in rural areas, strengthening
of water supply in the poorest rural areas, and improvements in welfare programs of the
Ministry of National Unity and Social Development; (b) expansion of safety nets for those



-26 -
small-scale loans to the poorest for income-generation activities in rural areas, strengthening
of water supply in the poorest rural areas, and improvements in welfare programs of the
Ministry of National Unity and Social Development; (b) expansion of safety nets for those
who are made newly vulnerable by the recent crisis but who may not be directly covered by
the existing programs for the hard-core poor. These include urban micro-credit programs for
hawkers, traders and small entrepreneurs; a fund for small and medium industries to increase
their competitiveness and viability; provision of special skills training through public and
private entities to retrain retrenched workers; and (c) preserving priority long-term
development investments in education and health.
B. LOAN ADMINISTRATION
87.   Borrower and loan amount: The Government of Malaysia is the borrower. The proposed amount
of loan is US$ 300 million.
88.   Terms and Conditions: At the request of the borrower, the proposed loan would be on standard
amortization termns, grace period and interest rate for a fixed US dollar Single Currency Loan.
89.   Disbursement: The Government will open and maintain a Deposit Account with the Bank
Negara Malaysia (BNM) for the disbursement of the loan proceeds. Upon effectiveness, the Government
will submit a simplified withdrawal application to the Bank, against which the Bank will disburse loan
proceeds in one tranche into the Deposit Account. Disbursements will not be linked to specific
purchases, and supporting evidence for disbursements is therefore not required. The proceeds of the loan
will not be used to finance expenditures typically excluded under the Loan Agreement, i.e., imports of
alcoholic beverages, tobacco and tobacco processing machinery, radioactive material, pearls, and
precious stones, nuclear reactors, gold and jewelry of gold, silver and platinum, military equipment, and
luxurious and environmentally hazardous goods. If after the deposit is made in the deposit account, the
proceeds of the loan or any part thereof are used for ineligible purposes as defined in the Loan
Agreement, the Bank will require the Borrower to either (a) return the amount to the deposit account for
use for eligible purposes, or (b) refund the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the Bank will
cancel the equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan.
90.   Accounts and Audit: BNM will maintain the accounts for this loan in accordance with sound
accounting practices. Upon the Bank's request, the Government will have the Deposit Account audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and will furnish to the Bank a certified copy of the audit
report no later than four months after the Bank's request.
91.   Environmental assessment requirements: In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive
on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.00, Annex A), the proposed loan has been placed in "Category C"
and will not require an environmental assessment.
C.    BENEFITS AND RISKS
92.   Benefits: The proposed loan will have several benefits. First, it will help strengthen the
Government's balance of payments objectives as well as support its fiscal objectives of expanding social
safety nets. Second, as the reform program is comprehensive and has elements of both short-term
stabilization (to minimize the downturn in economic activity) and medium-term structural reforms to
enhance the efficiency of the economy, it will help return Malaysia on the path of strong and sustained



- 27 -
growth in the context of today's more integrated and competitive global economy. Third, the proposed
loan, by strengthening the social safety nets and maintaining the expenditure on human resource
development, will help minimize the social costs of crisis and reform, while ensuring that investment in
education and health--the most valuable asset of Malaysia--are maintained. Finally, the proposed loan
supports a pre-emptive reform program to prevent the present situation from escalating into a crisis.
93.   The region as a whole as well as the international community will benefit from early examples of
success stories. Malaysia is likely to come out from the regional crisis earlier than some of the
neighboring countries, and Malaysia's example could have powerful demonstration effects on the region.
The benefit to the World Bank is also large as we would have contributed to a regional success story and
be able to access best practices from a sophisticated economy, and pass them on to other developing
countries.
94.   Risks: Malaysia remains stronger than many of the other regional economies. External debt
levels are smaller, the banking system is better hedged, and better capitalized than in some of the other
economies. The flexibility in policy response to changes in the national and regional economic
environment, as has been the case in the past, will be a critical component in stabilizing the economy and
setting the stage for early recovery. Nonetheless, Malaysia faces a series of external and internal risks,
primarily, economic. These risks are substantial and could result in sharply worsened growth prospects,
but will be mitigated by the proposed economic recovery and social sector loan. If the economic situation
does not improve as envisaged, the Government is likely to accelerate the implementation of the reform
program.
* Further weakening of the financial sector: The fragility of the financial system, arising from
high exposure of loans to stock and property markets, is a key risk and the Government has
adopted a pre-emptive program to strengthen it. The Bank in coordination with the IMF and
ADB is providing assistance to Bank Negara. This assistance focuses primarily on
establishing an early warning system and deposit insurance.
* Lack of transparency in the corporate sector associated with takeovers, mergers, regulatory
regime, aggravating loss of investor confidence. Given market perceptions, Malaysia has
given a special emphasis to improving corporate governance and strengthening the
commitment to market-based mechanisms. The pressures for bailing out corporations could
increase if the downturn in prolonged. The Government's commitment to avoiding bailouts
of troubled non-viable corporations is reassuring. Under the Malaysian Companies Act
(Section 176), a well-defined judicial process exists for liquidation and reorganization of
limited liability companies.   The service infrastructure for supporting corporate
reorganization is also sound, but needs further strengthening.
* Further regional contagion if neighboring countries perform poorly; this could constrain
export growth and slowdown economic activity, aggravating pressure on financial and
corporate sectors. This is somewhat outside the control of Malaysia's policymakers
although they have taken a high profile role in regional consensus building and acted to
minimize crisis-related risks.
* Possible political risks in the form of a backlash against a reform program which may erode
the privileged status of some of the elite. Although this kind of risk is always possible, in
the Malaysian context the threat of a such a backlash to reforms will likely be mitigated by a
pragmatic overall view that the country must take the necessary steps to move into the ranks



- 28 -
of the developed world in the next two decades. Furthermore, risks of social tensions arising
out of the impact of the crisis on the vulnerable will be mitigated by the Government's
strong attention to strengthening the social safety net.
95.   Vigorous implementation of the Government's reform program would help to mitigate some of
the above risks. However, given the high levels of uncertainty at this time of regional crisis, significant
risks will remain. In view of the potential benefits from the proposed loan, the risks appear manageable
and worth taking.
V. RECOMMENDATION
96.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and I
recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Attachments
Washington DC
June 1, 1998



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
Malaysia
Economic Recovery and Social Sector Loan
Government's Matrix of Policy Actions
Government's                         Policy Measures  :                 Actions Accomplished or in Progress
f  O bjectivesI
1.   Resume robust and        Maintain sound butflexible macroeconomic   Continue to implement the macroeconomic policy
sustained growth         policies to respond to the uncertainties in the   measures announced in the Ministerial Statement of
economic environment.                     March 24, 1998 to Parliament, as set forth in the
Statement of Development Policy.
2.   Strengthen Financial
Sector
2.1  Finance companies         Consolidate the finance companies sector  *  First phase of merger program completed on
through assisted merger, with important      March 31, 1998: merger partners identified and
safeguards in place to preserve transparency  agreement in principle on the terms of mergers;
and to minimize the use of Government        total number will be reduced from 39 to 8.
resources.                                *  Up-front due diligence is being carried out by
international accounting firms to ensure market -
based final valuations for the settlements with
shareholders.
2.2  Banking institutions      Promote preemptive recapitalization of    *  Monthly stress tests carried out by BNM on all
banking institutions, with the primary       banking institutions.
emphasis on mobilizing private capital, except  *  Corrective actions imposed when weaknesses are
for government owned banks.                  identified.
*  More frequent and focused examinations
conducted by BNM.
*  New guidelines on loan classification and
provisioning in effect (e.g., three months or more
past due loans classified as NPLs, 20%



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
Governen'sPolc 1Me e                                                    Actons Accompished oinPrors
Objectives~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  as                         t  sAoI
provisioning for uncollateralized portion of
substandard loans, off-balance sheet items taken
into account for loan classification and
provisioning purposes).
3    Improve Competitiveness in
Corporate Sector
3.1  Improve Transparency      Promote disclosure of more complete and   *  Establishment of Malaysian Accounting
reliable information for all corporates.     Standards Board and adoption by MASB of a
number of accounting standards of IASC.
Compliance with accounting standards established
by MASB mandatory under law.
*  Statistics on bankruptcy and reorganization cases
published quarterly.
3.2  Improve Capital Market    Improve investor protection and reduce    Vigorous enforcement of KLSE rules: As of May
Confidence               settlement risks.                          1998, 1 1 stockbroking companies subject to trading
restrictions and 2 companies suspended for failure to
comply with KLSE capital adequacy standards.
3.3  Increase foreign equity   Liberalize progressively level offoreign  Increase in foreign equity ownership in
ownership to facilitate   ownership.                                telecommunications industry from 49% to 61%
injection of capital and                                            (subject to divestment to local companies down to
promote competition                                                 49% by 2003), stockbroking industry from 30% to
49%; insurance sector from 30% to 51%; commercial
real estate and condominium sectors up to 100%
(provided purchase price exceeds RM250,000 and
funding comes from overseas financial institutions).



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
Government's                         Policy Measures                    Actions Accomplished or in Progress
Objectives
4.   Strengthen Social Safety
Net
4.1  Maintain access to key    Protect budget shares of education and health.  Adoption of revised budget in March 1998 that
social services                                                     reinstated RM300 million of additional allocations for
key health and education programs (e.g., building of
rural primary and secondary schools and rural health
clinics, provision of medicine for public health
services).
4.2  Expand coverage to those   Increase public expenditures to support major  Revised budget of March 1998 provides RM700
vulnerable to the economic  antipoverty programs and maintain level of    million in additional allocations to assist hard-core
crisis.                   spending in real terms per beneficiary.   and near poor through Fund for Food Program,
Amanah Ikhtiar Malaysia rural microcredit program,
new microcredit program for urban poor and rural
water supply program.
4.3  Maintain employment       Assist SMIs to improve productivity and   RMI billion fund to provide financing to SMIs
competitiveness,                          established.
Assist workers to enhance existing skills or  Programs of special skills apprenticeship for
acquire new skills.                       retrenched workers established.



- _32-
ANNEX 2A
Page 1 of 12
MNlISTER OF FTINANCE MALAYSIA
S(590 1)248/24/4-232
$OMay 1998
Mr. James D. VNolfensohn
President
intemational Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H St., N.W.
Washington D.C.
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.        -
Proposed World Bank Loan of USD1 Billion in 1998
Thank you for your letter of 28 May 1998. 1 am deeply appreciative of the
efforts that you have personally taken with regards 'Lo Malaysia's loan
application. I am also very pleased to note that the documents are now ready
for consideration bythe Board -at its meeting next week.
As I had discussed with you on several occasions. the Government
remains totally committed.to a'programme aimed at minimising the impact of,
the cUrrent economic downturn on the poor. In parallel with this, vigorous
efforts. are also being .rnade toq ensure that adjustments and reforms are
implemnented in other'are'as, including In the financial sector, so as to place
the economy on. a recovery growth.. path.. 'This was made clear in my
statement to Parliament on 24t March 1998 in which a comprehensive
package of policy measures was drawn up essentially to:
(i)   maintain macroeconomic stability;
(ii)  increase the-resiliency of tihe financial sector;
(iii)  promote corporate govemance, transparency and responsibility;
and
(iv)  strengthen social safety nets to mitigate the impact of the
economic crisis on the iower income groups.
-   MNiisay of Fnance; aIlan-DutL 50592 Kuala Lumpur.



- 334 i               -ANNEX 2A
Page 2 of 12
I am enclosing details of the economic recovery programme in the
enclosed Statement of Development Policy for your attention. As indicated in
the Statement and in the Policy Matrixi!Chart, several important actions have
already been undertaken, while some others have been initiated and would be
completed soon.
I would like to reassure you that the Govemment is resolved to
implement the programme set out in the Statement of Development Policy, In
this regard, the USD300 milrion Economic and Social Sector Loan to be
disbursed this year, would play an important part in contributing towards its
effectve implementation. I would, therefore, be very appreciative if the loan
proceeds could be disbursed in one tranrche in june.
Thank you. 1. look forward- to meeting. you soon and to your contnued
support of our efforts' to :restore grovith and to renew confidence in our
economic policies- -   -
.(Anwar Ibrahim)



- 34 -                               ANNEX 2A
Page 3 of 12
STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.    The financial crisis that has beset East Asia since the middle of 1997 continues to be felt.
Although the Malaysian economy has been resilient, the economic and social situation has been difficult
for Malaysia and the region. Against this background, the Government unveiled a comprehensive and
pre-emptive package of economic and social measures on March 24-25, 1998. The immediate objectives
of the package are to minimize the downturn in economic activity and protect the poor and vulnerable.
The reform program is focused on four key areas:
* Maintaining sound macroeconomic policy with flexibility in the light of uncertainties in the
economic environment;
* Strengthening the financial sector in the light of the regional crisis including consolidation of
finance companies and pre-emptive recapitalization of banking institutions; improving
regulatory and supervisory framework; and improving market based incentives for more
efficient functioning of financial institutions;
* Improving competitiveness by strengthening corporate governance, improving transparency
on disclosure of information; implementing market-based corporate restructuring procedures;
strengthening competition policies; and liberalizing gradually and progressively foreign
equity ownership to facilitate early recapitalization; and
* Strengthening social safety nets to soften the negative impact of the economic crisis on the
lower income and vulnerable groups; maintaining access to key social sector services;
addressing the problem of graduate unemployment and increasing food production.
2.     The Government believes that the ongoing implementation of this package will help restore
market confidence, increase efficiency and productivity, and resume robust growth. The Government is
fully committed to protecting public expenditure on the social sectors.
3.    This Statement of Development Policy is primarily based on the Minister of Finance Statements
of December 1997 and March 24, 1998. In addition, this Statement provides a road map on how the
policy measures have been implemented during the past few months, and howthe Government intends to
continue to implement them in the future.
Rebalancing Macroeconomic Policies
4.    Fiscal Policy. With economic activity slowing faster than projected in the December budget, the
Government announced in March that the budget surplus for 1998 would be reduced to about 0.5 percent
of GDP, from 21/2 percent of GDP in 1997, as part of an overall rebalancing of macroeconomic policies.
However, the Government is sensitive to the impact of the economic crisis on the poor and the most
susceptible, and the implementation of fiscal policy has to be flexible in the difficult period ahead. More
specifically, the Government will not cut expenditures on the poorest and most vulnerable or risk
recession just to maintain a budget surplus. In particular, the Government will continue to support
education, health, poverty eradication, and housing through higher expenditure levels to mitigate the
effects of economic adjustment on the most vulnerable segments of our society. At the same time, the
Government remains committed to maintaining fiscal discipline, and would contain any budget deficit



35                                 ANNEX 2A
Page 4 of 12
that might emerge to a level that would not jeopardize progress toward our longer-term macroeconomic
objectives. Further, the Government is confident that once the economic situation improves the budget
would again move quickly into surplus.
5.    Beyond this, the Government will maintain the sustainability of the broader fiscal position by
containing any deterioration in the financial position of the public enterprises, and by restraining off-
budgetary transactions and contingent liabilities. To allow a fuller assessment of the broader public sector
role in Malaysia and to help restore market confidence, the Government has undertaken a detailed
accounting of its guarantees and contingent liabilities, and will refine it further.
6.    Monetary policy. The maintenance of a tight monetary policy has been an integral part of the
economic stabilization policy package that the Government implemented in 1997. A tight monetary
policy stance will continue to be maintained in 1998 to contain inflationary expectations that may be
generated by higher import prices as a result of the depreciation of the ringgit. At the same time,
monetary policy has to be flexible, given the uncertainties on the external front, notably the magnitude
and duration of the regional financial crisis, as well as prospective policy developments in industrial
countries.
7.    Monetary policy will be centered on bringing about a substantial reduction in the growth rate of
private credit and broad money during 1998 consistent with the macroeconomic outlook. The monetary
measures introduced during 1997 have already resulted in a significant slowing of monetary aggregates in
recent months. Our expectation is that annual M3 growth would slow to 12 percent in 1998, while credit
growth would moderate to 12-15 percent in line with the October 1997 credit plans of banking
institutions. Notwithstanding the slower credit growth, it is also essential, within the environment of
slowing growth, to ensure that productive activities continue to have access to financing. In this regard,
Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) will allow banking institutions some flexibility in their credit plans, while
retaining the overall target of 12-15 percent for the banking system.
8.    In the implementation of monetary policy, interest rates will remain an important policy
instrument, and BNM will continue to enhance information on liquidity operations so as to provide clear
policy signals to the market. The 3-month interbank rate will continue to be the operating target of
monetary policy, and interest rates will be used together with other measures to ensure stability in the
domestic economy and the exchange rate. The Government will adjust the underlying interest rate to
contain inflationary expectations due to demand pressures and to ensure a positive real rate of return to
savers. In its day-to-day operations, BNM will retain the option of using interest rates for short periods to
support intervention operations to stabilize the exchange rate. BNM will also introduce measures to
remove distortions and enhance efficiency in money markets, as well as facilitate the flow of liquidity.
Strengthening the Financial Sector
9.    The crisis has brought into focus the need to expedite efforts to develop the financial system to
become one that is more strongly market-oriented, with diversity and depth of instruments and a
sufficiently large number of players so that the financial system is better able to absorb shocks, with less
likelihood of price misalignments. Accelerating the development of the financial system will also
enhance the effectiveness of market-based instruments of monetary control while improving the capacity
of the system to meet the changing needs of the economy and increasing competition in an environment
of global liberalization. Reform and continued strengthening of the financial sector are therefore urgent
priorities. A measure of confidence has been restored through certain actions already taken, but more
actions are planned and required. The Government's objective is to help stabilize the financial sector



- 36 -                                ANNEX 2A
Page 5 of 12
fully and boost confidence further as well as promote the development of a stronger, more competitive,
and more flexible financial sector.
10.   The Government intends to achieve its objectives in the short-term by (a) encouraging the
completion of the consolidation of the finance companies sector, and (b) strengthening the prudential
regulatory and supervisory framework through enhanced disclosure, stress testing, and pre-emptive
recapitalization of the more vulnerable financial institutions in the banking system. In the medium-term,
additional measures will be implemented, including enhanced liquidity monitoring, increased risk-
weighted capital requirements, and the further development of capital markets. In sum, all of these
measures will strengthen and deepen the integrity of the country's financial system.
11.   Recent Financial Sector Developments. Consolidation of the finance companies sector is well
underway. On March 31, 1998, BNM announced the completion of the first stage of the consolidation
process with the agreement of all 39 finance companies to participate, leading ultimately to just eight
finance companies. This consolidation of the finance company sector was promoted through moral
suasion. To ensure that the financial position of the acquiring institution is not weakened and to ensure
that the Government contributes its part in this effort to consolidate the industry, the Government will
extend a guarantee to the acquiring institution in the event of any further reduction in the value of the
acquired assets. However, the guarantee is not open-ended: it has a life of one year. Under the
guarantee, eighty percent of recoveries or liquidation of assets of the institution being acquired accrue to
the Government, while the remaining twenty percent go to the acquiring institution. By offering a
guarantee, it provides an incentive to the players whilst limiting the potential use of Government funds.
12.   At this time, due diligence is being performed by reputable international accounting firms in
accordance with common terms of reference. Moreover, the Government is committed to ensuring that
the merger program is implemented in a transparent manner and guided by market principles so that the
valuation of assets to be transferred will be fair to all concerned.
13.    BNM  is taking preemptive actions to require banking institutions to raise capital, with the
primary emphasis on mobilizing private capital, except for Government-owned banks. All banking
institutions are now subject to stress testing by BNM each month with a view to requiring corrective
actions be taken well before the point where they require additional capital. Additionally, banking
institutions are required to perform their own stress tests on a monthly basis according to minimum
parameters laid down by BNM in consultation with the industry.
14.   Disclosure is being enhanced immediately and guidelines have been issued to banking institutions
in April 1998 specifying minimum requirements for publication. Banks will be required to publish key
indicators of financial soundness, including capital adequacy and NPLs, every financial quarter. BNM
will also publish monthly information on capital adequacy and NPLs, and provisioning levels of banks
and finance companies.
15.    Surveillance processes are being enhanced and refined to identify increased potential risks at an
earlier stage. The conceptual framework and work processes of a formal Early Warning System are
being designed.
16.   The Government is also strengthening further the regulatory and supervisory framework by
improving loans classification and provisioning standards. Specifically, the Government now adheres to
best international practices in classifying loans as non-performing; substandard loans are being
provisioned at 20 percent as to the uncollateralized portion; and single customer limits have been reduced



- 37 -                               ANNEX 2A
Page 6 of 12
to 25 percent of capital funds. BNM issued guidelines to banking institutions in April 1998 on the
implementation of incorporating off-balance sheet items into the loan classification and provisioning
system. Banking institutions must now comply with the 8 percent risk-weighted capital ratio ("RWCR")
on a consolidated basis quarterly rather than annually. Also, BNM now provides market participants with
daily information on its operations in the money market and its impact on domestic liquidity.
17.   Continued financial sector strengthening and development. BNM is currently finalizing a
new liquidity framework. The new framework will provide BNM with a better means of assessing the
actual liquidity position of banking institutions; permit more efficient liquidity management for banking
institutions. In addition, BNM is also currently finalizing the incorporation of market-risk information in
the capital adequacy framework given sensitivity to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign exchange rates,
and other market risks.
18.   Any recapitalization of banking institutions will be undertaken using a market-based and
transparent approach. Specifically, investment by the Employee Provident Fund, Permodalan Nasional
Berhad and other quasi-public institutions in any banking institution will be guided strictly by the
principle of maximizing value for their shareholders or unit holders. These institutions will not be
required to recapitalize banking institutions unless they already own a share in that banking institution.
Any investment will be done on the same terms and conditions as private investors. Public funds will not
be used to bailout non-viable corporations in trouble.
19.   The minimum RWCR of finance companies will be increased from 8 percent to 10 percent by
end-1999, with interim compliance of 9 percent by end-1998. The minimum capital funds of finance
companies will also be increased from RM5 million to RM 300 million by mid-1999 and then to RM 600
million by end-2000. In fact, at this time, as a result of the merger, seven finance companies have
complied with the new capital funds requirement of RM600 million, well ahead of the compliance
deadline of end-2000. Although the one remaining finance company has yet to achieve the RM600
million capital funds requirement, it has already complied with the interim requirement of RM300
million.
20.   The Government is also committed to reducing moral hazard problems in the financial sector. A
technical study is intended to be undertaken on international practices regarding depositor insurance
protection and deposit insurance schemes, examining and assessing possible implications for Malaysia.
21.   The Government is also committed to reviewing the environment for intermediation, in particular
the relevant regulations affecting monetary management and prudential supervision.  Moreover to
broaden and deepen financial markets and to improve the management of risks, the Government intends
to promote a greater degree of securitization and development of the bond market to pave the way for
reduced corporate reliance on the banking system for financing and intermediation. Through these
mechanisms, the allocation of risks to those market players that are most able to bear these risks will be
facilitated.
22.   In developing further the private debt securities markets and to facilitate asset securitization,
there is a catalytic role to be played by evolving a benchmark yield curve for bonds. Already Malaysia
has a developed market infrastructure for bonds. Additional measures to strengthen this market, including
the automation of the tendering process for commercial paper and the launching of the Bond Information
and Dissemination System (BIDS), were initiated in 1997. In September 1997, Malaysia began a program
to issue benchmark securities through the Khazanah Holdings Group. Initial issues of these bonds have
been oversubscribed and the Government will be expanding on this with regular issues of appropriate



- 38 -                            ANNEX 2A
Page 7 of 12
maturities. Every effort will be made to make issuance and trading arrangements transparent and market
oriented.
Enhancing Competitiveness
23.   Since the early 1980s,  the Government's growth strategy has been based on improving
competitiveness and productivity through progressive liberalization of the trade and investment regime
and through sustained investment in human resource development. This strategy enabled the country to
double its share in world exports in 1990s and tap foreign investment. The recent crisis has revealed the
need to further strengthen policy measures to improve productivity and market confidence. In particular,
the policy framework governing corporate conduct and disclosure aims to enable investors, creditors and
lenders to fully access corporate risk, discriminate between good and bad companies and hold company
managers accountable. The aim is to facilitate injection of new capital in the corporate sector and
expedite the process of corporate restructuring.
24.   The Government has therefore initiated a broad review of policies, laws and procedures for
conduct of business activities. The immediate goal is to restore market confidence in the corporate
sector's ability to manage the present crisis. The medium-term goal is to deepen and broaden capital
markets and reduce the over-dependence on the banking sector as source of financing.
25.    The Government has already implemented specific measures.  The Malaysian Accounting
Standards Board has adopted a number of the standards established by the International Accounting
Standards Committee. Compliance with these standards has been made compulsory. Corporate balance
sheets to be published from July 1998 will be based on these standards. To protect investors and reduce
settlement risks, the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange has imposed trading restrictions on eleven
stockbroking firms and suspended two, for failure to meet the minimum capital adequacy requirements.
26.   Other actions that will be implemented during this year are the following: (a) completion of a
review of KLSE listing requirements, including submission of quarterly reports on financial results,
shareholding structure and borrowing positions, and implementation of the findings; (b) an electronic
data management system for efficient dissemination of information by listed companies; (c) enhancing
the integrity of the stock market through risk-based capital adequacy requirements for stockbroking
companies, through more stringent client asset protection rules, and by strengthening the enforcement
powers of the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange over member companies and listed companies; (d)
improving the rules on takeovers and mergers in line with international best practices to protect minority
shareholder interests.
27.   The review of corporate governance is being managed by a high level finance committee chaired
by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Finance. Representatives from the Ministry of Finance, the
Central Bank, Securities Commission, the Registrar of Companies, the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange,
professional associations, and the private sector are members of the committee. The Finance Committee
has established two working groups to recommend by end-June 1998 to the Finance Committee on the
best practices in corporate governance and training, and legal reforms regarding corporate governance.
The goals are to enhance transparency through more frequent and accurate disclosure of information;
establish corporate governance standards and code of ethics consistent with international practices;
protect minority shareholders; allow a market-based approach to bankruptcy and corporate restructuring;
strengthen the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange rules governing conflict of interest in related party and
interested party transactions; introducing a system of incentives and penalties to encourage companies to



ANNEX 2A
Page 8 of 12
adhere to good corporate governance; and amending key legislation to give legal force to some best
practices on corporate governance, mergers and disclosure.
28.    The Government is committed to ensuring that deliberations and recommendations of the Finance
Committee are carried forward by the relevant organizations.
29.    The Government remains committed to the liberalization of investment restrictions to alleviate
capital shortages and enhance efficiency. The Government has already liberalized foreign equity
ownership in the telecommunication sector from 49% to 61% (subject to divestment to local companies to
49% by the year 200:3); in the insurance sector from 30% to 51%, and in stockbroking companies from
30% to 49%. In addition, guidelines have been drawn up on the relaxation of the condition on the
acquisition of properties by foreign interests. Foreign interests will now be able to purchase all types of
residential units, shop houses, commercial and office spaces subject to: (a) the purchase price is above
RM250,000 per unit and (b) the financing of the above acquisition is obtained from overseas financial
institutions. This guideline is effective since April 22, 1998.
30.   In managing inflationary pressures, the Government will continue to maintain its current price
controls over a number of basic food products that are needed by low income categories as an effort to
ensure their social well being in the present crisis. However, the Government will review the policy to
control prices, in particular of non-essential goods. The Government is committed to enhancing
efficiency in key domestic trading activities.
31.    An important element of Government's strategy for enhancing competition is to accelerate
consumer awareness and consumer rights' programs and minimize unfair trade practices. The
Government is, therefore, planning to introduce a Consumer Protection bill in Parliament that will enable
consumers to seek expeditious legal redress from traders and manufacturers on matters such as warranties
and product quality. To further enhance consumer welfare and economic efficiency the Government has
been discussing with the private sector, consumer groups and universities approaches and possible
legislation on unfair trade practices.
32.    The Government continues to view privatization as an important instrument in fostering greater
competitiveness and efficiency. The goals of the privatization program are to protect consumer interest in
terms of pricing, availability and quality of services and ensure the healthy development of industries.
The Government will further improve privatization procedures to enable wider participation from the
private sector in privatization projects.
33.    The Governrment recognizes that in order to sustain high growth rates of the past decade,
productivity must increase and resources shifted from inefficient to efficient sectors. The Government
would like to further improve total factor productivity growth, capital efficiency and financial
intermediation efficiency. As stated in our Seventh Malaysia Plan we are committed to doing so and
ensuring a balanced and equitable growth.
Mitigating the Impact of the Economic Slowdown on Low Income Groups
34.    Malaysia has made enormous strides in poverty reduction and human resources development
during the past 25 years. The incidence of poverty was reduced from 52.4 percent of households in 1970
to 6.7 percent in 1997. It is expected that the incidence of poverty will be reduced to 6% by year 2000.
Hard-core poverty, defined as those with incomes of less than one-half of the poverty line, is expected to
be eliminated by the year 2000. Poverty eradication in 1998, however, is expected to be affected by the



- 40 -                                ANNEX 2A
Page 9 of 12
economic slowdown which would limit labor absorption and income earning opportunities. With
inflation expected to increase between 7% to 8% in 1998, real household income is expected to fall. As a
result, the poverty incidence is estimated to increase to 8% in 1998.
35.   Growth was the prime engine through which poverty was so spectacularly reduced, but growth
alone is not sufficient to explain Malaysia's poverty record. The Government has been following a
strategy of allocating enough budgetary resources for the social services so as to ensure that all groups
have an opportunity and the means to participate in the growth process. Thus, the Government has
maintained and continues to maintain a high level of spending on health and education to improve the
quality of human resources. In addition, the Government has social safety net programs to protect the
vulnerable. These are income-tested, targeted at the hard-core poor and support income generating
activities.
36.   In education, the focus has been on expanding access to better quality education for the schooling
age group in general, and for children in rural and remote areas in particular. Measures to improve quality
include increasing the number of experienced and qualified teachers, particularly in rural schools, as well
as developing and improving teaching and learning materials. Priority is given to expanding and
improving educational facilities in the rural areas to improve the accessibility of the poor to educational
opportunities and to provide them with a more comfortable and conducive learning environment. In
addition, health and nutrition programs, textbooks on loan, as well as financial assistance are available to
needy students.
37. The Government considers investments in rural health infrastructure to be vital for improving the
health status of the rural population. The expansion of rural health centers has increased the access of
farmers and lower income groups to health services, and facilitated the delivery of expanded
immunization programs for infants and children in rural areas. The Government will continue to train
additional health professionals as well as upgrade the skills of existing ones to improve the overall
quality of healthcare.
38.  In addition to its long-term objective of preserving and building on the country's achievements in
the social sectors, the Government is committed to mitigate any short-term adverse effects of the
economic slowdown on the vulnerable segments of society. With the slowdown, there has been a switch
in demand for social services from private to public sector. The Government will ensure that budget
shares for health and education in 1998 will remain approximately at their 1997 levels and that public
expenditure per beneficiary on major antipoverty programs will be protected in real terms. The program
of support for key social sector services includes the following:
*  Construction of additional classrooms for primary and secondary schools in rural areas to
accommodate overall increases in enrollment as well as to upgrade rural school facilities
(RM100 million). About 750 projects covering all the states will be implemented. Part of the
allocation will also be utilized to provide training facilities and housing for teaching staff that
will contribute to improving the quality of teachers in the rural areas and to retaining good
teachers.
*  Expansion of education facilities for skill development to meet the requirements of the
industrial and service sectors (RMIOO million). Five new polytechnics will be established to
provide industrial training to 3,500 full-time students and 1,500 part-time students.



- 41l -
ANNEX 2A
Page 10 of 12
*  Retraining of workers and enhancement of skills to minimize the impact of retrenchment
caused by the current crisis.
*  Enhancement of the Higher Education Loan Fund to increase accessibility to higher
education, especially among the low-income groups (RM200 million). This will help
students who face financial difficulties to pursue their education at diploma and degree level
in public and private institutions in the country.
*  Construction and equipping of 302 health clinics, particularly in rural areas, and provision of
adequate finds for medicine and other essentials in public health services to cater to the
general public, including the rural population (RMlOO million). This project is an integral
component of the Government's goal to further strengthen delivery of primary health care
services through decentralized management and delivery arrangements.
39.     The Government plans to support expansion of income earning opportunities to the poor and
low-income groups as follows:
-   Maintenance of the Fund for Food scheme to increase food production through the provision
of low-interest loans to small farmers and Farmers' Associations (RM300 million). The
goals of this program are to expand the reach of the formal financial system to include the
small private sector in rural areas.
-  An expansion of programs run by Amanah Ikhtiar Malaysia (AIM), a non-governmental
organization which provides small-scale subsidized loans to the poorest for income
generation activities in rural areas (RMI00 million). This program is targeted at the very
poor and aims to improve their livelihood through the provision of financial assistance to
start economically viable projects.
3  Establishment of micro-credit programs to provide greater access to loans at reasonable cost
to hawkers, petty traders and small entrepreneurs (RM200 million). This program will
improve incomes amongst the urban poor and at the same time increase competition in the
retail sector.
*  Construction of rural infrastructure, including rural water supply improvement in the poorest
rural areas (RMIOO million). About 789 projects mainly in the poor states will be financed.
These projects will contribute to improving rural access to safe drinking water.
40.     The Government has established a RMI billion fund for Small and Medium Scale industries
(SMIs) aimed at encouraging the establishment of small and medium scale industries. To further increase
the efficient utilization of the fund and assist small and medium scale industries to cope with the current
crisis, the financing of working capital has been increased from 10% to 20% of the loan amount
sanctioned to SMIs. To enhance home ownership among the low-income groups, the National Housing
Company is in the process of issuing bonds totaling RM 1 billion. These funds will be used to finance the
low-cost housing program.
41.     Over the medium term, the Government renews its commitment to the goal of eliminating hard-
core poverty by the new millennium. The Government will also strive for a more balanced partnership
between the private and public sectors in the provision of social amenities, including education and
health services. These objectives will be accomplished through the kinds of specific programs indicated



- 42 -                                 ANNEX 2A
Page 11 of 12
below which are presently under review in the context of the Government's Mid-Term Review of the
implementation of the Seventh Plan, as well as through establishing a regulatory regime that governs the
private provision of social services and facilitates access affordable to consumers. Among others, the
Mid-Term Review covers the following:
*  Continue to give priority on expanding the capacity and improving the quality of education at
all levels. Measures to achieve this include the construction of classrooms to achieve the
target of additional 14,200 classrooms at the primary and secondary levels.
*  Provision of hostel facilities in rural and remote areas to cater for students who live far away
from their schools, thereby, enabling them to have access to educational opportunities and
better learning environment.
*  Maintain in the recurrent budget, allocation for the provision of financial assistance,
scholarships for primary and secondary school students, textbooks on loan as well as health
and nutrition programs. In this respect, the Government has in 1998 reviewed the eligibility
for the textbooks loan scheme to include only school children whose family income is
RM700 or less.
*  To develop tertiary education to enable increase in intake especially at the degree level. The
private sector is entrusted to play an active role in provision of places as the private Higher
Education Institution Act, 1996 allows the establishment of degree grantinginstitution by the
private sector. Existing private institution which offer twinning programs will be allowed to
conduct full degree courses in the country.
*  For the health sector, expansion programs will be undertaken to provide the less developed
states with more new clinics as well as expansion and upgrading of existing facilities to
include comprehensive diagnostic services.  Selected rural health centers will also be
equipped with alternative birthing facilities to enable provision of maternal health services.
In addition, the rehabilitation program and home visits by health personnel will be increased.
More new training centers will be built and upgrading of existing allied health professionals
training schools will be undertaken during the Plan period to increase manpower supply and
thereby upgrade the quality of care.
*  Private Healthcare Facilities and Services Act, 1997 is being tabled  and discussed in
Parliament during April-May 1998. The objective of this Act is to distribute equitable and
comprehensively cover and control the establishment and operation of all private clinics,
nursing homes and hospitals, the quality of care and charging rates. This Act will replace the
Private Hospitals Act, 1971, and will empower the Ministry of Health to regulate, license,
and ensure quality of care and fees charged are affordable to the consumers.
*  A healthcare financing scheme will also be established to institute greater cost sharing
between the consumers and the providers and thereby releasing more of public sector sources
of funds for the poor and low-income groups.  The scheme will also ensure greater
distribution of financing of health services by consumers in private sector and overcome
under-utilization of private health care resources.



- 43 -
ANNEX 2A
Page 12 of 12
*  To ensure the low income group has access to housing, low cost houses selling price
RM25,000 per unit will be constructed (target 200,000 units) for the group of people with
incomes of less than RM750 per month.
*  Low medium-cost houses will be constructed (target 350,000 units) for those in the income
range between RM750-RM1,000 per month.
*  Thirty-five thousand units of houses for the poor will also be constructed through housing
rehabilitation program and services program.
42.   The economic slowdown and price increase have adversely affected the poor households which
face increasing prices of food items with falling real household income. In order to mitigate these effects
on poor households, the Government has intensified efforts in food production as well as improving the
distribution of foodstuff to contain inflated food prices. The programs include releasing land for food
production, encouraging people to grow their own vegetables, establishing more outlets for farm produce,
and establishing a one-stop information center on agriculture for public use at the Ministry of Agriculture.



ANNEX 2B
Page I of 9
Malaysia
Economic Recovery and Social Sector Loan
Government's Detailed Matrix of Policy Actions
-  |I 0Govement's ObeMtivOO Polic ;Me as re                                              Acn Acc oplish edor inProess 
1.   Resume robust and sustained  Maintain sound andflexible macroeconomic        Implement the broad policy stance and macroeconomic
growth                      policies in view of the uncertainties in the    framework, as announced in the Ministerial Statement on
economic environment.                          Measures to Stabilize the National Economy, March 24,
1998.
1.2  Improve fiscal transparency to   Make a fuller assessment of the liabilities of the  Government has undertaken a detailed accounting of
restore market confidence    Government.                                    guarantees and contingent liabilities.
1.3  Improve monetary             Remove distortions and enhance money market
management                   efficiency:
.  Ensure a more responsive interest rate      Review of base lending rate framework being finalized.
framework .
Allow banking institutions greater flexibility in   Daily band for averaging of balances to meet the statutory
the management of their assets and liabilities.    reserve requirement widened from 5% to 20%.
.  Facilitate flow of liquidity.               Current review of the role of SRR and LAR underway.
*  Develop indirect monetary instruments .     Initial work has started on identifying securities that could
qualify for open market operations.
2.   Strengthen Financial Sector
2.1   Finance companies            Consolidate the finance companies sector through   *  First phase of merger program  completed on March
assisted merger, with important safeguards in      31, 1998: Finance companies (FCs) have identified
place to preserve transparency and to minimize the  merger partners and agreed in principle on the terms of
use of Government resources.                       mergers.
*  At completion of their merger program, the number of
FCs will be reduced from 39 to 8.
*  Up-front due diligence is being carried out by
international accounting firrns according to common
terms of reference to ensure market -based final
valuations for the settlements with shareholders.



ANNEX 2B
Page 2 of 9
Government's Objectives                   Policy Measures                          Actions Accomplished or in Progress
2.2   Banking institutions         BNMis promoting preemptive recapitalization of    Initiated in early 1998.
banking institutions, with the primary emphasis on
mobilizing private capital, except for government
owned banks. This process will be assisted by:
(a) Intensified monitoring of banking system:
  Conducting monthly stress tests on individual    Monthly BNM stress tests being conducted on all banks.
banking institutions to identify problem banks.   Where potential problems are identified, institutions are
required to take corrective actions. Banking institutions are
also required to perform their own stress tests on a monthly
basis, based on minimum parameters laid down by BNM in
consultation with the industry.
*  Conducting more frequent and focused on- and   Being implemented.
off-site supervision of regulated institutions
with emphasis on weaker institutions as
identified by the supervision process, and
taking necessary corrective actions.
*  Continually enhancing and refining surveillance  Conceptual framework of Early Warning System is being
processes to bring about earlier detection of  finalized.
potential risks.
(b) Market-based and transparent approach to any    Being implemented.
recapitalization. Specifically, investments in
banking institutions by the Employee Provident
Fund (EPF), Permodalan Nasional Berhad (PNB)
and other quasi-public institutions will proceed only
on the principle of maximizing value for their
shareholders or unit holders. The Government will
inject capital in Government-owned banking
institutions only.
2.3  Improve Regulatory-and        Improve loan classification and provisioning
Supervisory framework        standards to bring them to international best
practices.



ANNEX 2B
Page 3 of 9
Government's ObjectiveS                   Policy Measures                          Actions Accomplished or in Progress
*   Classify loans past due three months and over   Guidelines issued in October 1997 (with effect from
as non-performing.                        financial year beginning 1 January 1998) .
*  Require 20% provisioning against the        Requirement effective since March 1998.
uncollateralized portion of substandard loans.
*  Incorporate off-balance sheet items in the loan    Guidelines issued April 1998 effective immediately.
classification and provisioning system.
Enhance capital adequacy framework to further
strengthen the resilience of the banking system.
.  Increase minimum RWCR of finance            Compliance with interim level of 9% by end 1998.
companies from 8% to 10% by end 1999.
*  Increase minimum capital of finance companies  On completion of mergers, all finance companies would
from RM5m to RM300m by mid-1999 and to    meet interim standards.
RM600m by mid-2000.
*  Apply the RWCR on a consolidated basis every  Guidelines issued in April 1998 effective immediately.
quarter.
X_
Improve prudential guidelines:
*  Reduce single customer limit from 30% to 25%   Effective March 1998.
of capital funds.
*  Develop a new prudentially-based liquidity  At an advanced stage of development.
framework .
2.4  Improve market-based         Provide greater transparency on the financial   New guidelines issued with effect from April 1998
incentives for more efficient    position of individual banking institutions,  specifying minimum disclosure requirements for banking
functioning of financial     Individual banks to publish quarterly data on key  institutions.
institutions                 indicators offinancial soundness, including RWCR
and NPLs. BNM to publish breakdown of NPL by
economic sector every quarter.
Increase transparency in the Bank's liquidity support
operations.
*  Provide market participants with daily      BNM  began posting its estimate of liquidity surplus/gap
information on BNM's operations and its    electronically from May 1, 1998.
impact on liquidity.



ANNEX 2B
Page 4 of 9
Government's Objectives                  Policy Measures                         Actions Accomplished or in Progress
Separate liquidity support to banking     Separate emergency liquidity facility being developed.
institutions from the normal liquidity operations
of BNM in the conduct of monetary policy.
2.5   Government to reduce moral   Conduct technicrl study on international best  Study to be completed by November 1998.
hazard problems in the      practices on deposit insurance, and examine
banking sector              possible implications for Malaysia.
2.6  Further development of the      Broaden and deepen financial markets by:   Three working groups within BNM have been established:
financial system            .  Promote a greater degree of securitization and    monetary policy, foreign exchange market development and
expedite the development of the bond market to  institutional issues. The working groups will undertake
reduce the reliance on the banking system for    comprehensive studies, and proposals will be submitted to
financing.                                the policy-making Steering Committee, chaired by the
.  Develop a wide array of financial instruments to  Deputy Governor. In cases of overlapping and conflicting
improve the management of risks and facilitate   matters involving the different regulatory authorities, these
the allocation of risks to those players that are    proposals will be elevated for discussion by the Inter-
able to bear these risks.                 Agency Task Force on Financial Services, chaired by the
.  Increase the number of market participants.  Treasury, and comprising Bank Negara Malaysia, Securities
Commission, Labuan Offshore Financial Services Authority    X
and Registrar of Companies. Decision on implementation
of proposals on the development of the financial system
will be made in the course of 1998 and 1999.
2.7  Liberalize management of     .  Subcontract EPF funds to independent fund  At present, three to four percent of EPF funds are
Employee Provident Fund and     managers.                                 subcontracted; the Government is committed to increasing
other asset fund management                                               it further.
activities to provide
international benchmarking for  *  Develop international investment program for    Policy being reviewed.
returns on domestic             EPF
investments, improving the
efficiency of intermediation
and spurring the diversification
and deepening of the financial
system



ANNEX 2B
Page 5 of 9
Government's Objectives                  Policy Measures                         Actions Accomplished or in Progress
3.   Improve Competitiveness of
Corporate Sector
3.1  Improve Corporate            Develop an effectiveframeworkfor corporate    A high level inter-agency Finance Committee has been
Governance                  governance and set best practices .           established to: (a) clarify responsibilities of all corporate
participants; (b) formulate best practice standards.
Two groups have been established:
.  Working Group on best practices in corporate
governance, training and education.
.  Working Group on law reform issues in corporate
governance.
Interim reports of the Working Groups have been
submitted to the Finance Committee and final reports will
be submitted by end-June, 1998.
3.2  Improve Transparency         Companies to provide accurate disclosure of   KLSE has commenced work on an electronic data
information.                                  management system for faster and more efficient
dissemination of information on the listed companies.        co
KLSE has circulated to member companies an exposure
draft relating to risk-based minimum capital adequacy
requirements (expected to come into force by the second
half of 1998). Revised and strengthened guidelines for
protecting the interests of clients of the brokerage firms
have also been circulated for review (expected to be
implemented by July 30, 1998).
KLSE has initiated a comprehensive review of its listing
requirements. The review is aimed, amongst others, at
strengthening the enforcement powers of KLSE, enhancing
provisions on disclosure including disclosure of financial
results, shareholding structure and borrowing position on a
quarterly basis, and enhancing provisions on corporate
governance. The findings of the review will be
implemented in the fourth quarter of 1998 including the use
of Practice Notes.



ANNEX 2B
Page 6 of 9
Government's Objectives                    Policy Measures                           Actions Accomplished ori Progress
The Securities Commission has made preliminary proposals
relating to introduction of a merit/demerit system to
encourage companies to adopt high standards of corporate
governance.
Mandatory compliance of companies with      Being implemented.
rules of Malaysian Accounting Standards
Board and the Financial Reporting Foundation
with a view to making financial disclosure
consistent with international best practices.
3.3   Facilitate contested Takeovers   Securities Commission to review the current code    A new Code on Take-overs and Mergers and the Practice
and Mergers                  on Takeovers and Mergers 1987 .                  Notes to the Code have been prepared. Adoption pending
clarification of some issues.
3.4   Related Party and Interested  Promote high standards of corporate governance  Results of the review of the listing requirements will be
Party Transactions            and disclosure in transactions between listed   implemented in the fourth quarter of 1998.
companies and related and interested parties, and
protect interest of minority shareholders.
*  Securities Commission to review and strengthen  Amendments have been made to the Securities Industry
KLSE rules governing related-party and      Act, 1983.
interested party transactions.
*  Enforce all legal and administrative provisions    Status of compliance to be reviewed by Securities
of Companies' Act in a consistent manner.   Commission.
3.5   Corporate Restructuring:     Review status of winding up and market-based     Statistics on commencement and completion of bankruptcy
Allow market based            corporate restructuring procedures .            and reorganization cases will be compiled and published on
bankruptcy and corporate                                                      a quarterly basis. The statistics for the first quarter of 1998
restructuring to facilitate                                                   have been compiled. The Registrar of Companies has
efficient liquidation/or                                                      published 1997 statistics.
redeployment of assets
3.6   Competition Policies: Foster    Privatization process will be carried out on more  Privatization procedures will be further improved to enable
competition and efficiency   transparent principles to achieve efficiency, reduce    wider participation from the private sector to undertake
the financial burden of Government and deliver  privatization projects.



ANNEX 2B
Page 7 of 9
Government's Objectives                    PO   Measures                                t     A     l       or iu:Progr ss
better quality service.
The Government is currently reviewing the Regulatory
Authorities with a view to streamline and strengthen their
effectiveness in regulating privatized entities to achieve the
objectives of:
*  Maintaining standards
*  Protecting consumer interest in terms of pricing,
availability and quality of services.
*  Ensuring the healthy development of industries.
Introduce Trade Practices Bill with specific    Trade Practices Bill to be presented to Cabinet by end of
provisions against price-fixing, market sharing and    1998.
other collusive agreements, and anti-competitive
M&A activity.
Introduce consumer protection law and redress   Drafts of a Consumer Protection Act have been prepared
mechanisms.                                     and circulated to Government agencies, universities and
consumer groups for comment. A bill to enact the
legislation will be submitted to Cabinet within 1998.
4     Social Action Program
Strengthen the social safety
net to soften the negative
impact of the economic crisis
on the lower income and
vulnerable groups
4.1   Maintain access to key social    Protect budget share of education and health.  Budget allocation restored in March 1998.
sector services
. Key human resource development programs, including
: a) RM I00 million for building rural primary and
secondary schools and upgrading their facilities; b)
Rm 100 million for expansion of education facilities for
skill development; and c) enhancement of Higher
Education Loan Fund to help students who face
financial difficulties to pursue their education for
diploma and degree level within the country.



ANNEX 2B
Page 8 of 9
Government's Objectives                   Policy Measures                          Actions Accomplished or in Progress
_  Education budget share being monitored on a
quarterly basis.
* Construction of additional health clinics7 particularly in
rural areas, to provide primary health care services
-   (RM I00 million) and preserving the financing of
essential medicine in public health facilities.
*  Budget share of health being monitored on a quarterly
basis.
4.2   Expand access to financial  Increase public expenditure on major antipoverty   Additional allocations in budget have been made in March
assistance and social sector  programs so as to protect real spending per   1998 for expanding existing programs and implementing
services to accommodate those  beneficiary.                                 new ones to help the hard-core poor. These include:
who are vulnerable to the crisis
*  Fund for Food scheme (RM300 million) which
provides low interest loans to small farmers and
Farmers' Associations.
*  Expansion of programs run by Amanah Ikhtiar
(RM 100 million) to provide loans to the poorest for
income generation activities in rural areas.
*  Improving rural water supply in the poorest rural areas
(RM I 00 million).
Expand safety net to those who are made newly  RM200 million allocated for a micro-credit program to
vulnerable by the crisis but who may not be directly  provide greater access to loans in a fast, simple and non-
covered by the existing programsfor the hard-core   burdensome manner to hawkers, petty traders and small
poor.                                          entrepreneurs.
4.3   Maintain employment          Provide financial support to small and medium  RMI billion fund for small and medium industries
industries to assist them in improving their   established and financing of working capital under this fund
productivity, technology and access to markets.  increased from 10% to 20% of the loan amount.
Establish through the Human Resources          Scheme established
Development Fund, new schemes to retrain
retrenched workers.



ANNEX 2B
Page 9 of 9
Government's.Objectives                   Poli  Measures.                          AiosAc               o i P
4.4   Deal with the increased costs   The Government has decided not to recall students    .  Sponsorship for students studying in the top British and
for tertiary education       overseas. The capacities of the local public       American Universities will continue.
institutions are to be increased to meet higher  .  The Ministry of Finance will restore the development
demand for places.                                 allocation for public institutions of higher learning.
4.5   Address the problem of       Increase the employment opportunities for new  *  Encourage unemployed graduates to participate in
graduate and unemployment    graduates.                                         Yayasan Salam programs and take up self employment.
*  Allow sponsored graduates to work overseas after
completion of their courses.
4.6  Increase food production      Expand on the food production capacity of states.    .  State government are to release land for food
production.
.  State Agricultural Development Corporations are to
consolidate their activities in food production and
agriculture.
*  Establish more wholesale markets and 'pasar tani' at
state, district and town level.                            s
4.7   Mitigate the effects of inflation  Facilitate distribution of food.         *  Establish a one-stop information center on agriculture,
including extension services, technical support and
prices, at the Ministry of Agriculture for public use.
*  Increase the number of wholesale and factory outlets in
the country.
4.8   Enhance access to housing for  Provide affordable housing loans to the poor.  National Housing Company is issuing bonds totaling RM I
the low income groups                                                       billion to finance housing loans to the poor.



ANNEX 2C
- 53 -
SELECTED OUTCOME INDICATORS
The objectives of the Crovernment's economic recovery and social sector program are:
*    Minimize the downturn in economic activity and lay the basis for economic recovery and sustained
growth
*    Provide safety nets to those adversely affected by the crisis
In line with the above objectives the monitoring indicators are:
A. Macro
*    Real economic activity (consumption, investment and exports) including forward looking surveys
*    Revenue and expenditure
*    Monetary Policy
*    BOP
B. Financial Sector
*    Monthly data on Non-Performing Loans of financial institutions
*    Monthly data on loan loss provisions by financial institutions
*    New or revised banking system prudential regulations and guidelines
*    Key developments in EPF's investment strategy (including sub-contracting to independent fund
managers)
C. Corporate Sector
Finance Committee report and recommendations
*    Revised KLSE listing requirements, and risk-based capital adequacy requirements and client asset
protection rules for stockbroking companies
*    Consumer Protection Bill
*    Unfair Trade Practices Bill
*    Quarterly statistics on commencement and completion of bankruptcy and reorganization cases
D. Social Sector
*    Quarterly disbursement reports on major anti-poverty funds (i.e., fund for Food, Rural Micro-credit,
Urban Micro-credit and Higher Education Loan Fund)
*    Quarterly reports on development expenditures on education (as a percentage of total expenditures)
*    Quarterly reports on health expenditures (as a percentage of total expenditure)
*    Progress report on implementation of social sector programs



ANNEX 3
- 54 _                                  Page 1 of 10
Table 1. Malaysia: Selected Economic and Financial Indicators, 1994-98
1994        1995        1996         1997       1998
Prel.     Proj.
Real Sector (% change)
Real GDP growth                          9.2         9.5         8.6           7.8       2.5
CPI inflation (period average)           3.7         3.4         3.5           2.7       7.5
Unemployment rate                        2.8         2.8         2.5           2.5       3.5
Saving and Investment (% of GDP)
Gross domestic investment               40.4        43.5        41.5          42.8      38.9
Gross national saving                   32.7        33.5        36.6          38.0      38.4
Fiscal Sector (% of GDP)
Federal government balance               1.4         1.3          1.1          2.6       0.5
Revenue                               24.8        23.4        23.7          23.9      18.9
Expenditure and net lending           23.4        22.1        22.6          21.3      18.4
Overall public sector balance            0.9         3.7         4.8           3.3       0.8
Monetary Sector (annual % change)
M3 growth                               15.8        18.2        23.7          17.7      12.0
Domestic credit growth                  14.3        27.7        27.4          27.1      11.9
Interest rates (%, end-period)
One-moth interbank rate                  5.0         5.9         7.2           8.6        ...
Average lending rate                     8.2         9.3         10.1         10.7        ...
Balance of payments (US$ billion)
Trade balance                            1.7         0.0         4.0           3.9       6.8
Exports, f.o.b.                       56.6        71.7        76.8          77.8      74.8
Imports, f.o.b.                       54.9        71.6        72.7          73.8      68.0
Services account balance                -6.5        -7.7        -7.7          -7.4      -6.4
Current account balance                 -5.6        -8.7        -4.9          -4.8      -0.4
(l, of GDP)                           -7.8       -10.0        -4.9          -4.8      -0.5
Capital account balance                  2.5         7.0         7.4          -1.2       0.4
Medium- and long-tenn                  4.4         6.6         5.4           6.6       2.3
Short-term                            -3.2         1.0         4.1          -1.3      -1.9
Portfolio capital 1/                   1.3        -0.7        -2.1          -6.6       0.0
Overall balance                         -3.1        -1.8         2.5          -6.0       0.0
International Trade (annual % change)
Export value                            24.5        25.9         6.0           0.5      -3.8
Export volume                           20.9        13.1         4.2          10.7       5.0
Import value 2/                         29.0        31.5         3.4           0.8      -7.9
Import volume 2/                        28.2        23.1         5.0          12.1      -3.7
Terms of trade                           2.4         4.2         3.2          -0.1      -3.2
Gross official reserves (US$ billion)     26.6        25.1        27.7          21.7      21.7
(months of imports)                      5.8         4.2         4.6           3.5       3.8
Total external debt (US$ billion)         28.7        33.4        39.1          42.9      40.8
(% of GDP)                              39.5        38.3        39.4          43.6      48.5
Short-term external debt (% of total)     19.4        19.1        26.0          23.9      20.5
Debt service ratio (%) 3/                  8.9         7.2         8.7           6.3       5.3
Exchange rates
Ringgit/US$                             2.56        2.54        2.53          3.88        ...
REER (1990=100, period average)        102.2       102.7       107.0         104.6        ...
Sources: Malaysian authorities, Bank and Fund staff estimates.
1/ Including errors and omissions.
2/ Excluding lumpy imports as aircraft, ships, etc.
3/ Percent of exports of goods and services.



ANNEX 3
- 55 -                           Page 2 of 10
Table 2. Malaysia: Balance of Payments and Financing Need, 1996-1998
(in billions of US$)
1996      1997      1998
Prel.    Proj.
1. Current accoumt balance                   -4.9       -4.8     -0.4
Trade balance                               4.0        3.9      6.8
Exports, f.o.b.                          76.8       77.8     74.8
Imports, f.o.b.                          72.7       73.8     68.0
Services balance                           -7.7       -7.4     -6.4
Net transfers                              -1.2       -1.3      -0.9
2. Capital accoumt                            7.4       -1.2       0.4
Medium and long-term flows (net)            5.4        6.6      2.3
Public sector (net)                      0.3         1.7     -0.2
Net federal government                 -0.9       -0.6     -0.5
Net other public sector                 1.2        2.3      0.3
Private (net)                            5.1         4.9      2.5
Net foreign direct investment           3.2        3.8      2.5
Net borrowing                           1.9        1.1      0.0
Short-term flows (net)                     4.1        -1.3     -1.9
Portfolio capital 2/                       -2.1       -6.6      0.0
3. Overall balanice = 1+2                     2.5       -6.0       0.0
4. Change in gross international reserves    -2.5        6.0       0.0
Memorandum items:
Current account/GDP (%)                    -4.9       -4.8      -0.5
FDI/GDP (%)                                 3.2        3.9      3.0
Gross international reserves (US$ billion)  27.7      21.7     21.7
(months of imports)                      4.6         3.5      3.8
Source: Malaysian authorities and staff estimates.
1/ Including US$ 300 million form the World Bank.
2/ Including errors and omissions.



ANNEX 3
- 56-                          Page3 oflO
Table 3. Malaysia: Summary of Public Sector Operations, 1995-98
(in percent of GDP, unless otherwise indicated)
Original March
Prel.    Budget
1995   1996   1997   1998   1998
Federal Government
Revenue                                 23.4   23.7   23.9   22.6   18.9
Tax revenue                           19.8   19.7   20.1    18.9   15.4
Corporate income taxes               6.3    6.6    7.4    6.6    5.0
Personal income taxes                2.8    2.5    2.3    2.3    2.1
Import duties                        2.6    2.5    2.4    2.3    2.0
Excise taxes                         2.4    2.3    2.2    2.1        1.5
Sales taxes                          2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    1.8
Nontax revenue                         3.6    4.0    3.8    3.7    3.5
Expenditure and net lending             22.1   22.6   21.3   20.0    18.4
Operating expenditure                  17.3   18.0   16.4   14.7   13.7
Development expenditure and net lending  4.8    4.6    4.9    5.2    4.6
Overall balance                          1.3    1.1    2.6    2.6    0.5
Consolidated Public Sector
Total revenue                           35.9   36.9   36.5   34.6   29.1
General government revenue            28.6   28.8   28.6   26.9   23.1
NFPE operating surplus                 7.3    8.1    7.8    7.7    5.9
Total expenditure and net lending       32.1   32.1   33.1    31.3   28.2
General government operating expenditure  19.5   20.6    18.7   16.8   15.5
Development expenditure               13.0   11.6   14.5   14.5   12.7
General government                   7.1    5.8    6.2    6.7    5.6
NFPEs                                5.8    5.8    8.3    7.8    7.1
Overall balance                          3.7    4.8    3.3    3.3    0.8
Memorandum items:
Real GDP growth (%)                      9.5    8.6    7.8    7.0    2.5



ANNEX 3
- 57 -                                 Page 4 of 10
Table 3a. Malaysia: Social Services Expenditure, 1994 -1998
1994       1995         1996        1997 1998 Proj
(Ringgit, million)
Social Services - Total Expenditure        14,826     15,654       18,808       19,970       17,936
Education                                10,108     10,603       12,489       12,881       11,315
Health                                   2,529       2,772        3,474       3,727         3,706
Housing                                    487         483         702          856          746
Other Social Services                     1,702      1,796        2,143       2,506         2,169
Social Services - Operating Expenditure    11,541     12,141       14,824       15,051       13,462
Education                                 8,098      8,559       10,398       10,360        9,112
Health                                   2,175       2,384        3,015       3,278         3,097
Housing                                    128          80         201          121           90
Other Social Services                     1,140      1,118        1,210        1,292        1,163
Social Services - Development               3,285      3,513        3,984        4,919        4,474
Expenditure
Education                                2,010       2,044        2,091       2,521         2,203
Health                                     354         388         459          449           609
Housing                                    359         403         501          735           656
Other Social Services                      562         678         933         1,214        1,006
(% of GNP)
Social Services - Total Expenditure           8.2        7.5          7.9          7.6          6.4
Education                                   5.6        5.1          5.2          4.9          4.0
Health                                      1.4         1.3         1.5          1.4          1.3
Housing                                     0.3        0.2          0.3          0.3          0.3
Other Social Services                       0.9        0.9          0.9          1.0          0.8
Social Services - Operating Expenditure       6.4        5.8          6.2          5.7          4.8
Education                                   4.5        4.1          4.4          3.9          3.3
Health                                      1.2        1.1          1.3          1.2          1.1
Housing                                     0.1        0.0          0.1          0.0          0.0
Other Social Services                       0.6        0.5          0.5          0.5          0.4
Social Services - Development                 1.8         1.7         1.7          1.9          1.6
Expenditure
Education                                   1.1        1.0          0.9          1.0          0.8
Health                                      0.2        0.2          0.2          0.2          0.2
Housing                                     0.2        0.2          0.2          0.3          0.2
Other Social Services                       0.3        0.3          0.4          0.5          0.4
(% of Total Expenditure)
Social Services - Total Expenditure          32.0       30.9         32.2         33.1         32.1
Education                                 21.8        20.9         21.4        21.3          20.2
Health                                      5.5        5.5          5.9          6.2          6.6
Housing                                     1.1        1.0          1.2          1.4          1.3
Other Social Services                       3.7        3.5          3.7          4.1          3.9
Social Services - Operating Expenditure      24.9       24.0         25.3         24.9         24.1
Education                                  17.5       16.9         17.8         17.1         16.3
Health                                      4.7        4.7          5.2          5.4          5.5
Housing                                     0.3        0.2          0.3          0.2          0.2
Other Social Services                       2.5        2.2          2.1         2.1           2.1
Social Services - Development                 7.1        6.9          6.8          8.1          8.0
Expenditure
Education                                   4.3        4.0          3.6          4.2          3.9
Health                                      0.8        0.8          0.8          0.7          1.1
Housing                                     0.8        0.8          0.9          1.2          1.2
Other Social Services                       1.2        1.3          1.6          2.0          1.8



ANNEX 3
- 58 -                              Page 5 of 10
Memorandum items (Ringgit, million):
Total Expenditure                        46,341     50,624      58,493       60,415       55,888
Operating Expenditure                  35,064     36,573      43,865       44,666       40,699
Development Expenditure                11,277      14,051     14,628       15,749       15,189
Gross National Product                  180,862    208,171     237,912      263,062      279,400
Source: Malaysian authorities.



- 59 -                                      ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 10
Table 4. Malaysia: Monetary Survey, 1996-1998 1/
Proj.
1996    1996       1996    1996    1997    1997    1997    1997    1998
Mar.   Jun.        Sep.   Dec.   Mar.   Jun.    Sep.   Dec.   Dec.
(in millions of ringgit at end of period)
Net foreign assets 2/                  60,038  56,257      54,287  58,440  56,524  53,052  45,048  43,071
Net domestic assets                   166,771 178,619    189,828 205,800 220,713 233,853 252,670 275,388
Domestic credit                     202,905 210,795    226,901 236,290 257,560 271,133 279,672 304,579
Net claims on federal government    1,789   -447        -589  -1,516     696   1,710  -2,597   3,549
Claims on private sector          201,116 211,242    227,490 237,806 256,864 269,423 282,269 301,030
Other items (net)                   -36,134 -32,176    -37,073 -30,490 -36,847 -37,280 -27,002 -29,191
Broad money (M2)                      226,809 234,876    244,113 264,238 277,237 286,904 298,015 318,460
Narrow money (Ml)                    66,801  68,683     73,718  78,690  82,441  82,596  84,857  85,672
Reserve money                      53,550  57,694     60,916  64,850  68,904  72,549  76,515  82,896
Less: Bank notes and coins          1,564   1,557      1,836   2,086   2,152   2,799   3,240   3,173
Less: Bank deposits at BankNegara  22,537  25,450     27,055  28,697  31,327  33,719  34,919  38,854
Plus: Bank demand deposits 3/      37,352  37,996     41,693  44,623  47,016  46,565  46,501  44,803
Quasi-money 3/,4/                   143,017 148,188    153,543 169,644 174,936 184,190 191,539 206,297
Other financial liabilities 5/       16,991  18,005      16,852  15,904  19,860  20,118  21,619  26,491
(twelve-month percentage change)
Net foreign assets 21,6/                  2.2    -2.2        -2.3     0.1    -1.5    -1.4    -3.8    -5.8     1.8
Net domestic assets 6/                   23.9    24.6        23.5    22.7   23.8    23.5    25.7    26.3    11.9
Domestic credit                        27.5    27.0       29.0    24.8    26.9    28.6    23.3    28.9    11.9
Net claims on federal government 6/  -1.6    -1.4       -0.2    -0.6    -0.5      0.9    -0.8     1.9   -0.1
Claims on private sector             30.3    29.0       29.2    25.5    27.7   27.5    24.1    26.6    11.7
Other items (net) 6/                   -0.4    -1.2       -1.8      0.9   -0.3    -2.2      4.1     0.5    -3.0
M2                                       26.1    22.4       21.2    22.8    22.2    22.2    22.1    20.5
Ml                                       19.9    18.4       24.7    23.7   23.4    20.3    15.1       8.9
M3                                       24.4    20.9       20.6    23.7   21.5    21.9    21.6    18.9    12.0
Source: Malaysian authorities.
I / Consolidation of the accounts of the monetary authorities, commercial banks and Bank Islam.
2/ 1997 figures exclude valuation gains on official foreign currency reserves; financial
3/ Includes deposits of non-residents, state and local governments, statutory bodies, and the Employee
4/ Quasi-money is equal to bank Negara time deposits plus bank time and savings deposits plus bank repos.
5/ Includes bank negotiable instruments of deposit (NlDs).
6/ Contribution to M2 growth.



- 60-                                                 ANNEX3
Page 7 of 10
Table 5. Malaysia: Indicators of External Exposure, 1997-98
(in billions of US$ at end of period, unless otherwise indicated)
1997 Est           1998 Proj
Total external liabilities                                                             57.7
Malaysian residents                                                           47.5                45.4
Medium- and long-term debt                                                    32.5                32.3
Federal government                                                             3.3                 2.9
Nonfinancial public enterprises                                               13.5                 13.7
Private sector                                                                15.7                15.7
Short-term liabilities (by original maturity)                                 15.0                13.1
Banking system liabilities 1/                                                 12.9
Malaysian-controlled banks                                                     8.6
Foreign banks                                                                  4.3
Nonfinancial private sector debt                                               2.1
Malaysian banks abroad 2/                                                     10.2
External assets                                                                        44.4
Gross official reserves                                                       21.7                21.7
Bank Negara forward obligations
Official reserves net of forward obligations                                  21.7                21.7
Foreign assets of resident banks                                               6.2                 6.2
Foreign assets of Malaysian banks abroad 3/                                   16.5
Debt potentially falling due                                                              ..               29.8
Short-term liabilities (by original maturity)                                    ..               15.0
mortization of medium- and long-term debt 4/                                     ..                4.5
liabilities of Malaysian banks abroad                                            ..               10.2
Put options on medium- and long-term debt coming due 5/                          ..                0.1
Memorandum items:
'Residents' foreign currency deposits                                           0.8
Residents' short-term liabilities/Total liabilities (%)                       31.6                28.8
External debt 6/                                                              42.6                40.8
Debt/GDP ratio (%) 6/                                                         40.3                44.1
Debt/Exports ratio (%) 6/                                                     55.1                54.5
Debt service ratio (%) 4/ 6/                                                   6.3                 6.1
Official reserves:
In months of imports                                                           3.5                 3.7
In percent of M3                                                              21.1                16.5
In percent of short-term liabilities of residents                            144.7               165.7
In percent of total external liabilities                                      37.6
Sources: Bank Negara Malaysia, Bank and Fund staff estimates.
1/ Including deposits of nonresidents which are not classified as debt under standard definitions.
2/ Total liabilities of offshore banks are US$ 18.1 billion; amount shown is estimated addition
to consolidated short-term (and total) liabilities.
3/ Contains some claims on Malaysian residents.
4/ Annual flow; includes prepayments in 1997.
5/ Put options allowing bond holders to request early repayment: source: Euromoney.
6/ Excluding deposits of nonresidents and liabilities of offshore banks.



- 61 -                                        ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 10
Table 6. Malaysia: Short-Term Liabilities, end-1997
In billions US$  In percent of total    Shares lent by
short-term external affiliates abroad
liabilities
Total short-term external liabilities                 29.7                100
Malaysian-owned banks                               8.6                 29                   39
Foreign owned banks                                 4.3                 14                   54
Malaysian banks abroad                             10.2 1/              34
Nonfinancial private sector                         2.1                  7
Amortization on medium and long
term liabilities                                   4.5                 15
Of which:
Short-term  debt (remaining maturity) 2/           14.6                 49
Sources: Malaysian authorities.
1/ Total liabilities are US$ 18.1 billion; amount shown is net addition to consolidated liabilities.
2/ Excludes nonresident deposits in Malaysian banks and liabilities of Malaysian banks abroad.



-62 -                                      ANNEX3
Page 9 of 10
Table 7. Malaysia: Banking System Foreign Currency Position
(in billions of US$ at end of period)
1996     1997     1997      1997      1997     1998
Dec.    Mar.       Jun.     Sep.      Dec.      Jan.
Overall foreign exchange position                 0.1       0.8     -0.1      -0.1     -0.2      -0.1
On balance sheet items:
Net long foreign exchange position           -3.0     -4.2      -5.7     -4.1      -3.1     -2.7
Assets                                        5.1      6.5       6.7      7.1       7.4      7.0
Non-residents                               3.8      4.7       4.6      4.9       5.5      5.6
Residents                                   1.3      1.8      2.1       2.2       1.9      1.4
Liabilities                                   8.1     10.6      12.4     11.2      10.6      9.7
Non-residents                               7.3      9.5      10.7      9.7       8.8      8.0
Residents                                   0.9      1.1       1.6      1.5       1.7     12.7
Off balance sheet items:
Net long foreign exchange position            3.1      5.0       5.6      4.0       3.0      2.6
Forward contracts (net)                       1.5      2.1       3.6      4.6       4.1      3.0
Long in foreign exchange                   5.6       8.3      10.0      7.5       6.8      6.1
Short in foreign exchange                  4.1       6.2      6.4       2.9      2.7       3.1
Swap transactions (net)                       1.6      2.7       1.9     -0.7      -1.2     -0.5
Long in foreign exchange                   8.4      11.9      16.2     12.4       7.3      6.2
Short in foreign exchange                  6.8       9.2     14.4      13.1       8.5      6.6
Other items (net) 1/                          0.0      0.1       0.1      0.2       0.1      0.0
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia.
1/ Includes purchases and sales with value tomorrow, options, and futures. Excludes transactions not involving ringgit exchange rates.



- 63 -                                               ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 10
Table 8. Malaysia: Money and Banking Indicators, 1993-1997
1993    1994    1995    1996                  1997
Ql      Q2       Q3       Q4
(billions of ringgit, total per period)
LiquidityoperationsofBankNegara             -39.4    24.3    15.6    11.3    -1.8         8.1    20.1       6.6
Interbank transactions volume              544.5   818.9   857.2   888.3   223.1   276.8   412.3   527.7
(in percent, end of period)
Interest rates
Interbankrate(overnight)                  6.16    4.90    6.50    7.15    6.43    7.18    5.71    8.30
Treasury bill rate (3-month)              5.24    4.50    5.80    6.48    6.31    6.48    6.00    6.76
Deposit rate (12-month) 1/                6.29    6.15    6.89    7.26    7.25    7.38    7.79    9.33
Average base lending rate 1/              8.22    6.83      8.03    9.18    9.24    9.50    9.61    10.33
Averagelendingrate 1/                     9.65    8.24    9.28   10.12   10.14   10.68   10.68   11.51
Loan/deposit ratio 2/
Commercial banks                          83.5    83.7    88.9    89.3    92.1    92.6    94.0    91.9
Finance companies                         85.6    87.4    89.7    90.8    89.2    92.0    97.4    95.6
Risk-weighted capital ratio (RWCR) 3/
Commercial banks                          12.9    11.7    10.6    11.2    11.2    12.2    11.0    10.7
Finance companies                          8.8    10.1       9.7    10.1    10.1    10.8    10.6    10.6
(number)
Institutions not meeting the minimum
RWCR
Commercial banks                              I       I        0        0        0       0        0        1
Finance companies                            4        3        1        0        0       0        0        1
(percent of total loans)
Non-performing loans 4/
Commercial banks                          13.0      9.8      4.9      3.8      3.2      3.5     3.3      4.5
Principal portion                        8.3      7.5      3.6     2.9      2.4      2.8      2.7      3.9
Interest-in-suspense                     4.7      2.3      1.3     0.9      0.8      0.7      0.6      0.6
Finance companies                         14.5    11.2       6.6      4.7      4.2      4.3     5.0      7.8
Principal portion                        9.9      8.1      4.5     3.4      3.3      3.5      4.2      7.0
Interest-in-suspense                     4.6      3.1     2.1      1.3      0.9      0.9      0.8     0.8
General provision 5/
Commercial banks                            1.3     1.6      1.7      1.9     2.0      2.0      2.1      2.1
Finance companies                           1.1     1.3      1.5      1.5      1.6      1.6     1.6      1.7
(percent of non-performing loans)
Total outstanding bad debt provision 6/
Commercial banks                          34.3    35.6    57.5    79.8    81.5    76.5    85.1    61.4
Finance companies                         27.7    34.0    53.0    61.0    62.2    58.4    50.1    37.7
Memorandum items:
Number of institutions
Commercial banks                            38       38      38       38       37       36       35      35
Finance companies                           40       40      40       40       40       40       39      39
Source: Malaysian authorities.
1/ Commercial banks.
2/ Deposits include repurchase agreements and negotiable instruments of deposit; loans exclude housing loans sold
3/ The minimum RWCR is currently 8 percent for all institutions; before 1994, it was 8 percent for finance companies and domestic banks,
and 10 percent for foreign banks. Compliance was mandatory by end-December 1992.
4/ As a percent of total loans including housing loans sold to Cagamas. Figures reported are under the old system of classification, which counted
loans as non-performing if payments were overdue for six months or more. As of January 1, 1998, this period
under the new classification, the 1997 Q4 figures would be 5.3 percent and 9.9 percent for commercial
5/ As a percent of total loans including housing loans sold to Cagamas, less interest-in-suspense and
of 1 percent was increased to 1.5 percent as of January 1, 1998.
6/ General plus specific provisions.



ANNEX 4
Page l of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations in Malaysia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                             disbursements a/
Project ID      Credit      Year                Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                                 IBRD        IDA      Cancellations   Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 97
Active Loans
MY-PE-4312    IBRD36820    1994   GOVT OF MALAYSIA                      HEALTH                            50.00        0.00            0.00          33.22       14.55        0.00
MY-PE-4309    IBRD35710    1993   GOVT OF MALAYSIA                      POLYTECHNIC DEV                  107.00        0.00            0.00          53.80       31.12        0.00
Total                                                                                                    157.00        0.00            0.00          87.02       45.67       0.00
Active Loans         Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   76.30            2,607.83             2,684.13
of which has been repaid:                    0.00            1,908.94            1,908.94
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  178.63               698.89              877.52
Amount sold                       :                0.00               153.40              153.40
Of which repaid               :                 0.00              148.84               148.84
Total Undisbursed                :                87.02                 0.00               87.02
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



- 65 -                                    A`TEX 4
Page 2 of
Malaysia
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Apr-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval             Company         Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1984                  SEAVI MVB               0.00      .01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990                  21st Century            3.68    0.00    0.00    2.78    3.68    0.00    0.00    2.78
1991                  SEAVI MVB II            0.00      .62    0.00    0.00    0.00     .62    0.00    0.00
1991                  VIM MVB 11              0.00      .02    0.00    0.00    0.00     .02    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                    3.68     .65    0.00    2.78    3.68     .64    0.00    2.78
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Commitment:           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00



- 66 -
ANNEX 5
Page I of 2
Malaysia: Fund Relations
I.    Membership Status: Joined March 7, 1958; Article VIII
II.   General Resources Account:'                   SDR Million             % Quota
Quota                                            832.70                100.0
Fund holdings of currency                        388.02                 46.6
Reserve position in Fund                         444.68                 53.4
III.    SDR Department:                              SDR Million          % Allocation
Net cumulative allocation                        139.05                100.0
Holdings                                         133.90                 96.3
IV.     Outstanding Purchases and Loans: None
V.      Financial Arrangements:  None
VI.     Projected Obligations to Fund:    None
V-l.    Exchange Rate Arrangement
The value of the ringgit is determined on the basis of a managed float vis-,a-vis an undisclosed
basket of currencies of Malaysia's major trading partners, which has weights reflecting the importance
of these currencies in trade and settlements. The exchange rate as of May 28, 1998 was RM 3.85 per
US$1.
Malaysia has accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4. Malaysia maintains
bilateral payments arrangements with 24 countries. As of the last Article IV consultation, 19 of these
arrangements potentially gave rise to exchange restrictions which, since these were set up before
July 1994, had been temporarily exempted pursuant to Decision No. 10749-(94/67). The authorities
have since indicated that the restrictive features of these arrangements have been eliminated. On the
capital account, foreign borrowing above RM 5 million is subject to approval, and foreign ownership
of Malaysian equity is limited in some sectors (notably banking). In addition, Bank Negara imposed,
in early August 1997, a US$2 million limit on outstanding noncommercial RM offer-side swap
transactions per nonresident customer. The control measures imposed in early 1994 have all been
lifted, with the exception of reserve requirements on foreign liabilities of banks, which is viewed as
leveling the playing field with sources of domestic funding.
VIII. Last Article IV Consultation
Malaysia is on the standard 12-month consultation cycle. Discussions for the 1998 Article IV
consultation took place during January 12-21, 1998 and March 9-24, 1998. The Staff Report
(SM/98/79) was discussed by the Executive Board on April 20, 1998.
Figures as of March 31, 1998



- 67 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
IX.    Technical Assistance
BCS: A staff member visited in May 1998 to assist Bank Negara in developing a centralized
database system.
STA: A staff member visited Kuala Lumpur in early March 1998 and is expected to return in June
1998 to provide assistance in the compilation of monetary and banking statistics.
STA: A staff member visited Kuala Lumpur in mid-February 1998 to provide assistance in the
compilation of quarterly national accounts.
MAE: A mission visited Kuala Lumpur in February, 1998 to assist the authorities in assessing the
current and prospective health of the financial system, and in devising a comprehensive strategy that
deals transparently with the problems in the financial sector.
STA: A multi-sector mission in April 1997 provided technical assistance on the development of
macroeconomic statistics in the context of the Special Data Dissemination Standard (SDDS), focusing
on the quarterly national accounts, quarterly balance of payments statistics, and government finance
statistics.
X.     Resident Representative/Advisor:    None



- 68 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
Malaysia at a glance
Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        East middle-
Malaysia    Asia income         Developmentdiamond-
Population mid-996 (mil/ions)                     20.5    1726      479
IGNP per capita 1996(US$1                         4303      890    4540                 Life expectancy
GNP 196I billions US$)                            88.4    1542    2.173
iAverage annual growth. 1990-96
Populaton (%)                                      2.3      13       1.5
jeaborforce {%l                        Z~~~~7 1. 8              GNP              j               Gross
Labor force (ff12-                                          1.3      'B      GPG                                   
per  ....t                    p -  Primar
Most recent estimate (latestyear available since 169W                        capita                       enrolimen
Poverty: headcountindex /% ofpopulation)
;Urban populaton (% ofmtoalpopuiation/              54       31       73
j Life expectancy at birth (years)                   71      68       69
Infant mortality (per tOWlive births)               12      40       35
Child malnutritbon t% of children under S           23       .                        Access to safe veter
iAccess to safe meter (% ofpopuladton)              88       77       86
Illiteracy (% ofpopulanion age 15 +)                17       17      13   1
[Gross primaryenroilment 1%of'school-agepopulado    93       117     07       -      Malaysia
Male                                              93      U20                     Upper-middle-income group
Female                                            93      116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985    1995    1996
GDP (billions US$1                        9.7      312     85.3    99.2      Economic ratios-
Gross domestic investmentGDP              25.3    27.6    40.6      41.2
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP        43.7    54.9    95.5    92.0                Openness of economy
Gross domestcsavingsGDP                   25.8    327      37.2     41.9
Gross natonal savingsGDP                  22.5    25.6    320
CurrentaccountbalancelGDP                 -5.1    -20      -100     -4.9
InterestpaymentsGIDP                      0.9      4.6       1.4     1A      Savings                    Investment I
Total debtGDP                             21.7    65.0    40.2      40.1                                            i
Total debtservicekxports                   5.1    30.4      7.0      8.2
Presentvalue of debtGDP                     ..      ..    36.4 
Presentvalue of debtkxports                ..       ..    37.0 
Indebtedness
1975-85 1986-96    1995    1998    1997
(average annual grovdh)                                                    I
GODP                              7.0     8.7      9.6      8.6      7.8      -     Malaysia
GNP per capita                    4.0      6.1     6.8      6.2       ..   j        Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services     8.2    14.6    19.0      10.7       ..   |
;STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1985    1995    1996        Growth rates of output and investmen
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                              28.0      19.3    13.0    12.8
Industry                                  31.3    35.5    43.2    462
Manufacturing                           16.9    1B.5    32.5    34.3
Services                                 40.7    45.2    43.8       41.0     a
Private consumpton                       56.5    52.0    50.7    46.9              91   9    93   94  95  95
General government consumpton             17.7    15.3    12.2      11.2
Imports of goods and services             43.1    49.8    98.9      91.3           -     GDI    ---GDP
1975-85 1986-96    1995    1996        Growth rates of exports and imports I
(average annual grovlh)II
Agriculture                               3.5       3.1     4.2            1 3T
Industry                                  8.3      11.3    1W7
Manufacturing                            8.4    140       14.7      2-             \
Services                                   8.1     8.4      6.9       .S
Private consumpton                        7.3      9.0     13.9      4.4
General government consumption            8.2      7.2      6.9      0.7                     _i
0                            -
Gross domestc investment                  11.7    16.6    18.9       9.5           95  92   93   94  955            i
Imports of goods and services             11.8    18.6    24.2       8.5
Gross natonal product                     6.6      8.7      9.3      8.3             Expers   -n--re s
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estmates.
*The diamonds showfour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamo
be incomplete.



- 69 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
Malaysia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985     1995     1996       Inflation t%i
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                     o 
Consumer prices                             ..       Q4      a4       3a5      s .
ImplicitGDP deflator                       -3.1     -15      5.0      a8.
4)
Governmentfinance                                                              2
(%of GDP)                                                                      o
Current revenue                             ..    27.3      2a4      2a7              91   92   93   94   95   96
Currentbudgetbalance                         ..      14       6.1      6.1            -      GDPdef.   -O--Cpl
Overall surplus/deficit                     ..    -7.4        13       t1
TRADE
1976     1985     1995     1996      Export and import levels (mill.
(millions US$)                                                                 US $)
Total exports Ifob)                         ..    1,311   71670   76,548      ao,ooo
Fuel                                       ..   3,503    2676    2867
Rubber                                     ,     1 t157    1,612    1395     60,000 -
Manufactures                               ..   5,023   58,798   62,997
Total imports (cif)                         ..  1Z,259   77,601   78,425      40000*
Food                                       ..    1326    3,275    3,086 61                        *IiII
Fuel and energy                            ,,    1916    3,841    3,874      20,000
Capital goods                              ..   5,341   48,485   47,580         o        I
Exportprice index (S87=MX.                           78      220      227            90  91  92  93  94  95  96
lmportpriceindex(SW7='                              100      260      264                EESExpor0     Imports
Terms of trade (/87=V.                               77       85       86
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(millions US$)                           1975     1985    1995       1996      Current account balance to GDP ratio
Exports of goods and services            4,236    17,1S5  8a427    91t387      -
Imports of goods and services            4,399   15,604   86,720   90,803        -U--
Resource balance                          -163     1,581   -3,293     584      2
Netincome                                 -300   -Z,88    -4,217   -4,613      4
Net current transfers                                                                 I
Cu rrent accou nt balance,                                                     .S
before official capital transfers       -496      -613   -7,463   -5,158
Financing items (net)                      561    t764    5,705    7,640
Changes in net reserves                    -66    -1152     t758   -Z482
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$S         ..   5,677   25,100   27,704
Conversion rate (loca/US$)                 Z4       Z5       25        Z5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985    1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                 Composition of total debt. 1996 Imill.
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      Z104   20,269   34,333   39,777
IBRD                                     271      776    1,tG9      907
IDA                                        0        0        0        0
A:907  D:497
Total debt service                         222    5,399    6,021    7,657                             E:2816
IBRD                                      30      127      277      231         G: 11o68
IDA                                        0        0        0        0
Composition of net resource flose_
Official grants                           ..       ..        .        .
Official creditors                       132       65      384     -777
Private creditors                        624       91    3,66D    3,243
Foreign direct investment                  ..      ..       ..       ..  |                            24489
Portfolio equity                          ..
World Bank program
Commitments                               64      157        0        0     A- IBRD                     E - B,eteral I
Disbursements                             53       76       88       85     B - IDA    D- Othe,rm0l,bter,.  F P,,"I9e
Principal repayments                     lO        72      194       161    c- IMF                      G - Sh1r1- 1e-,
Netfloves                                 43        4     -1C6      -76   |
Interest payments                         20       56       83       70
Nettiansfers                              23      -52      -B9      -146
Development E conomics                                                                                        4.3398



