Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19826
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND SOCIAL SECTOR LOAN
(Loan No. 43470-MY)
November 1, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of September 1998)
Currency Unit = Ringgit (RM)
RM 1 = US$ 3.8
US$ I = RM 0.26
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIM         -      Amnanah Lkthiar Malaysia
BNM         -      Bank Negara Malaysia
CDRC        -      Corporate Debt Restructuring Committee
EPF          -     Employees Provident Fund
EPU         -      Economic Planning Unit
ERSL        -      Economic Recovery and Social Sector Loan
ESCL        -      Exchangeable Subordinated Capital Loans
FDI          -     Foreign Direct Investment
ICR         -      Implementation Completion Report
KLCI        -      Kuala Lumpur Composite Index
KLSE        -      Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange
MOF         -      Ministry of Finance
MSCI         -     Morgan Stanley Capital International
NEAC         -     National Economic Action Council
NPL          -     Non-Performing Loans
OECD        -      Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PNB          -     Permodalan Nasional Berhad
RM          -      Malaysian Ringgit
ROC         -      Registrar of Companies
RWCR        -      Risk-Weighted Capital Ratio
SC          -      Securities Commission
SMI         -      Small and Medium Scale Industries
SAR         -      Staff Appraisal Report
SPV         -      Special Purpose Vehicle
SRR         -      Statutory Reserve Requirement
Vice President     Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Sector Manager  :Homi Kharas, EASPR
Country Director: Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, EACSM
Task Manager       Ejaz Ghani, Principal Economist, EACTF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................................i
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                             ....................................1
A. Project Objectives and Description ......................................................               1l
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ........................................................              2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .............. 14
D. Sustainability of Reform  Program  ......................................................               15
E. Bank Performance ......................................................                               15
F. Borrower Performance .......................................................                          17
G. Assessment of Outcome ......................................................                          17
H. Future Operation ......................................................                               17
I. Key Lessons Learned ......................................................                             17
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .................................................                        21
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .................................................                    22
Table 3: Project Timetable .................................................                             22
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual ........... 22
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ....................................... 23
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operations .............................................. 23
Table 7: Studies included in Project .................................................                   23
Table 8a: Project Costs .................................................                                23
Table 8b: Project Costs .................................................                                23
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .................................................                     24
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .................................................                    24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .......................... 24
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .................................................                   24
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .................................................                     25
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
ANNEX B: MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Tliis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
Iperformance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
VLorld Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Malaysia
Economic Recovery and Social Sector Reform Loan
(LOAN 43470-MY)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic Recovery
and Social Sector Loan in Malaysia, for which Loan No. 43470-MY in the amount of
U$300 million equivalent was approved on June 1, 1998 and made effective on June 23,
1998. The loan was fully disbursed the day of effectiveness. The loan was closed on
December 31, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Vivek Suri (EASPR), with inputs from Jill Armstrong
(EASHD), Richard Duncan (EASFS), and Arvind Gupta (PSDBE). The ICR was
reviewed by Ejaz Ghani (EACTF) and Zafar Ahmed (Acting Director, EACSM).
Carolyn Meyer Johnson (EACSM) provided helpful operational and editorial
suggestions. The report was prepared under the overall guidance of Homi Kharas (Sector
Manager, EASPR) and Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala (Director, EACSM).
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in
May 1999. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by commenting on the
draft ICR.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND SOCIAL SECTOR LOAN
Loan No. 43470-MY
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES
1.    Malaysia, under Vision 2020, expects to achieve a developed nation status by the
year 2020, and to be able to eliminate hard core poverty by year 2000. However, the
onset of the regional crisis and the impending recession was a setback to Malaysia's
progress in attaining this Vision. The crisis began to reveal structural weaknesses in the
economy. While the Government had recognized some of these weaknesses even before
the crisis and had begun implementing policy reforms, the crisis provided an impetus to
accelerate their implementation. The Government's intention was to implement these
reforms in a pre-emptive fashion so as to minimize the impact of the crisis, while at the
same time addressing emerging structural weaknesses relevant to its medium term
growth.
2.   In late 1997, the Bank restarted its relationship with Malaysia after a four year
period of low key contacts. The Economic Recovery and Social Sector Loan (ERSL)
was an integral part of the Bank's renewed relationship and assistance strategy. The need
for the loan arose as contagion from the crisis in neighboring countries spread to
Malaysia and the authorities felt that fiscal easing was required to limit the economic
downturn. The loan was a fast disbursing operation designed to support the
implementation of the Government's pre-emptive measures to:
* minimize the downturn in economic activity
* implement policy reforms to resume robust and sustainable growth
* expand safety nets to protect the hard core and the near poor from the adverse effects
of the crisis
• protect investments in human resource base
3.    The Government's strategy for achieving these objectives was to implement a
reform program focused in four key areas:
Maintaining sound macroeconomic policy with flexibility in the light of uncertainties
in the economic environment;
. Strengthening the financial sector in the light of the regional crisis including
consolidation of finance companies and pre-emptive recapitalization of banking
institutions; improving regulatory and supervisory framework;



ii
. Improving competitiveness by strengthening corporate governance, enhancing
transparency on disclosure of information; implementing market-based corporate
restructuring procedures; strengthening competition policies;
* Strengthening social safety nets to soften the negative impact of the economic crisis
on the lower income and vulnerable groups; maintaining access to key social sector
services; tackling the problem of graduate unemployment and address medium-term
safety net issues
4.    While there was no accompanying formal IMF program, the IMF at that time was
supportive of the Government's reform program, and the Bank's support of it through the
ERSL. The Bank consulted with the IMF on macroeconomic issues. Fund staff
participated in the appraisal mission for the ERSL and there was very good cooperation
among staff.
B. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
5.    The loan was disbursed as a single tranche release of $300 million on June 23,
1998. There have been several supervision missions between August 1998 to May 1999
to assess progress being achieved under the reform program. The key focus of the
supervision missions was to highlight the downside risks and the need for fine tuning the
reform program. Overall, substantial progress has been made in implementing the
structural reform program. While there have been a few significant departures in the
reform program (e.g., introduction of selective exchange and capital controls; regulatory
easinig in the financial sector) most policy reforns as defined in the loan document are on
track. Given the Government's strong ownership of the reform program, and broad based
support for the prograrn within the country, its sustainability is likely.
6.    Being a highly open economy, the impact of external demand shocks and
uncertainty in international financial markets was severe and greater t]han anticipaLed.
This led the Malaysian Government to adopt certain policies (e.g. capital controls) -hat
were unforeseen at the time of the loan. Changes in the economic team, including the
appointment of a new finance minister, also led to policy changes that reflected the views
of the new economic team in the face of the deepening regional crisis. The adoptio n of
capital controls coupled with political uncertainty that emerged at around the same time,
adversely affected market confidence. The Government to its credit maintained the thrust
of the reform program.
7.    The overall performance and outcome was satisfactory. The loan has helpe: in
resurning economic recovery and achieving macro stability. It has supported a progirarn
of firnancial sector restructuring and helped set in motion a series of policy actions airmled
at strengthening corporate governance. The loan has helped protect social sector bud! ets
and has enabled the expansion of safety nets to protect vulnerable groups.
a) Growth and Macro stability
8.    The downturn in economic activity turned out to be greater than anticipated at :he
time the loan was made. The downturn was smaller than in Thailand and Indonesia,



iii
though somewhat higher than Korea. The Government showed appropriate flexibility in
formulating macro policies as the depth of the crisis became apparent. Fiscal and
monetary policies were both eased as the crisis deepened. Selective exchange and capital
controls were introduced in September 1998 to allow monetary easing, and the breathing
room provided by them was well utilized in accelerating financial and corporate sector
restructuring. The controls were selective - they were aimed at reducing excessive
speculation on the ringgit, and curbing short-term flows. They did not impact current
account transactions or FDI (some restrictions were, however, placed on dividend
repatriation).
9.    The response of the international investor community to the capital controls was
in general not positive -- global credit-rating agencies reduced Malaysia's international
rating to near-junk status and Malaysia was excluded from Morgan Stanley Capital
International indexes (MSCI) and the IFC Emerging Market Index. Market uncertainty
increased -- it was feared that an estimated US$5 to 10 billion of portfolio capital might
leave the country in September 1999, and this could drive Malaysia into another round of
currency crisis or force drastic measures by the Government to address the issue.
10.  In the face of market concerns and emerging signs of stability in the economy, the
controls were modified in February 1999. Quantitative controls were replaced by a two-
tier capital gains tax on foreign portfolio funds brought in after February 15 with the rate
diminishing from 30% for funds remaining in the country for less than one year, to 10%
for funds remaining in the country for more than one year. In September 1999 the two-
tier levy was replaced with a flat 10% levy on repatriation of profits from portfolio
investments.
11.   The flexible policy stance adopted by the Government has helped put the brakes
on declining output growth. The economy bottomed out in Q3 1998, and recovery is
underway -- GDP is expected to grow 3-4% in 1999 compared with -7.5% in 1998.
There has been a favorable market response to the easing of capital controls, improved
growth prospects, and steady progress in financial and corporate restructuring.
Compared with an earlier estimated US$ 5-10 billion, a net outflow of about US$ 1.4
billion was recorded in September 1999 following the expiration of the initially imposed
one year lock-in period for portfolio capital.
b) Financial and corporate sector restructuring
12.   A new institutional framework for financial restructuring was set up in mid-1998
and steady progress has been made in implementing the program. As of June 30, 1999,
the asset management company, Danaharta, had acquired and/or managed RM 39.3
billion of NPLs from the financial system of which RM 31.3 billion are from the banking
system (about 34% of total banking system NPLs). The weighted average discount on the
loans purchased was 57%. Danaharta completed the acquisition process by June 1999
which was 6-months ahead of its original schedule.
13.   The special purpose vehicle, Danamodal, has injected capital into 10 banking
institutions in the form of Exchangeable Subordinated Capital Loans (ESCL) amounting



iv
to RM6.209 billion and has appointed 25 nominees in the intervened institutions as
Chairman/Deputy or directors. The capital injected into these financial institutions,
which was equivalent to about 14% of the total Tier-I capital of the banking sector at the
beginning of 1998, boosted the risk weighted capital adequacy of the recapitalized
institutions from 9.9%/c, to 13.9% at end-May 1999. The entire banking system's RWCR
stood at 12.7% at end-June. The Government has announced that Danamodal will
require significantly less than the original estimate of RM16 billion to ensure sufficient
capitalization.
14.   The Corporate Debt Restructuring Committee (CDRC) was established in July
1998 to facilitate voluantary restructuring of corporate debt outside of courts through
voluntary agreements between creditors and debtors. Progress, though slow as it is a
voluntary process, is bieing made. As of July 31, 1999, CDRC has received applications
fromr  62 companies with loans amounting to RM34.9 billion for assistance in
restructuring their debts. To date, 11 cases involving RM 3.4 billion have been resol ved
with the assistance of Danaharta, 13 cases involving RM 11.3 billion (including RM 8.4
billion for the Renong Group alone) are in the implementation stage, while 27 cases (RM
18.7 billion) are outstanding.
c) Corporate Governance and Competition Policy
15.   On March 25, 1999, following a year of deliberation, the High Level Finaace
Committee (HLFC) oni Corporate Governance released its report to the public. [he
report, the result of an in-depth corporate governance reform exercise, covers three ar, as:
(a) the development of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance, (b) the reformr of
law, regulations and rules to strengthen the regulatory framework for public lis,ted
companies, and (c) training and education to expand the pool of persons suitable for
appointment as company directors.
16.   Measures have also been taken to strengthen provisions relating to corporate
disclosure and protection of minority interests. A Consumer Protection Bill was passed
by the Malaysian Parliament in its July/August 1999 session and is expected to come into
force by end-1999. A draft Unfair Trade Practices Bill has been prepared but has not yet
been adopted by the Government.
17.   One area where the Government has, however, relaxed competitive procedures i3
public procurement. This was done to accelerate the implementation of developml, nt
projects and increase the size of fiscal stimulus. Although the fiscal stimulus is needed
for recovery, the move away from competitive bidding should only be temporary sirce
prolonging it would inevitably raise questions about the transparency of Governm,I nt
operations.
d) Social sector
18.   The Government has taken measures to protect recurrent expenditures on soc ial
assistance programs for needy children, the handicapped, the elderly and the hardcore
poor. A key objective of the ERSL was to restore public expenditure on health,



v
education, and safety nets. This objective has been achieved. Although at the beginning
of 1998, as part of its austerity program, the Government cut health and education
budgets across the board, the budgets were gradually restored during the year.
19.   The Government is implementing a number of programs to mitigate the effects of
the slowdown on the poor and other vulnerable groups. The thrust of the government
program is to enhance income-earning opportunities. Pure transfers to the needy are
limited to a modest social safety net for a small group of people. This practice is
consistent with Malaysia's underlying philosophy of providing the poor with the means
to improve their livelihoods rather than giving them cash transfers.
20.   Additional allocations were made in the 1998 budget for a) Fund for Food scheme
(RM 300 million) which provides low interest loans to small farmers and Farmers'
Associations, b) expansion of programs run by Amanah Ikhtiar Malaysia (RM 100
million), a nongovernmental organization that provides small loans to the very poor for
income generation projects in rural areas, and c) improving rural water supply in the
poorest areas (RM 100 million). In order to extend the safety net to those who are made
newly vulnerable by the crisis but who may not be directly covered under the programs
for the hardcore poor, RM 150 million was allocated for a new micro credit scheme to
provide assistance to petty traders and hawkers. Funds were also allocated for the
enhancement of educational facilities (RM 200 million) and health facilities (RM 100
million). The initial disbursement of these funds was, however, slow though it was
subsequently accelerated.
C. Bank Performance
21.   Before the crisis, Malaysia had stopped borrowing from the Bank and the last
piece of ESW was done in 1994. As a result there was a lack of up-to-date country and
sector knowledge. This impediment was, however, overcome through effective use of
individuals within the Bank who were familiar with the politics and economics of
Malaysia. This enabled the Bank to successfully process the loan under a very tight
schedule. An important role of the operation was to re-establish a strong relationship
with Malaysia. This process was well-managed. Bank staff provided policy notes as
inputs to the Government in March, before the announcement of the reform program.
22.   Bank staff undertook a series of missions in order to maintain the pace and quality
of the dialogue in a rapidly changing environment. An important contribution of the
Bank was making the authorities aware of the downside risks and the strong possibility of
an economic contraction at a time when the authorities expected to achieve low but
positive growth. Another key contribution of the Bank was in assisting the Government
to take stock of its contingent liabilities arising out of guarantees provided to privatized
infrastructure projects.
23.   There was a divergence of opinion between Bank staff and the Malaysian
authorities on the design of the safety net. In part this arose from philosophical
differences (e.g. the authorities favored income generation policies over direct-transfers)
as well as the fact that the actual social impact of the crisis turned out to be smaller than



vi
what the Bank had earlier anticipated. Bank's policy suggestions were aimed at
managing a much larger adverse impact on unemployment and poverty. Actual
unemployment in 19518 turned out to be 3.9% compared to Bank's projected 6-7%. One
reason why unemployment was lower than anticipated was the large reduction in foreign
workers from 1.2 million in 1997 to 0.78 million in 1998.
24.   An area where the Bank was not fully successful in delivering early advice was
financial sector restructuring. This was mostly due to delays in mobilizing the required
skills. With the Indonesia and Korea programs making similar demands, it was difficult
to get a team together early on for Malaysia. When the team was finally mobilized, it did
make some contribution through assessment of the implementation of Malay;!ia's
restructuring strategy wvhich was formulated with the assistance of private sector experts.
D. FUTURE OPERATIONS
25.   The ERSL has helped achieve Malaysia's objective of minimizing the downiumrn
in the economy. Recovery is underway and it is important to ensure that it is sustainable.
A follow-up fast disbursing operation would be of great value to the Governmen-: in
deepening and strengthening its reform agenda, thereby laying a stronger foundation. for
resuming robust growth, and ensuring that it is sustainable in the long run. Focusinj' on
the medium-term competitiveness issues would be a key component in this regard.
E. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
*  Maintenance of country knowledge, even if there is no lending activity. The Bank's
stock of knowledge on Malaysia was relatively low when the crisis began and it liad
to scramble to establish a workable knowledge base on Malaysia.
*  Strong ownership of the reform program by the Government is crucial to its succt!ss.
Even though there were changes at the highest level in the Government, the newv
economic team sustained the momentum of reform.
*  Show flexibility in policy stance in the face of uncertainty and a rapidly changing
situation. As events unfolded and the depth of the crisis became apparent ihe
Government did nolt rigidly stick to pre-announced policies but adjusted its monetiLri
and fiscal stance in accordance with the new realities.
•  Fiscal flexibility requires increased coordination between MOF and line agencies in
order to implement the public sector programs. After having been initially advised by
MOF to reduce expenditure, the line ministries found it difficult to reverse course
when the fiscal stimulus package was announced. As a result the fiscal stimulus vas
smaller than envisaged.
*  Appropriate fiscal and monetary policies, measures to recapitalize the banki ig;
system, strengthening banking supervision, and corporate debt restructuring have
played a key role in stemming capital outflows and returning stability to 1 le
Malaysian economy. While some observers attribute a key role to direct controls on
capital outflows, it is difficult to isolate their impact from the above factors.



vii
Malaysia's strategies to stem capital outflows and restore confidence in the economy
included heterodox policies like direct capital exit controls. However, heterodox
polices can lead to a further deterioration in market sentiments and have to be very
carefully designed and managed to gain market confidence. Overall the Malaysian
controls have been well managed. However, when Malaysia introduced capital
controls, despite being carefully designed, the international markets were fuirther
unnerved by the sudden announcement and their initial reaction was strongly
negative.  In light of market concerns and emerging signs of stability, the
Government to its credit, consulted market participants and modified the controls by
introducing an exit tax. This helped restore confidence in the Malaysian economy.
There were also problems in administering the controls (e.g. limits had to be placed
on dividend repatriation; it is difficult in practice to differentiate between short-term
and long-term capital) and the Government has to still contend with designing a full
phase out strategy.
•  Taking stock of contingent liabilities in a transparent fashion and making provisions
for them through the budgetary process should be an important priority A key factor
that caused a loss of market confidence was the lack of information on the size of
burden that would fall on the Government in case the contingent liabilities arising
from privatized infrastructure projects were realized.
3 Some form of temporary regulatory easing may be appropriate during crisis times if it
can be clearly demonstrated that these regulations are preventing banks from focusing
on their key business. The tightening of regulatory standards announced in late 1997
and early 1998, while a laudable objective, may have inadvertently contributed to the
reduction in credit as banks became preoccupied with managing deterioration in asset
quality and capital erosion. Regulatory easing in September 1998 met with success to
the extent that loan approvals increased significantly, although this coincides with the
start of recovery, so causality is hard to determine. A return to the highest prudential
standards should be a priority as soon as recovery is established.
*  Small open economies like Malaysia are vulnerable to boom and bust cycles and
therefore need mechanisms to manage them effectively. Modernization of public
sector institutions to better define, ex-ante, the rules of the game (e.g., strengthening
the risk management capability of the public sector, making Government guarantees
transparent), will help prevent over-investment by the private sector and align the
risks and rewards faced by them. Macroeconomic policies would need to be managed
more flexibly to increase the shock-absorptive capacity of the economy. In particular,
fiscal discipline or the rule of maintaining a balance in the operating budget could be
achieved over a business cycle rather than every year. In addition, the automatic
stabilization capacity of the budget should be enhanced as there may be delays in
implementing fiscal stimulus packages during a downturn.
Economies like Malaysia need to develop a social sector strategy to manage the risks
arising from globalization, especially mechanisms to reach the urban poor. Till
recently most established programs were aimed at tackling rural poverty. Social
programs should be an integral part of the strategy to cope with urban unemployment.
Labor market reforms and training would help reduce structural unemployment.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND SOCIAL SECTOR LOAN
Loan No. 43470-MY
I. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION AND ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES
1.    Malaysia, under Vision 2020, expects to achieve a developed nation status by the
year 2020, and to be able to eliminate hard core poverty by year 2000. However, the
onset of the regional crisis and the impending recession was a setback to Malaysia's
progress in attaining this Vision. The crisis began to reveal structural weaknesses in the
economy. Even before the crisis the Government had recognized some of these
weaknesses and had begun implementing policy reforms to strengthen the financial
sector, increase competitiveness, strengthen investments in human resource development,
and to maintain well-targeted and efficient social safety nets. The crisis provided an
impetus to accelerate the implementation of policy reforms. The Government's intention
was to implement these reforms in a pre-emptive fashion so as to minimize the impact of
the crisis. At the same time, emerging structural weaknesses relevant to its medium termn
growth would also be addressed.
2.   In late 1997, the Bank restarted its relationship with Malaysia after a four year
period of low key contacts. The Economic Recovery and Social Sector Loan (ERSL)
was an integral part of the Bank's renewed relationship and assistance strategy. The need
for the loan arose as contagion from the crisis in neighboring countries spread to
Malaysia and the authorities felt that fiscal easing was required to limit the economic
downturn.  The loan was a fast disbursing operation designed to support the
implementation of the Government's pre-emptive measures to:
* minimize the downturn in economic activity
* implement policy reforms to resume robust and sustainable growth
* expand safety nets to protect the hard core and the near poor from the adverse effects
of the crisis
* protect investments in human resource base
3.    The Government's strategy for achieving these objectives was to implement a
reform program focused in four key areas:
l Maintaining sound macroeconomic policy with flexibility in the light of uncertainties
in the economic environment;



2
.  Strengthening the financial sector in the light of the regional crisis including
consolidation of finance companies and pre-emptive recapitalization of banking
institutions; improving regulatory and supervisory framework; and improving market
based incentives for more efficient functioning of financial institutions;
.  Improving competitiveness by strengthening corporate governance, enhancing
transparency on disclosure of information; implementing market-based corporate
restructuring procedures; strengthening competition policies; and liberalizing
gradually and progressively foreign equity ownership to facilitate early
recapitalization; and
*  Strengthening social safety nets to soften the negative impact of the economic crisis
on the lower income and vulnerable groups; maintaining access to key social sector
services; tackling the problem of graduate unemployment and address mediumi-term
safety net issues
4.    The loan would support and strengthen the Govemment's balance of paymnents
objectives in the context of the regional crisis. In addition it would support the fiscal
objectives of the Government aimed at strengthening the social sectors.
5.    The proposed operation was strongly owned by the Govemment as it was based
on policy reforms announced by the Finance Minister in Statement of March 24, 1998,
(Comprehensive Stabilization and Structural Reform Package) and the Statement by the
Govemnor of Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) on March 25, 1998. A policy matrix was
discussed and agreed with the Govemment.
6.    While there was no accompanying formal IMF program, the IMF at that time was
supportive of the Govemment's reform program, and the Bank's support of it throug h the
ERSL.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
7.   In order to achieve the objectives outlined in the previous section, the
Government adopted a flexible macroeconomic policy, implemented measures to
strengthen the financial sector and improve corporate governance, and to protect the poor
and the vulnerable groups from the adverse affects of the crisis. Progress on selt!cted
outcome indicators is detailed in the following sections.
Macroeconomic Policy
8.   Initial rebalancing of macro policy: The loan was to support the pre-em]tive
program of the Government announced in March 1998. The program sought to rebaLhnce
macroeconomic policy that was formulated in October 1997 when Malaysia was slill
registering robust growth, despite experiencing the initial shocks of the regional cz:isis.
Fiscal policy was aimed at containing inflation and managing the current account de&icit,
and was thus one of restraint aiming at a surplus of 2.7% of GNP. In December 1.997
further austerity measures were announced involving expenditure reduction of 0%
across the board and 8% on a selective basis. However, with the crisis becomiiing



3
prolonged, the March program sought to ease fiscal policy and reduced the targeted
surplus to 0.5% of GNP. The tight monetary policy that was adopted in 1997 was
however to be maintained. This was because at the beginning of 1998 there was a sharp
increase in the volatility of the ringgit, inflation began to move up as the impact of higher
import prices filtered through, and the outflow of short term funds increased. Credit
growth was targeted to moderate to 12-15% in 1998 from about 30% in 1997.
9.    Fiscal policy eased: The tight monetary policy and the restrained fiscal policy
helped improve the external balance and contain inflationary pressures. However, high
interest rates and a sharper than anticipated credit slowdown (see section on financial
sector below) adversely impacted domestic economic activity. The cuts in public
expenditure aggravated the declines in consumer and investment demand. With the
downturn being much steeper than anticipated the Government announced a fiscal
stimulus package involving an additional allocation of RM 7 billion, thereby targeting a
fiscal deficit of 3.4% of GDP for 1998. The projects identified were those with strong
domestic multiplier effects, low import content, and short gestation period. Allocations
to the social sector was increased. The actual deficit however turned out to be only 1.8%
of GDP owing to expenditure slippages arising out of inadequate inter-ministerial
coordination. The Government has however taken steps to improve inter-ministerial
coordination and has accelerated project implementation in 1999. A fiscal deficit of
5.8% of GDP is planned for 1999.
10.   Monetary easing and introduction of selective capital controls: Monetary policy
was eased beginning in August 1998 to complement the counter cyclical fiscal policy. In
August, BNM's 3-month intervention rate was reduced in steps from 11% to 9.5%. The
Malaysian authorities feared that attempts to further lower interest rates would lead to
further speculative attacks on the ringgit in the off-shore markets. Yet, maintenance of
high interest rates would push the economy deeper into recession. Faced with this
dilemma, the authorities felt that it was imperative for Malaysia to ease monetary policy
and lower interest rates without having to worry about exchange rate instability. Fixing
the exchange rate and introducing selected capital controls was seen by the Government
as a measure that would enable Malaysia gain monetary independence.
11.  In September 1998, the off-shore ringgit market was closed and funds brought
into the country would need to be held for 12-months before they could be repatriated.
These measures were clearly not anticipated under the reform package supported by the
loan. The controls, however, were selective - they were aimed at reducing excessive
speculation on the ringgit, and curbing short-term flows. They did not impact current
account transactions or FDI' .
12.   The response of the international investor community to the capital controls was
in general not positive - global credit-rating agencies reduced Malaysia's international
rating to near-junk status and Malaysia was excluded from Morgan Stanley Capital
International indexes (MSCI) and the IFC Emerging Market Index. Market uncertainty
increased; it was feared that an estimated US$5 to 10 billion of portfolio capital might
l Some restrictions were, however, placed on dividend repatriation.



4
leave the country in September 1999, and this could drive Malaysia into another round of
currency crisis or force drastic measures by the Government to address this issue. Also,
signs of regional financial stability started to emerge in the fourth quarter of ] 998,
making the some of t]he instruments of capital control redundant.
13.   Modification of capital controls. In the face of market concerns and emerging
signs of stability iri the economy the controls were modified in February l 999.
Quantitative controls were replaced by a two-tier capital gains tax on foreign portfolio
funds brought in after February 15 with the rate diminishing from 30% for tukids
remaining in the country for less than one year to 10% for funds remaining in the coiuntry
for more than one year. The principal would be taxable on a graduated scale for ifunlds
brought in before February 15, with the rate diminishing to zero for funds held for inore
than a year. In September 1999 the two-tier levy was replaced with a flat 10% levy on
repatriation of profits from portfolio investments. The breathing room provided by the
controls has been used judiciously to expedite financial and corporate sector
restructuring. BNM has also reduced its 3-month intervention rate to 5.5% in August
1999 from 11% in August 1998. With inflation remaining low (around 3%) real intcrest
rates remained positive.
14.   The flexible policy stance adopted by the Government helped put the brakes on
dec]lining output growth. The economy bottomed out in Q3 1998 and recovery is well
underway.
*  After contracting for five successive quarters, GDP grew 4.1% in Q2 1999, ard is
expected to record 3-4% growth for the whole year compared with -7.5% in 1)98.
Manufacturing production has expanded at over 6% year-on-year (yoy) in the first
eight months of 1999. While private consumption grew 3% in Q2 1999, private
iinvestment continued to contract owing to excess capacity in a number of sectors.
•]Exports, led by the electronics sector, grew 14% yoy in US$ termns during Januiary-
August 1999. Imports, having contracted through Ql 1999, picked up in Q2 '1999
bringing their US$ value growth to nearly 7% yoy in January-August. Capital goods
imports have picked since June. The current account surplus for 1998 was 13%1o of
GDP.
*  Foreign exchange reserves have increased to US$ 31.4 billion at end-Septmeber 1999
(6.2 months of imports; short-term debt is less than 25% of reserves) compared with
US$ 20 billion at the time of the loan
* Loan disbursements have averaged RM 26 billion a month in the January-Aupust
period in 1999 compared with RM 21 billion in the same period of 1998.
* Inflation has fallen from its peak of 6.2% in June 1998 to 2.3% in August 1999.
13NM's key 3-month intervention interest rate has come down from 11% in Aug ust
1998 to 5.5% in August 1999. The average lending rate for commercial banks has
come down from 13.5% in May 1998 to 8% at end-August 1999.
*  The stock market has recovered substantially. In May 1999, the KLCI breached the
700 mark for the first time in 13 months and stood at 738 on October 21. It had
plummeted to 263 on September 1, 1998.



5
15.   There has been a favorable market response to the easing of capital controls,
improved growth prospects, and steady progress in financial and corporate restructuring.
Malaysia will be reinstated into the MSCI indexes from February 2000. Compared with
an earlier estimated US$5-10 billion, a net outflow of about US$ 1.4 billion was recorded
in September 1999 following the expiration of the one year period after which the
principal amount on the funds initially locked-in could be repatriated without any levy.
16.  Issues: There are some concerns about the way in which monetary policy has
been eased. The Govermnent has narrowed the maximum allowable spread over the base
lending rate that banks are allowed to charge. This could restrict banks' ability to price
loans according to client risks. It could undermine profitability, and perpetuate the
management of interest rates through direct rather than indirect means. The Government
has, however, begun a review of the current base lending framework, which among other
things, will focus on issues relating to a more efficient pricing system. The Government
has set a credit growth target of 8% for capable banks. However, enforcing this target
could lead to further deterioration in asset quality. The supervision missions have
discussed these issues at length. The Government does not plan to enforce these credit
targets at the individual bank level; instead, it plans to encourage bank lending through
moral suasion.
Financial and Corporate Sector Restructuring
17.   New Institutional Framework: In mid-1998 the Government set up a new and
comprehensive institutional framework for financial and corporate sector restructuring.
Danaharta was established as an asset management company in June 1998 to acquire
NPLs from financial institutions in order to strengthen their balance sheets and enhance
their ability to lend. Danamodal was established in August 1998 as a special purpose
vehicle with the purpose of recapitalizing viable banking institutions whose capital
adequacy ratios fell below 10% and the shareholders faced difficulty in raising funds to
meet the additional capital requirement. As a strategic shareholder in the recapitalized
banking institutions Danamodal would also facilitate the consolidation and rationalization
of the banking system and catalyze the merger process. As a pre-condition, banking
institutions that seek recapitalization are required to sell their NPLs to Danaharta. This is
to ensure that the new capital injected is channeled towards financing new lending and
not to fund existing NPLs. The last component of the restructuring framework is the
Corporate Debt Restructuring Committee (CDRC) which was established in July 1998
to facilitate voluntary restructuring of corporate debt outside of courts through voluntary
agreements between creditors and debtors.
18.   Steady progress in financial restructuring: Danaharta and Danamodal have
made steady progress. As of June 30, 1999, Danaharta had acquired and/or managed RM
39.3 billion of NPLs from the financial system of which RM 31.3 billion are from the
banking system (about 34% of total banking system NPLs). Of the RM 39.3 billion, RM
17.8. billion were acquired from financial institutions, while RM 14.5 billion NPLs from
Sime Bank Group and RM 7.1 billion NPLs from Bank Bumiputra Malaysia Berhad
Group were only managed. The weighted average discount on the loans purchased was



6
579%0. However, if orne large loan which was purchased for a nominal sum of RM 1 is
exc:luded, the average! discount was 48%. Danaharta completed the acquisition prccess
by June 1999 which was 6-months ahead of its original schedule.
19.   Danaharta's financing requirements were estimated at RM 15 billion. These were
partly be met by cash contributions by MOF, Khazanah and EPF amounting to RVI 5
billion. The rest are being met through issuing zero-coupon bonds with a nominal value
of RM 15 billion (present value: RM 10 billion). These bonds are issued to banking
institutions in exchange for NPLs. A totall amount of RM 9.174 billion in nominal value
of bonds have been issued so far. The yield on these bonds has come down from 7.1.50%
during the first issue in November 1998 to 5.319% for the most recent round on July, 29.
20.   Danamodal has injected capital into 10 banking institutions in the forrim of
Exchangeable Subordinated Capital Loans (ESCL) amounting to RM 6.209 billion and
has appointed 25 nominees in the intervened institutions as Chairman/Deputy, or
directors. Of these 10 institutions, Danamodal has signed Definitive Agreements with
nine institutions for the conversion of the ESCL into permanent Tier-I and/or Ti -r-2
capital. The capital injected into these financial institutions, which was equivalent to
about 14% of the total Tier 1 capital of the banking sector at the beginning of 1998,
boosted the risk weighted capital adequacy of the recapitalized institutions from 9.9% to
13.9% at end-May 1999. The entire banking system's RWCR stood at 12.7% at end-
June. The Government has announced t'hat Danamodal will require significantly less
than the original estirnate of RM 16 billion to ensure sufficient capitalization of the
industry. Funding requirements of Danamodal have been met through RM 3 billion of
seed capital from BNM and a bond issue through which RM 7.7 billion was raised. 'Tie
bonds were fully subscribed by 57 banking institutions through liquidity released frobn a
reduction in SRR from 6% to 4% on September 16, 1998. The remaining RM 5.3 bill oa,
if required, will be raised through a domestic and/ or global bond issue.
21.  In January 1998, BNM  announced a plan to reduce the number of finance
companies from 39 to 8 through a series of mergers. March 31, 1998 was set as a target
deadline for the mergers to be finalized and activated, but the target was missed. A. of
July 31 1999, 12 finance companies have been absorbed by parent commercial ba]ks,
while two have merged with two other finance companies. In addition, BNM announced
a large scale merger program on July 29, 1999 whereby the present 21 dome,tic
commercial banks, 25 finance companies and 12 merchant banks would be consolidated
into six domestic banking groups. The composition of each group including the lead or
"anchor" bank was determined by BNM. However, there were strong objections fr3mn
some banks to being rmerged in this manner. In response, on October 21, 1999 B1NM
changed its earlier decision and allowed banking institutions the flexibility to form tf eir
own merger groups and to choose their own lead institution. The number of groimps
would no longer be restricted to six. Merger partners are to be identified by January 2! 'l0D
and the entire merger process is to be completed by December 2000.
22.   The CDRC is assisting in restructuring debt of viable companies. The comparnies
should not be under any insolvency administration. If the companies are already un'ler
the protection of Section 176 of the Companies Act 1965, they must withdraw all



7
restraining orders against their creditor banks once all creditors agree to a standstill
period. Progress, though slow as it is a voluntary process, is being made. As of July 31,
1999, CDRC has received applications from 62 companies with loans amounting to RM
34.9 billion (including RM 8.4 billion for the Renong Group alone) for assistance in
restructuring their debts. Out of the 62 applications, I1 companies with debts amounting
to RM 2.9 billion either have been withdrawn or rejected. The rejected cases were those
that did not meet CDRC's terms of reference. To date, 11 cases involving RM 3.4 billion
have been resolved with the assistance of Danaharta, 13 cases involving RM 11.3 billion
are in the implementation stage, while 27 cases (RM 18.7 billion) are outstanding.
CDRC secretariat has indicated that in all cases, on a proportionate basis, owners will
take bigger hair cuts than creditors -- through write down of existing share capital or
through dilution.
23.   Disclosure throughout the restructuring process has been good.  Details of
significant developments concerning the CDRC, Danamodal or Danaharta have been
made available in a timely manner on web sites, in press releases, and operational reports.
In March 1999, Danaharta released detailed operational results providing information on
the amount of NPLs acquired and the discount to face value paid, in aggregate and on a
bank-by-bank basis; in April, it announced the loan restructuring guidelines it will follow
in restructuring NPLs; and in May, Danaharta's first annual report and operations report
was made public. Danamodal released its first set of financial statements in the fourth
quarter of 1998. The details of the cases resolved by the CDRC have been made public
and widely discussed in the Malaysian and international press.
24.   Burden sharing is inherent in the operational processes of Danaharta and
Danamodal. The financial institutions from which Danaharta acquires NPLs at a
discount must write off the difference between the face value of the loan and the price
received from Danaharta. Existing shareholders see the value of their investment reduced
by such losses. Furthernore, the shareholders of banking institutions that receive capital
injections from Danamodal experience a dilution of their equity stake in that institution.
The degree of dilution increases in proportion to the losses incurred by the firm and by
the amount of capital injected by Danamodal. For example, the shareholders of MBf
Finance Berhad suffered a severe dilution of their interest in that finance company
following an injection of capital by Danamodal. At present, Danamodal's capital
injection represents 93% of the capital base of MBf Finance Berhad. Danamodal's
capital injection currently represents more than 50% of the capital base of three
institutions. Write-offs have occurred in two of the cases which the CDRC has helped
resolve; in the other cases debts have been rescheduled rather than restructured through
write-offs or asset sales.
25.   Initial tightening of Regulatory Standards: The Government introduced a series
of pre-emptive measures between April 1997 and March 1998 to strengthen the financial
sector -- stricter prudential standards were imposed and disclosure requirements were
enhanced. These measures included: tightening the definition of NPLs from 6-months
past due to 3-months past due; a 20% automatic provision against the uncollateralized
portion of substandard loans; maximum limits of 20% of total loans on lending to the
broad property sector and 15% on lending for the purchase of shares and units. The



8
measures introduced by the Government in October 1997 and March 1998 substantially
increased information disclosure by financial institutions to improve the quality and
reliability of information provided to regulators, shareholders, and the general public.
This was a bold move designed to improve market confidence. Banking institutions were
required to publish quarterly data on key indicators of financial soundness, including
capital adequacy and NPLs. This information was to complement the central bank's
monthly publication of information on capital adequacy, NPLs, and the provisioirlg
levels of commercial and merchant banks and finance companies. The ERSL was
supportive of these measures.
26.   Unanticipated impact of regulatory tightening: However, as the crisis deepe nied
the authorities felt that the imposition of these measures had resulted in banks beconliirg
pre-occupied with managing deterioration in asset quality and capital erosion. The
introduction of tighter banking standards, may have inadvertently contributed to the
reduction in credit by pressuring banks to call in loans in order to improve their capital
adequacy ratios. Due to the difficulty of raising new capital during the crisis, reducing
assets was the most efficacious means of meeting capital adequacy requirements from the
point of view of the banks which wished to avoid being forced to merge by BNM at gi eat
loss to existing shareholders. Although other factors contributed to the sudden decline in
credit extension, including issues regarding the credit worthiness of borrowers and the
reluctance to borrow on the part of industries already faced with overcapacity, in
retrospect, the introduction of measures to improve the prudential standards of the
financial sector may have been too aggressive in the case of Malaysia.
27.  Issues: Relaxation of regulatory measures. In September 1998, a number of
initially tightened standards were relaxed. The classification of NPLs was lengthened to
6 months and banking institutions were required to set aside a 20% provision on 1he
uncollateralized portion of substandard loans only if the overall loan loss provision Nvas
inadequate (as determined by BNM). The limits on property loans and share financing
were eased. Property loans under RM 250,000 were exempted from the 20% limit, and
limits on share financing by commercial banks and finance companies were increased to
20%. The frequency of the disclosure requirement was relaxed: key indicators are nuow
once again to be published only semi-annually. This action was contrary to the princip:le
of imrproved transparency. BNM, however, has strengthened its supervision and it
continues to gather information from financial institutions on NPLs (3-month and 6..
month definition), and specific and general provisions, on a monthly basis.
28.   While there may be some justification for having eased regulatory standails
during a crisis, the Government should consider announcing that the policy easing is onily
a temporary measure, forced by the crisis, and that Malaysia will reaffirm its commitmentnt
to the highest prudential standards once the crisis is over.
29.   Recent measures to strengthen the banking system:  In April 1999, new
measures were announced to strengthen the banking system:
Frequency of on-site examination of banks will be increased to at least once a ye, ar
and the examination will be on a consolidated basis



9
e  The two-tier regulatory system will be discontinued. The large minimum paid up
capital requirement of tier-I banks had encouraged the shareholders to borrow short-
term to enhance the capital base. Future bank capitalization will be allowed only if
funds are raised from less obligatory resources such as retained profits, equity or very
long-term bond issues.
. Different risk weighted capital requirements will be imposed on individual banking
institutions which will take into account loan concentration, sectoral exposure and
internal controls.
. Standards on credit risk management will be issued to banking institutions
To address the problem of moral hazard, BNM will formulate a clearer set of
guidelines for its lender-of-last resort facility which will specify conditions if such
support is called upon.
* A financial deposit insurance scheme will be developed to replace the current blanket
Government guarantee.
. Measures will be taken to deepen the repo market, and facilitate asset-backed
securitization
Corporate Governance and Competition Policy
30.   Relative to other East Asian economies (with the exception of Singapore and
Hong Kong), Malaysia has had better corporate governance structures backed by well
drafted legislation and regulations. Under the ERSL, the Government of Malaysia has
committed itself to further improvements by completing actions already initiated and by
introducing new measures. Considerable progress has been made.
31.   One area where the Government has, however, relaxed competitive procedures is
public procurement. This was done to accelerate the implementation of development
projects and increase the size of fiscal stimulus. Although the fiscal stimulus is needed
for recovery, the challenge is to reintroduce competitive bidding procedures.
Improving Corporate Governance
32.   Finance Committee Report and Recommendations. On March 25, 1999, following
a year of deliberation, the High Level Finance Committee (HLFC) on Corporate
Governance released its report to the public. The report, the result of an in-depth
corporate governance reform exercise, covers three areas: (a) the development of the
Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance, (b) the reform of law, regulations and rules to
strengthen the regulatory framework for public listed companies, and (c) training and
education to expand the pool of persons suitable for appointment as company directors.
33.   The HLFC report is comprehensive and makes detailed recommendations relating
to corporate governance and disclosure issues. Implementation of the recommendations
will substantially improve corporate governance and disclosure. The report envisages
four types of measures: (a) legislative actions; (b) amendment to Listing requirements of
Exchanges (c) measures that can be implemented through Best Practice Notes and
guidelines; and (d) voluntary actions by professional bodies, investors and companies.



10
Full implementation of legislative action will take time. However, the regulatory
authorities have already started implementing types (b), (c) and (d) measures.
34.   Several concrete actions to improve corporate governance have already been
taken:
*  Code of Ethics for Directors and Company Secretaries was published by the Registrar
of Companies
*  Section 67 A of the Companies Act was amended to remove ambiguities and en.iance
safeguards in share buyback programs
*  The Securities Industry Regulations under the Securities Industry Act 1983 have been
amended to: (a) lower the threshold relating to disclosure of substantial sharehclding
to 2% of the norminal amount of voting shares and (b) reduce the grace peric d for
notification from 14 days to 7 days.
*  KLSE listing rule:s were amended to widen the scope of rules on related-party and
interested-party transactions to also cover transactions between the compan:, and
persons connected with a director or substantial shareholder and parties in which the
director, substantial shareholder or any person connected with the director or
substantial shareholder has an interest.
*  KLSE listing regulations amended to disallow interested directors from voting and
require appointment of Corporate Advisers in a related or interested-party transaction.
*  The enforcement powers of the Securities Commission (SC) have been enhanc,d. to
also allow the SC to petition to Court for winding-up of companies contravening anmy
securities laws. The SC may also apply to Court to disqualify clirectors or hief
executives of listed companies where they have been convicted of an offense l: nder
the securities laws.
*  The SC has also made amendments to the Takeover Code to require higher stan. ards
of disclosure of information and to ensure adequate and timely disclosures to mirl mnity
shareholders. Additionally, the Code specifically sets out the criteria on which the
SC may make decisions to exempt a company from the requirements of the CoI.[e in
relation to a takeover. This would make the regulatory decision making process riore
transparent.
*  KLSE listing requirements were amended to restrict the number of directorships thlat
can be held by a director of a public listed company to no more than 10 in I sted
companies and 15 in non-listed companies.
35.  In addition to specific actions (described above) the SC has also pub! icly
announced a three year business plan (1998-2000) which articulates a detailed aid
explicit strategy for strengthening the capital market regulatory framework.  The
corporate governance component of the capital market development strategy has tiirze
elements: (a) Develop a code on corporate governance; (b) Formulate effective
enforcement mechanisms; and (c) Raise the investor's awareness of corporate govern, nce
standards. The SC being a member of the High Level Finance Committee will carr; out
its agenda on corporate governance through the Finance Committee.



11
Improving Transparency.
36.   Certain provisions of KLSE listing requirements have been revised. Risk based
capital adequacy requirements and client asset protection rules for stockbroking
companies are being introduced, the implementation of which is subject to consultation
with the SC.
* KLSE listing requirements have been amended from time to time to strengthen
provisions relating to disclosure and protection of minority interests. Since the
approval of the Loan two important Practice Notes relating to corporate disclosure
have been issued. The first note requires all listed companies to make immediate
announcements in the event of default in interest and/or principal payments in respect
of loan stocks, bonds, debentures or credit facilities. Companies are also required to
cite the reason for default, remedial measures proposed and the financial and legal
implication of the default. This note became effective on June 1, 1998 and till the end
of June 1999 about 57 companies had made announcements under this note. The
second note requires all companies to announce by June 30, 1998, details of overall
potential exposure to the Y2K problem and remedial actions taken.
* Rules on capital adequacy requirements have been introduced with effect from May
28, 1999. Full monitoring and enforcement of the rules will be announced by KLSE
in conjunction with SC. Client Asset Protection rules have been approved in
principle by SC. The proposals are in line with best practices in Europe.
* As part of enhancing investor protection, KLSE has decided to publish periodically
the amounts by which Exchange Members are in surplus/deficit with respect to the
Minimum Liquid Fund Requirement. Restrictions have also been placed from time to
time on stockbrokers and some of the exchange members have been put under
enhanced on-site surveillance.
*  KLSE listing requirements were amended to require all public listed companies to
make quarterly financial disclosure (previously half-yearly) with effect from the
quarter ending on or after July 31, 1999.
37.   Further, the SC's business plan envisages that by the Year 2001 the regulatory
structure will shift from a merit-based regime (i.e. based on Government approval) to a
disclosure based regime. Under the new regime most of the responsibility for day-to-day
regulation will be delegated to the front-line agencies such as the KLSE. This approach
is consistent with practices in more advanced capital markets.  Compliance with
International Accounting Standards adopted by Malaysia is proceeding as envisaged. A
number of exposure drafts have been issued.
38.   Quarterly statistics on commencement and completion of bankruptcy and
reorganization case are being made available:
. The Registrar of Companies (ROC) compiles monthly statistics on winding-up
(voluntary, court ordered and under Section 308) and re-organization cases (under
Section 176). The information pertaining to winding-up cases is published in the
ROC's annual report. Private individuals can obtain company specific information
from the ROC.



12
*  KLSE requires all listed companies to immediately announce schemes of compromise
and arrangements (re-organization) application filed under Section 176 of the
Companies Act.
*  Section 176 of the Companies Act was recently amended to require compal Iies to
immediately advertise as well as file information with the ROC on any restraining
order issued to creditors by the Court under Section 176.
*  Under the Danaharta Act, 1998, Danaharta will make public announcements, of all
instances of appointment of Special Administrator as part of a re-organizatioii plan
under the Danaharta Act.
39.   Issues.  ROC   should  make  quarterly  newspaper  announcements  of
pending/completed winding-up and re-organization cases under the Companies Act..
Other Measures
40.   Consumer Protection Bill. The Consumer Protection Bill was passed by the
Malaysian Parliament in its July/August 1999 session and is expected to come intc force
by end-1999.
41.   Unfair Trade Practices Bill. A draft Unfair Trade Practices Bill has been prepared
but has not yet been adopted by the Government.
42.   Facilitate Contested Takeovers and Mergers. Recent changes in the tax regime
will make it easier to affect mergers and takeovers. A new code has been prepared but is
yet to be drafted into a bill.
Social Sector
43.   Impact of crisis on poverty: This crisis pushed roughly 226,000 more peSople
below the poverty line in 1998. Unemployment increased from 2.6% in 1997 to 3.*(%0/ in
1998. Two main reasons for the relatively small increase in unemployment (giveil the
substantial contraction in output) were a decline in real wages, and a large reduction in
foreign workers from 1.2 million in 1997 to 0.78 million in 1998. Economic activities in
the urban areas, construction for example, experienced a sharper contraction than
economic activity in rural areas. Most labor is now employed in the urban formal s .ctor,
so a large share of people hurt by the slowdown live in urban areas. The tradit: o:nal
cushion of reverse migration (going back to the countryside), while still feasibL- for
some, will not be available for many urban laborers who lose their jobs. In addition,
higher food prices have also hurt the poor and the near poor. These effects are .nost
pronounced in the three states-Kelentan, Terengganu and Sabah- where over ha] f ihe
pOOr live.
44.   Measures taken to protect the poor. The Government has taken measur4. s to
protect recurrent expenditures on social assistance programs for needy children, the
handicapped, the elderly, and the hardcore poor. Among the measures were: (i) retai ning
the original 1998 budget allocation for the Development Program for the Hardcore ]oor
(PPRT); and (ii) making smaller cuts to the 1998 budgets of ministries involved in the



13
provision of social programs, rural development, and agriculture programs which are
mainly targeted for the poor and low-income group as well ensuring that the budget for
1999 is sufficient to meet program objectives. Although at the beginning of 1998, as part
of its austerity program, the Government cut health and education budgets across the
board (by 12% on the development side and 2% on the current side), cuts were gradually
lifted during the year as the Government switched to the fiscal stimulus strategy and
reinforced its commitment to safeguard the social sectors.
45.   The Government is implementing a number of programs to mitigate the effects of
the slowdown on the poor and other vulnerable groups. The thrust of the Government
program is to enhance income-earning opportunities. Pure transfers to the needy are
limited to a modest social safety net for a small group of people. This practice is
consistent with Malaysia's underlying philosophy of providing the poor with the means
to improve their livelihoods rather than giving them cash transfers. Additional allocations
were made in the 1998 budget for a) Fund for Food scheme (RM 300 million) which
provides low interest loans to small farmers and Farmers' Associations, b) expansion of
programs run by Amanah Ikhtiar Malaysia (RM 100 million), a nongovernmental
organization that provides small loans to the very poor for income generation projects in
rural areas, and c) improving rural water supply in the poorest areas (RM 100 million).
In order to extend the safety net to those who are made newly vulnerable by the crisis but
who may not be directly covered under the programs for the hardcore poor, RM 150
million was allocated for a new micro credit scheme to provide assistance to petty traders
and hawkers. Funds were also allocated for the enhancement of educational facilities
(RM 200 million) and health facilities (RM 100 million).
46.   There have been long delays in disbursing funds for some social sector programs.
At the time of the August 1998 supervision mission, while the budget for Amanah Ikhtiar
Malaysia had been approved it had not been disbursed, the Fund for Food program was in
a stalemate as the Government and Bank Pertanian had not reached agreement on an on-
lending rate, and the hawker's scheme had also not started by then. As of August 13,
1999 AIM had provided loans amounting to RM 10.3 billion. As of August 25, 1999, RM
41 billion had been approved by the Agricultural Bank of Malaysia to finance 72 projects
under the Fund for Food scheme. Loans were disbursed under the micro-credit scheme
beginning May 1999. As at mid-September 1,798 loans amounting to RM 5.7 million
have been disbursed. The funds allocated to the rural water supply program, education
facilities, and health facilities, have been fully spent.
47.   Since cost-cutting is essential during the economic slowdown, in order to
safeguard employment, the Government has urged employers to use retrenchment as a
last resort and instead to consider alternatives such as training, retraining, pay cuts or
reduced working hours. In August 1998, the Government introduced a new amendment
of the Employment Act that requires prior notification of the Manpower Department by
employers who plan to implement pay cuts and temporary lay-offs. Moreover, the
Ministry of Human Resources launched a RM 5 million Retraining of Retrenched
Workers Scheme in May 1998. The Government is providing financial support to small
and medium-scale industries to improve their productivity, technology, and access to
markets and to cope with the current crisis. A RM 1 billion fund (later increased to RM



14
1.5 billion) for small and medium industries was established and financing of working
capital under this fund was increased from 10% to 20% of the approved loan amount.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
48.   The loan was disbursed as a single tranche release of $300.0 million on Jule 23,
1998. There were several missions between August, 1998 and May, 1999 to suplervise
the progress of the reform program. The key focus of the supervision missions ),as to
highlight the downside risks and the need for fine tuning the reform program. The
Government has responded to suggestions from Bank staff and the modification of c apital
controls in February 1999 is, in part, an example of this.
49.   Overall, substantial progress has been made in implementing the structural rv formrm
program. While there have been a few  significant departures in the reform prc gram
(e.g., introduction of selective exchange and capital controls; relaxing the definiti on of
NPLs) most policy reforms as defined in the loan document are on track.
50.   Factors not generally under Government control: Malaysia was impacted by
the deepening regional crisis in East Asia. Being a highly open economy the impact of
external demand shocks, and uncertainty in international financial markets was severe
and greater than anticipated. Events in Brazil and Russia created greater uncertairty in
financial markets and led to a further deterioration of market confidence. This led the
Malaysian Government to adopt certain policies that were unforeseen at the time cf the
loan (see Section B albove).
51.   Changes in the economic team, including the appointment of a new firance
miniister, also led to policy changes that reflected the views of the new economic teamn in
the face of the deepening regional crisis. The adoption of capital controls coupled with
political uncertainty that emerged at around the same time, adversely affected market
confidence. The Government to its credit maintained the thrust of the reform prograr-l.
52.   Factors generally subject to Government control: In addition to maintaining
the thrust of the reform program, some elements were made more comprehensive ulndler
the National Economic Recovery Plan. Capital controls were judiciously used to speed
up financial and corporate sector reform. The market has responded positively ancl. the
international rating agencies have upgraded Malaysia's outlook from negative to stable.
However, some elements of uncertainty remain. Policy announcements on exchange rate
and elimination of remaining capital controls will help considerably in strengthe ling
market confidence.
53.   There were delays in disbursing funds for social sector programs. At the tin e of
the August 1998 supervision mission, while the budget for Amanah Ikhtiar Malaysia had
been approved it had not been disbursed. The Fund for Food program was in a stalermate
in August as the Government and Bank Pertanian had not reached agreement on ar on-
lending rate.  The hiawker's scheme had also not started by then.  Subsequently,
disbursement on these components was speeded up.



15
54.  In order to speed up the implementation of development projects and increase the
size of the fiscal stimulus, the Government has relaxed competitive procedures in public
procurement and has resorted to direct negotiations. Although the fiscal stimulus is
needed for recovery, the move away from competitive bidding should only be temporary
since prolonging it would inevitably raise questions about transparency of Government
operations.
55.   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control: The implementing
agency (MOF) staff established a good working relationship with the Bank. There were
some co-ordination issues between the MOF and the line ministries that led to a slower
than targeted implementation of the fiscal stimulus package. After having been initially
advised by MOF (in October 1997 and March 1998) to scale back projects and reduce
expenditure the line ministries found it difficult to reverse course when the fiscal stimulus
package was announced.
D. SUSTAINABILITY OF REFORM PROGRAM
56.   A key factor that augurs well for the sustainability of the reform program is its
strong ownership by the Government. Further, the National Economic Recovery Plan has
broad based support within the country and was formulated after consultations with the
private sector, industrial and financial groups, trade unions, professional associations,
media, women's organizations, and non-governmental organizations. The Malaysian
reform program is largely homegrown and the Bank played an advisory and facilitating
role. This is unlike other crisis countries where international organizations provided the
blueprint for reform programs.
57.   The Government has shown an appetite not only for short-term  economic
management of the crisis but also for managing medium to longer-term issues related to
boom and bust cycles. This enhances the likelihood of achieving the ultimate objective
of the reform program of resuming robust growth.
58.   The downside risks to project sustainability are:
* inconsistencies may emerge in the macro framework between a fixed exchange rate
and the conduct of monetary policy
. a lack of political commitment for corporate restructuring (operational and
governance) may arise if there is an accelerated economic recovery.
* there may be a failure to institutionalize new policies and programs for the urban poor
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
59.   Before the crisis, Malaysia had stopped borrowing from the Bank and the last
piece of Economic and Sector Work (ESW) was done in 1994. There was, therefore,
very little Bank activity in Malaysia and Bank staff working on Malaysia had been scaled
down. There was thus a lack of up-to-date country and sector knowledge. This
impediment was, however, overcome through effective use of individuals within the



16
Bank who were fanmiliar with the politics and economics of Malaysia. This enabled the
Bank to successfully process the loan under a very tight schedule.
60.   An important role of the operation was to re-establish a strong relationshi 1 with
Malaysia after a four year period of low key contacts. This process was well-ma laged.
Bank staff provided policy notes as inputs to the Government in March, before the
arnouncement of the reform program. The Bank's bilateral policy discussion, with
BNM, EPU, Treasury, and NEAC helped build a good working relationship with these
key Governnent agencies which, in turn, enabled a better understanding of client needs
and helped tailor Bank's response to these needs.
61.   Bank staff undertook a series of missions in order to maintain the pace and cuality
of the dialogue in a rapidly changing environment. An important contribution of the
Bank was making the authorities aware of the downside risks and the strong possibi lity of
an economic contraction at a time when the authorities expected to achieve lo w but
positive growth. Bank staff were able to convince the authorities that the emerging
situation required a substantially easier fiscal stance than they were targeting. Aiiother
key contribution of the Bank was in assisting the Government take stock of its conti ngent
liabilities arising out of guarantees provided to privatized infrastructure projects.
62.   The single tranche operation worked well and it acted as an appropriate crisis
response instrument. The Government's National Economic Recovery Plan provided a
framework for sustaining the reform program.
63.   There was no formal IMF program accompanying the reform program, however,
the IMF was supportive of the Government's reform program. The Bank consultec with
the IMF on macroeconomic issues. Fund staff participated in the appraisal mission for
the ERSL and there wvas very good cooperation among staff.
64.   There was a divergence of opinion between Bank staff and the Malaysian
authorities on the design of the safety net. In part these arose from philosolhical
differences (e.g. the authorities favored income generation policies over direct tran ;fers)
as well as the fact that the actual social impact of the crisis turned out to be smalle:. tian
what the Bank had earlier anticipated. Bank's policy suggestions were aime d at
managing a much larger adverse impact on unemployment and poverty. A ci:ual
unemployment in 1998 turned out to be 3.9% compared to Bank's projected 6-7%. One
reason why unemployment was lower than anticipated was the large reduction in fc reign
workers from 1.2 mbillion in 1997 to 0.78 million in 1998. In 1998 the Government
introduced additional measures to ensure that employers gave greater priority to I iring
local labor over foreign workers.
65.   An area where the Bank was not fully successful in delivering early advice was
finaicial sector restructuring. This was mostly due to delays in mobilizing the reqciired
skills. With the Indonesia and Korea programs making similar demands, it was difIicult
to get a team together early on for Malaysia. When the team was finally mobilized, it did
make some contribution through assessment of the implementation of Malaysia's
restructuring strategy which was formulated with the assistance of private sector expt.!rts.



17
E. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
66.   The reform  Program  has been steadily implemented by the Government.
Authorities have shown flexibility in formulating macro policies in the face of
uncertainty and a rapidly changing situation.
67.   While the borrower generally performed well, a few drawbacks  in the
implementation process have been:
*  Slow disbursement of funds for social sector programs
*  Co-ordination issues between the MOF and the line ministries led to a slower than
targeted implementation of the fiscal stimulus package. The budget deficit in 1998
was only 1.8% of GDP compared with the target of 3.4% of GDP.
*  Slow progress in introducing an Unfair Trade Practices Bill. The authorities feel that
more time is required to convince the private sector and other relevant agencies.
*  Lack of predictability in policy changes led to a deterioration of confidence in the
Malaysian economy.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
68.   The overall performance and outcome was satisfactory. The loan has helped in
resuming economic recovery and achieving macro stability. It has supported a program
of financial and corporate sector restructuring, and helped set in motion a series of policy
actions aimed at strengthening corporate governance. Steady progress is being made.
The loan has helped protect social sector budgets and has enabled the expansion of safety
nets to protect vulnerable groups. Since the ERSL was not an investment operation,
calculation of benefits in terms of net present value and economic rates of return is not
applicable.
HI. FUTURE OPERATIONS
69.   The ERSL has helped achieve Malaysia's objective of minimizing the downturn
in the economy. Recovery is underway and it is important to ensure that it is sustainable.
A follow-up fast disbursing operation would be of great value to the Government in
deepening and strengthening its reform agenda, thereby laying a stronger foundation for
resuming robust growth, and ensuring that it is sustainable in the long run. Focusing on
the medium-term competitiveness issues would be a key component in this regard.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
Country knowledge must be maintained even if there is no lending activity. The
Bank's stock of knowledge on Malaysia was relatively low when the crisis began and
it had to scramble to establish a workable knowledge base on Malaysia. This was
achieved through effective use of staff familiar with Malaysia. Going forward, a key
lesson is that Bank should continue to maintain a reasonable stock of knowledge on
Malaysia even if there are no lending activities.



18
Strong ownership of the reform program by the Govermment is crucial to its success.
Even though there were changes at the highest level in the Govemrnment, the new
economic team sustained the momentum of the reform program and in comparison to
other countries, made more rapid progress in certain areas including financial and
corporate sector restructuring.
Show flexibility iin policy stance in the face of uncertainty and rapidly changing
situation. As events unfolded and the depth of the crisis became apparenri the
Government did not rigidly stick to pre-announced policies but adjusted its moni.-tary
and fiscal stance in accordance with the new realities.
Fiscal flexibility requires increased coordination between MOF and line agencies in
order to implement the public sector programs. After having been initially advised by
MOF (in October 1997 and March 1998) to scale back projects and reduce
expenditure the line ministries found it difficult to reverse course when the f.scal
stimulus package was announced. As a result the fiscal stimulus was smaller than
envisaged.
* Appropriate fiscal and monetary policies, measures to recapitalize the banking
system, strengthening banking supervision, and corporate debt restructuring have
played a key role in stemming capital outflows and returning stability to the
Malaysian economy. While some observers attribute a key role to direct controls on
capital outflows, it is difficult to isolate their impact from the above factors.
M Malaysia's strategies to stem capital outflows and restore confidence in the economy
included heterodox policies like direct capital exit controls. However, heterodox
polices can lead to a further deterioration in market sentiments and have to be 'very
carefully designed and managed to gain market confidence. Overall the Malay ;ian
controls have been well managed.  However, when Malaysia introduced capital
controls, despite being carefully designed, the international markets were further
unnerved by the sudden announcement and their initial reaction was strongly
negative.  In light of market concerns and emerging signs of stability, the
Government to its credit, consulted market participants and modified the control; by
i.ntroducing an exit tax. This helped restore confidence in the Malaysian econo ny.
There were also problems in administering the controls (e.g. limits had to be placed
on dividend repatriation; it is difficult in practice to differentiate between short-tirrm
and long-term capital) and the Government has to still contend with designing a full
phase out strategy.
*The crisis in Malaysia has brought out strongly the need to account for contin.ent
liabilities arising out of Government guarantees. A key factor that caused a los; of
market confidence was the lack of information on the size of burden that would fall
on the Government in case the contingent liabilities arising from privati -ed
infrastructure projects were realized. Taking stock of contingent liabilities ill a



19
transparent fashion and making provisions for them through the budgetary process
should be an important priority.
Some form of temporary regulatory easing may be appropriate during crisis times if it
can be clearly demonstrated that these regulations are preventing banks from focusing
on their key business. The tightening of regulatory standards announced in late 1997
and early 1998, while a laudable objective, may have inadvertently contributed to the
reduction in credit as banks became preoccupied with managing deterioration in asset
quality and capital erosion. Regulatory easing in September 1998 met with success to
the extent that loan approvals increased significantly, although this coincides with the
start of recovery, so causality is hard to determine. A return to the highest prudential
standards should be a priority as soon as recovery is established.
Small open economies like Malaysia are vulnerable to boom and bust cycles and
therefore need mechanisms to manage them effectively. This would require focus in
several areas. First, modernization of public sector institutions to better define, ex-
ante, the rules of the game (e.g., strengthening the risk management capability of the
public sector, making Government guarantees transparent, striking a better balance
between central bank's regulation and market-based regulation in the financial sector)
will help prevent over-investment by the private sector and align the risks and
rewards faced by them. Second, macroeconomic policies would need to be managed
more flexibly to increase the shock-absorptive capacity of the economy.  For
example, fiscal policy could be used more forcefully in demand management. In
particular, fiscal discipline or the rule of maintaining a balance in the operating
budget could be achieved over a business cycle rather than every year. In addition,
the automatic stabilization capacity of the budget should be enhanced as there may be
delays in implementing fiscal stimulus packages during a downturn.
Economies like Malaysia need to develop a social sector strategy to manage the risks
arising from globalization, especially mechanisms to reach the urban poor. Till
recently most established programs were aimed at tackling rural poverty. Social
programs should be an integral part of the strategy to cope with urban unemployment.
Labor market reforms and training would help reduce structural unemployment.



20
Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operations
Table 7: Studies included in Project
Table 8a: Project Costs
Table 8b: Project Costs
Table 9: Econormic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



21
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives      Substantial     Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                  4
Sector policies                                      4
Financial objectives                                 i
Institutional development                            4
Physical objectives                               .                                4
Poverty reduction                                    4
Gender issues                                                                      4
Other social objectives                              l       .
Environmental objectives                                                           i
Public sector management                             4
Private sector development         .                 i
B. Project Sustainability                Likely      I     Unlikely      I    Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                  Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification
Preparation assistance             .                                        _
Appraisal .
Supervision                      l                                J
D. Borrower Performance               Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                                                       4
Implementation                                                    4
Covenant compliance                                               4
Operation (if applicable)         __
Highly        Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory       Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome     Satisfactory                              _      Unsatisfactory



22
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                     Purpose                           Approval      Status
NONE
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                                  Date planned              Date actual
Identification
Preappraisal
Appraisal
Negotiations                                                5/98                     5/98
Board presentation                                         6/1/98                    6/1/98
Signing                                                    6/18/98                  6/18/98
Effectiveness                                              6/23/98                  6/23/98
Project completion
Loan closing                                              12/31/98                  12/31/98
TABLE 4: LoAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUIAL
(US$ million)
FY98
Appraisal estimate                    300
Actual                                300
Actual as % of adjusted estimate      100
Date of final disbursement            6/23/98



23
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Estimated                     Actual
Key implementation indicators in SAR         Start     Complete           Start     Complete
See Matrix of Policy Actions
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
See Matrix of Policy Actions
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                Purpose as defned at              Status            Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
NO STUDIES
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate              Actual/latest estimate
Item                                   Local  Foreign    Total           Local  Foreign      Total
1. Balance of Payments Support                    300       300                    300       300
Total                                             300       300                    300       300
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate              Actual/latest estimate
Source                                Local  Foreign    Total            Local  Foreign       Total
1. IBRD                                        300       300                     300       300
Total                                          300       300                     300       300



24
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Costs        Benefits         NPV         ERR (%)
N/A
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-             Original     Revised
Agree-                    nant    Present  fulfillment  fulfillment
ment       Section       type    Status      date        date       Description of covenant    Comments
Loan         3.02(b)        I        C                             Audit of Deposit Account    Audit not yet r quested
by Bank
Covenant Class:                                                                  Status:
I= Accounts/audits                 8 = Indigenous people                      C   = covenantcompliedwiih
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting    CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10 = Project implementation not         CP  = complied with partiall,
3 = Flow and utilization of project     covered by categories 1-9
funds                         11 = Sectoral or cross-sect6ral
4 = Counterpart funding                 budgetary or other resources
S = Management aspects of the           allocation
project or executing agency   12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6   Environmental covenants             regulatory/institutional action
7   Involuntary resettlenment     13 = Other
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual Statement (OD or OPi 3P)
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Plan                       Revised                       Actual
Stage of Project Cycle         SW           $ ('000)        SW           $ ('000)        SW        $ ('000)
Preparation                                                                              12.0          36.5
Appraisal                       9.6           29.5                                        5.4           16.4
Negotiations                    8.0           23.9                                        7.9           23.9
Supervision                    29.5          68.3                                        4.6            38.2
IC'R                           8.0            20.0                                        6.0           15.C
TC\TAL                         55.1          141.7                                      35.91          130.t
1. As of June 30, 1999.



25
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Specialized staff    Imple-     Devel-
Stage of project cycle      Month/   Number of   Days   skills represented    mentation      opment       Type of
year     persons    in field        /a           status /b   objectives    problems /c
Preparation - Appraisal -    5/98 -       15         15    EC, FA, LC, 00,
Negotiations - Board approval   6/98                              RA
Supervision 1                 8/98        5          7          EC, FA            S            S      Implementation
delays in social
sector
Supervision 2                11/98        3          7          EC, FA            S            S
Supervision 3                 5/99        4          7          EC, FA            S            S
/a DO: Disbursement Officer; EC: Economist; EN: Engineer; FA: Financial Analyst; LC: Legal Counsel; 00: Operation Officer; RA:
Research Analyst; RS: Resettlement Specialist; TE: Transport Economist; TS: Transport Specialist.
/b 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory.
/c Typical problems included: implementation delays in technical assistance and studies.






ANNEX A
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR






Economic Recovery and Social Sector Loan
(Loan No. 43470)
-mplementation Completion Report
1.   Malaysia's objective in requesting the World Bank for the Economic
FRecovery and Social Sector Loan (ERSSL) was to minimize the economic and
social impact of the regional financial crisis that hit the country in early 1998. The
LUS$300 million that the World Bank approved for ERSSL was part of the US$3
billion loan assistance that Malaysia requested from the World Bank for the 1998-
1999 period.
:2.   Malaysia appreciates the speedy manner with which the World Bank
processed and approved ERSSL. Proceeds from this loan was allocated to six
social sector programs, namely Fund for Food, Micro Credit, Educational
F:acilities, Health Facilities, Rural Infrastructure facilities and Amanah lkhtiar
Mvalaysia. The implementation of these programs together with other measures
undertaken by the govemment helped to alleviate the adverse social impact of
1the financial crisis and it also served as a catalyst in the economic recovery
process.
3.    Coinciding with the implementation of the social sector program under
ERSSL, Malaysia undertook a reform program aimed at strengthening the
financial and corporate sectors with the view to restoring market confidence and
enhancing the country's overall competitiveness. The govemment took note of
the World Bank's policy notes when formulating the reform program aimed at
leading the country to economic recovery following the crisis. The policy matrix
led to close monitoring of various indicators in the reform program. As can be
seen from the latest update on the policy matrix, Malaysia has either
implemented or is in the process of implementing most of the targets set for the
reform program.



4.   The  interaction between government agencies and the World Bank
project team provided Malaysia the opportunity to present some of the policy
measures undertaken by the government in the wake of the financial crisis. The
World Bank team indicated during discussions that they found much of the issues
related to the financial and corporate sector reform program are being
implemented by Malaysia but because there was no publicity on it, they were not
noticed by the international financial community generally. Hence Malaysia
interaiction with the World Bank as a result of ERSSL provided, to a certain
extent, publicity on the progress achieved by Malaysia with regards to financial
and corporate sector reforms in the country.
5.   Some differences of opinion between the World Bank and implementing
agencies surfaced in the course of this project, for instance in the design of the
safety net, where Malaysia preferred income generation policies rather the
World Bank recommenidation for direct transfers. The differences in opinion could
be partly attributed to the World Bank over reacting to the impact of the crisis -
for example, actual unemployment in 1998 was only 3.9% compared to the World
Bank's projected figure of 6-7%. Similarly the number of additional people who
fell below the poverty line in 1998 was much less than the projected 250,000.
Nevertheless, these differences did not affect the implementation of the ERSSL.
The government's comments on the ICR prepared by the WB are as given in
Attachment 2.
6.   Among the noticeable outcomes of ERSSL, which is a fast disbursement
loan, is the fact that funds allocated especially to social development projects
were utilized more efficiently than is the case with normal project loans from the
World Bank. This can be seen from the fact that funds allocated to the Education
Facilities (RM200 million), Health Facilities (RM100 million), Rural Infrastructure
Facilities (RMRM100 n,illion) under this loan have been completely utilized in
slightly more than 1 year of the loan's implementation compared to other loans
where disbursement is much slower. This could be attributed to the fact that



under a fast disbursement loan, implementing agencies only need to follow more
familiar government procedures and do not have to abide with certain
conditionalities attached to project loans. In that sense, our experience with
ERSSL indicates that a fast disbursement loan is more beneficial than a project
loan as far as Malaysia is concerned.
6    The ERSSL restarted Malaysia's relationship with the World Bank with
which it had minimal contacts since late 1994. Following the approval of ERSSL,
MAalaysia took another three loans amounting to US$404 million and it also
signed agreements for 5 technical assistance grants in 1999. Malaysia hopes to
continue with this positive relationship with the World Bank.



Implementation of programs under the Economic Recovery and
Social Sector Loan
Program            Total Allocation        Implementing                   status
(RM million)             Agency
a) Fund for Food               300           Ministry of Agriculture  As  of  25   August  loans
amounting to RM41..i million
was approved for far ners and
fishermen.
a) Micro Credit                200                 Ministry of      RM150 million was allocated to
Entrepreneurial    TEKUN  and RM50 mnillion to
Development       Credit Guarantee Corpc'-ation. As
of 15 September 1999, a total of
1,798 loans amounting to RM5.7
million was disbursed to small
entrepreneurs.
b) Educational                 200            Ministry of Education   The total amount allocated has
Facilities in Rural                                              been spent for this programr
Areas
c)  Health facilities          100              Ministry of Health    The total amount allocated has
been spent for this progr.m.
d) Rural                       100              Ministry of Rural    The total amount alloc ittd has
infrastructure                                Development        been spent for this progrie m
projects
e) Amanah Ikhtiar              100                   .AIM            As  of  13  August,  loans
Malaysia (AIM)                                                   amounting to RM10.3 maillion
was disbuwsed under this rogram



ANNEX B
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS






MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS.
ACTIONS ACCOMPLISHED /
IN PROGRESS
AS OF JULY 1999
30 AUGUST 1999
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
KUALA LUMPUR






ANNEX
Page I of 33
Malaysia
Economic Recovery and Social Sector Loan
Matrix of Policy Actions
Objeqtive           Policy Measures       Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
of March 1999)                           of July 1999)
1.0  Resume robust and   Maintain sound and
sustained growth    flexible macroeconomic
policies in view of the
uncertainties in the
economic environment
1.2  Improve fiscal     Make a fuller assessment of
transparency to    the liabilities of the
restore market     Government
confidence
1.3  Improve monetary    Remove distortions and
management         enhance money market
efficiency:
*  Ensure a more responsive                                       Effective I September 1998, the BLR
interest rate framework                                        framework was revised to allow a faster
transmission of changes in monetary policy
to market interest rates. Essentially, the
formula for computation of the ceiling BLR
is now based on the prevailing BNM 3
month intervention rate instead of the
preceding month's average KLIBOR. In
relation to this, banking institutions are now
required to adjust their BLR within one week
of any revision in the computed BLR arising
from a change in either the intervention rate
of the SRR.



AN~NEX
Page 2 of 33
Objective            Policy Measures        Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
_ ________________ .  _______________________                 of M arch  1999)                            of July  1999)
In addition, to promote greater operational
efficiency among banking institutions, the
fixed administrative margin provided to
banking institutions in the BLR formula was
reduced from 2.5 percentage points to 2.25
percentage points on I September. To
complement this, beginning 14 September,.
the banking institutions were required to
reduce the maximum margin over the quoted
BLR from 4 percentage points to 2.5
percentage points. The lower spread would
spur banking institutions to further intensify
*  Allow banking            New money market operational procedures  their efforts to improve their operational
institutions greater    introduced on 30 April 1998 enable market   efficiency.
flexibility in the       participants to better assess the liquidity
management of their     surplus of deficit in the system via the   1. NEW MONEY MARKET
assets and liabilities.  provision of forecast cash flow of the       OPERATIONAL PROCEDURED (30
Facilitate flow of       financial system by BNM at regular           April 1998)
liquidity.               intervals during the day. In addition, to
enhance transparency, all BNM operations   Enables market participants to better assess
are now conducted via tender, with the    the liquidity surplus or deficit in the system
exception of overnight lending/borrowing    via the provision of forecast cash flow of the
and some small liquidity support operations  financial system by BNM at regular intervals
for institutions facing tight liquidity.  during the day. In addition, to enhance
transparency, all BNM operations are now
For the status of the Liquid Asset        conducted via tender, with the exception of
Requirement, please refer to page 11      overnight lending/borrowing and some small
liquidity support operations for institutions
facing tight liquidity.
_  _,__._._.______I_-_ _._..L                                                             .I



ANNEX
Page 3 of 33
Objective           Policy Measures       Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
of March 1999)                '          of July 1999)
2. WIDENING OF DAILY VARIATION
BAND FOR SRR COMPLIANCE (I
May 1998)
The band for the permissible daily variation
in the average balances that is required to
meet the SRR was widened to +2% of the
prescribed SRR rate from the previous band
of + 0.5%. This accords financial
institutions greater flexibility in daily
liquidity operations.
3. NEW LIQUIDITY FRAMEWORK (July
1998)
The New Liquidity Framework improves the
efficiency of liquidity management in the
banking system. Under the framework,
financial institutions actively manage their
liquidity situation, taking into account their
future net cash-flow mismatch, the
discounted value of liquefiable assets and
emergency credit lines. Introduced in July
1998, the new framework is currently on a
parallel run with the old framework, with 15
financial institutions having already crossed
over entirely to the new framework.
The government will be actively pursuing
Develop indirect       the development of the bond market as an
monetary instruments    alternative financing source for the private   The government will be actively pursuing the
_ __________________ ___________________________ sector. With the increased availability of    development of the bond market as an



ANINEX
Page 4 of 33
Objective           Policy Measures        Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accom-lisled ormir Progress (as
of March 1999)                            of July 1999)
instruments and large number of market  alternative financing source for the private
players, BNM would be better able to use    sector and therefore, diversifying risk away
its indirect monetary instruments, and rely   from the banking system.
less on direct instruments.
With the increased availability of
instruments and large number of market
players, BNM would be better able to use its
indirect monetary instruments, and rely less
on direct instruments.
2.0 Strengthening
Financial Sector
2.1  Finance companics   Consolidate th1e finantce   *  To date, the operations of eight finance   *  To date, the operations of 14 FCs have
companies sector through       companies have been merged/absorbed     been merged/ absorbed by their parent
assisted mergers, witlh        by their parent commercial banks of     commercial banks or merged with
imporant safeguards in         merged with other institution.          another institution.
place to preserve
transparency and to        *  14 finance companies are in the final  *  On 29 July 1999, BNM announced a
minimise the use of            stage of absorption/merger.             major consolidation programme for the
government resource.                                                   banking system.
* 5 finance companies which have
initially identified to merge with the  *  The merges programme will consolidate
anchor finance companies have been       the present 21 domestic commercial
allowed to operate on a stand-alone      banks, 25 finance companies and 12
basis. However, no government            merchant banks into six large and strong
assistance will be extended in the event  domestic financial groups, with each
these finance companies face             group comprising of one commercial
problems/difficulties.                   bank, one finance company and one
merchant bank.
* Rate of completion of
_ _ _mergers/absorption's is expected to  *  The six domestic banking institutions



ANNEX
Page 5 of 33
Objective            Policy Measures        Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
of March 1999)                             of July 1999)
accelerate during first half of 1999 due  will form the nucleus of the banking
to the exemptions on stamp duty and      system and will be able to operate I a
real property gains tax,                 more competitive and globalizes
environment given its large size.
*  The six domestic banking groups will
also be vJl-positioned to meet the
demands of the changing domestic
economic structure, future challenges
from globalisation and liberalisation as
well as contribute more effectively
towards sustainable economic growth.
*  All banking institutions are required to
sign a Memorandum of Understanding
________________________                                                 by  end-September  1999.
2.2  Banking Institutions  BNM is promoting pre-
emtptive recapitalisation of
banking inistitutions, with
the primary emphasis on
mobiising private capital,
exceptfor Government-
owned banks. The process
will be assisted by:
(a) Intensified monitoring of
banking system:
* Conducting monthly
stress tests on individual
banking institutions to
identify problem banks.    l



A_NNEX
Pagc 6 of 33
Objective            Policy Measures      f Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as l Actions AcconrpIished or in Progress (as
________________________                of March 1999)                            of July 1999)
Conducting more         *  On going. On-site inspections of
frequent and focused on-   institutions rated unsatisfactory have
and off-site supervision   been conducted and in some cases,
of regulated institutions  follow-up inspections were mounted
with emphasis on weaker    within 6 months from the last inspection
institutions as identified  to ensure that corrective measures have
by the supervision         been implemented by the institutions.
process, and taking        The frequency of BNM on-site
necessary corrective       examinations of banking institutions
actions.                   will also be increased to at least once a
year with the examinations conducted
on a consolidated basis. The focus of
BNM's supervisory approach would
continue to stress on early detection of
potential areas of vulnerabilities and to
facilitate the implementation of timely
corrective actions.
*  Continually enhancing    *  The Early Warning System is in the
and refining surveillance  initial stage of implementation.
processes to bring about   Teething problems are being resolved.
earlier detection of
potential risks.
(b) Market-based and       *  Danamodal Nasional Berhad was         *  Total funding raised to date amounted to
transparent approach to    established as wholly-owned subsidiary   RM10.7 billion:
any recapitalisation.      of BNM on 10 August 1998 with two
Specifically, investment   prime objectives:-                       - RM3 billion of seed capital by BNM;



ANNEX
Page 7 of 33
Objective          Policy Measures       Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplislied or in Progress (as
of March 1999)                          of July 1999)
in banking institutions by                                       and
the Employee Provident   i)   to recapitalise and strengthen    - RMI I billion nominal value, 5 year,
Fund (EPF), Permodalan          banking institutions; and        zero-coupon bonds with net proceeds of
National Berhad (PNB)     ii)   to act as a catalyst in facilitating  RM7.7 billion.
and other quasi-public         the consolidation and
institutions will proceed       rationalization of the banking  * The remaining RM5.3 billion will be
only on the principle of        sector.                         raised from either domesti)dc cources
maximizing value for                                         * To date, Danamodal National Berhad has
their shareholders or unit  *  Funding requirement of Danamodal has  injected capital into the following 10
holders. The              been estimated at RM16 billion under  banking institutions totalling RM6.209
Government will inject    the worst case scenario.              billion in the form of Exchangeable
capital in Government-   * Total funding raised to date amounted to    Subordinated Capital Loans (ESCL):
owned banking             RM10.7 billion:                                                  RM
institutions only.           -  RM3 billion of seed capital by    RHB Bank                1,500 m
BNM; and                     Arab-M'sian Bank              800 m
-  RMII billion nominal value, 5    BSN Commercial            420 m
year, zero-coupon bonds with net Oriental Bank             700 m
proceeds of RM7.7 billion.   Sabah Bank                    122 m
UMF                           317 m
* The remaining RM5.3 billion will be  Arab-M'sian Finance          500 m
raised from either domestic source  MBf Finance Bhd             1,600 m
*  As at end-March 1999, Danamodal has   Arab-M'sian Merch.         200 m
injected RM6,217 million in the form of Perdana Merchant          50 m
Exchangeable Subordinated Capital
Loans (ESCL) into 10 banking
institutions:                      *  Of these, Danamodal has signed
Definitive Agreements with 9 banking
RHB Bank           RM1,500 m          institutions to convert the ESCL into a
Arab-M'sian Bank    RM  800 m         permanent tier-I capital and/or in the
BSN Comercial      RM   210 m         form of tier-2 capital.
Oriental Bank      RM  700 m       *  To safeguard its investments in the



ANNEX
Page 8 of33
3r I      Objective            Policy Measures        Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
_______________________                of March 1999)                            of July 1999)
Sabah Bank          RM  140 m           recapitalised banking institutions,
UMF                 RM  317 m           Danamodal will appoint at least two
Arab-M'sian Fin      RM  500 m          nominees to sit in the Board of Directors
MBF Finance Bhd    RM1,600 m            of the recapitalised banking institutions
Arab-Msian Merch    RM  400 m           as either Chairman or Deputy Chairman
Perdana Mernchant    RM   50 m          and Executive Director. To date,
Danamodal has appointed 25 nominees
in nine banking institutions.
.  Of tlicse, Danamodal has signed
Definitive Agreements with 9 banking
institutions to convert the ESCL into a
permanent tier-I capital and/of in the
form of tier-2 capital.
*  To safeguard its investments in the
recapitalised banking institutions,
Danamodal will appoint at least two
nominees to sit in the Board of Directors
of the recapitalised banking institutions
as either Chairman of Deputy Chairman
and Executive Director. To date,
Danamodal has appointed nominees in
six banking institutions.
*  Danamodal's recapitalisation efforts are
market-based and transparent.
Danamodal has adhered to the First Loss
Principle in recapitalising banking
institutions. There is no bailout of
shareholders. Through a call option
granted to Tanamoda!; existing



ANNEX
Page 9 of 33
Objective             Policy Measures           Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as    Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
_ ________________    ________________________                    of M arch   1999)                              of July   1999)
shareholders of banking institutions take
the loss for all the current and projected
non-performing loans (NPLs). The first
loss principle will ensure equitable
burden sharing of existing shareholders
of the recapitalised banking institutions.
In this regards, the value of investmcnts
of existing shareholders will be written
down to reflect the net tangible assets
prior to capital injection.
In selecting the banking institutions to
be recapitalised, Danamodal has to
balance the objective of maximizing
value for its shareholders with public
policy consideration. The criteria used
are:-
a) Future viability and competitive
positioning;
b) Critically deficient of capital;
c) Systemic impact of banking
institution's failure;
d) Non-feasibility of market solutions;
and
e) Potential consolidation prospects.
2.3  Improve Regulatory  Improve loan classification
and Supervisory       and provisioning standards to
Framework             bring them to international
best practices



ANN-EX
Page 10 of 33
I-I  Objective      1     Policy Measures        Acitions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
of March 1999)                            of July 1999)
*  Classify loans past due    *  In response to the severity of the  *  Loan with quarterly repayments or longer
three months and over as   financial crisis and economic           will be classified as NPL, 3 months after
non-performing.            contraction, some adjustments to        the first day of default.
prudential norms were introduced in the
final quarter of 1998.
•  Require 20%             *  The earlier tightening of NPL
provisioning against the   classification from six to three months
uncollateralized portion   was relaxed.
of substandard Loans.
* The relaxation on the period for
classification of NPL serves only as a
minimum requirement and should not be
seen as a deviation from prudential
standards. On the contrary, the
redefinition of NPL would enable
banking institutions to accord greater
attention on credit operations rather than
be pre-occupied with managing the
deterioration in the asset quality and
capital erosion. The relaxation will also
provide the borrowers with some
breathing space to regularize their
accounts. Under the prevailing
economic conditions, even economically
viable companies face temporary cash
flow problems.
*  Incorporate off-balance    *  Nevertheless, other prudential measures
sheet items in the loans   were retained Sperific:i!lv.the



ANNEX
Page 11 of 33
Objective            Policy Measures        Actions Accomplisbed of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
________________________                 of March 1999)                             of July 1999)
classification and          classification of NPL as bad debts is
provisioning system.       retained at 12 months or more, while
accrued and uneamed interest will still
have to be clawed-back to day one of
default.
Enhance capital adequacy    *  As a result of the prolonged financial    *  A differentiated risk-weighted capital
framework to further           crisis and the subsequent economic       adequacy framework will be introduced
strengthen the resilience of   contraction had adversely affected fund-  whereby BNM will impose different risk-
the banking system.            raising activities in the capital market.  weighted capital ratio on each individual
This has affected and constrained the    banking institution.
*  Increase minimum            ability of some shareholders to raise
RWCR of finance             additional capital for their institutions.    *  The minimum RWCR for each banking
companies from 8% to       In this regard, compliance with the       institution will be set (subject to a floor
10% by end 1999.           increased minimum RWRCR and               of 8%) based on the overall rislt profile
*  Increase minimum            capital funds for the finance companies  of the banking institution taking into
capital of finance          were deferred until such time when the   account loan concentration, sectoral
companies from RM5m         capital market has regained its          exposure and internal controls.
to RM300m by mid 1999       momentum and the economy has fully
and to RM600m by mid        recovered from the effects of the crisis.   *  The framework is currently being
2000.                                                                formulated and is expected to be
implemented before end of the year.
Improve prudential
guidelines I
*  Reduce single customer   *  Implemented
limit from '30% to 25%                                            *  Implemented
of capital funds.



ANNEX
Page 12 of 33
Objective           Policy Measures      r Actions Accomplished of in Progres (as   Aetions Accomplished or in Progress (as
of March 1999)                           of July 1999)
Develop a new          *  Implemented
prudentially-based                                             *  Implemented
liquidity framework.
2.4  Improve market-    Provide greater
based incentives for  transparency on the     *  Ranking institutions are no longer   .  Banking institutions which are listed on
more efficient     financialposition of           required to publish data on key        the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange are
functioning of     individual position of        indicators every quarter so as to reduce  now required to publish data on key
financial institutions  individual banking        the increased administrative burden    indicators on a quarterly basis.
institutions. Individual      facing the banking institutions.
banks of publish quarterly
data on key indicators of  *  Reflective of the efforts to promote  *  Implemented
financial soundness           greater transparency, the position of
incrluding RWCR and NPLs.     NPLs both on a three-month and six-
BNM to publish breakdown      month classification period is published
of NPL by economic sector     on a monthly interval.
every quarter.'
Increase transparency in the
Bank's liquidity support
operations.
*  Provide market
participants with daily
information on BNM's
operations and its impact
on liquidity.
*  Separate liquidity support
to banking institutions
from the normal liquidity
operations of BNM in the __



ANNEX
Page 13 of 33
Objective            Policy Measures        Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
________________________                 of March 1999)                             of July 1999)
conduct of monetary
policy.
2.5  Government to       Conduct technical study on
reduce moral hazard  international best practices    *  The issues and implications of    *  The agreement on the technical
problems in the     practices on deposit           introducing such                          assistance from the World Bank on
banking sector      insurance and examine           schemes are still under study. BNM is    Deposit Insurance is expected to be
possible implications for      also currently seeking technical          concluded very soon.
Malaysia.                      assistance from the World Bank on
this.
2.6  Further development Broaden and deepen
of the financial    financial markets:          *  3 mergers of commercial banks will be   *  Please refer to item 2.1: Finance
system                                              implemented in 1999.                     Comnpaniies on the recent announcement
*  Promote a greater degree                                              on the consolidation of the domestic
of securitisation and          -  The securitisation of hire-        banking sector.
expedite the development          purchase loans, i.s. sale of motor
of the bond market to             vehicle hire purchase to        *  No further update from previous report
reduce the reliance on the        Cagamas with recourse has          on regulatory framework.
banking system for                already commenced in
financing.                        December 1998.
*  Develop a wide array of   *  On 31 March 1999, BNM introduced
financial instruments to   several measures to further strengthen
improve the management      the supervisory and regulatory
of risks and facilitate the  framework. This includes:-
allocation of risks to         -  Minimizing double leveraging
those players that are            within the banking system;
able to bear these risks.      -  Disassociating banking
institutions from non-banking
*  Increase the number of            institutions which are not



ANNEX
Page 14 of 33
Objective     |      Policy Measures       I Actions Arcomplished of in Progress (as1   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
_ ________________ .___________________        _ .   .of M arch   1999)                                  of July   1999)
market participants.              supervised by BNM;
- Reviewing the appointment of
CEOs and Board of Directors on
a two-year interval;
- Conducting on-site examination
at least once a year to enable
early identification of problems.
- Banking institutions are
prohibited from providing credit
facilitu to its controlling
shareholders.
2.7  Liberalize
management of EPF   *  Subcontract EPF Funds
and other asset fund    to independent fund      At present, four percent of EPF equity funds
management              managers.                are subcontracted; the Government is
activities to provide                            committed to increasing it further.
international
benchmarking for    *  Develop international     Policy being reviewed.
return on domestic      investment program for
investment,             EPF
improving the
efficiency of
intermediation and
spurring the
diversification and
deepening of the
financial system
3.0  Improve
Competitiveness of
Corporate Sector   _



ANNEX
Page 15 of 33
Objective           Policy Measures        Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
of March 1999)                            of July 1999)
3.1  Improve corporate    Develop an effective       The YAB Prime Minister (who was then the
governance         frameworkfor corporate       First Finance Minister) and the Second
governance and set best    Finance Minister agreed for the report to be
practices                   circulated to selected bodies for
consultation to get their feedback on their
report. The report was circulated on the 13Ih
of November, 1998. The bodies that have
been identified for this purpose are -
* Business Council for Sustainable
Development Malaysia (BCSDM)
* Malaysia Institute of Directors (MID)
*  Malaysian Institute of Accountants
(MIA)
* Malaysian Association of Certified
Public Accountants
* National Chamber of Commerce and
Industry of Malaysia (NCCIM)
* International Movement for a Just
World (JUSTWORLD)
* Bar Council Malaysia
* Malaysian Investors Association (MIA)
* Malaysian Association of Asset
Managers (MAAM)
* Economic Committee Malaysia
Pursuant to feedback received from the
consultation period (November 13 -
December 3 1  1998), the Department, as
Secretariat to the Finance Committee,
. _________________    _________________________    proposed  revisions  to  the  Finance



ANNEX
Page 16 of 33
Objective    j      Policy Measures     I Actions Accomnplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
of March 1999)                           of July 1999)
Committee report. Revisions were also
proposed to update the report, where the
recommendations of the Committee had
been implemented. These revisions were
subsequently presented to the Finance
Committee for approval on 29'h January.
1999. The report was resubmitted to the
Minister of Finance on 8'h February, 1999.
The report was released to the public at the
SC's Seminar on Corporate Governance on
the 25'h and 26th of March, 1999. The
seminar highlighted key aspects of the
Finance Committee Report and explored
private sector contribution to good
corporate governance. Participants also
gained insight into efforts taken by other
countries towards corporate governance
reform. Following the seminar, an
Implementation Project Team (IPT) has
been set up to drive and coordinate
implementation of recommendations of the
Finance Committee. Its membership
comprises those agencies with primary
responsibility for implementing the
recommendations of the Committee. They
are the Securities Commission, Registrar of
Companies, Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange
and the Federation of Public Listed
Companies. The IPI reports to the Finance
Committee. The terms of reference of the



ANNEX
Page 17 of 33
Objective           Policy Measures       Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
of March 1999)                           of July 1999)
IPT are as follows:-
* To evaluate drive and oversee
implementation of the Finance
Committee report including the
Malaysian Code on Corporate
Governance;
* To establish detailed target timetables,
monitor and manage the implementation
programme;
* To evaluate all proposed drafts of
changes to laws and rules for tabling to
the Finance Committee;
* To determine and co-ordinate the
general direction of training and
education in corporate governance
including examining the content and
syllabus of such training and education
programmes;
* To ensure timely reporting on
implementation progress;
* To make recommendations to the
Finance Committee on appropriate
publicity and awareness measures.
The agencies with responsibility for
implementation have already commenced
efforts to implement the recommendations
of the Report."
Most of the recommendations made by the



ANNEX
Page 18 of 33
I 1  Obiective      1     Policy Measures      1 Actions Accomptisphed of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
of March 1999)                            of July 1999)
Finance Committee in relation to the Listing
Requirements which is now pending the
approval of the Securities Commission.
Only one of the recommendations is
currently being studied further. This
recommendation is relating to the directors
making a statement on the going concern of
the listed company in the annual report.
The draft revamped Listing requirements
have been submitted to the Securities
Commission (SC) for approval.
3.2  Improve            Companies to provide        Phase I of EDMS is 90% completed and
transparency        accurate disclosure of     expected to be completed by August 1999.
information.               Phase 2 is in the System Requirement Study
and Design stage of approximately 25%
completed. Phase 2 is expected to be
completed by October 1999. After Phase 2,
further development will be undertaken to
enhance the system as the system is highly
modular and scalable.
In terms of the deployment of EDMS to the
external users, 381 of 730 Public Listed
Companies (PLCs) and/or their
representatives or approximately 52% of the
total number of PLCs now have access to
the system. The system has also been
deployed to 23 secretarial firms that are
___________________  ,_________________________   servicing the PLCs. Deployment to all



ANNEX
Page 19 of 33
Objective           Policy Measures        Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
_______._. _____ hof March 1999)                                                                       of July 1999)
external users will be completed by June
1999.
CAR (Capital Adequacy Requirements)
Rules and CAP (Client Asset Protection)
Rules are in the final stages of discussion
with SC.
Once the Rules are finalized, the CAR and
CAP will be implemented. The tentative
implementation date is 1 July 1999.
The proposed amendments to the Listing
Requirements to impose a restriction on thc
number of directorships that may be held by
a director of a PLC were announced on 11
March 1999. This restriction takes effect on
1 April 1999 and states that a director of
PLC may only hold not more than 10
directorships in listed companies and 15 in
non-listed companies.
Phase 1 of EDMS which encompass the
development of an announcement system
for all public listed companies ("PLCs") has
been completed and all PLCs have been
deployed with the EDMS by 30 June 1999.
PLCs are now able to submit all Corporate
Announcements to the Exchange
______ _____ _____   ________ _______electroni$ally  which  will then  be



ANNEX
Page 20 of 33
I    Ob3ective     I      Policy Measures      TActions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
_______________________                of March 1999)                           of July 1999)
disseminated to the KLSE Home Page.
Phase 2 which comprise the submission by
PLCs of Quarterly Financial Reporting and
documents such as Annual reports.
Prospectuses and Circulars electronicaily
are currently under development and
scheduled to be completed by 30 September
1999.
Capital Adequacy Requirements (CAR)
Rules (Rule 17G) have been incorporated in
KLSE Rules and taken effect since 28 May
1999. KLSE in consultation with SC will
announce the date that KLSE will
commence monitoring and enforcement
based on CAR.
The Client Asset Protection (CAP) rules
have been approved by SC in principle.
Certain issues been to be finalized by KLSE
and SC before it is introduced.
Amendments have been made to the Listing
Requirements to impose a restriction on the
number of directorship that may be held by
a director of a PLC effective September
1999. This restriction states that a director
of a PLC may only hold not more than 10
directorships in listed companies and 15 in
_non-listed companies. 



ANNEX
Page 21 of 33
Objective           Policy Measures       Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
of March 1999)                           of July 1999)
Proposed amendments to the Listing
Requirements pertaining to the treatment of
public listed companies (PLSc) with
unsatisfactory financial condition thereto
have been submitted to the SC for
approval.
Amendments to the Listing Requirements
pertaining to suspension and the Practice
Note No 1/1999 on Requests for Suspension
have been implemented on 14 June 1999.
Amendments have been made to the
Listing Requirements pertaining to quarterly
reporting of financial statements. Quarterly
reporting is mandatory for PLCs whose
financial quarters end on or after 31 July
1999.
Mandatory compliance of The proposed amendments in relation to
companies with rules of   compliance with accounting standards
Malaysian Accounting    issued of approved by MASB have been
Standards Board and the  submitted to the SC for approval in 1 July
Financial Reporting    1999.
Foundation with a view
to making financial
disclosure consistent with
intemational best
practices.



ANNEX
l'agc 22 of 33
Objective            I'olicy Measures       Actions Accomplislied or in lProgress (its   Actions Accomplished or in PXrogrcss (as
.___________________  of March  1999)                        of jtlly  1999)
On 29 Junc l999, KLSE introduced a ncw
Rule 16A of Rules Relating to Member
Companies which establishes the minimum
standards for the treatment of interest on
non-performing accounts and provision for
bad and doubtful debts in the financial
statements of stockbroking companies
(SBCs).
3.3  Facilitate contested   Securities Commission to  The amendments to the Listing
take-over and       review the current code on    Requirements pertaining to the revised
mergers             Take-over and Mergers       Code on take-over and Mergers were
1987.                      implemented on I January 1999.
Securities Commision (SC) has reverted to
KLSE with comments on the draft
revamped Listing Requirements and the
comments are being addressed by KLSE.
Proposed amendments to the Listing
Requirements pertaining to the treatment of
public listed companies (PLCs) with
unsatisfactory financial condition and the
Practice Note in relation thereto have been
submitted to the SC for approval.
The Practice Note on request for
Suspension by PLCs of Trading in Shares
came into effect on 14 June 1999. The
period of suspension ranges from one (1)
market day up to a maximum of three (3)
_  _  _  _______            ---a_                                                  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _   !



ANNEX
Page 23 of 33
Objective           Policy Measures        Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
_________________    ___________________  .of M arch   1999)             of .1ulY   1999)
The Malaysian Code on Take-over &
Mergers 1998, together with its Practice
Notes, has been gazette on 31st December
1998. Thc 1998 Codc rcplaccs the old 1987
Code.
The 1998 Code came into force on 1
January 1999. The new regulatory
framework on take-over and mergers under
the Securities Commission Act 1993
includes provisions imposing criminal
liability on the relevant partics to take-over
offer for proceeding false of misleading
information to the SC and shareholders
Similarly proposed amendments to the
Listing Requirements to shorten the
timeframe to issue annual audited accounts
were also announced on 11 March 1999 and
is made mandatory for PLCs whose
financial year end on or after 31 July 1999.
3.4  Related Party and    Promote high standards of    Amendments to the Listing Requirements
Interested Party    corporate governance and   pertaining to related party transactions have
transaction         disclosure in transactions  been implemented on 2 July 1998.
between listed companies
and related an interested
parties, and protect interest
of minority shareholders
.          ,_______________  *  Securities Commission    The SC had on 2 July 1998, announced the  ___.



ANNEX
Page 24 of33
Objective           Policy Measures        Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Acconiplished or in 1'rogress (as
of March 1999)                            of July 1999)
to review and strengthen   changes made to the existing KLSE listing
KLSE rules governing    rules governing related-party and interested
relate-party and        party transactions. These changes and other
interested party        consequential revisions are reflected in
transactions.           Rules I I 1 to 120 under Part 4 of the Main
Board Listing Requirements and Rules 5.1
to 5.10 under Part 5 of the Second Board
Listing Requirements. There will be
contintLous moniitoing of compliancc by the
SC.
The Securities Industry (Reporting of
Substantial Shareholding) Regulations 1998
came into force on 1 May 1998. These
regulations are necessary to enable the
Securities Commission (SC) to administer
the provisions of the Malaysian Code on
Take-over and Mergers 1987 and the
provisions relating to insider trading under
the Securities Industry Act, 1983 more
effectively.
The information that is required to be
submitted and the persons who are required
to submit the information are similar to that
which is governed under Section 69D of the
Companies Act, 1965.
The securities Industry (Amendment) Act
1998, which came into force on I April
_ _98 i__iiziv-cu a new se;iion 99B that



ANNX
Page 25 of 33
Objective            Policy Measures        Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
of March 1999)                             of July 1999)
imposes a duty on chief executives and
directors of a listed corporation to disclose
their interests in securities of the listed
corporation of the listed corporation. The
deadline to submit the information was on I
July 1998. Any changes of interest in
securities as stated in subsection 99B(2)(b)
are to be notified to the SC within 14 days
of such a changc.
Enforce all legal and
administrative provisions
of Companies' Act in a
consistent manner.
3.5  Corporate           Review status of winding up   *  CDRC, has to date, received          *  Update on the progress of cases referred
restructuring: allow    and market-based corporate  applications from 47 companies           to CDRC is as follows:-
market based        restructuring procedures.       (including Renong & UEM) to
bankruptcy and                                      restructure debts totaling RM25 billion    Cases           No             RM
corporate                                           from both listed and non-listed
restructuring to                                    companies.                            Received/Rejected    62              34.9
facilitate efficient                                                                      Withdrawn             11             2.9
liquidation/redeploy                             *  CDRC's workforce has also been        Sold to Danahaita    11              3.4
ment of assets                                      strengthened.                         Implementation stage  13             11.3
Outstanding          27             18.7
* Progress to date are at various stages. A
number of cases are already at the final
stages of negotiation - independent
consultant report are ready and they are
fine tuning the final draft restructuring
.____ _____ _____   _____ ___ __   plan.



Page 26 of 33
iPoicy Measures        Actions Accompi'shed of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
of March 1999)                            or July 1999)
*  CDRC is also looking at ways for
securing tax incentives for borrowers
and lenders who restructure their debts
under the auspices of the CDRC and
Danaharta.
*  Informal discussions with Securities
Commission and Bank Negara Malaysia
with respect to increasing the efficacy
and expediting any approvals required
for restructuring scheme..
3.6  Competition         Privatisation process will be                                         (a) With regard to the Competition/Trade
policies: Foster    carried out on more                                                      Practices Bill, the existing draft law has
competition and     transparent principles to  I                                             to be improved further before it can be
efficiency          achieve efficiency, reduce                                               introduced. A committee has been
the financial burden of                                                 established to determine elements which
Government and deliver                                                  should be included in the law to ensure
better quality service.                                                 among other things, that the
implementation of the law will not
jcopardize the achievements of
Introduce Trade Practices                                               government's economic development
Bill with specific prisons                                              policies. In addition, more work has to
against price-fixing, market                                            be done to convince the private sector
sharing and other collusive                                             and other agencies on the importance of
agreements, and anti-                                                   the law.
competitive M&A activity.
Introduce consumer                                                   (b) With regard to consumer protection and
protection law and redress                                              redressal mechanisms, the Malaysian
mechanisms.                                                             Parliament h- --n-d thew (>n-mer



1nagr,21 of 33
Objective           Policy Measures       Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
of March 1999)                           of July 1999)
Protection Bill in its July/August 1999
sitting and it is expected to be enforced at
the end of 1999. The law provides
further protection of consumers, the
establishment of the National Consumer
Advisory Council and the tribunal for
Consumer Claims not exceeding
RM10,000.00 and for matters accoutered
thcrewith. It is hoped that the
implementation of this law will provide
more protection to consumers and in the
long run promote good business practices
and ethics.
4.0  Social Action
Program
Strengthen the social
safety net to soften
the negative impact
of the economic
crisis on the lower
income and
vulnerable groups.
4.1  Maintain access to   Protect budget share of                                          i)    The development budget for MOE
key social sector  education and health.                                                    was increased from RM2,909 billion
in 1998 to RM 3,047 billion in 1999.
As of 26 July 1998 the MOE has
spent RMI,667 billion or 54.71% of
the allocation.



Page 28 of 33
Objective            Policy Measures       Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
of March 1999)                            of July 1999)
ii)    The operating budget for MOE was
increased from RM9.8 billion to
RM10.4 billion. As of 30 June 1999
the MOE has spent 46.49% the
a!!ocation.
4.2  Expand access to    Increase public expenditure   *  Bank Negara Malaysia and the Ministry  *  The RM300 million has been released to
financial assistance   ont nlajor anti-poverty     of Finance are in the process of         Bank Pertanian Malaysia Berhad. As at
and social sector   prograims so as to protect     preparing the relevant documentation     end-June 1999, no approvals have been
services to         real spending per              for the release of RM300 million to      granted.
accomimiiiodate tlhosc   beneficiary.              Bank Pcrtanian. Thc funid is Cxpcctcd Io
who are vulnerable                                 be released in April this year.
to the crisis
Expand safety net to those    Anti-poverty programs such as BAKAS
who are made newly         (Rural sanitation and water supply ) was
vulnoerable by the crisis but   provided with increased allocation. MOH
who may not be directly    allocated in 1998 RM 15,515m for the
covered by the existinig   BAKAS program. Expenditure was RM
progran,us.for the hard-core   1 5,3901n (99.2%). Additional allocation
pOrl:                      WaS l)rwVilp d fcoi- Sarawak i'ftoirn PM 3
million to RM 8 million. Under the rural
health program for 1998 124 rural health
clinics and dental projects were completed.
Guidelines of the criteria under the Fund for
Food Schemc (3F Fund) of RM300 million
has been approved by Treasury towards end
of 1998. The funds allocated has not been
disbursed to the Agriculture Bank of
Malaysia yet.
Y                    _                    Beginning in Ma. 1999, YTN started to



ANNF-X
Page 29 of 33
Objective           Pllicy Meastilres     Actions Accomiplished of in 1'rogress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
.____________________                  of March 1999)                           of July 1999)
received RMI50 million from the        disburse loans. As at end of July 1999, 676
government in Decemcher 1998 to)       loans have been disbursed amounting to
implement micro-ciecdit program.        RM2,188,500.
4.3  Maintain           Provide financial support to   *  Total allocation for the Fund for Small   *  Progress of various Funds administered
Employment         small and medium industries    and Medium Industries had been          by BNM as at end-July 1999.
to assist them in improving  increased from RMI billion to RMI.5                  Approved    Disbursed
their productivity,           billion since 8 May 1998.                             RM m         RM m
technology and access to                                           SMI Fund       2,102.2       854.7
markets.                   *  At present, any productive activity  Rehab Fund       166.2        74.3
which falls under the manufacturing,
agro-based and services sectors, is
cligible for financing from the Fund.
The eligible borrowers are allowed to
obtain up to RM5 million of financing
under the Fund.
* In addition, the Government has set up
the Rehabilitation Fund for the Small
and Medium Industries with total
allocation of RM750 million to assist
the SMIs which face NPL problems to
obtain financing for their operations.
Under the Rehabilitation Fund, SM1s
are allowed to use up to 30% of the
approved amount to restructure their
existing NPLs.
4.4  Deal with the      Establish through the HRDF,
increased costs for   new schemes to retrain
tertiary education    retrenched workers.



6NNX
Page 30 of 33
Objective            Policy Measures       Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
__________________       of March 1999)                             of July 1999)
4.5  Address the problem   The Government has decided  To cater the increased in demands for places
of graduate and     not to recall students from  in tertiary education, the intake of students
unmcilploylmlcllt   ovcrscas. The capacities of   to the local public universities has been
the local public institutions   increased to 43,659 for the 1999/2000
are to met higher demand for  academic session, i.e. an increase of 40.5%
places.                    compared to the 1998/1999 session.
4.6  Increase food       Increase the employment
production          opportunities for new
graduates.
| Expand on the food        For the month of January 1999 tihe
production capacity of states. Department of Agriculture has set up 903
location for direct selling activities in 11
states of Peninsular Malaysia. Total sales
value achieved amounts to RM4.06 million.
The Farmers Organization Board has
expended its direct selling activities to two
(2) more location in Kuching and Sibu,
Sarawak. The total numbers of farmers
involved in thcsc locations are 355 farmers.
A total of 181 more new farmers have
participated in the existing programs of
farmers market in the whole country.
The Fisheries Development Board through
__v;tcrmcr assoc,ull i.lvc set



Page 31 of 33
Objective            Policy Measures        Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
of March 1999)                             of July 1999)
more new outlets and operationalised in this
form:
- 4 Fish House
-  I Fishermen's Best
-  I Green Shop
4.7  Mitigatc the effccts   Facilitate distribution of food  As at 25 August 1999, a sum of
of inflation                                    RM41,000.00 has been approved by
Agricultural Bank of Malaysia to finance 72
projects under the Fund For Food (RM300
million)
As of February 1999 the following activities
have been transacted:-
No. of visitors  -300
(majority are
entrepreneurs in
agriculture)
No of Books/
Posters sold    - 300 (mostly
guidelines on
marketing of
agriculture products)
Renovation works of the one-stop
information center were fully completed in
April 1999. The Ministry has just bcn
given the approval by the treasury to
purchase additional equipment and facilities
that are required for the operations of the



ANNEX
Page 32 of 33
Objective           Policy Measures        Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accomplished or in Progress (as
_______________________                of March 1999)                        o_ f July 199?)  --         -
center. The necessary purchase will be
taken within the next one or two months.
4.8  Enhance access to    Provide affordable housing    To assist low income buyers, the
housing for the low   loans to the poor.       government continues to provide end-
income group                                   financing facilities as loans, grants, interest
subsidies and saving schemes. Examples
include the following:
*  Ministry of Housing and Local
Government and Local Government
grants an interest-free loan of a
maximum of RM7,500 to low income
groups to supplement other sources of
funding to build a house on their land.
An eligible borrower can build a
detached house costing not more than
RM20,000 for owner occupation. The
target groups include workers living
near to industrial areas, new villages,
estates and mining areas. Squatters
displaced as a result of implementation
of development projects and who
require financing to build a house in
newly-allocated land are also considered
under this scheme.
*  The Ministry of Rural Development
undertakes the provision of free housing
for the very poor. The government
providcs subsidies in the form of free



ANNRX
Page 33 of 33
Objective           Policy Measures       Actions Accomplished of in Progress (as   Actions Accomnplished or in Progress (as
of March 1999)                           of July 1999)
building materials and the construction
in carried out through self-help labor of
local-community participation without
incurring any labor cost.
^ Eligible families earning between
RM300 to RM500 per month enjoy the
benefit of interest-free housing loan
under the site and services scheme. The
federal government provides end
financing to participants selected by the
state governments.
* An eligible buyer under the Public Low-
Cost Housing Programs can obtain a
housing loan of RM25,000 subject to a
nominal interest rate of 5.5 per annum.
* Under the guidelines of Bank Negara
Malaysia, private financial institutions
extend loans for houses costing below
RM100,000 subject to a maximum
interest rate of 9 per cent per annum.
Bank Negara Malaysia also sets loan
disbursement quotas by house price
category to insure the financial
institutions allocate enough funds for
low-cost housing. The loan-to-value
ration ranges from 70-100 per cent for
medium-cost and as high as 100 per cent
for low-cost houses.



