Report No. PID6374
Project Name                     Malaysia-Economic Recovery & Social (@)
Sector Loan
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Economic and Social
Project ID                       MYPA58031
Borrower                         Malaysia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Jalan Duta
50592 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Tel:    03-2582000
Fax:    03-2556264
Date PID Prepared                July 22, 1998
Appraisal                        May 11, 1998
Board Date                       June 18, 1998
Country and Sector Background
Malaysia has been able to avoid the extreme dimensions of the Asian
financial crisis, because of its relatively strong initial conditions, which
have helped contain the extent and depth of the crisis' contagion effects.
Malaysia's traditionally strong fiscal policy over the years, the prudent
management of the country's external exposure, especially reflected in the low
level of short-term debt, and well developed supervisory and regulatory
framework for the financial sector, were significant factors that helped to
ameliorate the immediate consequences of the regional turmoil on the domestic
economy. However, as the crisis unfolded, Malaysia has been increasingly
affected. The ringgit has shown considerable volatility over this period,
depreciating by 30-40 percent, and there has been substantial weakening in the
stock and property markets. Real GDP growth is projected to turn negative from
7.8 percent in 1997 to below 2 to 3 percent in 1998.
The Slowdown and the Poor
The slowdown will have its greatest impact
on the poor, especially the urban poor and those in the most backward areas of
the country. It is expected that about 40,000 to 55,000 people will be joining
the ranks of the officially poor for each percentage point drop in real
incomes. The poor will also be impacted by the price effect of the present
crisis, i.e., by the differential increase in prices, if prices of the goods
they consume (especially food) rise faster than the overall price index. The
present crisis also presents other social challenges. Many of the 35,000 new
1998 university graduates will not be able to find jobs. There is an increased
demand for social services (e.g., education, health) from the public rather
than the private sector.
Government's Pre-emptive Policy Packages
Taking into account the



deepening regional crisis, the slowdown in economic activity, and building on
previous policy measures introduced in October and December 1997, the Minister
of Finance announced a comprehensive economic package on March 24, 1998, aimed
at minimizing the downturn in economic activity and resuming early recovery.
This package was followed by a policy package to stabilize the financial
sector announced by the Governor of Bank Negara Malaysia on March 25. The
central focus of the March reform package is on the following sectors:
Adjusting the Macroeconomic Framework. The reform measures include: a reduced
target on the federal budget; improved fiscal management; improved monetary
management; and maintaining a flexible exchange rate policy. Financial Sector
Stabilization .The reform measures include minimizing the use of government
resources in restructuring of the sector, strengthening regulatory and
supervisory regime, and introducing greater market based incentives. Improving
Corporate Governance. Reforms include: improving the disclosure of
information, improving corporate monitoring responsibilities of company
directors and protecting the rights of minority shareholders. Expanding
Social Safety Nets. Under its Vision 2020 program, Malaysia expects to achieve
developed nation status by the year 2020 and to be able to eliminate hard core
poverty by the year 2003. Over the last quarter of a century, Malaysia has had
an enviable record in reducing poverty, improving education and health. Rather
than across-the-board cuts that would have had significant effects on health
and education budgets, the budgetary cuts in 1998 were differentiated across
sectors. Moreover, the Government is committed to maintaining, in real terms,
the level of public spending per beneficiary on major antipoverty programs,
including the hard-core poverty program.
Description The loan is in support of policy measures which have been
taken by the Government in the following areas: Measures to maintain sound and
flexible macroeconomic policy: macroeconomic policy has been rebalanced with
the tightening of the monetary policy and gradual relaxation of the fiscal
policy. By allowing stabilizers to work, both on revenue and expenditure
sides, the fiscal stance has been reduced from maintaining a large surplus to
a balanced budget or slight deficit in 1998; measures to strengthen the
financial sector: completion of a first phase of a program of assisted mergers
for its financial companies; adoption of a program of preemptive
recapitalization of the banking sector supporting: a) intensified monitoring
through monthly stress tests performed by Bank Negara Malaysia on all banking
institutions; b) imposition of prompt corrective actions to address weaknesses
identified through such stress tests and other supervisory activities; and c)
strengthening of the loan classification and provisioning standards and the
capital adequacy framework; measures to improve corporate governance and
transparency and strengthen competitiveness: enactment of legislation to
establish the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board and to require compliance
with the accounting standards by all corporate entities; adoption of a number
of the accounting standards of the International Accounting Standards
Committee, enforcement of the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange regulations;
liberalizing the permissible level of foreign ownership in telecommunications,
stockbroking and insurance industries, and in the commercial real estate and
condominium sectors. A high level finance committee has been established to
develop an effective framework for corporate governance and best practices;
and measures to strengthen social safety nets to protect the poor and the near
poor: a) increased public expenditure on major anti-poverty programs to
protect the real spending per beneficiary to help the hard-core poor. These
programs include the Fund for Food, small-scale loans to the poorest for
income generation in rural areas, and improvements in welfare programs; b)
-2 -



expansion of safety nets for those made newly vulnerable by the recent crisis
but who may not be directly covered by the existing programs for the hard core
poor. These include urban micro-credit programs for hawkers, traders and
entrepreneurs; a fund for small and medium industries to increase their
competitiveness and viability; provision of special skills training through
public and private entities to retrain retrenched workers; and c) preserving
priority long-term development investments in education and health.
Financing       The loan of US$300 million is on standard terms and
conditions for a US dollar single currency loan.
Implementation The Ministry of Finance is the coordinating agency for
the program of stabilization and structural reforms. The Government has
opened and will maintain a Deposit Account with the Bank Negara Malaysia
(BNM). Upon effectiveness, the Government submitted a simplified withdrawal
application to the Bank, against which the Bank disbursed the loan proceeds in
one tranche into the Deposit Account. The proceeds of the loan will not be
used to finance expenditures typically excluded under the Loan Agreement
(military, drugs, nuclear, etc.).
Sustainability The proposed loan will help to minimize the severe downturn
in economic activity. The reform program is comprehensive and has four key
areas of importance: rebalancing macroeconomic policy, strengthening the
financial sector, improving corporate governance, and expanding social safety
nets. The rebalancing of macroeconomic policy and consolidation of the
financial sector would help restore confidence and reduce vulnerability of the
economy. Measures taken towards improving corporate governance and increasing
competition would help restore a high level of productivity and export
performance. The reform measures have elements of both short-term
stabilization and medium-term structural reforms to enhance the efficiency of
the economy and return Malaysia to the path of strong and sustained growth in
the context of today's more integrated and competitive global economy. The
proposed loan, by strengthening social safety nets, will also help the
Government move towards achieving its objective of eliminating hard core
poverty by year 2003. It will also help cushion the impact of the crisis on
the near poor, while ensuring that investments in education and health are
maintained.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons from previous projects are more narrowly focused on particular sectors and
types of investment operations, and are not relevant to this operation.
Poverty Category
While the project is not assigned to the poverty
category, the measures for strengthening the social safety nets will help
ensure that Malaysia will meet the Vision 2020 target of eliminating poverty
by the year 2003.
Contact Point:        The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
-3 -



Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 31, 1998.
- 4 -



