Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4347-MA
Loan Agreement
(Economic Recovery and Social Sector Loan)
between
MALAYSIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 18, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4347-MA 
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 18, 1998, between MALAYSIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank): 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 30, 1998 from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to strengthen the 
Borrower’s financial, corporate and social sectors (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; 
(B)
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described 
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Bank; and  
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
Page  2
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in 
support of which the Loan is made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read: “Except as the Bank and the Borrower 
shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency 
of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read: “The Borrower shall be entitled to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably  request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, 
the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.”; and  (f)
Section 9.05 is 
deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 
(as modified above), 9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, 
respectively, Sections 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following terms have the following meanings 
wherever used in this Agreement: 
(a)
“Amanah Ikhtiar Malaysia” means the non-governmental organization 
referred to in paragraph 7 (b) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, which onlends funds 
provided by the Borrower through the provision of small low-interest loans to the 
poorer rural population for income generating activities;    
(b)
“Bank Negara Malaysia” means the Borrower’s central bank; 
(c)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(d)
“Fund for Food Program” means the program established by the Borrower to 
provide low-interest loans to small farmers and farmers’ associations, referred to in 
paragraph 7 (a) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(e)
“Higher Education Loan Fund” means the fund established by the Borrower 
to provide loans to eligible students to enable them to pursue diploma or degree level 
education at private or public institutions in Malaysia, referred to in paragraph 6 
(c) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(f)
“Malaysia Accounting Standards Board” and “MASB” mean the entity 
established under the Financial Reporting Act, 1997 to adopt and issue accounting 
standards, referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
(g)
“Ringgit” and “RM” each means the lawful currency of the Borrower. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to three 
hundred million Dollars ($300,000,000). 
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the 
Loan Account in support of the Program. 
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.  
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on March 15 
and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower undertakes to implement the Program with due 
diligence to ensure that actions and policies adopted under the Program are put into 
effect.
(b)
The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
(c)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in the 
implementation of actions and policies embodied in the Program, in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request. 
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Page  4
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Secretary General to the Treasury, Ministry of Finance of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
Jalan Duta
50592 Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Cable address:
Telex:
Treasury MA 
30242
Kuala Lumpur
MA 32369
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
MALAYSIA
Page  5
By /s/ Dato’ Dali M. Hashim 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala 
Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                     -
Alcoholic beverages
121                     -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                     -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                     -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718                  718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728.43                  -
Tobacco processing machinery
897                  897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including 
set gems)
971                     -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates) 
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
Page  6
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party); 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2 
Interest and Principal Repayment 
Provisions 
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment Date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 
B.
Interest  
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts. 
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
Page  7
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
(iii)
the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed 
Amount;  as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage 
per annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment  
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph  2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15, the first installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for  such Disbursed Amount and 
Page  8
the last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment 
Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall 
be one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after March 15, 2014, the Borrower shall also pay on said date 
the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.  
SCHEDULE 3 
Program of Actions Taken by the Borrower 
1.
The Borrower has adopted a program of assisted mergers for its financial 
companies sector the first phase of which has been completed.
2.
The Borrower has adopted a program of preemptive capitalization for its banking 
sector supporting said program through:
(a)
intensified monitoring through monthly stress tests performed by Bank 
Negara Malaysia on all banking institutions;
(b)
imposition of prompt corrective actions to address the weaknesses 
identified through such stress tests and other supervisory activities; and
(c)
strengthening of the loan classification and provisioning standards and 
the capital adequacy framework. 
3.
(a)
The Borrower has enacted legislation to establish the Malaysian 
Accounting Standards Board and to require compliance with the accounting standards 
issued by said Board by all corporate entities.
(b)
MASB has adopted a number of the accounting standards of the 
International Accounting Standards Committee. 
4.
The Borrower has undertaken enforcement actions under the Kuala Lumpur Stock 
Exchange regulations, including imposing trading restrictions and suspension of 
stockbroking companies for failure to comply with capital adequacy standards.   
5.
The Borrower has liberalized the permissible level of foreign ownership in the 
telecommunications industry from 49% to 61% (subject to divestiture to domestic 
companies down to 49% by 2003); stockbroking industry from 30% to 49%; insurance 
sector from 30% to 51%; and commercial real estate and condominium sectors up to 100% 
(provided that the price exceeds RM 250,000 and the financing comes from overseas 
financial institutions).
6.
The Borrower has adopted a revised budget that reinstated additional allocations 
in an aggregate amount of three hundred million Ringgit (RM 300,000,000) to support 
the following key programs in health and education:
(a)
construction of additional primary and secondary schools in rural areas 
and training facilities and housing for the teaching staff;
(b)
construction of five polytechnic schools;
(c)
support for the Higher Education Loan Fund; and
(d)
construction of and provision of equipment to about 302 health clinics to 
provide primary health care services, particularly in rural areas, and financing of 
medicine and other supplies for public health facilities.
7.
The Borrower has adopted a revised budget that include additional allocations in 
an aggregate amount of seven hundred million Ringgit (RM 700,000,000) to: (i) expand 
the coverage of anti-poverty programs to those newly made vulnerable by the current 
Page  9
economic crisis; and (ii) maintain the level of spending in real terms per beneficiary 
of such programs, including:
(a)
expansion of the Fund for Food Program;
(b)
expansion of the Amanah Ikhtiar Malaysia micro-credit program;
(c)
construction of small-scale rural water supply projects in the poorer 
rural areas; and
(d)
establishment of a micro-credit program for hawkers, petty traders and 
small-scale entrepreneurs among the urban population.
8.
The Borrower has established the following programs to support employment and 
provided funding therefor in an aggregate amount of approximately one billion Ringgit: 
(a)
provision of financing, including working capital loans, to small and 
medium enterprises; and
(b)
provision of special skills training through public and private entities 
to retrain retrenched workers.
