Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 22683
PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
MALAWI
GEF/SADC LAKE MALAWI/NYASA BIODIVERSITY
CONSERVATION PROJECT
GEF TF 28671 and CIDA TF 22676
August 27, 2001
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has been prepared for the Global Enviromnent Facility (GEF).



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MWK.)
Appraisal (1993)                    US$1 = MWK 7.14
At Completion (2000)                US$1 = MWK 58.0
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CIDA          Canadian International Development Agency
DANIDA        Danish International Development Agency
DFID          Department for Intemational Development (UK)
DNPW          Department of National Parks and Wildlife
FAO           Food and Agricultural Organization
FWI           Freshwater Institute (Canada)
GEF           Global Environment Facility
GOM           Government of Malawi
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
PAR           Perforrnance Assessment Report
PM            Project Manager
PS            Principal Secretary
RAG           Research Advisory Group
SADC          Southern African Development Comnmunity
SC            Steering Committee
TFA           Theatre for Africa
TCP           Technical Cooperation Progranmre
TOR           Terms of Reference
IJNDP         United National Development Programme
WSM           Wildlife Society of Malawi
Fiscal Year
Govemment:           April 1 - March 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation               Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department           Mr. Gregory Ingram
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group         Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                       : Mr. George Keith Pitman



Contents
Principal Ratings .................................................................. iii
Preface ...................................................................v
Executive Summary ..................................................................                                                      vii
1. Background ...................................................................1
2. Implementation ...................................................................2
3. Ratings ...................................................................7
Outcome ...................................................................7
Institutional Development: Has the Project Led to Better Management of Human and
Financial Resources? ...................................................................9
Sustainability: Are the Results Likely to Last? .................................................................JI 0
Bank Performance .................................................................. 12
Borrower Performance ..................................................................                                        13
4. Lessons ..................................................................                                                             13
Bibliography ..................................................................                                                            17
Basic Data Sheet ..................................................................                                                       19
Project Costs and Financing ..................................................................                                            21
Key Performance Indicators ..................................................................                                             23






iii
Principal Ratings
Assessment
Outcome                                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                                               Unlikely
Institutional Development                                    Modest
Borrower Performance                                      Unsatisfactory
Bank Performance                                          Unsatisfactory






v
Preface
The Malawi Lake Malawi/Nyasa Biodiversity Conservation Project, supported by a GEF
Grant (TF 2867 1-MAI) of US$5.0 million was approved in 1995. Subsequently, under separate
agreement CIDA made a grant (TF 22676-MAI) of CD$4.0 million. In addition, DFID provided
assistance in kind by allowing use of their Malawian research facility and direct support to repair,
operate, and maintain their fisheries research vessel. The bulk of the funding (63%) was used to
pay expatriate consultants' fees and service contracts. At project closure in June 2000 after a one-
year extension, total costs amounted to US$7.6 million of which GEF financed US$4.96 million
and CIDA US$2.64 million. DFID's contribution in kind was equivalent to £0.36 million.
The PAR presents the findings of a mission by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED) that visited Malawi in February 2001. The findings are based on the Global
Environmental Facility Project Documents, project files, field visits to the project, and discussion
with officials of the Malawian government, respective government departments, officials and
staff concerned with fisheries and environment, donors working in the fisheries sector as well as
meetings with project beneficiaries, fisherfolk, and beach village communities. The author would
particularly like to acknowledge the courtesy and facilitation of the Fisheries Department and its
staff at Senga Bay and the helpfulness of the Bank task manager.
The Lake Malawi/Nyasa Biodiversity Conservation Project was assessed for the
following reasons:
*  Trans-boundary and biodiversity resource management is a growing area for GEF
involvement. As the design and organization of the subject project gave rise to some
implementation problems it was expected that a number of lessons would emerge from a
performance assessment.
*  A cluster assessment with the Malawi Fisheries Development Project (MFDP) (Credit
22250-MAI) that also focused on Lake Malawi would allow a sector overview. The
MFDP was completed at the same time and its objective to mitigate unsustainable levels
of in-shore fishing complements the objectives of the Biodiversity Project. Yet, the
Africa Region's Staff rated MFDP as unsatisfactory on most elements - in contrast to the
Biodiversity Project - and the reasons for these differing outcomes need examination.
Following standard OED procedures, the draft PAR was sent to the borrower and
development partners for comments before being finalized. Comments received are incorporated
in the report.






vii
Executive Summary
Malawi's Lake Malawi/Nyasa Biodiversity Conservation Project, supported by a GEF
Grant (TF 28671-MAI) of US$5.0 million was approved in 1995. Subsequently, under separate
agreement CIDA made a grant (TF 22676-MAI) .of CD$4.0 million. In addition, DFID provided
assistance in kind by allowing use of their Malawian research facility and direct support to repair,
operate, and maintain their fisheries research vessel. The bulk of the funding (63%) was used to
pay expatriate consultants' fees and service contracts. At project closure in June 2000 after a one-
year extension, total costs amounted to US$7.6 million of which GEF financed US$4.96 million
and CIDA US$2.64 million. DFID's contribution in kind was equivalent to £0.36 million.
The objective of the project was to assist Malawi, Tanzania, and Mozambique in creating
the scientific, educational, and policy basis required to ensure conservation of the biological
diversity and unique ecosystem of Lake Malawi/Nyasa and producing a Biodiversity Map and
Management Plan for the lake. There were seven components covering four main areas: building
riparians' fisheries research capacity; basic surveys of the lake, its fish stocks, and water quality;
reviewing riparians' environmental legislation to identify needed improvements and making
recommendations for harmonization; and producing strategic management plans for the lake and
special areas in Malawi.
Malawi, as the Sector Coordinator for Inland Fisheries within the Southern Africa
Development Community (SADC), took the lead in preparing and executing the project.
Implementation arrangements were complex and spread over eight institutions. Weak horizontal
linkages to the riparians' national environmental institutions jeopardized the potential synergy
from collaborative research as did weak ownership by Tanzania and Mozambique. A lack of
clarity in describing the management functions of the international Steering Committee and a
failure to establish an effective Research Advisory Committee created friction that undermined
achievement of some project components.
The resources and time required to bring the Malawian research facilities and the DFID
research vessel to operational status were underestimated. Salary supplements were provided to
local staff without reference to their implication for overall civil service equity. Project design did
not appreciate that each riparian had different priorities, levels of interest, and capacity to
contribute to the project. And directing GEF funding through Malawi led to disagreement over
the distribution of resources and benefits among the riparians.
Notwithstanding the above problems, the capacity building and research program was
substantially completed to high intemational standards. The research and survey work has
provided the basis for a number of landmark publications relating to the ecology, biodiversity,
limnology, and water quality studies of Lake Malawi/Nyasa-and more are under production.
The way in which the training was conducted has given the riparians' researchers an entree into
the international environmental and biodiversity research fraternity which should be highly
beneficial in the long term. Three Lake Malawi/Nyasa reference fish collections were established,
one each in Malawi, Belgium, and South Africa. During the extended phase of the project funded
by CIDA, key environmental monitoring indicators were established. Conservation of the Lake's
biodiversity is now seen in the context of national environmental management.
However, major weaknesses remain. There should have been more attention to training in
natural resources management, and fisheries research staff are isolated from the mainstream
environmental management institutions. Budgets are inadequate to maintain an active Lake



viii
research program and the DFID research vessel, while cessation of staff benefits provided from
GEF funds reduce performance incentives. Piloting use of a touring drama group to promote
environmental awareness in riparian countries is not sustainable without external funding, and
awareness training may have targeted the wrong people, thus limiting its effectiveness. A high-
quality strategic management plan for a selected area of Malawi was completed - but lack of
implementation has caused enthusiastic stakeholders to lose interest. The Environmental
Legislation component that was transferred to the FAO has yielded little to date, and is still
ongoing. The scientific research and training agenda, which eventually cost more than twice the
appraisal estimate, displaced forward-looking lake management planning: the Management Plan
for Lake Malawi/Nyasa was not produced and the Biodiversity Map is only partially complete.
Project outcome is rated as moderately unsatisfactory. While the project was highly
relevant, and built significant, if specialized local capacity and knowledge, it neither met its
major objective to produce a Lake Malawi/Nyasa resource management plan nor did it
mainstream concerns or findings about the Lake's biodiversity in the riparian country's
environmental management plans. Notwithstanding achievements in capacity-building,
institutional development is rated at modest. This is not unexpected given the relatively low
political priority of biodiversity conservation, the wealth of other social and economic challenges
in the region, and the time-scale needed to forge trilateral consensus and a regulatory framework
for the Lake's management. Indeed, rather than establish a common vision, the project polarized
the interests of the riparians and, apart from Malawi, ownership is low. Sustainability is rated as
unlikely because adequate funds for continued biodiversity management are scarce and threats to
biodiversity from inshore over-fishing were not ameliorated by the parallel Bank-financed
Fisheries Development Project. Bank performance is rated as unsatisfactory because the initial
problems created by inadequate appraisal and frequent change of Task Manager - due to Bank
reorganization - allowed the research agenda to dominate the project at the expense of
institutional development and mainstreaming. Borrower performance was also unsatisfactory
because it failed to establish effective oversight of the research agenda, had difficulty in steering
the activities of the expatriate research team and paid almost no attention to issues of riparian
partnership.
There are five major findings:
* Establishing regional institutions for international waters projects requires very careful
planning, extensive consultation, clear and unambiguous agreements, protocols on
communication, and an effective umbrella organization to coordinate and synergize
riparians' efforts. All this requires a high level of Bank effort and facilitation to avoid
GEF projects becoming enclave activities of questionable operational value.
*  Achievement of multi-country objectives is put at risk if only one partner receives and
manages GEF project financing. It is probably better to support cross-boundary resource
conservation through free-standing projects to individual countries and deal with the
inter-regional coordination in parallel.
*  GEF biodiversity and environmental projects require objective management and technical
review to ensure continued focus on their development and operational goals-and thus
avoid becoming hostage to increasingly demanding scientific agendas.
*  GEF projects need to be strongly linked to all relevant national environmental and natural
resource agencies to mainstream the development effort and leverage outputs.
*  Partnership with bilateral development agencies (who have a comparative advantage in
many areas) need to be carefully structured and based on shared objectives for which
country ownership is assured if they are to significantly enhance the effectiveness of GEF
projects.



I
1.  Background
1.1    Lake Malawi/Nyasa, the fourth largest freshwater body    Figure 1: Lake Malawi and its Riparians
in the world, is shared by Malawi and Mozambique and its
northern end forms Malawi's border with Tanzania. The high
and fairly rapidly growing populations in the riparian
countries-particularly in Malawi, which occupies 80% of the
shoreline-are steadily increasing human pressure on the                      TANZUA
region's limited natural resources. For the people on its shore,
the lake provides abundant fresh water, fish production, and
transport while for the riparian states it has large tourism  ...
potential. The lake is endowed with unique biodiversity and is u
estimated to contain 500-1,000 species of fish-the world's  ZAMSIA
most diverse fish population in a single lake. Only about a third
of these species have been fully described and new species are
discovered regularly. Particularly noteworthy are about 400     f              ZAI
species of near-shore mouth-breeding cichlids which are
endemic to the lake. Many of these unique cichlids have
localized distributions and are vulnerable to over-fishing,  x           i
pollution, and the effects of longer-term degradation of the lake's  U ONGWE
watersheds induced by unsustainable land use practices.
1.2    Objectives. The project objective was to assist the three  .  -Mb
riparian states in creating the scientific, educational, and policy  MOZAM8.WQUE
basis necessary for conserving the biological diversity of the lake
and its unique ecosystem. Seven components were designed to  -
achieve this objective (Box 1). As part of the capacity-building
effort, research stations were to be rehabilitated at Metangula in
Mozambique, Kyele in Tanzania, and the Senga Bay and Cape  ZIMaAWee
MacClear research stations in Malawi were to be upgraded. The
most important outputs were to be a Biodiversity Map and
Management Plan for the lake, a plan for ecologically compatible development of Malawi's
Nankumba Peninsula and Lake Malawi National Park, and strengthened institutions, including
recommendations for legislative changes to protect the lake's biodiversity.
1.3   Implementation Arrangements. These were complex and spread over eight institutions.
Malawi, as the Sector Coordinator for Inland Fisheries within the Southern Africa Development
Community (SADC), took the lead in preparing the project in collaboration with Mozambique
and Tanzania. Malawi also managed the GEF grant agreement for this regional project on their
behalf.
1.4    Government of Malawi (GOM) charged the Principal Secretary of Ministry of Forestry
and Natural Resources (which is also responsible for the Fisheries Department) in his capacity as
SADC Coordinator with managing the project guided by an advisory Steering Committee. The
committee was chaired by the Malawian Principal Secretary and its membership was drawn in
equal parts from the riparians' Fisheries and National Parks Departments, NGO/community
representatives, and international expertise as needed. An internationally-recruited Project
Manager was appointed to manage the project on a day-to-day basis and be guided by the
Principal Secretary and the Steering Committee. A tripartite Research Advisory Group (RAG)
comprising Chief Fisheries Officers and Chief National Parks and Wildlife Officers representing
each riparian was to undertake periodic reviews and advise on research activities. An educational



2
and awareness component was to be managed by Malawi's Wildlife Society in cooperation with
Malawi's Department of Parks and Wildlife.
Box 1: Project Components:
* Building scientific capacity within the riparian countries to survey, study, and monitor the lake's
biodiversity, identify threats, and provide recommendations for the lake's management.
* Increasing conservation awareness among the lakeshore population and regional and national policy
makers, whose decisions regarding regional development have an impact on the lake's ecosystem.
* Surveying and inventorying species, identifying critical habitats and biodiversity hotspots, and
recommending preliminary measures to demarcate and protect such areas.
* Identifying pollution sources and measuring water quality at sites where human activities threaten
biodiversity.
* Preparing a Strategic Plan for the Nankumba Peninsula and Lake Malawi National Park for eco-
tourism development, consistent with the protection and conservation of the lake's biodiversity.
. Preparing a comprehensive Biodiversity Map and Management Plan for Lake Malawi/Nyasa based on
the information provided by the species, habitat, and water quality analyses.
.  Reviewing the adequacy of existing national environmental legislation in Malawi, Mozambique, and
Tanzania and making appropriate legislative recommendations for revising and/or strengthening
enforcement for conservation of the lake's biodiversity.
1.5    Five international organizations were also involved. DFID agreed to provide access to its
project facilities and equipment at Malawi's Senga Bay Research Station and use of its fisheries
research vessel R.S. Usipa. Malawi agreed to enter into a separate arrangement proposed by the
Bank under which UNDP, through its country offices, would administer the design and
contracting of the fisheries research stations at Matguela in Mozambique and Kyala in Tanzania.
Shortly after negotiations, CIDA approved a grant of $4.0 million (initially administered by them
under a separate agreement) to enable a twinning arrangement by which researchers at the
Freshwater Institute of the University of Manitoba worked with the project. After the first year,
the environmental law component was subcontracted by the project to the regional FAO
management. Half way through the project, the project manager facilitated a joint program,
funded by DANIDA, on bilharzia research to supplement the scientific and educational thrusts of
the project.
2.  Implementation
2.1    Overview. The project was slow to start. Meeting the conditions of effectiveness-
appointing a project manager, preparing a Project Implementation Plan, and forming the Steering
Committee-delayed the project six months. Subsequent failure by GOM to hold regular
meetings of the Steering Committee, whose role included clearing staff appointments and
management plans, meant that key expatriate and local technical staff really only started to
contribute to the research agenda 18 months later. Additionally, it was found that the research
facilities at Senga Bay and the R.S. Usipa needed far more work to make them serviceable
(mainly because of deferred maintenance) than was estimated at appraisal, and newly arrived
scientific staff spent the initial few months on upgrading activities. These delays, changing
priorities, and subcontracting some components jeopardized achievement of some objectives even
though the project was extended by a year using CIDA funding.
2.2    To add to these initial difficulties, both the Bank and GOM changed managers several
times in the first 18 months. In response to pressure from GOM, CIDA, DFID, and the project
manager, the Bank designated in mid-1997 a staff member from the Malawi Country Office to
attend Steering Committee meetings, and supervision frequency increased to twice a year. Project



3
oversight and guidance became more consistent primarily because of a highly motivated task
manager who continued until the end of the project.
2.3    The agreement with UNDP to rehabilitate the fisheries research stations in Tanzania and
Mozambique failed to deliver, and shortly after mid-term review the project manager reassumed
responsibility for these constructions. By project closure, the Tanzanian station was completed
and the assessment mission was inforned that work is nearing completion in Mozambique under
Malawian management. As neither station was available to supplement research conducted from
Malawi's Senga Bay during the life of the project, this posed an additional constraint on trilateral
cooperation and the field research.
2.4    Capacity Building. The objective of this component was to ensure capacity in riparian
countries to continue biodiversity surveys and monitoring beyond the life of the project. Capacity
building focused on formal and informal on-the-job training in fisheries research and reached 32
staff selected equally from the riparians using mostly CIDA funding supplemented by South
African research scholarships. On-the-job research training performed to expectations and two
staff from each riparian were trained at Senga Bay Research Station.
2.5    Identifying and clearing the nine research staff selected for formal postgraduate training,
and addressing language deficiencies of a few, meant that only three of the nine students were
able to complete their training and contribute to the project before closure. Some of the research
theses, when delivered, are expected to make a significant contribution to achievement of project
objectives. On the whole, training was effectively carried out and, even though the number
formally trained was relatively few, it significantly increased the riparians' technical capacity in
fisheries research-but not fisheries management.
2.6    In a short-term move that is now having adverse long-term consequences for retaining the
capacity built and for maintaining productivity, government representatives on the Steering
Committee pressed for increases in salaries of counterpart scientific staff, even though their
salaries were similar to government levels. Regrettably, the Bank accepted that this was necessary
to attract high-caliber staff and agreed increases of 25-50% derived from expatriate account
benefit savings and project contingency.' When external funding ceased, these staff reverted to
their lower-level salary scale. This and a different basis for paying other country staff caused
some resentment in Malawi.
2.7    The Wildlife Society of Malawi was supposed to sponsor two trainees to mainstream the
environmental training program but could not find the money to do so. Eventually, CIDA funding
was squeezed to allow the Environmental Educational Officer to be trained in South Africa and
the project recruited a full-time expatriate Education Officer who designed and implemented the
two six-month environmental training courses. At completion, 22 people selected by the riparian
governments were trained in environmental education through two six-month courses held at
Cape MacClear in Malawi (see para. 2.9). GOM staff interviewed at assessment said that the
people selected for the course came from inappropriate backgrounds given its general nature, and
that courses were too fisheries-focused and not oriented to community needs. While some of
those trained were reabsorbed into their organizations and communities, others took up positions
unrelated to environmental/biodiversity conservation. Thus the environmental education
component did not become the seed from which a larger program grew.
1. Government scales were $800/monti for Research Officers and $400/month for Research Technicians. Under the
project the Bank agreed that these salaries could be raised to $1,000- 1,200 for ROs and up to $600 for RTs.
Additionally, Malawian staff were paid in local currency while those from Mozambique and Tanzania had their salaries
pegged to the dollar budget which appreciated significantly against the Malawian Kwacha over the life of the project.



4
2.8    Building Conservation Awareness. The intent of this component was "to use informal
educational techniques to raise awareness and explain the need for new fishing regulations or
techniques for conservation of the lake's biodiversity." Project staff in Malawi held a number of
workshops and organized events that reached local area schools, wildlife clubs, villages, and
community leaders. Posters and artwork produced by the project's scientific artist made a major
contribution to this outreach effort and the audit noted their large-scale distribution throughout
Malawi.
2.9    The project also sponsored novel outreach activities using the Theatre for Africa in
countries around the lake and the Wildlife Band in Malawi. When expected sponsorship by
Wildlife Society for Malawi failed to materialize, Theatre for Africa was subcontracted by the
project (at considerable expense) and trained 11 local actors from the riparian countries. By all
accounts and follow-up surveys, these drama- and music-based outreach activities raised
significant environmental awareness among a large number of people. How this awareness will
be translated, if at all, to improved fisheries and hinterland management is unclear. In addition, it
was independent of local drama groups, such as the one at Chancellor College. As with the other
outreach activities it is not sustainable - it was a one-off event only feasible with the extemal
support and funding provided from the project.
2.10   Apart from outreach, the project financed the rehabilitation of the Environmental
Education Facility in the Lake Malawi National Park at Cape MacClear and housing for project
staff but, as this is a fairly isolated spot, the facility catered primarily to the residents of the
Nankumba Peninsula in Malawi. In early 1988, DANIDA was allowed to accommodate its
bilharzia field program in project buildings at the site and it was still there at the time of the
assessment. Currently, the only active environmental education center is operated by Department
of National Parks and Wildlife on an adjacent site. The outreach capacity-building efforts
sponsored by the project and based in Malawi have not been sustained ex-post because of lack of
direction and negligible financial support from either the other riparians or the Malawian
Fisheries Department.
2.11   Research: Survey and Inventory of Species. For the first two years only a small boat
donated by CIDA was available for survey work and this seriously limited what could be done.
The R.S. Usipa only managed 6 sea-days in this period (compared with 200 planned) because of
the poor condition of the vessel and its equipment. Once repaired, however, fieldwork accelerated
in the last two years aided by three 8-meter twin-hull boats purchased by the projects and
delivered in 1998. Meeting the operating costs of research vessels was a major headache even
with the project, and ex-post the vessels are idle for lack of operating funds.2 A major and
unresolved problem is that both the Senga Bay research facilities and the R.S. Usipa remain in
ownership of DFID because the U.K. government is unwilling to hand over these assets when
there is still considerable doubt about the future use of the research facilities and the source and
sufficiency of operation and maintenance funding.
2.12   Despite the logistical difficulties, extensive survey work was accomplished and much of
this has been written up by members of the GEF-financed resident research team and officially
reported. Two international workshops were held by Malawi to disseminate findings in 1999, one
sponsored by GEF, the other by DFID. A stream of more detailed and specialist scientific papers
is under publication. The survey was undertaken in two phases occasioned by the project
manager's different opinion on research methodology after which the fisheries ecologist resigned
and was replaced. The first survey included lake-wide fish distribution by depth, locality, and
2. During the project, the eleven berth RS Usipa cost about $650 a day to operate - at assessment this had risen to $960
a day.



5
sediment type, and life history information such as breeding condition, size distribution, diet, and
the genetic differentiation of stocks. A second phase focused on the ecology of 150-300 species
of deep-water fish in an area at the southern end of the lake similar to that being trawled further
east. In addition, several other donor-funded studies provided invaluable information.3 While both
surveys yielded much new and valuable information vital to sound management of the lake, only
that for the second and more limited survey was completed and written up.4
2.13    Once surveyed and sampled, the fish were systematically classified and about half of the
species caught identified by the team of taxonomists based at Senga Bay. The large number of
unidentified species were informally described and reference collections established for future
research: one for each riparian country, and back-up collections were sent to the Africa Museum
at Tervuren in Belgium, and the JLB Smith Institute of Ichthyology at Grahamstown, South
Africa. The assessment mission was informed that the extensive database from this work is
available on CD and met recently-returned research graduates continuing the systematic
classification and taxonomic studies. It appears the work has wound down at Senga Bay with the
closure of the project and the focus of research has now shifted to the almost-complete Fisheries
Research Department at Monkey Bay that was assisted by the sister Fisheries Development
Project (Credit 22250-MAI), which closed at the same time.
2.14   The assessment noted the generally poor condition of Malawi's reference collection
stored at Monkey Bay. The array of differing (and sometimes inappropriate) storage and the
number of partially or fully dried-out specimens gently decaying away paints a bleak future for
this collection. It also indicates that the project was clearly overwhelmed by the large number of
species, and that present funding is inadequate to maintain the collection.
2.15    Research: Identifying Pollution Hazards and Threats. Financed by the CIDA
component and carried out by the Freshwater Institute (FWI) of Canada with support from two
counterpart staff and graduate students, this research produced the first comprehensive survey of
water quality of the lake and its source rivers. The reports clearly show that increased land use
and nutrient inflow has adversely affected the lake's water quality, decreased water clarity and is
in danger of causing a thinning of the oxygen and species-rich upper layers of the lake. The
quality of inflowing river water is declining and rainfall water quality is affected by atmospheric
pollution caused by deforestation and bush-burning. A GIS-based Water Quality/Physical
Processes model for Lake Malawi was developed by the FWI team and is capable of generating
predictions about the future states of Lake Malawi and confirming the causes of past changes.
The large number of visiting scientists involved in this research, and several cooperating
organizations, has raised the awareness of the fragility of the lake's ecosystem and the need for
action to manage the watershed and land use practices.5 Most importantly, the research has
produced a baseline that will enable evaluation of the success of lake management plans.
2.16   Preparing a Strategic Plan for the Nankumba Peninsula and Lake Malawi National
Park. Originally scheduled for mid-1 996, an excellent plan was produced at the end of the
project after a rocky start-it remains to be implemented. A reason for this is that project design
specified a highly participatory planning process without reference to the means, timing or
3. Genetic studies were carried out by the University of Hull (UK) and University of Montpelier II (France), a
cooperative agreement with the DFID-funded Ncheni Project which examined two fish genera in detail, while
DANIDA funded a Bilharzia study.
4. The first fisheries ecologist left without describing the protocols and access to the first-phase data base. Thus about
70% of the ecological data collected remains unanalyzed.
5. Cooperating organizations included the Canadian Centre for Earth Observation Science who used GIS to examnine
erosion hazards, sedimentation and biodiversity mapping in the watershed.



6
financing of implementation. Its objective is to ensure biodiversity conservation and economic
growth, balancing the demands of tourist development and open-access natural resource use
while taking into account community preferences. A major issue that had to be resolved was
inequitable access to natural resource use that had marginalized local communities and thus
provided few incentives for conservation. An initial information-gathering phase was conducted
by CIDA-funded international consultants in 1994-95 and proposals put forward for a larger
study to be financed under the GEF project. This provoked considerable discussion in Malawi
that took four years to resolve. The main items of contention were GOM's intent to omit
community participation, non-compliance with the Bank's procurement process, and the project
manager's desire to reduce the budget for this activity in order to increase funds for research.
2.17   The outcome of the planning process has extremely important implications for overall
management of the lake. Local communities were recognized as central to the success of
biodiversity management. First, communities have to be empowered through legally-established
Village Trusts that enabled them to enter into contracts for management of village assets which
included changing from open-access to natural resources to community-managed access. Second,
tourism development has to be systematically designed to ensure the benefits go largely to local
communities. There was considerable synergy between this activity and the community education
and environmental awareness campaigns which has raised local stakeholders' expectations.
2.18   Even though the Nankumba Strategic Plan was not implemented, promising first steps are
being taken by some stakeholders. The first village trust was constituted in Chembe Village, the
main human settlement in Nankumba, with the assistance of a local eco-tourism operator and was
registered in July 2000. It is expected that Trust will enter into a co-management agreement with
the Department of National Parks and Wildlife in order to secure a share in tourism revenues, and
provide a new incentive towards the conservation of the Park's resources. During the assessment,
however, the mission detected considerable cynicism within the National Park communities and
many interviewed felt that nothing will come of the plan. Indeed, a recent GTZ study shows that,
over the past two years, there is growing evidence that catches from communally-fished areas
have declined.6
2.19   Biodiversity Map and Management Plans for the Lake. The Plan was not produced.
The biodiversity information was partly collated into a digital database and maps and was not
linked to the Lake Management Plan. This was because, as noted earlier (para. 2.12), the
ecological work was only partially collated. On the one hand, it was accorded a low priority by
both the Steering Committee and the project manager and on the other, it was highly dependent
on the outputs of the research program, the Strategic Plan for the Lake Malawi National Park and
Nankumba Peninsula, and the findings and action resulting from the review of environmental
legislation. Notwithstanding these constraints, there was no reason why an outline strategic plan
could not have been produced if only to provide a focus for the GEF activities. Properly drawn
up, it could have identified and prioritized research and needed inter-regional consultation on
aspects of the plan. Instead it was seen as a final blueprint rather than a continuously evolving
framework growing in response as new information and stakeholder input was generated.
Achievement was also undermined by the high turnover of Bank management in the first two
years of the project, and infrequent supervision thereafter that could only react to successive
failure by the project manager to deliver even a draft report. Eventually, the Bank at mid-term
review (1998) agreed to very much reduced "interim management recommendations" whose
prime purpose was to identify critical follow-on scientific work and the terms of reference for a
6. GTZ. 2001. Socio-Economic Survey No. I Msaka Village (Namkumba Peninsula). Report by Elvira Ganter, National
Aquatic Resource Management Program, Department of Fisheries, Malawi.



7
"second phase" project "to advance development of a more detailed Lake Management Plan."
Thus, the research agenda and its management completely displaced this strategic objective.
2.20   Environmental Legislation. It was planned that this work would be undertaken by a
senior legal advisor contracted by the project who would collaborate with the riparians' legal
experts and organize a workshop at the end of the first year. The output expected before mid-term
review was to have been a report providing recommendations to riparian countries for revising
and strengthening legislation and enforcement ability, and preparation of draft legislation when
appropriate. This was a central feature of the project, yet very soon after project effectiveness, the
legal aspects were treated as if they were marginal. The project manager facilitated an offer from
FAO to assume responsibility for management and funding this component as this freed budget
($137,000) and management time for the increasingly demanding research program.
2.21   Subsequent bureaucratic process delayed the review by three years. Govermment of
Malawi took a year to submit its Technical Cooperation Program request to FAO and, in
response, FAO asked for similar requests from Tanzania and Mozambique. Even though the
FAO's senior legal advisor produced a work program after a reconnaissance mission in
November 1997, trilateral approval of this document was delayed because of disagreements over
the name of the Lake. As a result, national consultants in law and natural resource management
were only recruited in September 1999. Even so, the final report was not finished by project
closure, and FAO approved a further sum of $299,000 to fund completion. Part of this latter delay
is because FAO enlarged the scope to include capacity-building and development of a framework
for environmental monitoring. The current plan is to consolidate country reports into a joint
report for discussion at a workshop to be organized by FAO/TCP. The eventual date for delivery
of a final product is unknown.
3.    Ratings
Outcome
3.1    The outcome criteria take into account the extent to which the project's major relevant
objectives were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, efficiently. The assessment rates project
outcome as moderately unsatisfactory. The justification for this rating is described below:
Relevance: Were the Project Objectives Right?
3.2    Relevance is the extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies
and corporate goals. The project objectives were and remain highly relevant. They are consistent
with GEF's Global Environmental Strategy which emphasizes safeguarding areas of biological
diversity, maximizing benefits from sound management of international waters, and reducing
risks caused by uncertainty. The tourism development potential of the lake is a significant
economic prospect, particularly for Malawi and Tanzania and maintaining the quality of the
lake's environment and its biodiversity are key components to marketing this potential. All three
countries have highlighted their concerns about the lack of reliable data to plan and manage the
lake in the process of developing their own National Environmental Action Plans. Notably,
Malawi, which completed its NEAP in 1994, was somewhat in advance of the other riparians and
had a significantly greater interest in the management of the lake. Malawi's Fisheries
Conservation and Management Act of 1997 affirms the continued relevance of project objectives
for its portion of the lake.



8
3.3    Concerns for conservation of the biodiversity of Lake Malawi/Nyasa were and still are
relevant given the recent experience with the other great lakes of Africa and in North America.
The two main threats to Lake Malawi/Nyasa biodiversity are over-harvesting of fish and water
quality degradation as a result of increased pollution from intensified human activity within the
watershed. Population density is not merely high, but is growing at about 3.5% per year-among
the highest rates globally. And between 1990 and 1999, the forested area of Malawi declined by
21%. The lake's fisheries are the main source of low-cost animal protein-as much as 750/o-for
the adjacent rural populations in the biggest riparian, Malawi, and signs of over-fishing emerged
in the early 1990s. In the southem part of the lake, commercial trawl fisheries reported declining
catches and fish size despite being better regulated than inshore artisanal fisheries.7 And inshore,
due to intensified localized fishing and use of smaller mesh nets, some cichlids, including unique
endemic species, showed precipitous decline.8 As a result of these findings, the Bank cancelled
the fish production component of the sister Malawi Fisheries Development Project (Credit 22250-
MAI) and restructured it in 1993. While research conducted by the subject project indicates that
there are plentiful stocks of deep water fish, inshore over-fishing it is still a cause for concem.
3.4    At the same time, research highlighted the vulnerability of the world's other great lakes-
Victoria, Tanganyika, and those of North America-to restocking, poor watershed management,
and over-fishing, and raised concerns for Lake Malawi/Nyasa. In Lake Victoria, water hyacinth
had burgeoned in response to poor urban area and land management which generated high
nutrient inflows to the lake, closing harbors and impeding navigation. The same nutrients also led
to excessive growth of algae, deoxygenation of deeper waters, and augmented the loss of cichlid
biodiversity, already degraded by introduction of exotic Nile perch. Many once-common species
in lake Victoria were no longer found and feared extinct (Witte et al., 1992).
3.5    Planning for sustainable management of Lake Malawi/Nyasa, however, was hindered by
inadequate knowledge of the lake's fisheries and their ecology and this provided the rationale for
the GEF project. While some research of one of the two major cichlid groups had been
undertaken, the DFID-funded joint Malawi-Mozambique-Tanzania Pelagic Fish Resource
Assessment Project (completed in 1994) focused on the wide-ranging species, and little
systematic work was done on the less-mobile sedentary species. No work had been attempted on
larger-scale ecological, water quality, or watershed investigations. And one area that had been
granted legal protection, Lake Malawi National Park, had been identified by Malawi as a site for
major casino/hotel development even though the environmental impacts of this were unknown.
The GEF project set out to rectify these omissions and was highly relevant.
3.6    The objectives of the GEF project correctly recognized that research had to be factored
into development of a lake-wide management plan owned by Malawi, Mozambique, and
Tanzania. Raising environmental awareness among these riparians and addressing the problem of
harmonizing their legal and enabling environment is becoming increasingly important if a lake-
wide management plan is to be agreed.
Efficacy: Did the Project Achieve its Stated Objectives?
3.7   Efficacy is a measure of the extent to which the project 's objectives were achieved, or
expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. The assessment rates the
overall efficacy as modest based upon the relative importance of the development objectives.
7. The FAO/UNDP Chambo Fisheries Research Project (FI:DP/MLW/86/013), conducted over the period 1991-93,
claimed that severe over-fishing in the demersal trawl fishery in the SE arm of the Lake indicated collapse of fish
stocks in the late 1 980s.
8. Findings from the Traditional Fisheries Assessment Project (1993).



9
3.8    The project achieved most of its environmental research and capacity building objectives
with few shortcomings. It was less successful in achieving its institutional objectives, which
include addressing tripartite management of Lake Malawi/Nyasa, developing strategic plans to
facilitate this objective, and making recommendations about the legal and enabling framework.
The assessment rates the overall efficacy as modest given the importance of the regional
development objectives.
3.9    The evidence indicates that institutional project objectives were too ambitious in the time
frame available. Unlike OED, however, the Africa Region Staff believe the scientific knowledge
and capacity-building objectives were more important: "it is hard to imagine how the project,
with its weak institutional base and narrow scientific constituency, could have managed to
provide not only scientific understanding of the scope of issues involved, but also "the social,
legal, and economic challenges needed to be overcome before a sound biodiversity management
plan can be implemented. On a more fundamental basis we question the appropriateness of
adding such an objective to what was at heart a scientific research project"" 9
Table 1: The Extent to Which the Project's Development Objectives were Achieved
Objective Type    Description                             Relative Importance  Achievement
Institutional   Trilateral Cooperation                    High                 Modest
Transboundary Resource Management Plans   High                 Negligible
Sector Capacity Building                  High                 High
Legal Framework                           Substantial          Modest
Raising Environmental Awareness           Modest               Substantial
Environmental   Knowledge of the Resource Base            High                 High
Physical        Rehabilitation of Research Facilities     Modest               Modest
Efficiency: Was the Project Cost Effective?
3.10   Efficiency is a measure of the extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to
achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared
with alternatives.
3.11   This is difficult to measure as only qualitative indicators are available. The project was
not particularly efficient and the overall rating is modest. The delays in starting the scientific
research had a domino effect on achievement of other objectives. Many difficulties-particularly
lack of research vessels and laboratories-were not foreseen at appraisal and this adversely
affected an efficient start of the research program. Infrequent meetings of the Steering Committee
and an ineffective Research Advisory Committee meant that there were significant delays in
agreeing the work plan, recruitment, and initiating capacity-building. Poor management meant
that half the work and investment in lake ecology research remains unused. Thus the benefits
could have been achieved at a lower cost.
Institutional Development: Has the Project Led to Better Management of Human and
Financial Resources?
3.12   This is a measure of the extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or a
region to make more efficient, equitable, and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural
resources through better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of
9. Comments from the Bank's Africa Region Staff, June 12, 2001.



10
institutional arrangements. Overall, the assessment rates the institutional development impact of
the project as modest.
3.13   In terms of building research capacity among the riparians on environmental/biodiversity
issues, the assessment rates achievement as high. The way in which the training was conducted
has drawn them into the international environmental and biodiversity research fraternity which
should be highly beneficial in the long term. All three countries now have groups of trained
researchers who have worked together for a common cause and this is an important building
block to improved riparian cooperation and may accelerate the process. However, a major
weakness of the project is that there should have been more attention to training in natural
resources management.
3.14   The project has made a substantial contribution to knowledge of Lake Malawi/Nyasa
through better definition of the resource base and the threats to it. However, this knowledge was
not operationalized - the level of achievement among the riparians in terms of reaching
agreements and formulating plans on how to manage that resource sustainably is modest at best.
The process to achieve the Strategic Plan for the Namkumba Peninsula and Lake Malawi
National Park illustrates the complexity and socially demanding nature of facilitating sustainable
management of natural resources. The high level of stakeholder involvement and the need to
align divergent interest provides a good model of what needs to be done by each riparian. This
process highlighted the need to ensure a common understanding of the scope of issues involved
and the social, legal, and economic challenges that need to be overcome before a sound
biodiversity management plan can be implemented.
3.15   The assessment rates achievements in the area of regional cooperation as modest. This is
not unexpected given the relatively low political priority of biodiversity conservation, the wealth
of other social and economic challenges in region, and time-scale needed to achieve agreement on
this institutional objective. Rather than establishing a common vision about lake management, the
project polarized the interests of the riparians and, apart from Malawi, ownership was low. Most
of the trilateral consensus building was through the legal review process taken over by FAO. The
GEF and CIDA grants were given to Malawi to implement on behalf of all riparians. While this
was in the spirit of the SADC arrangements, it was not conducive to the full involvement of
Tanzania and Mozambique in this regional initiative. The bulk of the funds was spent on
researchers and facilities based in Malawi and this subsequently caused Tanzania and
Mozambique considerable resentment as they became aware of the details through their
membership of the -Steering Committee. At the end of the project the workshops held to
disseminate the findings were primarily Malawian affairs with little involvement of Tanzania and
Mozambique at the policy level.
Sustainability: Are the Results Likely to Last?
3.16   Sustainability is evaluated by assessing the risks and uncertaintiesfaced by the project
and by ascertaining whether adequate arrangements are in place to help avoid known
operational risks or mitigate their impact.
3.17   Despite substantial achievements in capacity building, the assessment rates overall
sustainability as unlikely. While the results of the research training and knowledge building are
likely to last, trained staff remain within a fisheries enclave that is weakly linked to national
environmental organizations. Staff incentives are reduced with a return to government salaries. '
10. In their review of this PAR, Africa Regional Staff note that "Within these agencies, the officers trained by the
project show continued commitment to developing a meaningful research agenda for the Lake despite their return to
standard terms of service. They are also providing the intellectual leadership that has made possible the planning of the



11
Given its more pressing food security, health, education and other problems, Malawi cannot
provide sufficient budget to sustain the Lake research program, continue systematic monitoring
and evaluation of biodiversity, and maintain the DFID research vessel. The Malawian
Government's impasse over the future use of DFID's fisheries research facilities in Malawi is not
reassuring either. More importantly, neither Malawi nor the other riparians have mainstreamed
the scientific findings of the project or institutionalized Lake management. Agreement on a
trilateral management plan to ensure conservation of the Lake's biodiversity - or even the process
to achieve it - remains elusive. Without continued external funding and facilitation, biodiversity
conservation activities initiated under the project are unsustainable."
3.18    While national level economic interests are gradually aligning with conservation goals,
there is a race between resource consumption driven by dire poverty and slowly evolving
biodiversity management planning. There have been major advances in environmental legislation
and stakeholder involvement in Malawi, the biggest user of Lake Malawi/Nyasa's resources.
Community-managed fishery regulation is gradually developing through Beach Village
Communities (piloted through Bank and other donor-funded projects) and GTZ is underwriting a
national program. But related aspects are faltering and threaten biodiversity objectives. Fisheries
credit to enable artisinal fishermen to upgrade equipment and move off-shore (where fish stocks
are under-fished) is in short supply because the rural credit institutions and agencies see it as high
risk. Even when credit is available, it is far below investment needs, and much is used for non-
fishing alternative income-generating activities to make up for falling fisheries income.
3.19    Small-scale fishing effort on the Lake is increasing, yet production and incomes have
decreased. Between 1995 and 1999, the number of inshore boats increased by about a quarter and
the number of fishermen by 16% - yet production fell by almost 10%."2 The indications are that
the current small-scale inshore fishing efforts exceed sustainable fisheries resources, particularly
at the southern end of the Lake.'3 And regrettably, it is these inshore areas that contain many of
the unique sedentary - and thus higher risk -fish species. Biodiversity is thus under increasing
threat. Neither the GEF Biodiversity Conservation Project nor the Bank's Fisheries Development
three national programs for sustainable management of the Lake ecosystem. The project's principal fishery researchers
from Tanzania, Mozambique and Malawi are currently attending an intemational fisheries conference hosted by
Malawi (June 5th to 9th, 2001), and have each presented papers of relevance, some based on research undertaken since
the project closed."
11. The Bank's Regional Staff do not fully agree with OED's evaluation and comment: "It is evident that establishing a
sustainable research program and appropriate institutional mechanisms for collaborative management of the Lake's
biodiversity will take considerable more effort, support and time than available under what was first and foremost a
science program. Given the Lake's globally significant biological resources, analysis of sustainability should not
therefore be limited to Malawi's capacity to shoulder the entire expense of future activities; rather this should be seen as
a three-country endeavor involving multiple external partners, and the sustainability question should look at the
likelihood of such partnership's ability and willingness to provide sufficient resources. In this case, given the
importance of Lake Malawi and its biodiversity and fishery resources, multiple donors are in fact interested in long-
term partnership and financial support."
12. Malawi Department of Fisheries. 1999. Frame Survey. Personal communication, Peter Jarchau GTZ.
13. The Bank's Regional Staff points out that OED's evaluation is too pessimistic: "Recent studies into trophic
structure conducted under the EU-financed Demersal Fish Stock Trophic Ecology Project, a sub-program of the GEF
Project, suggest that in the heavily trawled waters of the Lake's South East Arm a fishing-related depression of
demersal fish community complexity retumed to previous levels within five years, either as an adaptive response or a
recovery (depending on assumptions made about the disposition of fishing effort). While some individual fish species
have (almost certainly) been lost as a result of intense fishing--and others will probably follow--it would be simply
wrong to view the resources of Lake Malawi as on the brink of collapse. In fact, given the current heavy level of
inshore fishing pressure and planned sector development initiatives in support of experimental and demonstration
activities to transfer artisanal fishing effort from biodiversity-rich nearshore areas to under-exploited offshore stocks,
the interests of biodiversity conservation and economic development coincide."



12
Project have been able to slow these adverse trends. Therefore for these and other factors
discussed, sustainability is rated as unlikely.
Bank Performance
3.20   This is a measure of the extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at
entry and supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring
adequate transition arrangements for regular operation of the project). Overall the assessment
rates Bank performance as unsatisfactory. The adverse effects of poor appraisal dogged the
project. While there was marked improvement in supervision toward the end of the project, it was
too late to redress these failings.
3.21   Quality at entry was unsatisfactory. Appraisal overlooked the poor condition of essential
research facilities and uncritically accepted a poor management set-up inherited from a previous
project. Even though the basic research program was well-designed, not enough emphasis was
given to using the results of this research for environmental management. As a result, the project
became a specialized enclave effectively operating in isolation from other agencies and
departments-most notably Malawi's Fisheries and Environmental Departments-and failed to
take advantage of this potential synergy. While it was well grounded in the GEF agenda for the
region and national and regional environmental management goals, the overall objective to
achieve a lake management plan among the three riparians was over-ambitious. Each stakeholder
had differing levels of interest and ownership which the appraisal process failed to take into
account.
3.22   Neither Tanzania nor Mozambique were treated as equal partners by the Bank. All the
appraisal activities were centered on Malawi and the other riparians were only involved on the
periphery. The Bank's identification of UNDP during appraisal to manage the design and
construction of the fisheries research stations in Tanzania and Mozambique was defacto
recognition that neither had ownership of the project. Tanzania and Mozambique (in response to a
Bank request) formally give their no-objection to the GEF grant agreement with Malawi and
neither participated in negotiations even though these were held in Lilongwe, Malawi.
3.23   The Bank's approach to partnerships created problems for the project. The Bank did not
secure full consensus and country ownership with partners about project objectives before
shifting the main responsibility for vital project components (legislation, building research
stations) to them. As a result, the schedule of the final output is not matched to project objectives.
DANIDA are continuing the Bilhazia work which has limited relevance to study objectives and,
at the same time, occupying project rehabilitated space that is in far better condition than that
allocated to permanent line agency outreach staff. In effect, the GEF grant subsidized the
DANIDA program.
3.24   The DFID relationship, while it was not a formal partnership, built on DFID's
considerable and long-term interest in the Lake's fisheries as illustrated by its Pelagic Fish
Resources Assessment project which ended in 1994. Subsequently, DFID offered its facilities and
research vessel - and background advice during appraisal and supervision. However, the poor
state of repair of the research vessel and facilities should not have been missed by DFID and the
appraisal team. Given DFID's substantial and continued commitment in kind, the Bank should
have made representations to govemment to have DFID as a member - rather than an observer-
of the Steering Committee.
3.25   After an initial poor start due to three changes of task manager, supervision quality
improved substantially toward the end of the project when it finally reached levels planned during



13
appraisal. However, by the time better supervision became effective, the broader regional
cooperation and cross-boundary resource management components had been effectively squeezed
out of project implementation. While later supervision provided timely identification of
implementation problems and was proactive in follow-up of remedial measures with the Steering
Committee, these were ineffective because the expatriate project manager proved intransigent to
pressure for biodiversity and lake management plans despite his terms of reference.'4 The Bank
did not press for an effective Research Advisory Committee and instead substituted for it. Toward
the end of the project supervision, when it was clear that some of the objectives would not be
achieved, the Bank effectively worked with government and CIDA to facilitate a bridging plan
during which time it formed a partnership with DFID for a follow-up second-phase project.
Borrower Performance
3.26   Borrower performance is rated by the extent to which borrower assumed ownership and
responsibility to ensure quality ofpreparation and implementation, and complied with covenants
and agreements, toward the achievement of development objectives and sustainability. The
assessment rates borrower performance as unsatisfactory.
3.27    Borrower interest and ownership was uneven.'5 Preparation was dominated by Malawi
and participation by the other riparians was marginal. Borrower performance is judged by the
performance of the trilateral Steering Committee managed by Government of Malawi on behalf
of the three riparians and project management. On the whole it was unsatisfactory. The infrequent
meetings of the committee and its inability to reach a consensus on many issues caused
significant delays to the project. The Steering Committee neglected to establish a strong and
independent Research Advisory Committee and there was no effective oversight of the project's
science agenda.'6 It neglected to establish links to riparian government's own line agencies
involved in biodiversity and ecological management. It failed to take timely action on the
technical issues relating to the ecology program and that led to the significant loss of the research
effort (para 2.12). It was ineffective in keeping the project focused on its biodiversity
management objectives and clearly had difficulty in steering the activities of the expatriate
research team.
4.   Lessons
This project raises two major issues. First, how does one ensure that there is balance between
scientific research and pro-active planning for resource management? Second, how does one
achieve sustainable management of trans-boundary resources when the riparians have differing
interests and incentives to participate?
14. The last item on the Project Manager's TOR is: "coordinate the preparation of the Biodiversity map and
management plan for Lake Malawi/Nyasa drawing on the outputs of the project components."
15. Malawi, as the largest riparian, had easy access to the shallowest and most productive southern end of the lake and
a number of donor-funded fisheries research projects provided it with a strong comparative advantage. Conversely,
both Tanzania and Mozambique rely primarily on extensive sea fisheries along the Indian Ocean rather then the Lake.
Institutionally, Tanzania was also heavily involved in the GEF Lake Victoria initiative and had little capacity to expand
to Lake Malawi/Nyasa. Mozambique was distracted by its civil war.
16. DFID in its review of this report states that both the Steering Committee and the Research Advisory Group (RAG)
intended to direct project activities. However, the Steering Committee never actually had any effective representation
of NGO/Community groups; and the RAG never met. Donor representatives, including DFID, only attended the
Steering Committee meetings by invitation as observers.



14
4.1    The balance between research and planning appears to be primarily determined by the
terms of reference (TOR) of the project manager and, to a lesser extent, by the effectiveness of
the steering committee. The TOR specified a scientist and, as a result, all other project activities
were hostage to meeting the ever-increasing demands of academic excellence. It was also difficult
for the non-specialists managers to argue the fine points of biodiversity. While this was no doubt
good for scientists' careers and institutes, it did not provide much benefit to the riparian states as
the scientific results were not used to develop practical and pragmatic guidelines to guide future
development and conservation activities related to the Lake. If, on the other hand, a seasoned
planner - a generalist able to see the "big picture" had been given charge of project management
- there would have been a higher likelihood that the required Lake management plans would
have been produced. OED found that a similar science-bias in the project set up caused a lack of
focus on planning and resource management in two GEF forest biodiversity conservation projects
in adjacent areas of Poland and Belarus.'7 Like the Lake Malawi/Nyasa project, the PAR of these
projects found that these operations were under-designed and noted issues such as the need for
clearer and more operationally relevant objectives and targets, and the importance of greater
inclusiveness during both the preparation and implementation stages
4.2    Achieving a balanced approach to biodiversity conservation among common riparians is
difficult particularly when the resource is not equally divided. A joint project executed by one of
them needs very careful design. In this case Malawi, as impartial SADC sector coordinator for
fisheries and the largest user of the Lake, had a conflict of interest as it was the major beneficiary
of the GEF grant it administered for all three countries. SADC, however, is still the obvious
coordinating body, and the Lake Malawi/Nyasa experience suggests that another member country
unconnected with the Lake should assume the chair for any future GEF activities.
4.3    A follow-up project is planned. Malawi is preparing a GEF-funded Lake Malawi
Ecosystem Management Project for appraisal in November 2001 while Tanzania and
Mozambique are initiating requests to the GEF for project development funds to bring forward
their national programs for the Lake. Little is known at this stage about how these proposals will
attempt to accelerate the slow progress towards regional cooperation and institution-building.
4.4    Malawi is also making efforts to develop an institutional structure and financing
arrangement to take responsibility for project assets at Senga Bay and continue research and
monitoring. With the support of the United Nations University's International Network on Water,
Environment and Health (INWEH), the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Affairs
and the University of Malawi are currently exploring the feasibility and modalities of establishing
an independent, non-profit international center for aquatic research and education (ICARE) to be
based at Senga Bay. The proposed research would focus on transboundary ecosystem issues and
support lake-wide ecosystem monitoring.
There are five major findings from this project:
* Establishing regional institutions for international waters projects requires very careful
planning, extensive consultation, clear and unambiguous agreements, protocols on
communication, and an effective umbrella organization to coordinate and synergize
riparians' efforts. All this requires a high level of Bank effort and facilitation to avoid
GEF projects becoming enclave activities of questionable operational value.
* Achievement of multi-country objectives is put at risk if only one partner receives and
manages GEF project financing. It is probably better to support cross-boundary resource
17. OED. 2000. Project Performance Audit Report - Poland Forest Biodiversity Protection Project (GEF Grant
21685). Report No. 205 89. June20, 2000.



15
conservation through free-standing projects to individual countries and deal with the
inter-regional coordination as a separate activity.
*  GEF biodiversity and enviromnental projects require objective management and technical
review to ensure continued focus on their development and operational goals-and thus
avoid becoming hostage to increasingly demanding scientific agendas.
*  GEF projects need to be strongly linked to all relevant national environmental and natural
resource agencies to mainstream the development effort and leverage outputs.
*  Partnership with bilateral development agencies (who have a comparative advantage in
many areas) need to be carefully structured and based on shared objectives for which
country ownership is assured if they are to significantly enhance the effectiveness of GEF
projects.






17
Bibliography
Bootsma, Harvey A. and Hecky, Robert E.. 1999. Lake Malawi/Nyasa Biodiversity Conservation
Project. Water Quality Report. Salima, Malawi and Burlington, Canada.
Duponchelle, Fabrice and Ribbink, Anthony J. 2000. Lake Malawi/Nyasa Niassa Biodiversity
Conservation Project. Fish Ecology Report. Montpellier, France and Grahamstown,
South Africa.
GEF. 1996. Operational Strategy. Washington, DC.
GEF. 1997. GEF Operational Program. Washington, DC.
Mataya, C.S., Tchale, H., Likongwe, J.S., and Mtimuni, B. 2000. Beneficiary Impact Assessment
Study of the Fisheries Development Project. Draft: Main Report, Agricultural Policy
Research Unit, Bunda College of Agriculture. Lilongwe, Malawi.
Ollila, Petri, Uitto, Juha I., Crepin, Christophe and Duda, Alfred M. 2000. Monitoring and
Evaluation Working Paper 3, Multicountry Project Arrangements, Report of a Thematic
Review. GEF. Washington, DC.
Ribbink, A.J. and Ribbink, A.C.. 1999. SADC/GEF, Lake Malawi/Nyasa/Niassa Biodiversity
Conservation Project. Senga Bay, Malawi.
Witte, F., T. Goldschmidt, J. Wanink M. van Oijen, K. Goudswaard, E. Witte-Maas and N.
Bouton. 1992. The destruction of an endemic speciesflock: quantitative data on the
decline of the haplochromine cichlids of Lake Victoria. Environmental Biology of Fishes
34, 1-28.
World Bank. 1994. Republic of Malawi, Lake Malawi/Nyasa Biodiversity Conservation. GEF,
World Bank, Washington, DC.
World Bank. 1998. Integrating Freshwater Biodiversity Conservation with Development: Some
Emerging Lessons. Environment Department Paper No. 61. Washington, DC.
World Bank. 2000. Malawi Country Assistance Evaluation. World Bank, Washington, DC.






19                                          Annex A
Basic Data Sheet
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal          Actual or           Actual as % of
1995-2000                                       Estimate        current estimate      appraisal estimate
1995              2000
Total project costs                                5.44               7.60                   140
GEF grant amount                                  5.00               4.96                    99
Cofinancing
CIDA                                               -                 2.64
DFID                                                -              In kind '
Cancellation                                        0                  0
Economic rate of return                       Not applicable     Not applicable
1. Support for rehabilitating the Senga Bay research facility and the Research Ship Usipa was estimated at £ 0.366 million.
Project Dates
Steps in project cycle                                        Original                    Actual
Project Concept Document                                                                 02/10/92
Appraisal                                                                                02/22/93
Board presentation                                                                       12/30/94
Effectiveness                                                 01/31195                   07/31/95
Mid-term review                                               07/31/97                   01/19/98
Loan closing                                                  7/31/99                     6/30/00






21                               Annex B
Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Project Cost            Appraisal     Actual/Latest       Percentage
By                  Estimate         Estimate             of
Component              US$ million     US$ million        Appraisal
Research                         2.46             4.18               170
Strengthening National           0.36             1.32              367
Capacity
Legislation                      0.13              -                  -
Protected Areas                   1.09            0.35               32
Project Administration           0.83             1.18               142
Total Baseline Cost              4.87
Physical Contingencies           0.57             0.57               100
Total Project Costs              5.44             7.60               140
Total Financing                   5.44            7.60               140
Actual/Latest Estimate includes costs expended under CIDA Grant.
Comparison under "Percentage of Appraisal" would not be valid as the appraisal estimates are
based on GEF funds only, while the actuals include both GEF and CIDA funds.






23                                        Annex C
Key Performance Indicators
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator                        Description                   Assessment Findings
A comprehensive biodiversity map of   A Biodiversity Map and Management   Databases containing information on
Lake Malawi/Nyasa                 Plan, drawing on the research,     fish distributions and ecology and
planning and legal review outputs of    shoreline habitats exist but those have
A management plan for Lake        the project and other relevant     only been analysed to a limited
MalawilNyasa                      published information in order to  extent. The required output was not
recommend appropriate Lake        produced.
management strategies.
The synthesis of project findings into
management recommendatons for
conservation and development was
not undertaken.
The framework for regional
collaboration is sUIll under discussion.
Preparation of a plan for ecologically    A Nankumba Peninsula strategic plan.  The Nankumba Peninsula strategic
compatible development in the                                        plan was fully developed through
Nankumba Peninsula and Lake                                          stakeholder participation. It has not
Malawi National Park                                                 been implemented. A management
plan for Lake Malawi National Park
remains incomplete.
Scope for regional harmonisation and   A legal review report and new or  Process for harmonising regional
strengthening of lake-related     amended environmental legislation  fisheries legislation under way in all
environmental legislation reviewed  proposed in draft.               three countries as a first stage in this
process.
Awareness raised among all sectors    Development of a conservation  Intemational standard theatrical and
of society on issues related to the  awareness programme, including  artwork products raised awareness of
biodiversity of Lake Malawi/Nyasa  media productions, for all sectors of    issues related to the Lake on many
society.                          levels, from village to central
govemment and political. Its
oppropriateness and replicability
without extemal funding is
questionable. A community
environmental awareness programme
was successfully implemented limited
in area of Malawi.
Environmental Legislation Component  Recommendations to riparian     Analysis of relevant fisheries
countries for revisions to        legislation in an advanced state in all
environmental legislation relating to    three countries under an ongoing
the lake.                         FAO-TCP project, with the intention of
preparing a regional review of
fisheries management options.
Intemational cooperation in other
Lake-related environmental fields
limited under this project to monitoring
rather than regulation.
New or amended legislation drafted as  Not yet achieved but revision of
necessary                         fisheries legislation is planned under a
second-phase FAO-TCP project.



24                                         Annex C
Output Indicators:
Indicator                         Description                    Assessment Findings
Research Component:
(a) Biodiversity Surveys           Biodiversity report and maps showing   A digital biodiversity atas comprising
critical habitat and biodiversity  17 vector and raster maps, relational
hotspots                           databases and data tables on a single
compact disk, and multi-media
presentations on 4 PAL format video
tapes and 3 compact disks. These are
accompanied by a final report and
user manual.
(b) Limnology and water quality    Report on water quality of lake     Report on water quality outlining major
monitoring                         habitats outlining major threats to  threats to biodiversity and including
biodiversity                       investigations of river discharge;
atmospheric nutrient deposition; deep
water renewal; nutrient upwelling and
nutbient cycling; factors controlling
algal abundance and compositon,
and contaminants in water, sediments
and biota. The report provides outline
recommendatons for future
management of the Lake's water
quality.
(c) Fish taxonomy and ecology      Primary scientfic informaton on     Report on fish systematics and
species distribution and ecology   taxonomy, detailing the revision of
eight species groups (induding more
than 100 species) and a description
and discussion of the distribution and
species ridchness of mbuna (rocky
shore cichlids) and non-mbuna
cichlids.
5 reference collections of fish: one in
each of the riparian countries with
back-ups in Belgium and RSA.
Report on fish ecology presents
information derived in the project's
final year on temporal trends and
species composition of demersal trawl
stocks; life history characteristics of 40
important demersal cichlid species;
the diets of 9 important demersal
species; a lakewide study on fish
population continuity in 2 species and
an assessment of the influence of
suspended sediments on the
distribution and abundance of rocky
and sandy-shore cichlid species.
An illustrated guide to the sandy-shore
fishes is under final preparabon.
(d) Rehabilitation of research stations   Species identification manual  Senga Bay (Malawi): laboratories
rehabilitated; two offices constructed;
one dwelling converted into a
systematics laboratory; fish store
Enhanced facilities for local and  constructed; water pump, standby
visiting scientists                generator, laboratory equipment, three
vehicles and one boat procured.
Cape Maclear (Malawi): Research
station rehabilitated but stil
incomplete; one boat procured. Kyela
(Tanzania): a new research facility
constructed; one boat procured.



25                                        Annex C
Indicator                        Description                   Assessment Findings
Metangula (Mozambique): planned
construction of a new research facility
initiated; one boat procured.
National Capacity Building
Component
a) Training                       32 individuals trained in scientific,  10 persons completed postgraduate
technical and education disciplines  training in scientific disciplines. 8
MScs, 2 Ph.Ds.
22 persons trained in environmental
Informal and formal information   education (6-month residential
exchange programs                 courses) - Malawi.
Academic associations formed with
the Universities of Manitoba and
Waterloo (Canada) and Rhodes
University (South Africa).
b) Conservation awareness         Conservation awareness program     Study tours for students of
including                         environmental education carried out in
media productions                 the Republic of South Africa and
Malawi. Study tour for traditional
leaders in Nankumba conducted to
visit village trusts in northem
Botswana. The first village trust was
established in Nankumba Peninsula.
Environmental Education Centre at
Cape Maclear rehabilitated and one
bus for community conservation
programmes provided.
Plays related to lake ecology
developed by Theatre for Africa and
performed to more than 100,000
people in the three riparan countries.
11 actors and one production
manager trained.
Conservation awareness programs
based on information gained from the
six-month training course mounted in
18 schools and 18 villages in
Nankumba.
2 workshops were held for school
Wildlife Club patrons (school
administrators and teachers) from
area schools.
1 workshop was organized for 40
school students (two students from
each Wildlife Club in 20 schools).
More than 80 traditional leaders from
lakeshore communities participated in
environmental awareness workshops.
A two day workshop was held on
water quality monitoring for students
and teachers from 10 schools.



