GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
1 3COL)44 MAT
Republic of-Malawi
Lake Malawi/Nyasa Biodiversity Conservation
.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~> .
Project Document
December 1994
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters,
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme. the Uniited Nations Environment Programme,
and the World Bank.
GEF. Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment
Coordination Division
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington. DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
.Fax: (202) 522-3256



Report No. 13044 MAI
Republic of Malawi
Lake Malawi/Nyasa Biodiversity Conservation
Project Document
December 1994



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
MK 7.14 = US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BMPL           Biodiversity Map and Management Plan for Lake Malawi/Nyasa
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
DNPW           Department of National Parks and Wildlife
FD             Fisheries Department
GEF            Global Environment Facility
GET            Global Environment Trust
IDA            International Development Association
JICA           Japan International Cooperation Agency
LMNP           Lake Malawi National Park
MFNR           Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources
MK             Malawi Kwacha
MPPS           Ministry of Physical Planning and Surveys
NGO            Non-governmental Organization
SADC           Southern Africa Development Community
UN             United Nations
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme



REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
LAKE MALAWI/NYASA BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
GR4NT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Redpient:                                Government of Malawi
Grantee:                                 Global Environment Trust
Beneficiary:                             Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources
Amount:                                  SDR 3.5 million (US$5 million equivalent)
Temn:                                    Grant
Finandng Plan:
Source               Local         Foreign       Total
(USSMillion)
GEF Grant                            5.0          5.0
CIDA Inc.                            0.24         0.24
Governinent           0.2                         0.2
TOTAL                 0.2            5.24         5.44
Economic Rate of Return:                 Not calculated, though substantial
environmental, social and economic benefits
are expected.
Poverty Category:                        Not applicable
Map:                                     IBRD No. 25786






REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
SADC LAKE MALAWI/NYASA BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Background
1.    Biological Significance. Lake Malawi/Nyasa (the Lake) is the southern-most lake in the
African rift valley and ranks among the largest fresh water lakes in the world. The Lake is surrounded
by Malawi to the west and south, and Mozambique and Tanzania to the east and north. Thirteen
major river systems drain the Lake's total catchment area of 75,000 km2. The majority of the Lake's
surface area is within Malawi, along with 80% of the total Lake shore population.
2.    The riparian human population density and growth rate is high, and the Lake's resources
provide substantial economic and nutritional benefits to the local communities in all three countries.
In Malawi, fish accounts for about 70% of the protein consumed by the country's population. About
90% of the Lake's fish catch is caught by small-scale fishermen using artisanal methods. Fishing
employs about 40,000 people directly, and another 250,000 people in related employment activities,
such as fish processing and marketing.
3.    The diversity of the Lake's native fish species is unparalleled in the world, with 500 to 1000
fish species from ten families recorded to date. Particularly noteworthy are the cichlids, of which all
but five of the more than 400 species are endemic to the Lake. Many cichlids have localized
distributions within the Lake. Consequently, they are vulnerable to extinction from overfishing,
localized effects of pollution, and other environmental problems. The 94 km2 Lake Malawi National
Park (LMNP), which adjoins and extends into the southern portion of the Lake, is the only protected
area for the cichlid fishes in the tripartite Lake. The LMNP was established in 1980 by the
Government of Malawi as the first freshwater, underwater national park in Africa, and is now a
UNESCO World Heritage Site.
4.    Natural Resource Management Policy. While no comprehensive management plan currently
exists for the Lake, Malawi, Mozambique and Tanzania are at various stages of developing National
Environmental Action Plans (NEAPs) and related environmental policies which will provide the
frameworks for general environmental management at the national level. They all recognize the
importance of preserving the Lake ecosystem, and that this will depend on tri-national participation in
lake management as well as building capacity in the monitoring, legislative and enforcement
capabilities of the riparian governments.
5.    Related Conservation and Natural Resource Management Projects. The IDA Malawi
Fisheries Development Project became effective in 1991 and is being implemented by the Malawi
Fisheries Department (FD). In 1993, the project was restructured from a focus on fisheries production
to an emphasis on sustainable resource management of the Lake's fisheries stocks. A pilot
Aquaculture and Hatchery Program to be financed by the Japan International Cooperation Agency
(JICA) is being prepared with the aim of establishing a research center for the mpasa and ntchila
indigenous fish species and to promote small-scale market oriented aquaculture using these species.
JICA's pilot project will complement the GEF project by increasing the populations of these two
specific species. As a pilot program it will also identify the potential for aquaculture production of
indigenous species as a means of reducing pressure on the Lake's resources and creating employment
1



opportunities. A third project, the United Kingdom/Southern Africa Development Community
(UKISADC) Pelagic Fish Project, concluded in May 1994. It was a tripartite research venture
focusing on the productivity of pelagic fish. The project findings have led to the recommendation that
a regional consultative group be established for the management of the Lake by the three coL'ntries.
This goal has been adopted by the GEF project and it will maintain the Steering Committee
management structure established under the UK/SADC project.
6.    The research activities of the GEF project would complement the above projects by providing
needed information on the occurrence, distribution and ecology of the rare endemic species which will
have relevance for zoning the coastline and establishment of reserves to protect the whole range of the
Lake's biodiversity. Moreover, the project's training program will strengthen capacity among the
riparian countries which is critical tor implementing action programs to sustainably manage the lake
over the long-term.
Project Objectives
7.    The main objective of the project is to assist the riparian states in creating the scientific,
educational, and policy basis necessary for conserving the biological diversity of the Lake and its
unique ecosystem. It will be achieved through the following specific activities:
* building scientific capacity within the riparian countries to survey, study and monitor the
Lake's biodiversity, identify threats, and provide recommendations for the Lake's management;
* surveying and inventorying species, identifying critical habitats and biodiversity hotspots and
recommending preliminary measures to demarcate and protect such areas;
* identifying pollution sources and measuring water quality at sites where human activities
threaten biodiversity;
* preparing a Strategic Plan for the Nankumba Peninsula and Lake Malawi National Park for
eco-tourism development, consistent with the protection and conservation of the Lake's
biodiversity;
* preparing a comprehensive Biodiversity Map and Management Plan for Lake Malawi/Nyasa
based on the information provided by the species, habitat, and water quality analyses;
* increasing conservation awareness among the lakeshore population and regional and national
policy makers, whose decisions regarding regional development have an impact on the Lake's
ecosystem; and
* reviewing the adequacy of existing national environmental legislation in Malawi, Mozambique
and Tanzania and making appropriate legislative recommendations for revising and/or
strengthening enforcement for the conservation of the Lake's biodiversity.
Project Description
8.    The project's main output will be the Biodiversity Map and Management Plan for Lake
Malawi/Nyasa (BMPL). The BMPL will recommend conservation actions and investments to protect
the Lake's biodiversity. These will include zoning of the Lake's coastline for appropriate biodiversity
2



conservation, and identifying a system of potential protected areas that are representative of the Lake's
biodiversity hotspots which will be complementary to the Lake Malawi National Park. The
development of the BMPL will be achieved through the project's four components.
(a)    The Research Component consists of: (i) biodiversity surveys to inventory fish
species and their distribution, identify critical habitats and biodiversity areas in the
Lake, produce a map of critical habitats, and identify threats to the Lake's biodiversity;
(ii) studies on the taxonomy, ecology and distribution of the cichlid species; (iii) a
limnology and water quality monitoring program to identify pollution threats to
hotspots and fish replenishment areas; and (iv) modest rehabilitation of the Cape
MaClear Research Station in Malawi, the Kyela Centre Fisheries Research Station in
Tanzania, and the Metangula Fisheries Research Station in Mozambique.
(b)    The National Capacity Building component consists of "on-the-job" training of
officer level and technical staff from the riparian countries in ecology, taxonomy,
limnology, and environmental education. The training will focus on building local
capacity for the research and conservation planning activities in future lake
project/programs. Activities under this component will also increase conservation
awareness among all sectors of society from decision-makers to resource users of the
Lake through informal and formal educational initiatives implemented by the Wildlife
Society of Malawi and development of a Conservation Awareness Program, including
media productions. Financing will also be provided for rehabilitation of the
Environmental Education Facility at Lake Malawi National Park which has established
an important educational link with the local schools and residents of the Park's enclave
villages.
(c)    The Environmental Legislation component will review and evaluate the compatibility
of the existing legislation in Malawi, Mozambique and Tanzania for the management
of the Lake's biodiversity. The results of the review will be presented at an
environmental legislation conference of the three countries, and will culminate in a
report to the riparian governments, providing recommendations for revising and
strengthening legislation and enforcement ability, while creating a harmonized and
effective legal framework for the conservation of Lake Malawi/Nyasa's biodiversity.
(d)    The Protected Areas Management component involves the preparation of a Strategic
Plan for Nankumba Peninsula and Lake Malawi National Park. The Strategic Plan
will be prepared in two phases. The first phase, dealing with data survey and
collection of information, will be financed by Canadian International Development
Agency, Industrial Cooperation Division (CIDA INC). The Project will finance the
second phase which will emphasize community participation in the planning process,
identify community roles in Park and Lake conservation, and conclude with proposals
for preferred development options and their environmental implications. Assistance
will also be provided to the Government of Malawi to design a funding mechanism to
address recurrent funding for the sustainable development, management and
maintenance of Lake Malawi National Park and the continued monitoring of
biodiversity conservation indicators.
3



Project Implementation
9.     At the regional level, Malawi's Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources (MFNR) is the
SADC Sector Coordinator for Inland Fisheries, Forestry and Wildlife. The Principal Secretary for
MFNR will be responsible for the implementation of this GEF project on behalf of the riparian
countries. A Steering Committee comprising members from the Fisheries Departments and the
National Parks Departments or equivalents from the riparian countries, and NGO/community
representatives will serve as an advisory body under the leadership of the Principal Secretary of
MFNR. A Project Manager (PM) and Financial Controller based in Senga Bay, Malawi, will manage
the project's activities consistent with the Global Environment Trust Fund and the Project
Implementation Plan under the guidance of the Principal Secretary of MFNR. Under the PM's
supervision, 3 scientific experts will be recruited to lead the research and training components; an
international law expert will be recruited to support the implementation of the environmental
legislation component; and the Wildlife Society of Malawi, an NGO, will be contracted for the
conservation awareness sub-component. The Ministry of Physical Planning and Surveys (MPPS) will
supervise the preparation of the Strategic Plan for Nankumba Peninsula and Lake Malawi National
Park. The rehabilitation of National Research Stations in Mozambique and Tanzania will be the
responsibility of the respective governments, according to programs designed and implemented through
UNDP for each country. UNDP will be responsible for all procurement and disbursement under this
sub-component. Modest rehabilitation of the National Research Station in Malawi will be
implemented under the project's research component.
10.    A draft Project Implementation Plan has been prepared which includes inter alia a
procurement plan, training programs, and M&E procedures. The main instruments for monitoring
project progress will be quarterly reports covering the various project activities, submitted to the PM
by the leaders of each project component, including UNDP reports on project activities in
Mozambique and Tanzania. A consolidated quarterly progress report prepared by the PM, and copied
to the Bank, will be regularly reviewed by the Steering Committee, who will recommend corrective
actions, if any.
Project Sustainability
11.    Through scientific research, the project will identify priority areas for biodiversity conservation
and establish the basis for sustainable utilization and management of the Lake's globally important
biodiversity. A key element in the project's sustainability will be the training of local scientists and
technicians in the fields of fish ecology, taxonomy, and limnology and water quality monitoring who
will continue this work beyond the life of the project. The identification of pollution sources and
measurement of water quality at sites where human activities threaten biodiversity will facilitate
routine, cost-effective monitoring of identified biodiversity indicators on an ongoing basis by all three
countries. The establishment of a systematic reporting of scientific findings to administrative, policy,
and donor institutions, and the general public will provide authorities with the needed knowledge base
for sustainable resource utilization and alert them of the need for tripartite corrective action if there is
an indication of ecosystem degradation or threat to the biodiversity of the Lake. The Biodiversity Map
and Management Plan for the Lake, as well as the Strategic Plan for Nankumba Peninsula and LMNP,
will provide a long term plan for the sustainable management of the Lake's aquatic and coastal
resources, and the legislative review will recommend the environmental policy changes needed for
sustainable management.
4



Past Experience and Lessons Learned
12.    Experience with similar projects has shown that international coordination is an issue of
concern. For example, the proposed GEF project for Lake Tanganyika has had difficulties in
orchestrating a forum in which the riparian countries can agree on project components. The Lake
Malawi/Nyasa GEF project will benefit from existing coordination arrangements under the SADC
umbrella.
13.    While all efforts have been made to limit the amount of technical assistance in this project, the
implementation experience of other projects which have large scientific or technical components
indicates the need for staff with substantial scientific expertise in order to achieve desired results.
Where this expertise is not available within the project countries, suitably qualified local individuals
will be selected to be trained on-the-job by the external experts to assure the continuation of scientific
components after project completion.
Rationale for Bank Involvement and GEF Funding
14.    The global importance of Lake Malawi/Nyasa for biodiversity conservation is derived frol tlhe
exceptional diversity of its unique fishes, estimated to number between 500 and 1000 endemic species,
of which less than half have been formally described taxonomically. The Lake Malawi/Nyasa
ichthyofauna represents the world's most diverse evolutionary radiation of fishes within a single lake.
The project represents an important contribution to the GEF portfolio as it will address the problems
of: (a) maintaining the stability and diversity of a biota which includes a number of exploited
species; (b) enabling local communities to better understand the issues involved and engage in the
ecologically sustainable use of the Lake's resources; and (c) creating the framework for internationali
cooperation in the management of the Lake. The project will serve as a model for other large
freshwater ecosystems where similar problems of overfishing, pollution and other perturbations, and
international interdependency arise. The GEF is the only significant source of funding for biodiver-sity
conservation of this nature.
Agreed Actions
15.    Prior to Negotiations, the Government of Malawi agreed to and granted a continuation of the
declaration of Trust for SADC's use and maintenance of the Senga Bay research facility for the
duration of the GEF project.
16.    During negotiations the Government of Malawi agreed: (a) to enter into agreement between
the Recipient and UNDP for the rehabilitation of National Research Stations in Mozambique and
Tanzania and submit a duly-signed withdrawal application, in an amount of US$400,000 payable to
UNDP; (b) to have the first project annual work plan included in the Project Implementation Plan
and subsequent consolidated work plans prepared for project components before the end of the year
preceding the year addressed by the plan and provide them to the Steering Committee for review with
copies sent to the Bank; (c) to prepare a Strategic Plan for Nankumba Peninsula and Lake Malawi
National Park and submit it to the Bank for comments within one year after project effectiveness; (d)
to undertake development activities in Nankumba Peninsula and Lake Malawi National Park consistent
with the Strategic Plan; (e) to prepare a preliminary draft of the Biodiversity Map and Management
Plan for Lake Malawi/Nyasa to be reviewed with the Riparian States and the Bank within twenty-four
months after Grant effectiveness; (f) to submit a final draft Biodiversity Map and Management Plan
for Lake Malawi/Nyasa to the Bank for comments no later than 36 months after Grant effectiveness;
5



and (g) to submit to SADC within 42 months after Grant effectiveness, a time-bound proposal for the
implementation of the Biodiversity Map and Management Plan for Lake Malawi/Nyasa by the riparian
countries.
17.    As conditions of Grant effectiveness the Government will: (a)  establish a Project Steering
Committee with membership acceptable to the Bank, chaired by the Principal Secretary for the
Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources; (b) appoint a Project Manager and Financial Controller;
and (c) finalize the Project Implementation Plan.
Environment Aspects
18.    The project was assigned environmental assessment category B due to infrastructure
development in Lake Malawi National Park which required an environmental mitigation plan.
However, infrastructure development has been halted pending the development of a Strategic Plan for
Nankumba Peninsula and Lake Malawi National Park which will identify activities that require
appropriate environmental impact assessments. There is, therefore, no need to prepare an
environmental mitigation plan for the project at this time.
Benefits
19.    The project is designed to establish the scientific, educational and policy basis for the
conservation of the Lake's globally important biodiversity. A major goal of the project is to strengthen
capacity among the riparian countries in the fresh water management, research, and environmental
education disciplines. The project will provide baseline biological and water quality information as a
basis for future scientific monitoring and lake resources management. These outputs, together with the
initiatives to harmonize policy and legislation, will strengthen tri-national participation in lake
management and provide the capacity and information necessary for maintaining the Lake's unique
biodiversity resources.
20.    The Biodiversity Map and Management Plan for the Lake will recommend specific follow-up
conservation actions and investments, and identify a system of protected areas that will be
representative of the biological hotspots of the Lake, and complementary to Lake Malawi National
Park, to protect samples of all habitats and fish communities. This plan will provide the framework
for follow-up national and potential international action programs to manage the Lake on an
environmentally sound and sustainable basis.
Risks
21.    Limited government implementation capacity may be a major constraint to the realization of
the full project benefits. The design of this project minimizes such risks. First, it will utilize the tri-
national Steering Committee Management structure which has proved to be successful in the
UK/SADC project. Second, technical assistance will be used selectively to augment government
capability during the investment period. Third, the extensive training under the project will enable
nationals of the riparian states to manage follow-up conservation actions and investments identified in
the Biodiversity Map and Management Plan for Lake Malawi/Nyasa, and minimize the need for
further foreign technical assistance. The risk that this capacity may be compromised by additional
development obligations in the future cannot be entirely dismissed. However, it is anticipated that
Government commitment to the management of the Lake will be sufficiently strengthened under the
project to mitigate this risk. There is also a risk that the future scarcity of investment sources will
6



prevent the full implementation of the Biodiversity Management Plan for the Lake. The strengthening
of scientific work on the Lake, and increased involvement of the international community in its
monitoring and management should help to mobilize the resources needed for its sustainable
development.
7



Schedule A
Table 3.1: Summary of Project Costs by Component
COST
Project Component                            _     _                                                    %
MK '000                            US$                  Foreign   Total
Local    Foreign     Total      Local      Foreign       Total              Costs
1. ResearchA               9,185.0    8,379.6   17,564.5   1,287,528   1,173,611  2,461,139     48         51
2. Strengthening National
Capacity                 1,876.3     674.2    2,550.5  262,786.2   94,431.1   357,217.3      26         7
3. Legislation               308.1      601.1      909.2   43,154.8   84,188.3   127,343.1      66          3
4. Protected Areas           655.8    7,119.3    7,775.1   91,843.1    998,527   1,090,370      92         22
5. Project Administration   2,923.6    2,989.7    5,913.4  409,473.4  418,728.6  828,202.1      51         17
Total Baseline Costs       14,948.8   19,764.0   34,712.7  2,094,786   2,769,486   4,864,272    57        100
Physical Contingencies     913.0    1,229.2    2,142.2   127,869.4   172,163.7  300,033.1    57          6
Price Contingencies      1,934.4    2,630.8    4,565.2   116,157.2   159,539.4  275,696.6    58          6
Total Project Costs     17,796.1   23,624.0   41,420.1   2,338,813   3,101,189   5,440,001   57         1
A Includes US$400,000 for the rehabilitation of the Kyela Research Station in Tanzania and the Metangula Research
Station in Mozambique which will be implemented by UNDP.
Schedule B
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$Thousands)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      International    Local                            N. B. F.   Total
Competitive   Competitive    Other    Consulting
Bidding      Bidding               Services
A. Civil Works                     -            571                                        571
B. Equipment and Goods             68            -                                          68
C. Vehicles                        98                                   -          -        98
D. Consultant Services                    -                 -        2,583       254      2,837
E. Service Contracts                                       535          -        200       735
F. Incremental Operating Costs     -             -         1,131       -           -       1,131
TOTAL                             166           571        1,666     2,583       454      5,440
8



Schedule C
DISBURSEMENT
Category of Items              US$Equlvalent          % of Expenditure to be
Financed
A. Civil WorksA                          571,000                      100
B. Equipment and Goods                   68,000                       100
C. Vehicles                              98,000                       100
D. Technical Assistance                 3,410,000                     100
E. Training                              162,000                      100
F. Incremental Operating Costs          1,131,000                     100
TOTAL                                 5,440,000                     100
A US$400,000 covers National Research Stations in Mozanbique and Tanzania (US$200,000 each)
Schedule D
TIMETABLE OF PROJECT PROCESSING
A.    Time Taken to Prepare:                                     35 months
B.    Prepared by:                                               Government of Malawi with
Bank assistance
C.    First Bank Mission:                                        September 1991
D.    Appraisal Mission Departure:                               February 1993
E.    Negotiations:                                              September 1994
F.     Planned Date of Effectiveness:                            January 1995
G.    List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs:                           None
Based on the finding of an appraisal mission, this report was prepared by the following: E. Asibey
(Senior Ecologist and Task Manager, AF1AE), J. Larson (Operations Analyst, AFIAE), and S.
Riddle (Consultant, AF1AE). The cost tables were prepared by R. Kirubaidoss (Senior Staff
Assistant, AF4PH). E. Loayza (AGRTN) was the Lead Advisor, and R. Zweig (ASTEN) and G.
Van Santen (EMTAG) were the peer reviewers. The Division Chief is C. Helman and the
Departrnent Director is K. Marshall.
9






CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
MK 7.14 = US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BMPL           Biodiversity Map and Management Plan for Lake Malawi/Nyasa
CEO            Community Education Officer
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
DNPW           Department of National Parks and Wildlife
DREA           Department of Research and Environmental Affairs
EEO            Environmental Education Officer
FAO            Food and Agricultural Organization
FD             Fisheries Department
GEF            Global Environment Facility
GET            Global Environment Trust
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
ICS            International Competitive Selection
IDA            International Development Association
JICA           Japan International Cooperation Agency
LCB            Local Competitive Bidding
LMNP           Lake Malawi National Park
LOI            Letter of Invitation
MFNR           Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources
MK             Malawi Kwacha
MPPS           Ministry of Physical Planning and Surveys
MREA           Ministry of Research and Environmental Affairs
NEAP           National Environmental Action Plan
NEMP           National Environmental Management Program
NGO            Non-governmental Organization
ODA            Overseas Development Administration
RAG            Research Advisory Group
SADC           Southern Africa Development Community
TFAP           Traditional Fisheries Assessment Project
UN             United Nations
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
WSM            Wildlife Society of Malawi






GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
SADC LAKE MALAWI/NYASA BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pau~
1. BACKGROUND                   ....................................                                 I
A. General .................................................   1
B. Threats to the Sustainability of Lake Malawi/Nyasa's Biodiversity .............  I
C. Current Natural Resource Management Policy and Legislation ...............  2
D. Regional and Malawi Institutions Relevant to the Project ..................  3
E. The Project's NGO Involvement  .................................. 4
F. Related Conservation and Natural Resource Management Projects .............  5
2. THE PROJECT                 ....................................                                  8
A. Project Concept and Objectives ............................ .                             8
B. Detailed Project Description  .............................. .                            9
C. Project Management and Implementation Arrangements ..............           ... .        l 5
D. Monitoring, Evaluation, and Reporting  ......................... .                       16
E. Project Costs and Financing  .............................. .I iS
(1)    Cost  Estimates    ....................................                      18
(2)    Procurement    .....................................                         19
(3)    Disbursements  ....................................   2 1
(4)    Financial Accounting and Audit Requirements .................  22
3. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT, BENEFITS AND RISKS ......................   23
A. Environmental Impact ......................................   23
B. Project Benefits ............................................ 23
C. Project Risks  ............................................. 23
4. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS, AND RECOMMENDATION  ... 25
ANNEXES
1. Project Components, Activities and Outputs  . .............................. 28
2. Project Implementation Chart .................................... 29
3. Steering Committee Terms of Reference  ................................. 30
4. Project Administration Terms of Reference ................................ 31
5. Research Component Terms of Reference ................................. 34
6. Strategic Plan for Nankumba Peninsula, Lake Malawi National Park and Enclave Villages  . . 38
7. Legislation Component Terms of Reference  . .............................. 41
8. Tanzania National Research Station  ...................................  43
9. Mozambique National Research Station  ..................................  44
10. Implementation Schedule . ................................... 45
11. Consultancies and Training Schedule ...................................  48
12. Supervision Schedule  ...................................  50
13. Estimated Project Costs ................................... 53
MAP: IBRD No. 25786






GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
SADC LAKE MALAWI/NYASA BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
A.    General
1.1   Lake Malawi/Nyasa (the Lake) is the southern-most lake in the African rift valley and
ranks amongst the largest freshwater lakes in the world. The Lake is surrounded by Malawi
to the west and south, and Mozambique and Tanzania to the east and north. Thirteen major
river systems drain the Lake from its total catchment area of 75,000 km2.
1.2   The riparian human population density and growth rate are high, and the Lake's
resources provide substantial economic and nutritional benefits to the local communities in all
three countries. Malawi is a major beneficiary, as the majority of the Lake's surface area is
within Malawi, along with about 80% of the total Lake shore population. About 90% of the
Lake's fish catch is caught by small-scale or artisanal methods within 2 km of the shoreline.
Fish accounts for about 70% of the animal protein consumed by the population of Malawi,
and fishing employs about 40,000 people directly, and another 250,000 people in related
employment activities such as fish processing and marketing.
1.3   The diversity of the Lake's native fish species is unparalleled in the world with over
500-1000 fish species from ten families recorded to date. Particularly noteworthy are the 400
documented species of cichlids, of which all but five are endemic to the Lake. Cichlids, due
to their sedentary nature, have localized distributions within the Lake. Consequently, they are
vulnerable to extinction from overfishing, localized effects of pollution, and other
environmental problems. The only area which protects the cichlid fishes is the 94 km2 Lake
Malawi National Park (LMNP), which adjoins and extends into the southern portion of the
Lake. The LMNP was established in 1980 by the Government of Malawi as the first
freshwater, underwater national park in Africa (and now a UNESCO World Heritage Site).
B.    Threats to the Sustainability of Lake Malawi/Nyasa's Biodiversity
1.4   Fisheries. The Lake ecosystem is not, at this point known to be, critically
endangered; however there are disturbing signs and the riparian governments and communities
are concerned that unsustainable fishing practices, the lack of knowledge of the Lake's
resources, and the lack of a coordinated management plan will threaten the environmental
integrity and productive capacity of the Lake in the future. The example provided by the
nearby Lake Malombe, located south of Lake Malawi/Nyasa, illustrates the potential crisis that
could arise if measures are not taken to use the Lake's resources in a sustainable manner. The
chambo fish catch in Lake Malombe was recorded at 10,000 tons in 1986. This has now
dropped to between 200 and 300 tons per year.
1.5   Recently fishermen on Lake Malawi have reported declining returns per unit of fishing
effort in the southern part of the Lake. In the same area, the commercial trawl fisheries have
also experienced declining harvests in recent years, despite being more closely regulated than
the inshore artisanal fisheries. Species such as the cichlid "utaka," harvested by local fishing
communities as a significant protein source, are declining. Others, such as "mpasa", an
endemic cyprinid, have already shown precipitous declines in recent years. It is likely that
significant management interventions will be required to make their recovery possible.
1



1.6    Malawi's aquarium fish trade, while probably greater now than at any time in the past
(50,000 fish per annum, roughly contributing US$350,000 to the local economy), has probably
had little impact on the fish resources. While more than 140 species are taken for the
aquarium trade, the number taken of any given species is usually small. Although this
industry merits careful monitoring, current indications are that the net benefits to the local
economy through direct revenues outweigh the environmental risks of the trade.
1.7   Population Growth and Land Use Practices. The Lake ecosystem is also
increasingly under pressure from the rapid population growth and intensified land use practices
in the catchment areas. Land policy and an increased demand for arable land have accelerated
the expansion of agriculture into marginal lands; in addition, increased soil erosion is
occurring, resulting in increased sedimentation of streams and rivers which feed into the Lake.
For example, changing land use practices have caused alterations in stream flow patterns
associated with the water runoff regime into the Lake. Both the quantity and distribution of
sediments in this runoff -- containing human wastes, fertilizer and agro-chemical inputs -- may
be threatening the sustainability of both anadromous and sedentary fishes which utilize the
rocky littoral zone. More research is needed to confirm the effects of this runoff. The
conflict between the human demands on the riparian resources and environmental sustainability
has become a particularly pressing issue in the Nankumba Peninsula and the Lake Malawi
National Park in the southern end of the Lake within Malawi.
C.    Current Natural Resource Management Policy and Legislation
1.8    Government Capacity and International Coordination. The current knowledge of
the Lake's ecology is fragmentary, making it difficult to assess the status of the Lake's
ecosystem and the extent of its degradation. Most of the major scientific work on the Lake
has been done in Malawi territorial waters and thus the statistical information used in this
document relates largely to Malawi. The riparian governments as a group have limited
management, monitoring, regulatory and enforcement capabilities. They all recognize the
importance of preserving the Lake ecosystem and that this will depend on tri-national
participation in lake management as well as building capacity in research, development, and
conservation.
1.9    While no comprehensive management plans for the Lake exist in any one of the three
countries, Malawi, Mozambique and Tanzania are all at various stages of developing National
Environmental Action/Management Plans and related environmental policies which will
provide a framework for general environmental management at the national level.
1.10  In Malawi, the Department of Research and Environmental Affairs (DREA) was
established in 1991, as part of the Office of the President and the Cabinet. DREA was
responsible for the preparation of Malawi's National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP),
which was completed in June 1994. DREA, in September 1994, became the Ministry of
Research and Environmental Affairs (MREA). MREA's mandate is the coordination of
national policies that will help protect the environment and sustain development. The
depletion of fish stocks has been identified as an important environmental issue in Malawi's
NEAP. The government's strategy to address this issue is to develop a watershed program to
reduce the sediment load in both the rivers and lake waters and improve information on fish
species, fish stock and regeneration capacities to formulate guidelines for sustainable
management of the country's rivers and lakes. Malawi has also established an Environment
2



Conmmittee and is currently reviewing laws relating to the protection of the environment. It
has covered, to date, the fishery, wildlife and national parks sectors.
1.11  In Mozambique, the Government has established the National Commission for the
Environment (Commissao Nacional do Meio Ambiente - CNA) by Presidential Decree (No.
2/92) on June 3, 1992. CNA is coordinating the preparation of the National Environmental
Management Program (NEMP, the NEAP equivalent), which will be prepared in three phases.
The NEMP is envisaged to provide for environmental sustainability in sector plans and the
national reconstruction plans currently under preparation, and to aid in refining and developing
investment projects by the Government of Mozambique and the donor community. A draft
NEMP has identified the lack of scientific data and information available on fisheries
resources in Mozambique's territorial waters of Lake Malawi/Nyasa as an issue of concern.
With regard to Mozambique's national legislation, a working group has been established under
the Provisional Environmental Secretariat, and it is expected that in the near future
Mozambique will promulgate an Environmental Protection Act.
1.12  In Tanzania, the National Environment Management Council (NEMC) is spearheading
the NEAP process. The deterioration of marine and fresh water systems has been identified in
the NEAP as one of the six major problems needing urgent national attention. Among the
required actions identified in the NEAP to address this environmental problem are: (i) to
develop legal requirements and legally based management plans on the basis of population,
habitat conservation, multiple uses and sustained yield of the resource; (ii) to establish
regional coordinating committees for rivers and lakes, giving priority to systems where
conflicts are already occurring or where there is pollution or threats to biodiversity; and (iii)
to monitor aquatic ecosystems - both freshwater and marine - to ensure that fish stocks are not
being depleted. The Government has also made efforts through the National Environment
Management Council and the Ministry of Tourism, Natural Resources and Environment to
develop an Environmental Protection Act. This bill, which is in the final stages of
presentation to Parliament, will cover all areas of environmental management in one
consolidated act.
1.13  In addition to the above national environmental plans, Malawi, Mozambique, and
Tanzania are all contracting parties to the following international agreements:
* The 1972 UNESCO Convention concerning the protection of the World Cultural and
Natural Heritage; and
* The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (Malawi is a signatory).
As of November 1994, these riparian countries were not Parties to the 1971 Ramsar
Convention on Wetlands of International Irnportance.
D.    Regional and Malawi Institutions Relevant to the Project
1.14   Southern African Development Community (SADC). At the regional level the most
important institution within the current context is the Southern African Development
Community (SADC), of which Malawi, Mozambique and Tanzania are all members. Within
SADC, the responsibility for the coordination of different developmental functions are
apportioned among the member states, with environmental issues coordinated by Lesotho;
inland fisheries, forestry, national parks and wildlife issues coordinated by Malawi; and
3



marine fisheries coordinated by Namibia. This project has been formally endorsed by SADC.
The Governments of Malawi, Mozambique and Tanzania have endorsed the project with the
understanding that it will cover the whole lake for the benefit of the riparian countries.
1.15   The Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources of Malawi (MFNR). The
MFNR's scope encompasses both the use and conservation of natural resources. There are
three departments within the MFNR: Forestry, National Parks and Wildlife, and Fisheries.
The latter two departments are of particular relevance to the GEF project.
1.16   The Fisheries Department of Malawi (FD). The FD, within the Ministry of
Forestry and Natural Resources (MFNR), is responsible for all aspects of fishery and
aquaculture, research, management, development and training, through the enforcement of the
Fisheries Act. The Department is supported by a number of internationally recruited and
financed technical assistants in its Headquarters in Lilongwe, including a research coordinator,
a planner and an economist. It has a small but experienced professional staff, however
financial constraints severely weaken their enforcement capacity.
1.17 The Department of National Parks and Wildlife of Malawi (DNPW). DNPW,
within the MFNR, is responsible for the establishment, development, and management of
National Parks. It is also responsible for all aspects of the control and management of
hunting, and wildlife management and conservation throughout the country.
1.18   The Ministry of Physical Planning and Surveys (MPPS). The Physical Planning
Department (PPD) within the MPPS is responsible for all aspects of physical planning in the
country. The PPD is a member of the Lake Shore Development Committee which authorizes
development along the Lake Shore in the Mangochi area which covers Nankumba Peninsula.
E.    The Project's NGO Involvement
1.19   The following Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) are actively involved in
conservation in the project areas:
(i)    The Wildlife Society of Malawi (WSM), founded in 1937, is a local NGO
supported by donations and subscriptions. The society has played an important
role in recent years in community education in wildlife and environmental
issues. It is committed to working towards building popular appreciation of
natural assets through public awareness campaigns and environmental
education programs. WSM in cooperation with Malawi's DNPW will be
responsible for implementing the project's conservation awareness program.
(ii)   The Presbyterian Church of Malawi. Within the Chembe village and adjacent
to the boundaries of Lake Malawi National Park is the historic site of the first
Livingstone mission settlement and burial grounds. The Presbyterian Church
of Malawi has plans to restore the site. The Church will be involved in the
review and implementation of the Strategic Plan for Nankumba Peninsula and
Lake Malawi National Park, which would include these historical sites.
(iii)   World Wildlife Fund (USA) (WWF-US) has assisted with planning, training
and delivery of park interpretation and environmental education at Cape
MaClear. It has established an environmental education center upon which
4



this project will build. WWF will participate in the discussions and reviews
associated with the strategic plan for the Nankumba Peninsula and the Lake
Malawi National Park. WWF participated in the project's appraisal mission
and is now in the process of developing an integrated conservation and
development program for the Lake Malawi National Park, complementing this
project's activities in Malawi.
F.    Related Conservation and Natural Resource Management Projects
1.20   Pelagic Fish Resource Assessment Project (UK/SADC). The UK/SADC project
funded by the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) concluded in May 1994. was a
joint Malawi/Mozambique/Tanzania/UK research venture. The project fielded a large
international research team equipped with a multi-purpose 15m research vessel (R/V Usipa),
and established a shore base at Senga Bay, Salima in Malawi.
1.21   The principal objectives of the UK/SADC project were:
(a)   to assess the abundance and distribution of the off-shore (pelagic) fi'sh
populations in Lake Malawi/Nyasa and describe their structure anld biology;
(b)   to investigate the productive base supporting the pelagic fishi resources and ihe
factors affecting their abundance and distribution;
(c)   to quantify the potential sustainable yield from fisheries based oii the pelagic
fish populations, should any of sufficient size be found; and
(d)   to indicate appropriate economically viable options for the saistainable
utilization and management of the pelagic fishery.
Based on information received from ODA, the project's final biomass figtures for offIshlore
unexploited pelagic stocks are discouraging.
1.22   One of the successful aspects of the project has been the Steering Committee
Management structure. The project findings have led to the recommendatioll what a regional
consultative group be established for the management of the Lake by the three countries. T'his
goal has been adopted by the GEF project and it will maintain the Steering Committee
Management structure established under the UK/SADC project.
1.23   Malawi Fisheries Development Project (IDA). The IDA Malawi Fisheries
Development Project became effective in September 1991, and is being implemented by the
Malawi Fisheries Department. The co-lenders are the Nordic Development Fund and the
Icelandic International Development Agency. It is a seven year project with a total estimated
cost of US$15.5 million. The project initially comprised four components: (i) institution
building to strengthen the Fisheries Department in regulatory functions, policy formulation,
staff training and technical assistance; (ii) research to strengthen the Fisheries Department's
research capacity focusing on demersal stock assessment, lake resource conservation, and
developing fish farming models that would help integrate aquaculture into crop farming
systems in different ecological zones; (iii) production to rehabilitate and develop the existing
capture fisheries by supporting artisanal fishermen, semi-commercial and commercial fishing
activities, and establishing a pilot program to increase tht involvement of women in fisheries
5



particularly in fish processing and marketing; and (iv) infrastructure to rehabilitate, upgrade
and build access roads, as well as jetties for fish landing, and shore based facilities.
1.24   Since the IDA Project was appraised in June 1991, the fisheries subsector's
performance in Malawi has steadily declined. Increasing population pressures around the
Lake and overfishing in the near shore areas (Lake Malombe and the two southern arms of the
Lake) account for this decline. FAO's Chambo Fisheries Research Project drew attention to
the collapse of the chambo fishery in Lake Malombe and the likely collapse of the remaining
kambuzi fishery in the absence of management intervention. Fisheries management problems
have also been highlighted in a series of working papers under the Traditional Fisheries
Assessment Project (TFAP) which outlined as major trends in Lakes Malawi and Malombe
artisanal fisheries a large and widespread increase in the fishing effort, declining catch rates
and the increasing use of small-meshed nets. TFAP concluded that most of the artisanal
fisheries were at, or already beyond, the biological maximum sustainable yield.
1.25   In 1993 - based on the available stock assessment research - the IDA Fisheries
Development Project was restructured from its focus on production to an emphasis on
sustainable resource management of the Lake's fisheries stocks. The project's incremental
production targets (an increase in annual landings of about 7,500 tons) have essentially been
removed.  Actions to deal with the problems of overfishing such as net mesh control, closed
areas and seasons are being addressed under the Project. Two initially identified project
activities - aquaculture and rural access roads - have now been omitted.
1.26   Research Project to Promote Small Scale Commercial Fanning of Lake Malawi
Indigenous Species (ntchila and mpasa) - Japan International Cooperation Agency
(JICA). JICA is preparing a five-year pilot project to undertake research on the biological
studies of the indigenous mpasa and ntchila species, as well as to undertake a feasibility study
for broodstock management, hatchery operations, feed development and cage culture for the
fish. The broad objective of the proposed project is to establish a research center for the
mpasa and ntchila and to promote small-scale market oriented aquaculture using these species.
The project will be implemented by Malawi Fisheries Department's Aquaculture Section. One
of the reasons for the low output from aquaculture in Malawi is the lack of a suitable (fast
growing, late maturing, easy to culture, high commercial value) fish species. The cyprinid
populations of Lake Malawi are almost an endangered species.  It is the intent of the JICA
project to restock the Lake with artificially hatched juveniles for these species. Concurrent
with the hatchery work, studies will be undertaken to investigate habitat conservation and
management for the breeding areas of the fish. The project will also have a training
component and will coordinate with Bunda College to have students work in the hatchery and
laboratories to carry out research according to their educational requirements; and on-the-job
training of counterparts in the areas of hatchery, feed development, biology and ecology of
migratory fishes. This project is designed to complement the GEF and IDA projects by
working with two specific species (mpasa and ntchila) to increase their populations. As a
pilot program, it will also identify the potential for aquaculture production of indigenous
species as a means of reducing pressure on the Lake's resources, and creating employment
opportunities.
1.27   The cichlid fishes of the Lake can be categorized into two groups: the wide-ranging
pelagic species and the more resident populations. The widely-fished pelagic species has been
the focus of the research activities undertaken in the UK/SADC and IDA projects. The
research activities of the GEF project would complement these projects by providing needed
6



information on the occurrence, distribution and ecology of the more localized endemic species,
which will be relevant for the !akeshore zoning and establishment of reserves to protect the
whole range of the Lake's biodiversity. Staff from the Fisheries Departments and the National
Parks Departments from the riparian states will also be trained through the GEF project,
which is critical for implementing action programs to sustainably manage the lake over the
long-term.
7



2. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Concept and Objectives
2.1    Project Concept. The global importance of Lake Malawi/Nyasa for biodiversity
conservation derives from the exceptional diversity of its unique fishes. The Lake Malawi
ichthyofauna is the world's most diverse evolutionary radiation of fishes within a single lake.
The ecological requirements and distributional limits are known for only a minor fraction of
these fish species. The project will carry out essential research initiatives to determine what
species are in the lake and to identify and document biodiversity "hotspots," or areas of
exceptional species diversity and circumscribed centers of endemism within the rocky inshore
zone. The project will also create the needed framework for conservation and development
among Malawi, Mozambique, and Tanzania by supporting the development of a Biodiversity
Map and Management Plan for the Lake, and a plan for ecologically compatible development
within the Nankumba Peninsula and Lake Malawi National Park. Project initiatives will also
be undertaken to review the scope for harmonization and strengthening of environment-related
policy and legislation among the riparian nations and increase conservation awareness among
all sectors of society on issues affecting the lake's biodiversity.
2.2    Project Objectives. The main objective of the project is to assist the riparian states in
creating the scientific, educational, and policy basis necessary for conserving the biological
diversity of the Lake and its unique ecosystem. It will be achieved through the following
specific activities:
(a)    building scientific capacity within the riparian countries to survey, study and
monitor the Lake's biodiversity, identify threats, and provide recommendations
for the Lake's management;
(b)    surveying and inventorying species, identifying critical habitats and
biodiversity hotspots and recommending preliminary measures to demarcate
and protect such areas;
(c)   identifying pollution sources and measuring water quality at sites where human
activities threaten biodiversity;
(d)    preparing a Strategic Plan for the Nankumba Peninsula and Lake Malawi
National Park for eco-tourism development, consistent with the protection and
conservation of the Lake's biodiversity;
(e)    preparing a comprehensive Biodiversity Map and Management Plan for Lake
Malawi/Nyasa based on the information provided by the species, habitat, and
water quality analyses;
(f)   increasing conservation awareness among the lakeshore population and
regional and national policy makers, whose decisions regarding regional
development have an impact on the Lake's ecosystem; and
(g)    reviewing the adequacy of existing national environmental legislation in
Malawi, Mozambique and Tanzania and making appropriate legislative
8



recommendations for revising and/or strengthening enforcement for the
conservation of the Lake's biodiversity.
2.3    Project Site. The GEF project will be based at Senga Bay in Malawi, although
educational and scientific activities will be conducted on the Lake shores and at various
stations around the Lake. The use of the existing UK/SADC Senga Bay facilities in the
project will be very cost-effective, saving the project some US$2.0 million in equipping or
constructing sinilar facilities. Prior to project negotiations, the Government of Malawi
agreed to the use of the Senga Bay facilities and the continuation of the declaration of trust to
SADC for the duration of the GEF project. The use of this site and Senga Bay facilities will
be the Government's contribution to the project.
B.    Detailed Project Description
2.4    Biodiversity Map and Managemnent Plan for Lake Malawi/Nyasa. The project
manager will coordinate the preparation of a Biodiversity Map and Management Plan for the
Lake (BMPL). The BMPL will be based on the project's major activities/outputs as detailed
below and in Annex 1 and will include inter alia: (i) the Biodiversity Report and habitat map,
that draw together the biodiversity survey work and identify biodiversity hotspots; (ii) the
Report on Water Quality/Pollution and Threats to Biodiversity; (iii) the taxonomic and
ecological research; (iv) the Strategic Plan for Nankumba Peninsula and Lake Malawi National
Park; and (v) the report with recommendations to the riparian countries for revising and/or
strengthening legislation for the effective conservation of the Lake. Other relevant sources of
information such as related conservation projects and the riparian countries' National
Environmental Action Plans will be taken into consideration in the preparation of the plan.
The PM will ensure that a preliminary draft of the BMPL is prepared and reviewed with the
Bank and the riparian countries within 24 months of Grant effectiveness [para. 4.1 (a)]. The
draft BMPL will be discussed at the project's mid-term review (para. 2.48).
2.5    The BMPL will make recommendations for the required follow-up conservation
actions and investments, based on the information obtained from this project's research phase.
For example, the management plan would recommend actions for the zoning of the Lake's
coastline appropriate for biodiversity conservation, such as identifying areas as fisheries
replenishment zones or ecologically fragile zones not appropriate for intrusive development.
The plan would also identify a system of potential protected areas that together will be
representative of its biodiversity and complementary to the Lake Malawi National Park.
2.6    The BMPL will be discussed by the project's Steering Committee as it is being
prepared and a final draft will be circulated to the Bank for comments no later than 36 months
after Grant effectiveness [para. 4.1 (a)]. The Government of Malawi will present to SADC
within 42 months after Grant effectiveness a time-bound proposal for the implementation of
the BMPL by the riparian countries [para. 4.1 (b)].
(1)    Research
2.7    To conserve and manage biodiversity in Lake Malawi/Nyasa, it is necessary to
determine the species diversity that exists in the Lake. Current estimates of the number of
fish species range between 500 and 1000 in ten families. Two of the main reasons for the
uncertainty in the estimate of the number of species are: (i) the lack of taxonomic work on
9



many of the species groups; and (ii) large portions of the Lake have not been surveyed for
fishes. These two issues will be addressed under parts (a) and (b) of the research program.
(a)    Biodiversity Surveys
2.8    Most of the current research available on the Lake has been done in Malawi waters.
Further biodiversity survey work is needed, particularly in the relatively understudied waters
of Mozambique and Tanzania. This lack of scientific data and information available on fish
resources in the Mozambican territorial waters of the Lake has been identified as an important
environmental issue in Mozambique's draft NEMP (para 1.11).
2.9    The research team will consist of an ecologist, taxonomist, research officeis and
technical staff who will carry out a program to inventory species and their distribution and
identify critical habitats and biodiversity hotspots in the Lake. The taxonomist will supervise
and provide on the job training to the local research officers and technicians in the
identification of species. The ecologist will supervise and provide on the job training to the
local research officers and technicians in mapping the distribution of various species and
relating this to habitat types and ecology. The training of research officers and technicians
from the riparian countries will assure the continuation of biodiversity surveys and monitoring
beyond the life of the project (Annex 11).
2.10   Output: The main output of this sub-component will be a report which identifies
biodiversity conservation priorities for Lake Malawi/Nyasa and includes:
* survey reports;
* maps of species distribution which identify critical habitats and biodiversity hotspots;
* species checklists for each of the identified hotspots;
 identification of main threats to biodiversity in the Lake and recommendations for
amelioratory action; and
* recommendations for preliminary measures to demarcate and protect critical habitats
or fisheries replenishmnent zones.
An interim report will be completed within 18 months of Grant effectiveness and submitted to
the riparian states and the Bank for comments and review. The final draft will be prepared
within 30 months of Grant effectiveness [para. 4.1 (c)].
(b)    Ecology, Systematics, and Taxonomy
2.11   A major threat to biodiversity in the Lake is overfishing by both commercial and
traditional fishermen. One much needed aspect of fisheries management therefore, is studies
on taxonomy, ecology and distribution of the cichlid species.
2.12   The ecologist and taxonomist will supervise and provide on-the-job training to research
officers and technicians to determine distribution patterns, breeding grounds, and ecology of
the cichlid, to produce a Species Identification Manual, and coordinate ecological research
with taxonomy and limnology research. Fish will be sampled throughout the lake especially
10



around the shoreline using a variety of fishing and sampling techniques (trawling, gill nets,
scuba). Regular surveys will be conducted in the northern, central, and southern regions of
the lake. The taxonomist will supervise and provide on-the-job training to complete
taxonomic work on the cichlid stocks, produce a Species Identification Manual, and train
technicians in reliable identification techniques.
2.13   Outputs. This sub-component will produce: (i) primary scientific information on
ecology, species distribution, and taxonomy; (ii) baseline information for future monitoring
and evaluation; and (iii) a Species Identification Manual [para. 4.1 (d)].
(c)   Limnology and Water Quality Monitoring
2.14   The aim of the limnology and water quality monitoring program will be to identify
major pollution sources and threats to the Lake. Specifically it will:
*  provide baseline information on and identify long-term trends in water quality;
*  identify pollution threats to biodiversity hotspots and fish replenishment areas;
*  develop a model for understanding the ecological interactions among the biotic and
physical elements of the ecosystem in order to quantify trends concerning the function,
structure and integrity of the Lake ecosystem; and
-  train research officers and technicians from the riparian nations in limnology and
aquatic resource monitoring.
2.15   A baseline ecological monitoring program is a key feature of this component. The
program will include an evaluation of the physical, chemical and biological characteristics of
the lake and identify sites where pollution/sedimentation is likely to have a serious impact on
biodiversity.
2.16    Monitoring cruises will be carried out monthly, based out of the Senga Bay
laboratories. Additional experimental work will be carried out at permanent lake-wide
stations, and rivers will be selected for monitoring from the research vessel. Climate stations
and fixed thermistor buoy instrumentation with continuous recording equipment will be
installed at a number of sites around the lake. Full lake surface temperature profiles started
during the UK/SADC project will continue to be received via satellite images. Shorter cruises
will also be included in the program to carry out limnological studies, and to service climate
stations and fixed buoys. At least 24 months of data will be collected under this sub-
component.
2.17   In order to be cost effective, the limnology and water quality sampling will be carried
out in close coordination with the biodiversity surveys, taxonomic and ecological studies. The
sampling, as it develops and matures, will provide an increasingly useful tool to assess
priorities for biodiversity conservation, as well as providing the information to alert
government authorities to initiate environmental protection measures.
2.18   Outputs. The limnologists/water quality scientists will produce an interim report on
water quality/pollution within 18 months after Grant effectiveness, outlining major existing
and/or potential threats to biodiversity, recommendations to combat pollution and defining
11



requirements for long term monitoring. This interim report will be circulated to the riparian
states and Bank for comments and review. The final draft will be completed within 30 months
of Grant effectiveness [para. 4.1 (e)].
(d)    Research equipment and facilities in Malawi
2.19   The use of the Senga Bay facilities, equipped by the UK/SADC project, allows the
expenditure of the research component to consist largely of salaries, the running costs of the
vessel, and the three-year operating costs of the research program. The facilities include a
research vessel (the R/V Usipa), laboratory, offices and accommodations that are ideally
suited for the research activities outlined above. The R/V Usipa is a 15-meter steel catamaran
with berths for 11 personnel, and small wet and dry laboratories. The vessel is rigged for
stern trawling and deployment of standard fish and plankton sampling gear via the main or
hydrographic winches. Modest rehabilitation of the Cape MaClear research station will also
be financed under the project to enhance its value for monitoring and research activities.
2.20   Output. An enhanced National Research Station in Malawi for local and visiting
scientists to monitor and undertake research activities on the Lake.
(e)    Research facilities in Mozambique and Tanzania
2.21   The project will also finance the modest rehabilitation of the Kyela Center Fisheries
Research Station in Tanzania, and the Metangula Fisheries Research Station in Mozambique,
with the main objective of enabling these stations to participate in surveys, limnological
research and systematic monitoring of the Lake. The rehabilitation of these research stations
would be carried out by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) field offices in
Mozambique and Tanzania. At negotiations, the Government of Malawi agreed to submit a
duly-signed withdrawal application immediately upon signature of an agreement/protocol
between the Recipient and UNDP, in an amount of US$400,000 payable to UNDP [para. 4.1
(01-
2.22   Outputs. Enhanced research facilities in Mozambique and Tanzania for local and
visiting scientists to study the lake's biodiversity.
(2)    National Capacity Building
(a)    Training
2.23   The effective management of the lake is presently constrained in all three riparian
countries by the lack of trained personnel in fish ecology and taxonomy, limnology and
environmental education. One of the main activities of the technical experts financed under
this GEF project will be to train "on-the-job" officer level and technical staff from appropriate
agencies (paras. 2.9, 2.12, 2.14 and Annex 11) from the riparian countries to carry out the
needed research and conservation planning activities to implement this project, as well as
future lake projects/programs.
2.24   To provide additional training and sustained research activities after the end of this
project, a "twinning" arrangement with foreign universities or management institutions will be
explored. This approach has proven successful in a number of fisheries and other scientific
research activities throughout Africa.
12



2.25   The Government of Malawi will produce training programs as part of the project's
annual work program [para 4.1 (g)].
2.26   Outputs. By the project's fourth year, a total of 32 individuals from the riparian
countries will have completed either short (six months) or long term training in the scientific
research and environmental education disciplines and will return to their parent institutions
(Annex 11).
(b)    Building Conservation Awareness
2.27   Many of the current users of the Lake have no formal education. The informal
educational system is therefore the most effective means of communication for conservation
awareness to explain the need for new fishing regulations or techniques to conserve the lake's
biodiversity. Under the project, the Wildlife Society of Malawi (WSM) will train and
supervise an environmental education officer (EEO) and a community education officer (CEO)
who will implement the informal sector initiatives working closely with the Project Manager
and the scientific team.
2.28   In addition to financing on-the-job training of an EEO and a CEO, the GEF project
will finance the rehabilitation of the Environmental Education Facility at the Lake Malawi
National Park (LMNP) and housing for the two officers. The Environmental Education
Facility has already established an important educational link with local schools, international
and national visitors, and the residents of the Park's enclave villages. The Park's proximity to
areas with great pressure on biodiversity resources makes the education facility's location all
the more pertinent. The project will also support environmental education in the schools
through the fostering of school wildlife clubs run by WSM. Other educational activities
financed by the project include: (i) the production and dissemination of an environmental
video program; (ii) the development, recording and broadcasting of a series of environmental
radio programs; (iii) the production of books, posters and magazines; and (iv) a bus for the
transportation of students, community leaders and traditional associations to visit the LMNP
Environmental Education Center.
2.29   The WSM, in cooperation with Malawi's Department of National Parks and Wildlife
(DNPW), will be responsible for implementing this sub-component. The WSM & DNPW will
devise a systematic approach for receiving client feedback from the users of the lake which
will be used to determine the project's viability.
2.30   Outputs. The output will be the development of a Conservation Awareness Program,
including media productions, for all sectors of society [para. 4.1 (h)].
(3)    Environmental Legislation
2.31   To implement a coordinated biodiversity management plan for the Lake, it is
necessary for the three riparian states to coordinate environmental activities and programs, as
well as to promulgate and implement appropriate environmental laws and regulations.
Currently, the laws and regulations of the three riparian states related to lake management
issues are weak. There is also little coordination in the enforcement of laws related to the
protection of the biodiversity or management of natural resources in the watershed area or the
lake.
13



2.32   A senior legal advisor will be contracted for 60 days and financed by the project. The
legal advisor will prepare the TOR and discuss the work program at the start of the study with
legal experts from Malawi, Mozambique and Tanzania also financed by the project. The main
task of the legal experts will be to review the legislation in their country, with the objective of
identifying inadequacies and inconsistencies related to the conservation of biodiversity in Lake
Malawi/Nyasa.
2.33   The senior legal advisor will then return to the riparian countries to review the work
of the legal experts and organize a workshop by the end of the project's first year. This
senior legal advisor will also coordinate the preparation of a paper, based on the detailed
national legislative reviews and other assistance provided by the local consultants, which will
identify gaps in the current legal framework and provide recommendations as to revisions,
new policy initiatives, and implementation arrangements. The outcomz- of the workshop will
be a synthesis which builds upon those legal and institutional assessments emanating from the
National Environmental Action Plans (or their equivalents) related to each of the riparian
states.
2.34   Output. The product of the legislation component will be a report which provides
recommendations to the riparian countries for revising and strengthening legislation and
enforcement ability (and the preparation of draft legislation when appropriate) to create a
harmonized and effective legal framework for the conservation of Lake Malawi/Nyasa's
biodiversity. A draft report will be discussed during the project's mid-term review.
(4)    Protected Areas Management
2.35   Nankumba Peninsula and Lake Malawi National Park. The Nankumba Peninsula
divides Lake Malawi/Nyasa into its two southern arms. It comprises a region of considerable
natural beauty. The northern half of the Peninsula and the surrounding islands are the core of
Lake Malawi National Park (LMNP). Despite international recognition and protection under
Malawi law, the Peninsula has become a prime example of the environmental problems that
can be caused by the unplanned evolution of tourism and economic development in close
proximity to a park.
2.36   The environmental pressure on the LMNP comes in part from the enclave villages
dependent on the fish, forest, and other resources available in the LMNP and the Peninsula.
In addition, growing international tourist interest in the Park has strained the capacity of the
LMNP facilities, which are in urgent need of expansion and renovation. Concern has also
been expressed over plans submitted to the Department of National Parks and Wildlife
(DNPW) by international developers for large-scale hotel complexes, golf courses, and casinos
in LMNP. The present state of the Park infrastructure, and the lack of resources to develop
proper facilities, constantly undermine the DNPW's ability to manage and protect LMNP from
environmental degradation associated with these pressures.
2.37   In recognition of the need to address these issues for the sustainable use of the lake
and its riparian resources, a Strategic Plan will be prepared for Nankumba Peninsula and Lake
Malawi National Park. Preparation will proceed in two phases: (1) data survey and
collection of information; and (2) assessment and evaluation, and the development with local
participation of a plan for conservation and development (Annex 6). Canadian International
Development Agency, Industrial Cooperation Division (CIDA INC) will finance the
14



preparation of the plan's first phase. The Government of Malawi and a Canadian consulting
firm have already signed a contract and the work began in October, 1994.
2.38   This project will finance the second phase of the plan. Building upon the work and
information collected in Phase 1, the second phase will be undertaken with assistance from an
international consulting firm, in consultation with local communities and in close collaboration
with local counterparts drawn from relevant government agencies (particularly those involved
with NEAP preparation). The consulting firm for the preparation of phase II will be recruited
following the Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants. The overall supervision of the
consultant's work will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Physical Planning and Surveys
(MPPS), in coordination with MREA, MFNR, and the PM.
2.39   The agenda and scope of Phase II of the strategic planning process will be determined
collaboratively with the national agencies involved (see Annex 6 for proposed terms of
reference). Phase II will emphasize community participation in the planning process, and
identify community roles in Park and Lake conservation. Phase II will conclude with a
proposal of preferred options and analysis of their environmental implications for
development in a detailed report, submitted to the MPPS for its review and recommendations
to the Government of Malawi. The government will submit the Strategic Plan for Nankumba
Peninsula and Lake Malawi National Park to the Bank for review and comments by the first
anniversary of Grant effectiveness [para. 4.1 (i)]. At negotiations, an agreement was reached
with the Government of Malawi that development activities in Nankumba Peninsula and
LMNP will be consistent with the Plan [para. 4.1 (j)]. The project will also assist the
Government of Malawi to design a funding mechanism to address recurrent funding for the
sustainable development, management and maintenance of the LMNP and the continued
monitoring of biodiversity conservation indicators.
2.40   Outputs. A Strategic Plan for Nankumba Peninsula and Lake Malawi National Park
development including recommendations for increasing community involvement in its
implementation and management will be prepared within one year after Grant effectiveness.
This will be complemented by a Biodiversity Map and a Management Plan for the Lake
indicating potential protected areas and parks.
C.    Project Management and Implementation Arrangements
2.41   The Principal Secretary of Malawi's Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources, in
his capacity as SADC Sector Coordinator for In-land Fisheries, Forestry and Wildlife, will be
responsible for the implementation of the project on behalf of the riparian countries (see
Project Implementation Chart in Annex 2). The Government agreed at negotiations to deploy
appropriately qualified staff in required numbers for project implementation in accordance
with a schedule in Annex 11 [para. 4.1 (k)]. A draft Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has
been prepared which includes inter alia a procurement plan, training program, and M&E
procedures which were discussed at negotiations. The PIP, incorporating Bank cormments,
will be finalized prior to Grant effectiveness [para. 4.2 (a)].
2.42   The project will be guided by a Steering Committee (SC), chaired by the Principal
Secretary (PS) of MFNR, with membership from the Fisheries Departments and the National
Parks Departments or equivalent of all the riparian countries, NGO/conmnunity
representatives, and international expertise as needed. The SC will be an advisory body under
the leadership of the PS. The Steering Committee will meet at least three times a year: (1)
15



to review and approve progress reports and work plans; (2) to solve coordination problems
which may arise; (3) to advise the Project Manager (PM) on general implementation issues;
and (4) to inform the relevant Governments and the Bank of decisions made and actions
taken. The SC will also assist with the organization and participation of the project's mid-
term review. The project will finance the costs of the SC meetings.
2.43   The PM will convene the SC meetings, and prepare the agenda and minutes. Some
of the meetings will be held in Mozambique and Tanzania. The SC membership is expected
to enhance the effective dissemination of project findings, as well as build an understanding of
issues related to biodiversity management. The establishment of the SC will be a Condition of
Grant Effectiveness [para. 4.2 (b)].
2.44   Project Manager. An internationally recruited PM will have the overall respon-
sibility for managing the activities of this project, consistent with the Global Environment
Trust (GET) Agreement and the Project Implementation Plan. The consultants financed under
the project (both long and short-termn) will report to the PM. The PM will be responsible for
day-to-day management of the project in accordance with the PIP and approved work plan.
The PM will be guided by the SC and, on important day to day decisions, by the PS of
MFNR. The PM will be assisted by a Financial Controller (FC) and local support staff.
Appointment of both the PM and the FC will be a Condition of Grant Effectiveness [para. 4.2
(c)] .
2.45   The PM will be responsible for the preparation of the annual consolidated work plan
for the project components and the annual budget allocations within each component and will
submit the plan to the Steering Committee and the Bank for comments [para. 4.1 (1)]. The
first annual work plan will be included in the PIP. The PM will have principal supervisory
responsibility for the implementation and the progress of all components and, will keep a
database on all project-related activities. A Research Advisory Group (RAG), comprised of
Chief Fisheries Officers and Chief National Parks and Wildlife Officers from the riparian
countries, will participate in periodic reviews and advise the PM on the project's research
activities. The procedures for implementation and project supervisioii will be outlined in the
PIP. The PM will prepare and submit quarterly reports as described below (para. 2.47). The
PM will ensure the drafting of the Biodiversity Map and Management Plan for the Lake (para.
2.4). At the end of his assignment the PM will prepare information which the Government
will use to assist the Bank with the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report
within six months of the project closing date [para. 4.1 (m)]. The TOR of the PM are
provided in Annex 4.
2.46  Implementation of the National Research Stations. The implementation of the
component for rehabilitating the National Research Stations in Mozambique and Tanzania will
lie with the respective governments, formulated with UNDP assistance for each country, and
the Governments will be the respective executing agencies for the UNDP schemes. UNDP
will be responsible for procurement and disbursement under this component (see Annexes 8
and 9). The work on the National Research Station at Cape MaClear in Malawi is
incorporated into the research component of the project.
D.    Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
2.47   Detailed M&E procedures and monitorable indicators will be outlined in the PIP.
Overall responsibility for M&E will be with the PM. The main instruments for monitoring
16



project progress will be quarterly progress reports on each of the various project activities,
submitted to the PM by the leaders of each project component, including UNDP reports on the
progress with the implementation of the project components in Mozambique and Tanzania.
These reports will compare actual implementation to the plan schedule, analyze the reasons for
any significant delays and propose corrective actions. A consolidated quarterly Progress
Report, including an account of beneficiary assessment, prepared by the PM, and copied to
the Bank, will be regularly reviewed by the Steering Committee within one month after the
end of the period reported [para. 4.1 (n)]. The SC will recommend corrective actions, if any.
The WSM will assist and train staff of DNPW to undertake systematic beneficiary assessment
to provide feedback into project implementation, ensure sensitivity to lake users, and ensure
that conservation awareness messages are appropriate to users.
2.48   A mid-term progress review for the project will be conducted not later than 24 months
after project effectiveness. To facilitate this review, the Government of Malawi, the PM and
the FC will prepare a report not later than 90 days prior to the mid-term review, which will
cover both past activities and anticipated future activities to the end of the project and propose
changes, if any. The mid-term review will also discuss the draft BMPL and its policy, legal,
and financial implications [para 4.1 (o)].
17



E.      Project Costs and Financing
(1)     Cost Estimates
2.49   Total project costs over the 1995-1999 period, for all capital and operating
expenditures, including physical and price contingencies, are estimnated at MK 41.4 million
(US$5.4 million). Estimated project costs are summarized in Table 1 and detailed in Annex
13. The total cost of the project is net of taxes and duties. Donor supported projects have a
tax-free status in Malawi.
2.50   Base costs are expressed in 1994 values. The total project costs include an allowance,
of US$575,730 equivalent for contingencies. Physical Contingencies were estimated at
US$300,033 equivalent or 6%. Price Contingencies were estimated at US$275,697 or 6%
based on: domestic inflation rates of 8.6% for 1995/96, 5% for 1996-1999; and foreign
inflation rates of 3%  for 1995-1997, and 2.9%  for 1997-1999.
Schedule A
Table 1: Summary of Project Costs by Component
COST
Project Component                                                                              %        %
MK '000                            US$                  Foreign   Total
Exchiange   Base
Local    Foreign     Total      Local      Foreign        Total             Costs
1. Research^               9,185.0    8,379.6   17,564.5  1,287,528   1,173,611   2,461,139     48         51
2. Strengthening National
Capacity                 1,876.3     674.2    2,550.5  262,786.2   94,431.1  357,217.3       26          7
3. Legislation               308.1      601.1      909.2   43,154.8   84,188.3   127,343.1      66          3
4. Protected Areas           655.8    7,119.3    7,775.1   91,843.1    998,527   1,090,370      92         22
5. Project Administration   2,923.6    2,989.7    5,913.4  409,473.4  418,728.6  828,202.1      51         17
Total Baseline Costs       14,948.8   19,764.0   34,712.7  2,094,786   2,769,486   4,864,272    57        100
Physical Contingencies     913.0    1,229.2    2,142.2   127,869.4  172,163.7  300,033.1     57          6
Price Contingencies      1,934.4    2,630.8    4,565.2   116,157.2  159,539.4  275,696.6     58          6
Total Project Costs     17,796.1   23,624.0   41,420.1   2,338,813   3,101,189   5,440,001   57        112
A Includes US $400,000 for the rehabilitation of the Kyela Research Station in Tanzania and the Metangula Research
Station in Mozambique which will be implemented by UNDP.
18



(2)    Procurement
2.51   All items to be financed under the GEF Grant will be procured in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (May 1992) [para. 4.1 (p)]. Procurement arrangements
are summarized in Table 2 below.
Schedule B
Table 2: Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           International  Local                           ] N.B.F.      Total
l                       ~~~~~~~~~~Competitive   Competitive  Other  Comiinndg
Bidding     Bidding                 Services
A.Civil WorksA                      -       570,867.5                                      570,867.5
B. Equipment and Goods
1. Research Equipment        5,772.3                          -                         5,772.3
2. Office Equipment          62,294.9                                                  62,294.9
3. Vehicles/Boats            98,460.3                                                  98,460.3
C. Consultant Services
1. Nankumba Peninsula/Lake
Malawi National Park         -            -           -       960,292.9   254,047  1,214,339.9
2. International Experts/
Consultants                  -            -           -        1,427,232     -      1,427,232
3. National Experts             -           -           -         8,323.4       -       8,323.4
4. Report Production            -           -           -        24,982.8       -      24,982.8
5. Training and Studies         -           -           -        161,783.2             161,783.2
D. Service Contracts
I . Salaries                    -           -       256,425.5        -      200,000   456,42S.5
2. Wages                                    -        62,557.0        -          -      62,557.0
3. Overseas Travel              -           -        92,159.2        -          -      92,159.2
4. Local Travel                 -           -        57,452.4        -          -      57,452.4
5. Regional Travel
(MOZ/TANZ)                   -            -        2,575.3        -          -       2,575.3
6. Travel Allowances            -           -        64,487.4        -          -      64,487.4
E. Incremental Operating Costs
1. Office Supplies              -           -           -            -          -
2. Equip/Operating & Maint.     -           -        79,869.0        -          -      79,869.0
3. Veh. & Boats/Oper. &
Maint.                       -           -       219,537.8       -                 219,537.8
4. Research Vessel/Oper. &
Maint                        -           -       251,971.3        -                251,971.3
5. Site Running Costs           -           -       492,700.2        -          -      492,700.2
6. Other Recurring Costs        -           -        86,209.8                  8- 86,209.8
TOTAL                         166,527.5   570,867.5  1 ,665,944.9  2,582,614.3  454,047   5,440,001
A Procurement [of Mozambique (US$200,000) and Tanzania (US$200,000) portions] by UNDP under conditions acceptable
to the Bank.
19



2.52   Civil Works. The civil works under the project would be national lakeshore fish
laboratories' improvements, such as expansions, repairs, renovations, electrical connections,
and wiring. All works will be procured under Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures
acceptable to the Bank. The bidding process is the responsibility of the Government of
Malawi and will be reviewed by and be acceptable to the Bank. Interested, foreign bidders
will be allowed to submit bids, and will not be required to have local agents or local
registration to be able to participate in bidding. Bids will be opened in public, and contracts
will be awarded to the lowest bidder. In the absence of pre-qualification, post-qualification
criteria will be explicitly stated in the bidding documents.
2.53   Equipment, Goods and Vehicles. Equipment will consist of scientific and office
equipment and supplies. Scientific and office equipment, including computers and printers,
will be procured for Research and National Capacity Building components. These items will
be organized into suitable bid packages by the Project Manager. Items will be grouped, to the
extent possible, into packages estimated to cost US$100,000 or greater, to be procured in
accordance with the International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures and packages valued
at less than US$100,000 may be procured using Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) and
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Those items which cannot be so packaged and such
contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 each will be procured by prudent shopping or
from the International Agency Procurement Office (IAPSO). The Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents will be used for ICB.
2.54   Technical Assistance.' The project will have a provision for Resident Technical
Assistance to include the PM (four years), and a Limnologist (36 months), an
Ecologist/Conservation Planner (42 months), and a Taxonomist (36 months). Short-term
technical assistance may be used for monitoring and evaluation activities which would require
the assistance of experts in environmental education, linnology/water quality,
taxonomy/ecology, or conservation planning. A specific provision has been made for the
hiring of a legal expert for the purposes indicated in the text and Annex 7. Technical
assistance assignments will involve both individual consultants and consulting finns. The
selection of consultants will be performed in accordance with the Guidelinesfor the Use of
Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers (August 1981), using the Bank's standardized Letter
of Invitation (LOI) and Standard Form of Contract for Consultants' Services (May 1993)
[para. 4.1 (p)]. International firms will be encouraged to associate with domestic firms of
their choice.
2.55   Review of Procurement. The Bank will carry out a prior review of all contracts for
equipment goods, works and consultant services with firms of US$100,000 or greater in value,
and all contracts with individual consultants above US$50,000. All documentation below the
prior thresholds will be retained by the Government and assisting staff, and made available to
the Bank for post-review as requested. Quarterly reports will include information on
procurement.
I The Use of Consultants and TA. Every effort has been made to minimize the need for foreign TA, especially
long-term expatriate consultants. The use of such consultants has been limited to basic research components which
will be completed by the end of this project and for which no adequate expertise is available in the riparian countries,
and for short term transfer of technology/management. Given the training/capacity building efforts planned under the
project, it is anticipated that when it ends, adequate number of scientific and technical personnel will have been
trained in-service so that the monitoring/management of the Lake can be undertaken by nationals of the riparian
countries.
20



(3)    Disbursements
2.56   Disbursements. Malawi's disbursement profile indicates for all sectors an average of
7 'h years from the approval date. However, it is expected that the project will be disbursed
over a period of 4 h years (Annex 13) from 1995 to 1999 since technical assistance is the
major activity and will begin soon after effectiveness and continue throughout the project.
Civil works, comprising the rehabilitation of laboratories and the construction of simple
artisan quarters, do not exceed $600,000. Purchase of all vehicles, video equipment and
computers will be tendered soon after project effectiveness. Experienced staff who have
effectively operated from the Senga Bay site will assure timely packaging and delivery. All
project activities are expected to be completed by January 31, 1999, and the grant closing date
will be July 31, 1999. Project disbursements are shown in Table 3.
Schedule C
Table 3: Disbursement
Category of Items             US$Equivalent           % of Expenditure to be
Financed
A. Civil Works A                        571,000                      100
B. Equipment and Goods                   68,000                      100
C. Vehicles                              98,000                      100
D. Technical Assistance                3,410,000                     100
E. Training                             162,000                      100
F. Incremental Operating Costs         1,131,000                     100
TOTAL                                5,440,000                     100
A $400,000 covers National Research Stations in Mozambique and Tanzania ($200,000 each) to be
implemented by the UNDP
2.57   Disbursements under the project will be made against Statement of Expenses (SOE)
for contracts for equipment, goods, works and consultant services for firms valued at less than
US$100,000 and for individual consultants valued at less than US$50,000. Documentation for
SOE expenditures will be retained by the project implementation agencies and the Directorate
General of Budget (Ministry of Finance) and be made available for inspection by Bank
supervision missions and external auditors. These agreements were obtained during
negotiations. [para. 4.1 (q)].
2.58   Special Account. To facilitate disbursements and to ensure that the funds are
available when needed, the Government of Malawi will establish a Special Account with a
commercial bank to be administered by MFNR [para. 4.1 (r)]. The Special Account will be
maintained in US dollars with an initial deposit of US$300,000. The Special Account will be
for withdrawals, in all categories, relating to all expenditures. The Government will request
replenishment of the Special Account on a monthly basis or more frequently, if necessary,
upon receipt of satisfactory evidence of disbursements for eligible expenditures. Should any
disbursement be made for items not eligible, the Government will be required to reimburse the
corresponding amount.
21



(4)    Financial Accounting and Audit Requirements
2.59   Accounts and Audits. MFNR, through the Financial Controller, will be responsible
for preparing financial statements and accounts relating to the disbursement of the GEF grant.
Agreement was obtained at negotiations [para. 4.1 (s)] that the Government of Malawi and its
agencies will comply with the following project reporting and auditing arrangements: (i) to
facilitate the audit of project accounts, MFNR, the project lead agency, will collect and
present the project accounts of all implementing agencies in coordination with the PM; (ii) all
project accounts including schedules of expenditures claimed under SOE procedures and usage
of the Special Account will be audited annually by the Government of Malawi Auditor
General, or other suitably qualified auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (iii) audit reports of
the project accounts, SOE and Special Account will be submitted to the Bank within nine
months of the end of the Government of Malawi's fiscal year.
22



3. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT, BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Environmental Impact
3.1    The project was assigned environmental assessment category B due to infrastructure
development in the Lake Malawi National Park which required an environmental mitigation
plan. However, infrastructure development has been halted, pending the development of a
Strategic Plan for Nankumba Peninsula and Lake Malawi National Park, which will identify
activities that require appropriate environmental impact assessments. There is, therefore, no
need to prepare an environmental mitigation plan for the project at this time. At negotiations
the Government of Malawi agreed that development activities in Nankumba Peninsula and
Lake Malawi National Park will be consistent with the Strategic Plan to be developed under
the project [para. 4.1 (j)].
B.    Project Benefits
3.2   The project is designed to establish the scientific, educational, and policy basis for the
sustainable conservation and management of the Lake's globally important biodiversity. A
major goal of the project is the strengthening of capacity among the riparian countries in fresh
water management, ecology, taxonomy, limnology, and environmental education. The project
will provide baseline biological and water quality information as a basis for future scientific
monitoring and lake resources management. The establishment of a systematic reporting of
scientific findings to administrative, policy, and donor institutions and the general public will
alert authorities of the need for tripartite corrective action if there is an indication of
ecosystem degradation or threats to the biodiversity of the Lake. These outputs, together with
the initiatives to harmonize policy and legislation, will strengthen tri-national Lake research
and management, and provide the capacity and information necessary for maintaining the
Lake's unique biodiversity resources.
3.3    All of the project's activities will lead to the development of a Biodiversity Map and
Management Plan. The plan will identify biodiversity hotspots, make recommendations for
follow-up conservation actions and investments, and identify a system of protected areas that
will be representative and complementary to Lake Malawi National Park and represent all
major habitats and fish communities. This plan will provide the framework for follow-up
national and potential international action programs to manage the Lake on an environmentally
sound and sustainable basis.
C.    Project Risks
3.4   Limited government implementation capacity may be a major constraint to the
realization of the full project benefits. The design of this project minimizes such risks. First,
it will utilize the tri-national Steering Committee Management structure which has proved
successful in the UK/SADC project. Second, technical assistance will be used selectively to
augment government capability during the investment period. Third, the extensive training
under the project will enable nationals of the riparian states to manage follow-up conservation
actions and investments identified in the Biodiversity Map and Management Plan for the Lake,
and minimize foreign technical assistance. The risk that this capacity may be compromised by
additional development obligations in the future cannot be entirely dismissed. However, it is
anticipated that the Government's commitment to the management of the Lake will be
sufficiently strengthened under the project to mitigate this risk. There is also a risk that the
23



future scarcity of investment resources will prevent full implementation of the Biodiversity
Map and Management Plan. The strengthening of scientific work on the lake, and increased
involvement of the international community in its monitoring and management should help to
mobilize the resources needed for its sustainable development.
24



4. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS, AND RECOMMENDATION
4.1   Agreements:
The following agreements were reached by the Bank with the Government during
negotiations:
(a)   to prepare a preliminary draft of the Biodiversity Map and Management Plan
for Lake Malawi/Nyasa (BMPL) to be reviewed with the riparian countries
and the Bank within 24 months of Grant effectiveness. The final draft will be
circulated to the Bank for comments no later than 36 months after Grant
effectiveness (paras. 2.4 and 2.6);
(b)   to submit to SADC within 42 months after Grant effectiveness a time-bound
proposal for the implementation of the BMPL by the riparian countries (para.
2.6);
(c)   to prepare an interim report on biodiversity conservation priorities for Lake
Malawi/Nyasa within 18 months after Grant effectiveness and submit it to the
riparian states and the Bank for comments and review. The final draft will be
prepared within 30 months of Grant effectiveness (para. 2.10);
(d)   to prepare a Species Identification Manual (para. 2.13);
(e)   to prepare an interim report on water quality/pollution within 18 months after
Grant effectiveness submitted to the riparian states and Bank for comments and
review. A final draft report on water quality/pollution will be prepared within
30 months of Grant effectiveness (para. 2.18);
(f)   upon signature of an agreement/protocol between the Recipient and UNDP to
submit a duly-signed withdrawal application, in an amount of US$400,000
payable to UNDP (para. 2.21);
(g)   to produce training programs as part of the project's annual work program
(para. 2.25);
(h)   to develop a conservation awareness program (para. 2.30);
(i)   to prepare a Strategic Plan for Nankumba Peninsula and Lake Malawi National
Park, and submit it to the Bank for comments one year after Grant
effectiveness (para. 2.39);
(j)   that development activities in the Nankumba Peninsula and Lake Malawi
National Park will be consistent with the Strategic Plan (paras. 2.39 and 3.1);
(k)   to deploy appropriately qualified staff in required numbers for project
implementation, in accordance with a schedule agreed upon with the Bank
during negotiations (para. 2.41);
25



(1)   to have the first project annual plan included in the Project Implementation
Plan. Annual plans for subsequent years should be prepared before the end of
the year preceding the year addressed by the plan and provided to Bank for
comments (para. 2.45);
(m)   to assist the Bank with the preparation of an implementation completion report
within six months of the project closing date (para. 2.45);
(n)   to have quarterly progress reports prepared by the PM sent to the Bank within
one month after the end of the reporting period (para. 2.47);
(o)   to have a mid-term review conducted not later than 24 months after project
effectiveness, at which time the draft BMPL, and its policy, legal, and
financial implications will be discussed as well as other implementation and
management aspects of the project (para. 2.48);
(p)   to procure goods and services in conformance with the Bank's procedures set
forth in the "Guidelines for procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits"
(May 1992) and "Guidelines for the use of consultants by World Bank
borrowers and by the World Bank as executing agency" (August 1981)
(paras. 2.51 and 2.54);
(q)   to have the project implementing agencies and the Ministry of Finance retain
all documentation for SOE expenditures and make it available for inspection
by Bank supervision missions and external auditors (para. 2.57);
(r)   to establish a special account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank
(para. 2.58); and
(s)   to have all project accounts audited by the Government of Malawi Auditor
General, or other suitably qualified auditors acceptable to the Bank and that all
audited accounts, together with the auditors report, will be submitted to the
Bank not later than nine months after the end of each Government fiscal year
(para. 2.59).
4.2    Conditions of Effectiveness:
Prior to Grant effectiveness, the Government will:
(a)    finalize the Project Implementation Plan (para. 2.41); and
(b)    establish a Steering Committee chaired by the Principal Secretary for the
MFNR with membership and TOR acceptable to the Bank (para 2.43);
(c)    appoint a Project Manager and Financial Controller selected under procedures
and TOR, acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.44).
26



4.3    Disclosure of Information: The Government of Malawi agreed at Negotiations to
mnake this document available to the public.
4.4    Recommendation. With the above agreements, the project will be eligible for a GEF
grant of US$5 million equivalent to the Government of Malawi.
27



Annex 1
Table 4: Project Components, Activities and Outputs
Project Components                                   Major Activities                                    Major Outputs
1.   Rc
a.      Biodiversity Surveys                       *        Survey and develop inventory of Lake       *        Biodiversity Report of Lake and maps
habitats and species to identify biodiversity       showing critical habitat and biodiversity
hotspots in Lake Malawi/Nyasa                      hotspots (includes all survey reports and
b.      Limonology & Water Quality Monitoring      *        Identify major pollution sources and monitor        species checklist)
water quality and threats to Lake          *       Report on water quality of Lake habitats
c.      Fish Taxonomy and Ecology                  *        Research on taxonomy and ecology of fish            outlining major threats to biodiversity
populations especially, endemic cichlids   *        Primary scientific information on species
d.      Rehabilitation of Research Stations        *        Rehabilitate national research stations             distribution and ecology
*       Species Identification Manual
*       Enhanced facilities for local and visiting
scientists
2.      National Capacity Building                 *        In-country training of technical and       *        Thirty-two trained individuals in scientific,
scientific staff to strengthen national            technical, and education disciplines
a.      Training                                            capacity to develop and implement national    *     Informal and formal information exchange
conservation programs                               programs
b.      Conservation Awareness                     *        Explore 'twinning' with appropriate        *        Conservation awareness program including
scientific or management institutions              media productions
*       Develop and implement Community
Awareness Program
3.      Environmental Legislation                   *       Review environmental legislation related to  *      Recommendations to riparian countries for
the Lake in the riparian countries, with the        revising and strengthening legislation
objective of identifying inadequacies and           and/or enforcement ability to create
inconsistencies related to the conservation of     harmonized and effective conservation,
biodiversity in Lake Malawi/Nyasa                   including the preparation of draft
l __________________________________________________  ___________________________________________________        legislation   as  appropriate
4.      Protected Areas Management                  *       Identify community roles in park and Lake   *       Strategic Plan for Nankumba Peninsula and
conservation                                        Lake Malawi National Park, including
*       Prepare Plan for Nankumba Peninsula and             recommendations for community
Lake Malawi National Park                          involvement in its implementation and
management
Project Administration                     *       Management of all Project Components        *       Biodiversity Map and Management Plan for
Lake Malawi/Nyasa
__28                                  Quanerly Reports/Progress Reports
28



Annex 2
Project Implementation Chart
Steering                          Principal Secretary
Committee                     Ministry of Natural Resources
Research
Advisory Group
Prjetlanager       |
Research             National Capacity             Environmental                   Protected Areas
Building                   Legislation                    Management
i) Biodiversity Surveys      i) Training           i) Reconunendations for revising   i) Nankumba Peninsula & LMNP
ii) Fish Taxonomy and        ii) Conservation        and strengthening legislation   Strategic Plan
Ecology                       Awareness        ii) Draft legislation           ii) Biodiversity Map and
iii) Limnology & Water                                                                Management Plan for Lake
Quality Monitoring                                                                Malawi/Nyasa
iv) Rehabilitation of
Research Stations



SADC LAKE MALAWI/NYASA                           Annex 3
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
STEERING COMMITTEE TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.    The Steering Committee will approve annual work programs; monitor and evaluate the
progress of the project, especially interim and final results of studies; and ensure that all
parties to the project are regularly informed of the project progress and findings.
Composition and Membership
2.    The Steering Committee shall comprise members from relevant government
institutions (with expertise in natural resource management, environment, and international
law) of the three riparian states of Malawi, Tanzania, and Mozambique, and selected
international and local NGOs and academic institutions with a particular stake in the Lake
environment. The establishment of the Steering Committee with membership acceptable to the
Bank will be a condition of effectiveness. This membership would serve to disseminate
project findings efficiently while building capacity for biodiversity management in
government, academia, and non-governmental organizations.
Duties and Responsibilities
3.    The Steering Committee will:
*  meet at least three times a year to review project component progress and project
findings, and make recommendations or prescribe actions to remedy problems in
project implementation;
*  review and approve the annual work program of the project and make necessary
reconmmendations for project orientation and implementation;
*  respond immediately to issues identified by the Project Manager or Principal Secretary
for action, and inform the relevant Governments, and the Bank of decisions made and
actions taken;
*  assist in the organization of the mid-term review; and
*  review and approve the Biodiversity Map and Management Plan for Lake
Malawi/Nyasa.
30



Annex 4
SADC LAKE MALAWI/NYASA
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION TERMS OF REFERENCE
PROJECT MANAGER
Qualification and Experience:
1.    The Project Manager (PM) will have an advanced degree and a post-graduate training
in one of the following areas: project administration, fish ecology or systematics, natural
resource management, limnology and/or conservation of biodiversity. It would be useful if
the PM had good knowledge of the fish fauna and ecological conditions within Lake
Malawi/Nyasa.
2.    The PM should have experience in the design, execution and administration of
Fisheries Projects and be conversant with projects involving the use of aquatic research
vessels, and lengthy periods of off-land research. It would be useful if he/she had experience
with projects in Africa.
3.    The PM should have proven experience in the administration and training of project
personnel. It is also desirable that he/she has experience in working with international
organizations concerned with biodiversity conservation and should demonstrate the capacity to
maintain an effective liaison with the scientific and developmental commnunities on matters
relevant to fish conservation. English fluency will be required and a knowledge of Portuguese
would be useful.
Duties and Responsibilities:
4.    Under the supervision and guidance of the Principal Secretary of the MFNR, and
advice of the Steering Committee, the PM will have principal and overall responsibility for the
management of the SADC Lake Malawi/Nyasa Biodiversity Conservation Project. He/she
will:
*  assist in the preparation and elaboration of Terms of Reference for consultants and
staff hired;
*  prepare the annual work plan and budget of the project with assistance from the
Financial Controller, and submit it to the Steering Committee, and Bank;
*  keep a data base on implementation activities of all components and project activities,
and identify as early as possible constraints to project implementation and propose
remedies;
*  oversee the training of research and technical officers;
31



*  assist in exploring "twinning" arrangements with appropriate scientific and/or
management institutions and enhance prospects for local and visiting scientists to work
on the project;
*  maintain regular contact with project component staff by visiting sites and convening
meetings as necessary;
*  maintain regular contact with the Principal Secretary of MFNR and cooperate fully
with tasks required by the PS and Steering Committee for effective project
implementation;
*  produce quarterly reports on project implementation and submit them in a timely
manner to the Steering Committee, and Bank;
*  ensure that procedures for procurement, accounting, auditing, disbursement and budget
preparation are followed as agreed according to the Implementation Plan;
*  review the work plans, procurement, disbursement, and general progress of each
component on an regular, ongoing basis; and
*  coordinate the preparation of the Biodiversity Map and Management Plan for Lake
Malawi/Nyasa drawing on the outputs of the project components.
FINANCIAL CONTROLLER
Qualification and Experience:
The Financial Controller (preferably a national), should have an internationally
recognized accountancy qualification from such bodies as the Association of Certified
Chartered Accountants, the Institute of Management Accountants or equivalent. In addition,
he/she should have had at least three years accounting experience, preferably with an
international organization. English fluency will be required, and computer (spreadsheet)
familiarity would be advantageous. Experience of general and personnel administration would
also be helpful.
Duties and Responsibilities:
The principal job objective of the Financial Controller is to assist the Project Manager
by providing financial analysis, administrative, and logistical support to the project.
He/she will have responsibilities as follows:
A.    Finances
*  Establish and supervise a system of procedures for budgeting, disbursement,
accounting and internal financial controls for project implementation;
*  Manage a revolving imprest account and maintain an up to date account of all local
and overseas project expenditures;
32



*  Deal with finance and faiancial documents including the preparation of project
accounts, banking and bank reconciliations; and
*  Assist the Project Manager in preparation of the annual project budget and the budget
for each project component.
B.    Persone
*  On a daily basis to deal directly with conditions of service and welfare issues of
concern to locally engaged staff, referring appropriate cases to the Project Manager
for further action; and
*  Maintain up-to-te personnel records including pay progress and leave records.
C. General
Achieve efficient and effective procurement of goods and supplies by monitoring and
ensuring an economical system of holding and control of stores stock
33



Annex 5
SADC LAKE MALAWI/NYASA
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
RESEARCH COMPONENTS
TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. ECOLOGY
Ecologist/Conservation Planner
Qualification and Experience. The Ecologist/Conservation Planner will have an
advanced degree and post-graduate training in fish ecology and some experience in planning
conservation areas. The Ecologist/Conservation Planner should preferably have good
knowledge of the ecological conditions within Lake Malawi. He/she should have experience
in the design, execution and assessment of research programs concerning fish ecology and
ecological interactions in aquatic ecosystems.
Duties and Responsibilities. The Ecologist/Conservation Planner will be responsible
to the Project Manager. He/she will have principal responsibility for the planning, design,
execution and overall coordination of the biodiversity surveys and inventories of species and
habitats to identify biodiversity hotspots in the Lake, supervise cichlid ecological research,
and contribute to the preparation of the work plan for this component. With the Taxonomist,
the Ecologist/Conservation Planner will submit quarterly progress reports to the PM. In
addition, he/she will assist with the training of research officers/technicians in fish ecology
and research design and analyses. Experience with scuba and fishing boats is considered
useful.
Ecology Research Officer
Qualification and Experience. The Research Officer will have experience in fish
ecology and conservation of biodiversity. An advanced degree is not required since the
research officer will be provided with on the job training by the Ecologist/Conservation
Planner.
Duties and Responsibilities. The Research Officer will be responsible to the
Ecologist/Conservation Planner. The Research Officer will collect and analyze relevant data,
and carry out other tasks assigned by the Ecologist/Conservation Planner for the
implementation of the Fish Ecology Research program.
Ecology Technician
Qualifcation and Experience. The Technician will have experience in fish ecology
and a good knowledge of the ecological conditions within Lake Malawi/Nyasa. Experience
with international research projects is considered useful. A diploma/certificate in Fisheries is
desirable.
34



Duties and Responsibilities. The Technician will assist the Ecologist/Conservation
Planner and Research Officer in the Fish Ecology Research Program. Primary responsibilities
will include sampling on lake cruises, fish sorting, stomach content analyses and data entry
and analysis.
B. TAXONOMY
Taxonomist
Qualifications and Experience: The Taxonomist will have an advanced degree and
post-graduate training in fish taxonomy and conservation of biodiversity. The Taxonomist
should have a good knowledge of fish taxonomy and be able to utilize modem systematic
techniques in his/her research. He/she should have experience in the design, execution and
assessment of research programs concerning fish taxonomy and if possible, aquatic
ecosystems.
Duties and Responsibilities: The Taxonomist will be responsible to the Project
Manager. The Taxonomist will have principal responsibility for the planning, design,
execution and overall coordination of research on taxonomy of the fish population in the
Lake, particularly the cichlid species and preparation of the sub-component's work plan for
PM review. He/she will submit quarterly progress reports to the PM of the sub-component's
activities for review. In addition, the Taxonomist will be responsible for the training of the
research officers/technicians in fish taxonomy, systematic methodologies and analyses.
Experience in scuba and Fishing Boats is considered useful.
Taxonomy Research Officer
Qualification and Experience: The Research Officer will have experience in fish
taxonomy and biodiversity conservation. An advanced degree is not required since the
research officer will be provided with on the job training by the Fish Taxonomist.
Duties and Responsibilities: The Research Officer will be responsible to the Fish
Taxonomist. As part of his/her program, the Research Officer will prepare fish samples for
identification, analyze data and carry out other tasks assigned by the Fish Taxonomist.
Taxonomy Technician
Quafications and Experience: The Technician will have experience and knowledge
of the fishes of Lake Malawi/Nyasa. Experience with international research projects is
considered useful. A diploma/certificate in Biological Sciences or Fisheries is desirable.
Duties and Responsibilities: The Technician will assist the Fish Taxonomist and the
Research Officer in the Fish Taxonomy Research Program. His/her primary responsibilities
will include sampling on the lake cruises, fish identification, preservation and sorting of
samples, data entry and analysis.
35



Ecology and Taxonomy Outputs
The ecologists and taxonomists financed under this project will be responsible for
producing:
*  Primary scientific information on ecology, species distribution, and taxonomy;
*  Baseline information for future monitoring and evaluation;
*  A Species Identification Manual; and
*  A draft report which identifies biodiversity conservation priorities for Lake
Malawi/Nyasa" which will include maps of species distribution identifying critical
habitats and biodiversity hotspots; biodiversity survey reports; species checklists; and
recommendations for preliminary measures to demarcate and protect critical habitats
or fisheries replenishment zones within 30 months of grant effectiveness.
C. LIMNOLOGY/WATER QUALITY
Limnologist/ Water Quality Scientist
Qualifications and Experience: The Limnologist/Water Quality Scientist will have
an advanced degree and post-graduate training in limnology and conservation of biodiversity.
The scientist should have good knowledge of the limnological conditions within African or
other tropical aquatic ecosystems and experience in the design, execution and assessment of
limnology research programs and biolimnological interactions in aquatic ecosystems.
Duties and Responsibilities: The Limnologist/Water Quality Scientist will be
responsible to the Project Manager and will have principal responsibility for the planning,
design, execution and overall coordination of the limnology/water quality monitoring research
program, including preparing the work plan for the component. He/she will submit quarterly
progress reports to the PM. In addition, the Limnologist/Water Quality Scientist will be
responsible for the training of the research officer in water quality sampling, and research
design and analysis, and for supervising and guiding any research officers/technicians attached
to the project.
Limnology/ Water Quality Research Officer
Qualifications and Experience: The Research Officer will have experience in
limnnology and water quality monitoring. An advanced degree is preferable but not required as
the Research Officer will be provided with on the job training by the Limnologist/Water
Quality Scientist.
Duties and Responsibilities: The Research Officer will be responsible to the
Limnology/Water Quality Scientist. The Research Officer will assist the Limnologist/Water
Quality Scientist with the implementation of the Limnology/Water Quality Monitoring
Research Program.
36



qmnology/ Water Quality TechniLan
Qualifcations and Experience: The Technician will have experience in water quality
and good knowledge of Lake Malawi/Nyasa. Experience with international research projects
is considered useful. A diploma/certificate in Biological Sciences or Fisheries is desirable.
Duties and Responsibilities: The Technician will assist the Limnologist and the
Research Officer in the Limnology/Water Quality Monitoring Research Program. His/her
primary responsibilities will include sampling on the lake cruises, conducting analyses of
samples and data entry and analysis.
LImnology/Water Quality Output:
The limnologists/water quality scientists will provide baseline water quality
information and establish the parameters for future monitoring; identify threats to hotspots and
replenishment areas; and adopt a model for understanding the ecological interactions among
the biotic and physical elements of the ecosystem in order to quantify trends concerning the
function, structure and integrity of the Lake ecosystem. Within 30 months of grant
effectiveness, the limnologist/water quality scientist will produce a final draft report on water
quality/pollution outlining major existing and/or political threats to biodiversity and
recommendations for their mitigation.
37



Annex 6
SADC LAKE MALAWI/NYASA BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
STRATEGIC PLAN FOR NANKUMBA PENINSULA,
LAKE MALAWI NATIONAL PARK
AND ENCLAVE VILLAGES
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.    Overview
The conflict among ad hoc tourist developments, and traditional and other forms of
land use within the Peninsula is increasing. A comprehensive Strategic Plan For Nankumba
Peninsula and Lake Malawi National Park is required to minimize the potential damage of the
unique environment. The Strategic Plan would assess present uses and allocate areas for
future activities to maximize the use and benefits which could accrue from the area and to
ensure maximum protection of its critical resources.
The Strategic Plan would be based on a sound understanding of environmental and
socioeconomic opportunities and constraints. The Plan would integrate all aspects of land and
water use, tourism, resorts, agricultural development, park development, fisheries
management, forestry development, and community development, thereby enhancing the status
of cultural heritage of the area.
The strategic planning framework may be used as a model for future community
development in association with sustainable tourism and conservational development of the
Lake Malawi basin and other areas in Malawi. The Plan will allow evaluation and integration
of all anticipated future proposals, thereby avoiding the current ad hoc approach. The
Strategic Plan will address, in an integrated manner, environmental issues, environmentally
sound infrastructure requirements and costs, and investment opportunities.
The preparation of the Strategic Plan will include an in-depth analysis and evaluation
of the five village communities enclaves in the National Park, the external communities of
Kassaha Bay, and Monkey Bay and other areas.
2.    Study Area
The geographic region incorporates the Nankumba Peninsula as illustrated on the
Department of Surveys sheet # 1434B2 and part of sheet # 1334D4 (scale 1:50,000). More
detailed surveys and plans at larger scales will be required for the enclave villages and the
Park Visitor's Center Site (Golden Sands).
3.    Objective And Approach
The objective of this activity is to prepare an integrated strategic plan based on a
comprehensive resource and human activity assessment, followed by an analysis of issues and
options. The development of the Strategic Plan For Nankumba Peninsula and Lake Malawi
National Park will be a two phase process consisting of: (1) data survey and collection of
information; (2) assessment and evaluation, and the development of a plan for conservation
and development.
38



(1)    Phase 1 (Data Survey and Collection)
An international firm, funded by the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA) will complete Phase 1, in partnership with local expertise. This group will establish a
Planning Team and report to the Ministry of Physical Planning and Surveys (MPPS). The
DHPP will coordinate the pertinent activities with all other Government of Malawi agencies,
such as the Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources (MFNR), the Ministry of Finance,
Tourism, Department of Antiquities, District Administration and the Malawi Development
Corporation (MDC), as well as local communities, chieftains and donors, which may have a
role to play in the development of the Strategic Plan. Phase 1 will include the following
activities:
*  the development of a natural resources data-base and completion of detailed surveys of
soils, slopes, geological structures, vegetation associations, limnological features,
drainage, climate, etc., which will form a basis for planning (all relevant data will be
utilized in the development of a project geographic information system (GIS);
*  a socioeconomic survey of village communities to cover all aspects of community
organization and institutions including property rights, inheritance, health, education
and population issues, traditional access, and land use patterns;
-  survey and mapping all existing and historic (Livingstonian site) land and aquatic uses
and activities,
-  identification of current transportation, communication, energy, water, waste
management issues, requirements, and their environmental costs if any; and
-  completion of a market survey and assessment of existing tourism statistics and
infrastructure facilities related to the Nankumba Peninsula. Assess the flow of tourism
into Malawi from the Southern African region, Europe, etc., and the infrastructure
facilities within the country leading to the Nankumba Peninsula.
(2)    Phase 2 (Assessment and Evaluation and Strategic Plan for Conservation
and Development)
Phase 2 will build upon the work and information collected in Phase 1. The
consulting firm and Planning Team, in consultation with local communities, will focus on a
number of major activities including:
*  the identification of cross linkages amongst activities and sectors, with the objective of
pinpointing all key issues requiring resolution;
*  the preparation of a series of opportunity and constraint maps (using GIS) based on the
identified and agreed issues;
*  the identification of optional plans to resolve the identified issues; and
*  the review of optional plans, with the Steering Committee, to select the preferred
option(s).
39



As a result of this evaluation process, the consulting firm and the Planning Team
would develop an integrated and detailed action plan that would refine, prioritize and expand
the conclusions of the assessment and evaluation work. The development of the Strategic Plan
will require the following:
*  due and diligent consideration of all potential uses for the study area, including
tourism, resort development, recreation and eco-tourism, and related essential
services, such as the facilities and infrastructure required to support all related
activities and potential investment;
*  the development of a community plan for the villages within the Nankumba Peninsula,
including potential agriculture, forestry and fisheries options;
*  the development of an infrastructure development plan for the entire study area,
including the National Park; this plan will include communication systems, roads, air
strips, marine transportation, solid and liquid waste management, energy production
and overall cost estimates;
*  detailed environmental planning guidelines to ensure public access to the beaches,
maintenance of visual quality of the area and avoidance of standard strip development
of hotels along the beaches;
*  architectural and landscape plans and working drawings for the National Park Visitor's
Center Site (aquarium, food and beverage services, etc.);
*  proposed legal and institutional arrangements to implement the plan; .
*  proposed programs for resource protection, research, visitor's center and facilities,
interpretation, surveillance and enforcement;
*  overall cost estimates including social costs and benefits and overall environmental
mitigation plans; and
* proposals outlining operational and financial alternatives that DNPW could consider,
to obtain adequate tourism-related revenue from activities and facilities within the
study area, to manage and conserve the Park for the enjoyment of present and future
generations.
40



Annex 7
SADC LAKE MALAWI/NYASA
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
LEGISLATION COMPONENT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Legslation Expert
Qualification and Experience: The expert should have a law degree with substantial
experience in environment and natural resource laws and regulations, particularly in Sub-
Saharan Africa.
Duties and Responsibilities:
*  Develop TORs, with the PM, for a local consultant from each riparian country to
cover duties and responsibilities of this component (see below for recommended TOR
for Consultants);
*  Assist with the selection of the local consultants;
*  Prepare the work plan and budget for the Legislation component and submit it to the
PM for approval;
*  Review, evaluate and assess the work of the local consultants and keep the PM
informed;
*  Produce a background paper, based on the detailed legislative reviews and assistance
provided by the local consultants, for an intergovernmental workshop to identify the
inadequacies and inconsistences among the riparian countries' legislation and explore
ways and means of revising and strengthening the legislation and/or enforcement
ability to create harmonized and effective biodiversity conservation;
*  Develop TOR for the workshop organizer, with the PM, and help with the
organization of the workshop;
*  Based on the comments expressed by the workshop participants (senior law officials
and natural resource officers from each of the three countries) prepare a report which
provides recommendations to the riparian countries for revising and strengthening
legislation and/or enforcement ability to create the legal framework for a harmonized
and effective conservation of Lake Malawi/Nyasa's biodiversity and including the
preparation of draft legislation as appropriate;
*  Assist the PM with the legislative recommendations for the Biodiversity Map and
Management Plan for Lake Malawi/Nyasa as requested by the PM and Steering
Committee.
41



Recommended TOR for the National Consultants (to be elaborated by the L4egslation
Expert):
The Legislation Expert will supervise three national consultants, one from each of the
riparian states. The tasks of each of the three national consultants will be to prepare
a written report identifying and analyzing all national legislation relevant to the
environmental and natural resource quality of the Lake and its surrounding areas,
including instruments relevant to international agreements. This report should identify
laws in force, as well as areas of deficiency and inconsistency and including the
preparation of draft legislation as appropriate. The report should take advantage of
documentation already prepared during the National Environmental Action Plan
process and avoid the creation of any new reports that would reiterate the findings
from the NEAPs. The Legislation Expert shall then prepare a paper, based on the
written reports of the national consultants, to be presented at the workshop referred to
in para 2.33. This paper shall propose the legal framework necessary to implement a
Biodiversity Map and Management Plan for Lake Malawi.
Following the workshop participant's review of the paper, the national consultants
shall propose revisions and additions to their national legal framework and /or
enforcement ability with a view toward establishing a harmonized approach for the
conservation and sustainable use of Lake Malawi/Nyasa's biodiversity.
42



Annex 8
SADC LAKE MALAWI/NYASA
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE LOCAL CONSULTANT
TO PREPARE THE UNDP PROJECT FOR THE REHABILITATION
OF THE TANZANIA NATIONAL RESEARCH STATION
A GEF project is being prepared to establish the basis for conserving the biodiversity
of Lake Malawi/Nyasa through research, legislative, and planning initiatives. Building
national capacity and reinforcing regional initiatives concerned with lake monitoring and
management are the principal project goals. The project consists of the following components:
(i) Research; (ii) National Capacity Building; (iii) Environmental Legislation; and (iv)
Protected Areas Management.
It is proposed that US$200,000 of the total GEF grant of US$5,000,000 be allocated
to UNDP for a project rehabilitating the National Research Station at Kyela in Tanzania
through 100% cost sharing from the Government of Malawi.
UNDP would hire a local consultant, funded through a trust fund of the World Bank,
to review with staff from the Tanzania Fisheries Department, or other relevant Government
Agencies, the rehabilitation needs and estimated costs of the National Research Station at
Kyela. On the basis of this information, the local consultant and government staff will design
a UNDP project to rehabilitate the national research station - in line with the objectives and
goals of the GEF project.
Specifically, the local consultant would:
(1)    Review with staff from the Fisheries Department a proposal they have drawn
up for the rehabilitation of the National Research Station;
(2)    Make a field visit to the National Research Station;
(3)    Determine if civil works are necessary and whether any enviromnental analysis
is required;
(4)    Determine a budget for the rehabilitation of the National Research Station; and
(5)    Prepare a project to rehabilitate and equip (computers, software, etc.) the
National Research Station.
43



Annex 9
SADC LAKE MALAWI/NYASA
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE LOCAL CONSULTANT
TO PREPARE THE UNDP PROJECT FOR THE REHABILITATION
OF THE MOZAMBIQUE NATIONAL RESEARCH STATION
A GEF project is being prepared to establish the basis for conserving the biological
diversity of Lake Malawi/Nyasa through research, legislative, and planning initiatives.
Building national capacity and reinforcing regional initiatives concerned with lake monitoring
and nunagement are the principal project goals. The project consists of the following
components: (i) Research; (ii) National Capacity Building; (iii) Environmental
Legislation; and (iv) Protected Areas Management.
It is proposed that US$200,000 of the total GEF grant of US$5,000,000 be allocated
to UNDP for a project rehabilitating the National Research Station at Metangula in
Mozambique through 100% cost sharing from the Government of Malawi.
UNDP would hire a local consultant, funded through a trust fund of the World Bank,
to review with staff from the Mozambique Fisheries Department, or other relevant
Government Agencies, the rehabilitation needs and estimated costs of the National Research
Station at Metangula. On the basis of this information, the local consultant and govermnent
staff will design a UNDP project to rehabilitate the national research station - in line with the
objectives and goals of the Lake Malawi GEF project.
Specifically, the local consultant would:
(I)    Review with staff from the Fisheries Department a proposal they have drawn
up for the rehabilitation of the National Research Station;
(2)    Make a field visit to the National Research Station;
(3)    Determine if civil works are necessary and whether any environmental analysis
is required;
(4)    Determine a budget for the rehabilitation of the National Research Station; and
(5)    Prepare a project to rehabilitate and equip (computers, software etc.) the
National Research Station.
44



Annex 10
SADC LAKE MALAWI/NYASA
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Project Year           Activity/Task                 Responsibility         Executing Period
PY 0                   Negotiations                  Government of Malawi  September 1994
from September 1994
to December 1994       Signature of                  Government of Malawi  December 1994
Grant Agreement
Finalize Project Implementation  MFNR                November/December 1994
Plan
Establish a Steering          MFNR                   November/December 1994
Committee
Appoint a Project             MFNR                   November/December 1994
Manager
Appoint a Financial Controller   MFNR                November/December 1994
PY 1                   Procurement of Goods,         MFNR                   First quarter
from January 1995      Services and Works
to December 1995
Establish lake                PM                     First quarter
research stations
Preparation of first quarterly  PM                   Second quarter
report
Prepare Annual Report         PM                     Second quarter
Initiate limited rehabilitation  UNDP/PM             Second quarter
of research stations in
Mozambique, Tanzania
and Cape MaClear in Malawi
Second quarterly report       PM                     Third quarter
Third quarterly report        PM                     Fourth quarter
Legislation Workshop          PM/Legislation Expert/  Fourth quarter
MFNR
45



Project Year          Activity/Task                Responsibility          Executing Period
Strategic Plan for Nankumba  MPPS                    Fourth quarter
Peninsula and Lake Malawi
National Park
Prepare Work Program         PM                      Fourth quarter
and Budget for 1996
PY 2                  Fourth quarterly report      PM                      First quarter
from January 1996
to December 1996      Annual Audit of Project      MFNR/Auditors           First quarter
Accounts
Report on recommendations    Legislation Expert      First quarter
for strengthening legislation
for harmonized and effective
conservation of Lake Malawi/
Nyasa's biodiversity
Report on Biodiversity       Ecologists/Taxonomists   Second quarter
Conservation Priorities for
Lake Malawi/Nyasa
Report on the Water Quality/    Limnologists         Second quarter
Pollution of Lake Malawi/Nyasa
Conservation Awareness Program WSM/DNPW              Second quarter
Fifth quarterly report       PM                      Second quarter
Prepare Annual Report        PM                      Second quarter
Sixth quarterly report       PM                      Third quarter
Seventh quarterly report     PM                      Fourth quarter
Draft BMPL                   PM/SC                   Fourth quarter
Mid-Term Project Review      MFNR/PM/SC/Bank         Fourth quarter
Prepare Work Program         PM                      Fourth quarter
and Budget for 1997
PY 3                  Eighth quarterly report      PM                      First quarter
from January 1997
to December 1997      Ninth quarterly report       PM                      Second quarter
46



Project Year          Activity/Task                Responsibility          Executig Period
Prepare Annual Report        PM                      Second quarter
Annual Audit of Project      MFNR/Auditors           Third quarter
Accounts
Tenth quarterly report       PM                      Third quarter
Fish Species Identification   Ecologists/Taxonomists   Fourdt quarter
Manual
Eleventh quarterly report    PM                      Fourth quarter
Final draft BMPL             PM/SC                   Fourth quarter
Prepare Work Program and     PM                      Fourth quarter
Budget for 1998
PY 4                  Twelfth quarterly report     PM                      First quarter
from January 1998
to December 1998      Thirteenth quarterly report  PM                      Second quarter
Time bound proposal for      SADC                    Second quarter
implementation of BMPL
Fourteenth quarterly report  PM                      Third quarter
Fifteenth quarterly report   PM                      Fourth quarter
Annual Audit of Project Accounts MFNR/Auditors       Fourth quarter
PY S                  Grant Closing                Government of Malawi   First quarter
from January 1999
to July 1999          Implementation Completion    Bank                    Second quarter
Report
Follow-up Disbursements      MFNR                    Second quarter
47



Annex 11
SADC LAKE MALAWI/NYASA
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
CONSULTANCIES AND TRAINING SCHEDULE
COMPONENT    PERSONNEL    SOURCE    PROCUREMENT  EST. PERSON MONTHS EXPECTED BIDDING
RESEARCH        *   Ecologist/Conservation
Planner            International         SS                      42                      1995
Ecology
Research Officer    Local               SL                       42                      1995
Ecology
Technician          Local                SL                      42                      1995
Taxonomist         International         SL                      36                      1995
Taxonomy
Research Officer    Local                SL                      36                      1995
Taxonomy
Technician          Local                SL                      36                      1995
Limnologist/
Water Quality
Scientist          International         SL                      36                      1995
Limnology/Water
Quality Researcher  Local                SL                      36                      1995
Limnology/Water
Quality Technician   Local              SL                       36                      1995
NATIONAL CAPACITY
BUILDING
(Training)          Ecology
4 Research Officers Local               NA                  6 months each                NA
4 Technicians       Local               NA                  6 months each                NA
Taxonomy
4 Research Officers Local               NA                  6 months each                NA
4 Technicians       Local               NA                  6 months each                NA
Limnology/Water Quality
4 Research Officers Local               NA                  6 months each                NA
4 Technicians       Local               NA                  6 months each                NA
Environmental Education
Education Officer   Local               NA                       36                      NA
Community Education
Officer             Local               NA                       36                      NA
48



COMPONENT    PERSONNEL    SOURCE   PROCUREMENT  EST. PERSON MONTHS EXPECTED BIDDING
ENVIRONMENTAL
LEGISLATION         Legislation Expert  International       SL                       2                      1995
Malawi Legal
Officer            Local                SL                       3                      1995
Mozambique Legal
Officer            Local                SL                       3                      1995
Tanzania Legal
Officer            Local                SL                       3                      1995
PROTECTED AREA
MANAGEMENT          NankumbatLMNP
Strategic Planning
Firm               International        SL                       6                      1995
** PROJECT
ADMINISTRATION  Project Manager    International            SL                       48                     1994
Financial Controller Local              SL                      48                      1994
Secretary          Local                SS                      48                      1994
*I It is envisaged that the ecologist and the secretary of the past ODA/SADC Pelagic Fish Resource Assessment Project will
be procured through sole source. This will bring to the project individuals experienced in working on the lake and ensure a
smooth project start-up. These individuals have also worked well with the local staff of the riparian countries and have
properly managed the facilities at Senga Bay.
49



Annex 12
SADC LAKE MALAWI/NYASA
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
SUPERVISION SCHEDULE
Project Year   Mission No.   Activity                                               Skill Requirement                  SW
PYI                   I             Review of Legal issues, organizations and       - Task manager                      3
Jan/Feb 1995     mnanagement establishment of M&E system,
procurement arrangements and plan, establish-   - Financial analyst/Disbursement    2
ment of service contracts, work plans PYI.       specialist
- Conservation specialist           2
- Procurement specialist            2
- M & E specialist                  2
January 1995 -         2            Review of field activities, training, procurement
December 1995   Jun/Jul 1995        and disbursements.                              - Task manager                      3
- Conservation specialist           3
- M & E specialist                  3
3            Review of field activities, training, procurement
Nov/Dec 1995    and disbursements.                                - Task manager                      3
- Conservation specialist           3
PYI performance review
Discuss PY2 work programme                     - M & E specialist                   3
50



Project Year     Mission No.      Activity                                     Skill Requirenment               SW
PY2                   4           Review of activities, training, procurement.
Apr/May 1996    disbursements.                                - Task manager                    3
- Conservation specialist         3
- M & E specialist                3
January 1996 -        5           Review of annual activities, training,
December 1996   Sept/Oct 1996    procurement, financial performance, PY2.
Discuss annual work plan PY3.               - Task Manger                      3
- Conservation specialist         3
- M & E specialist                3
PY3                   6           Mid-term review                              - Task manager                    3
Feb/Mar 1997
- Project design                            - Conservation specialist          3
- Training
- Monitoring                                - Financial analyst                3
- Procurement
- Accounting                                 - M & E specialist                3
- Audit
- Disbursements
- Others
January 1997 -
December 1997        7            Review of activities, procurement, disbursement,
Jul/Aug 1997     financial performance.                       - Task manager                    3
- Conservation specialist         3
-M & E specialist                 3
8            Review of activities PY3 and discuss work
Nov/Dec 1997    plan for PY4.                                 - Task manager                    3
- Conservation specialist         3
- M & E specialist                3
51



Project Year    Mission No.      Activity                                     Skill Requiremnt                SW
PY4                  9           Review of activities and disbursements.      Task manager                     2
Apr/May 1998
- Conservation specialst         2
- M & E specialist               2
January 1998-
December 1998       10           Review of activities PY4, disbursements,
Sept/Oct 1998    Grant closing.                              - Task manager                    2
- Financial analyst              2
January 1999 -      11            Review of activities, disbursements,
July 1999        Apr/May 1999   implementation completion report.             - Task manager                    2
52



Annex 13
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
MALAWI
LAKE MALAWI/NYASA BIODIVERSITY
CONSERVATION PROJECT
53



VW7  LAKE MALA_W ASA hODIYERSTY COuSERIVATION PROJECT
TOMS I RESEARCH
Cdkd Cods
Prelos fit %l
Gue"110                                                            Son*Cast                            Cent    F..    Gross
Lhl       olwn     9v9r    I9n         aia Todl    Lh8 Cods                         W97         ell"        own         Told      RaeO   EodiL  Tax Rae
t h,oolmoot Cost.
A ECOLOGY. SYSTEMATIC. PN TAXONOMY
t. CECHLDO MuAbAEWENT ExPERT
FIh Eedogallo                                                Mort           0         12       12        12        42         5.170    31.0M0      2,040.0    62,040.0    620400    217.1400      5 0    100       0.0
FhM Tao.ard lb                                               Moth                    22        12        12        36         5.170          -    621040 0    62,0400    62 040 0    106120 a      50 a  000        0.0
thl,oldaCICHLD  MANAGEMENT EXPTS                                                                                                         31J020.0   124,060.0   124,080.0   124060.0   403.2000
2 EGUSJEPNT (ECOLOGY. SYSTEMATICE AND TAXONOMY)
Lth.dwdr Mato Eqipnu le                                      UL h                                1I                           51 I 70   01700                                          0.170 0    M 0.    000       0 0
Co-Ae,r 4Ied                                                  Lhl            2         .         .         -         2        5170    10.340.0           -                             iO.310.0    10.0   100.0     0.0
Poter Lse4dl                                                  Lhl            I         .         -                   I        20o       2.0660.0                                       2.0n60    70.0   1000        00
Sohftworefow  ar-h                                            Lhl           2                                       2         2034      2060             -       _               *, 20BB0    200   I200             00
Sulot.s1 EOUIFAET (ECOLOGY. SYSTExATICS ANDTAXONOMY)                                                                                     19,046.0          -           -                19.4.0
1 VEHICLES
oot(Zodae bo.4dEoDSlfl                                        Wk             I         -                             1       i.340     10340             -           -           -    10.340.0    100    200.0      0.0
& OTHER INVESTMENT COSTS
Gueide Sd"s                                                 Anxu                                                                              -    103.40.0    10,340.0    10.340.0    N7.0200    10.0   200.0      00
RMepot md .Pbledlo. Coons lg                                hona                                                                        34441                                   3- 44             2 00     0.0      0 0
Suil.td OTHER NYWSTMENT COSTS                                                                                                             3,4442     102340.0    10 3400    210240 0    34*454 1
Sublol ECOLOGY, SYSTEMATIC. AND TAXONOMY                                                                                                   044501    124.420 0    124.4200    1314200    4077101
0 LIMNOLOGIST7h                                                  Moot,                   12        12        12        16         5.170          -    62,040.0      2,040.0    02040.0   182020.0      5.0   1000       00
C. OTHER t4VESTMENT COSTS
I Rpoo ad PhtodloCools Co-                                                                                                                                 -                 9.850.4     9.650.4    10.0     00       00
0. RESEARCH
1. CMVIL WORKS
IdgR0h.b- Cape Madl.. Sib Sob                                Mon 2Ae                                                                                  l70t0          -           -    20.700    100        00       0.0
Bdg R Shab. Kyds SUb SJlon.                                 Mor                                                                              -   226,007.            -           -   229.500 8    1O0      0 0      0.0
Bldg Rehab. Mdrgua Sub Sio.                                 AMon                                                                             -   229.507 8.                           279007.8    100      00       0.0
SubhIeld CIVIL WORKS                                                                                                                           -   487.926 7           --   407.916 7
L EQtJIPONT
CotpsA  48-Cape MaIeorSi. So.                                                                    I                   I        570                               5,170.0 SD5,170.0    00 a -0 00                     00 0C
Prh. L.ObdC.pe MackeorSb.S, 3a                                              -         -         I         -                 2008            -                 2.0800                  2.0680    100    200        00
S0Ro eo lo.R Rs.C p. MadearSDb. S.                            uth                                2         -         2        1.034          .                  2.066.0                 2.06 0    10.0   200        0a0
Ewp.ai4 1488PCtLJP.SN?2or Kyd SD SI                         Meu                                                                              -           -      9.80e0           -       .306 0    100    200 0     00
Eo,p IOMPC.LJP.SW)Wof Mludgal Sib. S..                      Mows                                                                             -                  9,2080           -     90        100   200         00
5MolS ROUPeIENT                                                                                                                               -           -     27..    8.0       .    270260
SAOotI RESEARCH                                                                                                                                  -   487,010 7    27N8., 0           -   SfS834 7
Told b osslont Costs                                                                                                                          4.4501    8645.3767    224.3780    206.110.4  1.170,3252
I R.--u,nt Costs
A. ECOLOGY. SYSTEMATCSL. ANC TAXONOMY
1. 0ALARIESAWAGES -COINTERFARTS
Caneffrpn" R.-adh Olfker.Eedo#D A                            Moth            a        12        22        12        42      603.027     4.8218      0,8435      9,543.0     9.043.5    53.752 4    5 0     00        0 0
Coneryu,I Rsa'I-h Olteer-Eodoo I                             Utl                                                                      50.000 0           -                            9. 50000.0  00      00       7 0
Comre,"d RosnordbOFisorT.sooriO                              Moth                     12        I2        12       31       801827            -     0.0435       .4ss35     0643.5    28.930.6     50      00       00
Couorpod Rareh   or.Ta-r.o  A                                 USI                                                                      50.000                                           0,0000     00 0  -  -          0
C.SSlpnd Telde4 As sisted lEdo.w)O                           Motlh           6        12        12        12        42      401 624     2.40 9      4.8212.     4.21 8      4.22 8     12.876 2    5 0      0        0 0
Candorpat Td.IOJOe Anhlri lEIdr.W) Oh                         UJ                                                                       50 00C.0                                  .      0.0000 0W0 00   O0
Cadoopot T ted AoshtA   t (Toooro y)Ms Moth                                  .        72          2       12       30       402.614                 4.821 8     4,821.6     4.821.     14.405 3    5 0     0 0       0 .
C.orp. ToTedel As."t  .TSs0yl Ip                              Ut                                                                       500000             -                      -    50jCW.0      00      00        00
Sbtotlo S.AARESAWArES -COLNTERPARTS                                                                                                     207,232.6    26.930 6    26.00 6     2.900.5   294,024.4
2' TRAV'
Tr-ow.P Fish Ecdoger  q                                       U4                       I         2         I         3        50170           -     5170.0    50170.0       5.170 0    IS,50.0    5.0   IW 0        0 0
Travdao.fih Ta _I,adr                                        UL .id                    I         I         1         3        50.70                 5.1700      0,170.0     0.270.0    15.5100     5.0   2000       00
toed Treed o.Rosoxd,h Oft. l                                 AMoeu                                                                     3l444.1      3,444.1     3,444      23444.1    I3,776.5     5.0     00       0.0
Leel Trnrd F.eT mel   Astida. A                             A..Mo                                                                       '4441 '     3'444. 3.'444 '         1444.1      3,77815    5.0     0 0      0.0
SubloialTRAVEL                                                                                                                            16662      17,220.2    17,226.2    17,23.2    56.571.9
1 OTtlO fCEinTAL COSTS
tab ErPl. A C-oo-deo                                        A,omad                                                                      t272.0      1272.0      6,272 0     1t272 0    33,06.0     5.0   200.0      0.0
So Ste R g Cods-Tdl blt.  AAM n                                                                                                        25,6860     20,630.0    25,630.     20.620 0    102.51.0    5 0     6.0      0 0
So1RofSIg Cods-Eledteyl,                                    Amood                                                                      14.6634     14.6614     14.8634     14,663.4    56,733.7    5.0    0.0       00
So Rde*.6 COes-MilO-.  th                                   Atruort                                                                    10,240.0    10,240.0    1.340 0     10,340.0    41.300     560   160 0      00
OLM&efwEtiWel                                                Moan                                                                       8.043.2     0.237.1     1531.0    6t9249       37.536.3    5.0     0.0      0.0
OMI a o.0a"ty                                               A                                                                            1,14 .0    1.14.0      1.14 0      1,141.0     4.52 2     5.0     0.0      00
OLIao'V1d11414045)J                                          MIaSS                                                                     20j9S7.1    10fJ    3200971         371        123A9  2     so      0.6      6.0
tlalOTHo    R 07 4CREMEE TAL COSTS                                                                                                      10!f01 7    IW.207.8   160,601.0 S  0M.r A4
*od ECOLOGY. SITE MATECI. oll TAIONOWV                                                                                                     1413654    14,446.4   147P40   2 U47.54 2   754"5 6
tL COLUNTPFM?T ULAmoRs
Claiot R.sooett Oooe..L r Inlaa                                Mi              .        12        12        12        Y       o 6627            -     1.435       18415       k1430      26256       50      00       00
Pawe I



OT ?I iS
C0,pW.Tls*dACiMdOt llOlobb                                   mom1 12                          12        2       3s       01 CIA           -    4616        621       45S1- 'a44651         50      00       00
&ed COuoTsMPMT SALREmS                                                                                                                             14.465 3    44551     4 4451    41mgii$
C. WAMES FOR RVIUSPA CREW
Local MP Its, IEf P3Ikc                                      MAs m"                  12         2         6        30      430515                 5 e1d2     's6 2       25e61      ' 121       50      00       00
Eme4Odd                                                   M4rlh                     I        2                  36       4 0515                 5916612     515"2      2583       129154     50      o0       00
Sow'dr                                                       Mol.            .        '1       2         5       30       101 713          -     207          .07        I s1501   575?      50      00       00
DCS.M                                                         moth           -        2       17         6        350     1 721                 21001       21301       153       575 7     50      00       00
tho  WAGES FOt R5RJ6PA CREW                                                                                                                 -    17.254 4    172344      6.617 2    4306S5 5
D. TRAVEL
Ltrdlod?log                                                   Lt41                                                 3 I  I    .174           -     5.1700       170.      Sf70.0    150100       S0   000        00
R:WUPACce 1Grasp l)nOr   SY."  It                             Math           .        2        12         6        30       3632 e                4.33        4.3e       3165.      06400      50      00       00
RIIUSPA C-rCGraeu2)0nlrtpt Sus  A0                            MaOlt                  12        2         4        30       29175                 3.5130     315130       125       6e7615      50      00       00
R6lSPACrbdG,raJpI)OoghySoboid 1f                              MaOth                   2       12         6        10      2064? __24 2                8   A479a  1J 29 9            61604      5D      00       00
kblold TR AVEL                                                                                                                                     5L502.4    15.502 4    10.33e 2    41.340 0
L RESEARCH1 lltSSEL - RVAlSPA
OA& r4   RUSIPA M                                           Pr Anum.         -                   f '     0.5      2     9,1123.20-    09.893.3 ew8            9693       44.e4e e   224, 23 2    5 0   100 0     0 0
F. OTEr4 INCREMENTAL OPERATWh COSTS
Lob C-rr.blo Clath n & GOls-,ar)                             Anoun, l,70 0                                                                         S.170 0    5.1700      5.9702    206000      50   1500        00
S,soe A.*,,.                                                 Al-t                                                                                 15,5100 0  IS. 510     15.510 0    46.530 0   5 0   100 0      0 0
SmeU. hnog ry A Anyss a                                      A-Mni                                                                                     I 2a1  S 6.754    6      e251a    96 7547  50   1000      00
Shpp*g lSare, lorAllM") y                                   Ame                                                                            -     255. 0      2.525 0     2.525 0    7.575      5 0   00        0 0
Cac-ele  Cools                                               A..nt                                                                     3.1020      3.1020      1020       3.1020    12.400       50   1000       00
04a M toe Eqoomat                                            Por.t                                                                      404ed,1  j,5jjj3 flj4jjaj333e0                   7       0 0   100 0     0 0
Su.otld OTHER NCREMEWTAL OPERAT4G COSTS                                                                                                 MG 32e09    40.87 2    41142 9    4144076    130.75 4
G. RCDONERSTY SURVEYS
1. TRAVEL
Tro-d&lob." for Soroey TelC,ro4erpds)                      AnrO                                                                      3.444.      3444. 1     3.444 1    3444. 1    137705       0      0 0     0 0
Z OTHER S4CREsITAL OPERATSG COSTS
lscednrarn Sur-reY Sioa                                     Man                                                                                             5 .  5.17O0  5.?700    10.3400     5 0    0 00     7 0
0 & M ' BSot tSc"reys                                       AMo                                                                          5.740 2                        5,740 2       1J 4004  5 0    00       0 0
UObltord OT14E  6CREMENTAL OPERATNO COITS                                                                                                  -          .           2 j    0 2j 0 2    21.604
Sbooll "CO     SITY SJ3.44 1                                                                                                                  a    34 a       14.354 3     4.J 354. 3    3S 590 9
Totl Rocort Cosio                                                                                                                        333.0056    327!A64 0   332I       2100814   s2e_e23e
Toltad                                                                                                                                   36.35.7  1.012.060 7   s4e5306   467.101 8  2.461.13W 0
Xo L-rmtog   Tosrronl. OLSdOd d USSS.000 per mth
lb LnSdoW. Tooalatds 005 0.1  L USSS.00pD r mallh                                                                                                                                                                                                            t
Sr ULd,rwaler PhIdo 51. S USSS, 000 P  K Ud
\dCaromtr 486 S USSS. 0p0   Ad
o Loselde Phat S US52.000 per u.
d Zdoc, OLSo rd Eg BostS edlh1dO S USS10.000 pa t
\g Repra ad Pubkoelle Co. S USS30D lr tho cempot.
Uh Urnord. To"""nnl. Ecdogs d US 5.000 por mach
5 Cnr4rpot - Raore."  lErm odary d US 700 pr mash
u Cao.erpot  R.sooch 09 er story - G3owmmet Cat1b:l,r
'A Cootorpot - Roteorrh Olfker SAory S US0700 pot math
O Canopt . R-sealh Otto SIory - Goearr  catridar.
Vo Cannpot - T7d0d AMshdo story d USS350 pr math
V. Cao"erpot - Teehoed AMOOt sooy - Gowomomos cat,dbLIa
0 Coovrpod. Teelei AtiMtmvt slayt  JUSS350 per  ,th
Ip Coutoepod . Te Ined Aslast salry -  reammet coobhlat
'q Ooes to1l (sdoro) * USSS000 p.rlIp.
r0-soieat (miswr) * LWSW.0 po 1rm
SoLt fodTn  canto, o   o.peao  drry 06 dds albsalco
1 Locd Trd 000; thood wpwass. dy Ind e-dght nseidace
\u Bosed  M old Ira LWJSADC pqod of SOds
- Boased a oduad fram UW)SADC prcid4d SdOmt
\w Bind at alsO, ha. UIVJSADC pw4ed S  dmao
br0 a M lor EalSpmed* Sd We Mr  a hsdaem at coe  pot yW.
5rO  M be Soo d tmn   the marot cod dIMK43.000
V O    pS Mp rhicd (474) d 400t01 o W l 71en/L MUS 50L PIr  10%f doaitido, rod dQMK0300
500 Caunnodt - Reeereh Ota sdory e US$70 pm math
1bb Ca rd pid - T ded0  1 Anrdt1.4 d     rd USS350 pr mat,.
loe Lor 6%ISJPA cro    p (SipdUadMiare) siolsy d USS375 por mah.
4dd Locl RdIrUSPAcooa(Sso) dy dIUSS375 paromad.
looed 66l.ItSPA crow (Mis Dottatl CCCI) odory  4081167 yeeamts
WI L. d RFtUSPA (ro    t (Mo. DodoMt Cook) ISc o  d 0US$7 pot ar  lh
  CrcOrn Icod flfor) d .M15.000 pe.I4*
VA N4g4 raboet. Ia Gou  I (Raoted. il,   d., Ca449. MeOw  ng. Adrt. Ole4r ad Pa. A dsh )  USOd lOa5tl (82A40 X 15 rf4h
IjN4mb rlsl durooG f     ,m Sopp3(d Shenepods)wlS WCOkpelod (USghM$U534S4pS lSX44|0A)t)sL
ld, R neoe  Vtosd ROUSPA Opoosh. .04 Mnd . cods h nr wdod a ULW 244 per o.           jem    Ig%   O 2M
V S dt. Iogenr A SlAn(WO I    g mbdeo_amo A r0mS owra4 code) us foodS d US$il000 pw y_o
Wom  3,  cods Iv S0.0  Ahdys toao           lmelad  U5   000 pwyout.
pop



MIAIJMI
SADC LAKE MALMII/MTASA 530o1 viMitT? CM3gIVATI0M P6OPICT
T.ble 2. STRancTNDEIMC iIATiIAKIL CAPACITY
D.tadled Coat.
(US$)
Parameters fin 6)
Fhfy.        Gross
....... e.ntitie.                                            Bass Cost                        Cant. For.   Tea
unit  95160 960I9  67/66 96/66 TotlM  Unit Coat   95/96        66/97      07/96      90/99      Total   Rate  gxch. Rate
I. 1oauemt costs
A. CONuEnRIs JEMSU
I. CMo  wsm  NIVV. invoot  CUTm
Noosing tot 330 In 31069  Cape Macleer /a    unit                                     1           6.636.211  -   0.036.3         -          -   6.0363  16.0   0.0   6.6
Mousing for Driver lb                           unit       -                          1      1,673.101     -   1673.2            -          -   1,073.2  10.0   6.0   6.6
PiumbInqagllctricity for I110Driver /c          unit       -                          1      2.610.611         2,401.6           -          -2.4109  16.6   6.0   0.6
subtot.al CAPErn MR   Misr. 990AuZM-  11,520.3                                                                                       -          -I1S,120.3
2. MUIVNEN
Ccuter 066 /d                                   Uonit      -      I                   1     SI1lO           -   1,176.0           -         -   1,176.0  16.0 100.0   .6.
Lowerjet Printer /.                             unit       -      I     -                   2,066          -   2,066.6           -          -   2.066,0  10.0 106.0   6.0
Audio/video Iquipeet ITV/',RI If                unit       -      I     -                   4,136           -   4.136.0          -          -   6,130.0   6. 106.0 3o.    .6
smhtetal 306D6n5                                                                                               -  11,374.6           -          -  11,374.0
3. %34IC1C
Ius/33 seater /g                                Uinit      -      -      I     -      I    11,760           -         -  11,700.6            -  11,766.6  16.6 160.6   0.0
Pick Up 6X4 /h                                  Unkit      -      -     1      -      1    21.714           --21,714.0                      -21.714.0  10.0 106.0   6.0
"et.tal Vuaa6                                                                                                  -          -  713,414.0          -  73,414.6
4. 5UAZW10
a. aeseasub
P. Officers /i                              Person      -     6      a      -    12 4,601.662           -20,634.2  26,634.2              -517,663.3   1.6   0.0   0.6
Technical Officer /J                        Person      -     6      S      -    12 2.402.146           -14,417.1  14.417.1              -  20,834.2   1.0   0.0   0.0
OUbtet&l WAeeereh                                                                                              43,251.2  43,251.2            -066102.$
b. Cimnmity 3damatima
P. Officrer                                MAnth        -    12    12    12    36  803.627              -    ,643.1   9,643.1   0,643.5  20,930.6   1.0   6.0   6.6
E.novironmntal. wamatloes
IP. Officer                                 Month       -    12    12    12    36   803.627                  9,6643.5   9.643,S   9,643.5  28.930.    1.6   0.0   0.0
subtotal 53AZINUM                                                                                              -  62,536.3  02,530.3  16,207.1 144,363.6
S.  siin mpVDinIc emis
Video on Melasu                                PAmount                                                      -   7,041.7           -          -   7,641.7  10.0 100.0   0.6
Radio Workshop.                                Msount                                                       -     267.1      267.1      267.1      102.1  10.0   6.4   0.0
Radio Programe                                 Amount                                                       -   1,735.8   1,73S1.   1,731.0   1,207.S  10.0   0.0   0.0                                            %0
Bned Uniforms a  nstruments                    Amount                                                       - 2,197.4             -          -   2,167.4  10.0 160.0   6.0                                          %
Publicatiom Coats                              Amout                                                            S.1740.2  11,460.4   1,746.2  22,960.6  10.0   6.0   0.0
subtotal OTiM lofl52   COSTe                                                                                      17,386.6  13,483.7   7,743.5  30,613.9
Total Zaveetoent Coat.                                                                                                 -160,6819.2 106,436.0  27.030,6 203,265.0
Xi. M 4farren t coat.'
A.  JEICATXO  CMWAI
I. SALARM
Boae Driver --Cspe Macleer Ins. Muo. Center aeount                                                          -   2,016.1   2,056.1   2,056.1   6,166.4   5.0   6.6   0.0
Pick up truck driver /k                        Month                                               ____    2.056,1   2,056.1   2,056.1   0.106,4   5.0   0.0   0.0
Subtotal inALAsm                                                                                               -   4,112.3   4,112.3   4,112.3  12,336.6
2. ouric   nn    TmAI  cnmo       1mes
0 A Mfor Bus/I                                 Amount                                                       -  10,412.7  10,412.7  10,412.7  31,230.1   1.0   0.0   0.0
0 AN for Pick Up 414/a                         Amount                                                       -   7,742.0   7,742.4   7,742.4  23,227.1   1.0   0.0   0.0
O 4 N for Iquipeant /a                         Amount                                                       -     646.6      646.6      640.6   1,621.6   5.0   0.0   0.0
Perforuence lees                               Amount                                                       -   1,731.6   1,735.8   1.735.6   5,207.5   1.6   0.0   0.0
sAbtetal. 011111 zpwm1 L          mos=cos                                                                      -  20,131.1  20,131.5  20.531.5  61,564.6
Total                                                                                                                   - 131,463.0 174,0796.  511,674.4 357,217.3
%e Mouse for 330o at Cape Maclear estimated at US$7,000 per unit, include, transportation.
\b Mouse for Driver at Cape MAcleer Uductetin center estimated at UI$4.416 per unit, includge transportation.
\c Plumbing end Electricity for 330 6 Driver at Cape Macleer Estimated at US2,100.
Wd C~amter too et UI1$1,000 Poe unit.
\e Laseerjet Ptinter at UN$2,.69 per untit.
Wf Audio/Video B"limeent at =N4 6006 per met.
\g Bu" for Cape Macleer Nwireimnmtal adaation Center at U$600per mnit.
\k Pick Up 414 for Cape Maclesr Nwiro.ental Udecetion Center at US$21,000 per unit.
\i Training 1t MM0 toe 6 mouths at a total estimated coot 55067,100.
\j Training 12 TOo for 6 months at a eotimated costs U1S$33,710.
\k Pick up truck Driver at Cape Maclear BImoatiom  center at US$IS0 per mth.
UI OaM for Mum et 30,600/samo   Ohs, W.S/L pls ISO ef mw. vehicle coot ot MIS00..
%m OeM ter 414 at 440.00/amm,a 71mIL. iK3.50/L plus 164 of mu. vehile cant of IN090,)00.
%n 0 6 N fee xqtlgment at 1k on cleative INVoestmet coot per Feew.
Tue Nw 61 11:12:02 10M
2-1 ST3O1MWDI USTIUSi ChAIWTV



SADC LAIE RMLWIInMAA P:celwbasuI ccsmiaTiai p3lJsey
labla I. tG2ISSATtI
Datajiad 04e
fuss?
Parameters fin %I
hy.         Gro s
Oweatitiam              WmiltBa t                                                    Coat. Far.  tasm
unmit  Wgi0 04197 97100010  o*           os       49        00197       7/90     4/00  ~Total   Rate  laCk. PAt.
A.  _    tZK R  CLZI
Islatio   att la                                 tao      44      _     _      _    tt    2.4  17224               -          -             37.224.0   S.  10.0   0.0
ocal Expert for  L Study to Nalsu  lb            Day       u0     -     -           90 u  0 .7.1   2 5S.           -          -          -   2       S   .     .    0.0
Loeal Op.rt for L Study In Naiq           c      baDr      9      -     -      -    0  20.701   2.S0.13 l          -     -               -   2,3.2   4.0   0.0   0.0
Wei txpertor I. Study in Torania Id              Day       U      _     _      _         2S.701   2,543.1         -    -                -           20 U . I S tS   *.0
Usprt 4 Prouttlon Costs /O                        _                                               7.10S1                                     91 0431 -    .   10.0 b .0   0.
*4*1 Linzaf      InwM                                                                                J.711-                                 - S  4.17.,
D. LtMAt _I
Coarfarance Cuisultant Itntl.  /t                DaS       40     -      -     -    40   620.4  24,Slt.0            -         -          -  26,S1.0 S    4 S 0S0.0   0.0
Miscellaneous Conference /apuaa  Is             A t                                                2.2f6.1          --                          296.1  1.  -.0   0.0
27,                -          -          - 27.1 1 21
tW Investet                                                                                                1,249.7         _          _          -  012
11.  _AsWt Costs
A. SZ           SIW CW
travl for Loglulatiou, Impat lb                  unlt       2     -      _     _      2   S,17   10,340.0          1-         -          _   040.0   S.0 100.0   0.0
Sstol traval          .tanza.  tor L Urt 1I  Unit           I     I      I     I      4  474.02      474.0     574.0      474.0      S74.    2 2U294.I  S4.    0.0    .0
Subsistenea tor loilalitLeft reart /3            D         60-                          172.24  1J0.J32.4                                -  120332.4   S.            0.0
Trevol-Loral L ap. hal, 11                       blit       5     _      _            6 * 76.02   3,4* 4.1          -         _          -   3.44 1           S .0   0.0
trtvel-Local L gap. ftabique, /1                 Unit                                   S -  *   714.2   3,444.1   -         -:-   S 444.                0   0 *.0
Travel-Local L S      upTammanla Is              unit       6     -      -     -      6  S74.02   3.4441            -                         3- 3444.1   4.0   0.0   *.0
Subasitence for Local L S  .Pklod /n            Dby        20     -      -     -    20  21.714       434.3          -                           424.3   S.0 201.0   0.0
Subdltene- for Local L Sp.Ylaubiqa  /o          Day       20     -      -     -    20  24.10       402.2          -          -         -      402.2   4.0   0.0   0.0
subalatsne for Local I    .Tammula Ip            Day       20     -      -     -    20  24.100 ..2.2                -          -                402.2   S.0   0.0   0.0
t1  2LA           Wg  m nI,?                                                                                       iTi7    074.        1'74     146.4
D.  UeA     SI        m_
trael for Conternco  Cuislteat /q                Unit       I     -            -      I   *170    ,170.0                      - _        _   4,170.0   S.0 20.0   0.0
Subsstne-  for ConUfrnee Comultant Ir            Day       to                        46   144.1  *,204. -.-                              -   0-204.0   S.0 10.0   0.0
CteLal 151.A14p                                                                                      3,376.            -          -             11 ,374.0
yet"1                                                                                                          1.             ____         ___$ __4 574    74.0 __,__73.4
tot"                                                                                                     125S21.i       474.0 S     74.     4S74.0 127,343.1
%a Internateml  xp.rt/Ceanult.nt rate at USS440 per day.
Ib atitleal Import/Cosuultaat rate at 0s002 par day.
le Patioal S"rt/Conaultaut rote at USSM2  per day.
Id National art/Cenautst rata at 1121  pot day.
I* Report a Plicatlm costs for L Study per    Tr  estimated at USS02,0   pao tS202,000 tor tiM finAl report
%I   atelo tiosl S_ert/CommItewt rate at  P400 Poe day.
%q NtIecllaasos conterace, costs Include e_o MLcatio    a  conferme losatlan costs.
%k Overseas ttral  aItrarel at 00ss.1,00 po  trip.
'I  a"sed an I trips to NaU6iqM aW I trips tA taMamia at 34S0S0 Pr trip.
1) Svsolstoeo  for Inteati al _.rt/Cosalket at I2SSIS0 p   day.
11 Travl ter Beglieal ScisatLsts f1n  rAs&qO and  amaia at USSS00 pw  trip.
11 Trawl for Sleil Olintifts from Sel_tiqa and tanzania at  0$S" pot trip.
%a Trel tar _l1onal daisatistel Crn N_iqs au  Tommie at 00600 ps dyr.
%a s$istanc   cmr Iatial 1    rt at   21 pot day.
%a S'*blatece   r tltial Irt *t 0021 Pr dry.
p Subsistene for lntonal          It at  S0021 po day.
%q oar.an  trawl laIrfarel at I0 ,00  pW  trip.
Sr ousiges   totfoer lats_rati_eml  Otw ticum      t  at  N00110 pt dr.
1_ NW et 11l22110 It
$-I LOsWUr



A!.AIWI
SADC I.AKE HALAMI /PlYAA BIODIVEROMITY C SRRVATIOIa PROJFCT
Tobl. 4. rROTECTED AIIEAS
D.Wtfl.d Co.t.
(US$)
Para..ters (In I)
Phy.         Gro-s
Qu..ntities            unit.                        BAB. Cost    ________  Cont. For.   T.x
U,it  95/96 96/97 97/98 98/99 Tota1 Cost    95/96           96/97      97/9e      98/99      Total   Rat.  Exch. Rat*
I  Intnt Coate
A. PST ARrEAl
1. HANKUI.A PENINUILA AND LAKI  IAIMI  NATIONAL PAI    Amount                                                         - 836,323.1           -          - B36,323.1  10.0  B9.0   0.0
2. NANKU14A PENINSULA AND LAEE NLAI  NATIONAL PARK /a Amount                                                 254t047.0           -          _          - 254,047.0   0.0 100.0   0.0
Tot.l                                                                                                                 250,047.0 836,323.1            -          - 1,090,370
%a US$254,047 Canadian cootribution.
Tu. Now 01 11:52:29 1994
00
l_s     0 
s-  umMM



SAW  LAKs PALNI/YASA 65OnV4tWRSlIT    s   aS6tRVAeTS 9 935CT
Table S. Ir"'         AMUINISTRA l
rt515d Csts
Polmaetegs (In I
Pity.        GrMos
,,,,,antiti.s                                                Base Cost                         Cant. For,   Tom
Unit    /976 956/97  1719  96OtS  Total Unit Coat   556          16fS7       *7/fS        02/9      Total   lAte  Each. Rate
I. invet._t Co t
A. rP.UT ADUWeT.f       lS
Project Manager /a                          Mnth       12    12    12    12    46  7,e00.10  64,002.2  6,4002.2  64,00.2 62 0e02.2 335,006.6   S.0 100.0   0.0
Financial Controller lb                     Month      12    12    12    12   4t 5,992.765  11,913.2  71,913.2  71,913.2  71,913.2 267,652.7 1.6   o0.   0.0
Secretary /c                                Mnth       12    12    12    12    46    287.61   3,444.1   3,044.1   3,444.1   3,444.1  13,7765S  10.0   6.0 e                 .0
Total      nesement Cat.                                                                                  15S,355.S 159,359.5 151,356.51 119,359.S  67.437.6
A. #ALDRZ6 TMa IXE   lt
RV-Utipa Security Guards /d                  veer        3     3      3      3    12   094.154   2,063.7   2,001.7   2,063.7   2,063.7   0,334.6   5.0   0.e                 0.6
PM  Site Security Guards Ie                  Year      12    12    12    12    46   594.S14   0,334.6   6,334.8   6,314.6   6,330.8  33,336.1                .0   0.0   0.0
PML3 Site Workers /f                         Yeer        S     a      6      I    32   5$7.011   1,336.1   S,336.1   S,336.1   5,336.1  21,340.3   5.0   0.0   0.0
PM  Site CarpenterHlM.ndymn /9               Teer        I      1     1      1      4 1,051.06e    1,065.6   1,059,0   1,659.0   1,065.0   7,476.0   1.0   0.0   0.0
PII Site Carpenter's Assistant /h            Yoar        I      I     I      I      0   567.011        57.0        5.670     6557.0      667.6   2,550.0   S.0   0.0   0.6
PM  Site Office Cleaner /I                   Year        I      1     1      1      0   790.690       791.0       791.0      791.0      761.6   3,164.6   1.0   0.0   0.0
PFIU Site Driver/Mechanic lj                 Year        I      I     I      I      t 2,26tl674   2,269.7   2,267.7   2,269.7   2,269.7   9,070.7   5.0   0.0   0.0
P1U Site Driver 2k                           Year        I      I     I      I      1 1,067.576   1,06177   1,067,7   1,067.7   1.057,7 47,2707   1.0   0.0   0.0
Subtotal 6ALA3R        Fs Br= m    a                                                                  22,41896  22,4106.   22,051.9  22.416S0  69,575.6
D. Trael
Travel for Project Manager /l                Unit        I      I     I      1      4      S,170   S.170.0   1,170.0   5,170.0   1,170.0  20,560.6   5.0 100.0   0.0
Project Steering Cc_ittes Meetings /a  Unit              3     3      3      3    12       1.170  ISS1.10  11,S10.0  IS,110.   11,110.0  622.0400   S.0 100.0   0.0
Other Travel (Local) fn                     Amount                                                  4,552.2   4.192.2   4,5S2.2   4,552.2  10,35606   5.0   0.0   0.0
lubtotal Travel                                                                                       25,272.2  2S,272.2  25,272.2  25,272.2 101,066.5
Total R     et Coate                                                                                       37,691.1  47,691.1  47A591.1 S     7,691.1  190,764.3
Total                                                                                                      207,050.5 20.01651 207,050.5 207.05,15 026.202,1
\a International Expert/Consultant at US$6.?70 per month.
\b internatianal Expert oslary at US$5220 per mth.
N. Salary for Secretary for the IPM at US$250 per month.
\d Research Vessel RV-usipe Security Guard salary estiated at USW51 per year. 
%e PltU Site Security Guard salary estimted at US5"S per year. c
\f PMW Site Worker salary estimted at US$516  per year.
\g FM  Site Carpenter/Handymn salary estimated at US$1526 per year.
\h PhU Site Carpenter's Assistant salary estimated at US$SI per year.
\1  IIU Site Office Cleaner salery estimated at US56I6 per year.
\5 PMU Site DtiverlMachanic salary estimated at US01571 per year.
\k Pmu Site Driver salary eatimted at US$93  per year.
\l overseas travel (airier*) at US$S,006 per trip.
\m Project Steering Citte maetings 3 per year at US$1,006 per meting, includes travel, accodation  and sublistence.
\n Estimted at US$4,600  per year for Project Management Unit.
Tue heo 01 11152:10 ISS
S-t P2WY DUISMISTATlsl



09
-.  -  -               .C.    .   .  .*. -.  n.* .q
~~~~~
....~~~~~~~~~~p
IC
~~                            . I  '  U  .    .  .  .  .  .  .
Eii                              .  ,r
i E 0 f g t lr.   _      i 
E           5 E                                              $ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
E    gM|         eg Y|3      I '3;' E|
ri              
^,    R~~~~~~~~~~~
<  2   z         d                     i~~~'



SAtC LAKE KALI/NrYASA SIOOIYvIITV CU6SERVATICM P9OfSCT
Preoweest    cto by Tear
(US$)
Totals IncludIng Cm.tIngenIes*
95/94      94/91      91/Al     9l/99      Total
A. CIVIL V7ZS /a                                             - 579,67.5           _          _ 57637.5
S. mamogt
RESEARCN t;ICUlT                                   5,772.3                -               -   5,772.3
OFFICE tJlHMnNT                                   16,342.5  13,086.0  31,052.4            -  62,294.9
VEHIC/tOATS                                        I,1546,4         -  S6.91S 7              9 6,460.3
phbtetal EtePmtOT                                    33,479.4  13,000.0 119,964.1            - 166,527.5
C. CtWL?AMY  EnMvtCs
NANKUA PSNINSULA/LAKE MALAWI NAlTINAL PAMX 254,047.0 960,292.9                 -          - 1,214,340
INTEFNATIONAL EXPEXTS/cNSULTANTS                265,945.2 374,357.3 366,994.9 399,934.1 1,427,232
NATIONAL EXPERTS                                   6,323.4          -                     -   6,323.4
REPORT PRODUCTION                                 12,916.2          -          -  12.064S7  24,962.6
TRAINING AND STUDIES                                     -  67,491.3  71,075.9  23,016.1 1642,73.2
t>tot.l COtULTAIIT   1CES                           541,233.7 1.402,342 456,070.7 435,014,6 2,836.461
0. 0S1V2  CUTIACTO
SALARISS                                         231,464.4  71,237.6  74,799.7  76,5396. 456.425,5
WAGES                                                     -  23,105.6  26,24t9   IS15190.   62,557.0
OVERSEAS TRAVEL                                   22,039.7  22,700.9  23,370.4  24,046.2  92,159.2
LOCAL TRAVEL                                      22,195.7  11,163.7  11,742,0  12,330.0  57,452.4
REGIONAL TRAVEL tIOZ./TANZ.3                         616.5      621.3      652.4      665.0   2,575.3
TIRAVEL ALLOWANCES                                23,003.9  15,089,1  15,43.6  10470.4 6  64,661.4
e.ttotl  XtCI CTRsACTN                              299,734.3 143.938,4 l50.669.16 141,264.2 735,456.7
t.  IS J.CLA S,                                                              .          .          .
EOUIP./OPERATIICINAINT.                           11,190.3  19,130.0  20,533.2  22,014,7  79,669.0
VEWICLEs&OATS/OPERATINGMAIANT.                    34,524.7  S4,444.6  63,690.9  66,375.4 219,537.6
RESEARCH VESSEL/OPREATIHGLMAINT.                          -  96,456.3 101,362.1  52,150.6 251,971.3
SITE KNOhING COST                                 93,611.0 122,374.7 136,635.0 139,97646 492,700.2
OTHER INVESTKlNT COSTS                             3.675.4  31.761,1  26,295.9  22,277,4  66,209.6
Total                                                1,024,564 2,456,396 1,077,526 679,57339 5,440,001
\  Procureent of Mozebique (US$200,000) end Tanzenia (USS200,000) protinms by UNO? under cornditimas acceptable to the Renk.
Tuo No  01 11:571:6  1994
2-1  _p1tur    Mc_s Ureekiam



SADC LAKIS MALWI/ YASA RIODIVrRSITY CONSERVATION PROSECT
ftofj.t Cot Dtary
I     I Total
MEK  000)                         (31)                F-or-lqn    B.S.
loal  Ffor.g.   Total   _  Local         F-r.Wn    Total                 Costs
1  IRESEARCH                          9,185.0  6,379.6 17,566.5 1,207,528 1,173,611 2,461,139              66        51
2. STRENTHEINIG NATIONAL CAPACITY  1,876.3    674.2  2,550.5 262,7e6.2  94,431.1 357,211.3                 26          7
3. LSGISLATION                          306.1    601.1    909.2  43,154.0  *4,188.3 127,343.1              66         3
4. PROTECTED AREA                       655.8  7,119.3  7,775.1  91,843.1 990,527.0 1,090,370              92        22
S. PROJECT ADtMIHISTRAT1IO            2,923.6  2,969.7  a5913.4 409,473.4 416,728.6 828,202.1              51         17
Total IIASDII COSTS                      14,948.6 19,764.0 34,712.7 2,094,716 2,769,486 4,864,272              57       100
Physical Ccntisg.ncl.s                    913.0  1,229.2  2,142.2 127,669.4 172,163.7 300,033.1              57         6
PrIc. Continq*ncl..                     1,934.4  2,630.8  4,565.2 116,157.2 159,539.4 275,696.6              S6         6
Tot.1 PR3CT COSTS                        17,796.1 23,624.0 41,420.1 2,336,613 3,101,189 5,440,001              57       112
Tue Nrv 01 11:53:38 1994
"0
t-l Injnt we t _Ep



KALASI
SADC LAKE MAIoW7/NYA!SA RIODIVFRRITY  SfS;FLvArlN rpROJECT
Project C-.t  .ry
*     0 Total
___  HE1  0001___ _            _ _  (U501  __         _ Porolqn        Re,.
local   Foreisn    Totes       Local     Foreign  _T tal   Eochan    Cots
1. I." t   t Cout.
A. CIVIL WIORKS                                       3,S94.5          -  3,596.5 503,917.0            - 503,437.0          -        10
11. tOlJThT
RESEARCH EQUIPN6ENT                                      -      36.9      36.9          -   5,170.0   5,170.0          100         -
OFFICS EQUIPMENT                                         -    383.9    383.9             -  53,766.0  53,766.0         100         1
VE9ICLES/ OATS                                           -    596.0    596.0             -  83,751.0  83,754.0         100         2
Cubtotan  EQUANDNT9                                          -  1,010.6  1,018.8            - 142,692.0 162,692.0         100         3
C. TRA31flC ANDl STUDIX:
TRAINING AND STUDIES                               1,030.8         -  1,030.6 144,363.6             - 144,363.6          -         3
D. TSIXICAL AiSI5TANCE
INTERNATIONAL EXPERTS/IONSULTANTS                  2,053.8  7,050.2  9,104.1 267.652.7 987,620.6 1,275,081              77        26
LOCAL EXPERTS                                         55.3         -      553   7 74993             _ 77939               _
Z. total T1W ICAL A.SISTATR                           2,109.2  7,050.2  9,159.4 295,602.0 967,428.6 1,262.631               77        26
E. OTN17 DIVZSflCT CiSTS
REPORT PROMDCTION                                    175.5          -    175.5  26,576.9            -  26,576.9          -         I
OTHER MISCELLANEOUS INVESTMENT COSTS                 305.2    290.3    595.5  42,747.2  40,663.1  83,410.3              49         2
Subtotal OTnHR 2N lOT COSTS                             606.7     290.3    771.0  67,322.2  60,663.1 107,985.3             39          2
F. NA2RSUMRA PENINSULAJLANE  kLAWL   NATIONAL PAJK  _655.8  7.119.3  7,775.1  91,843.1 998,527.0 1,090.370                 92         22
Tota.1 lnat_nt Cot.                                        7,670.9 15,476.7 23,349.6 1,102,366 2,169,311 3,271,679              66        67
IS. Rtrrnt Co.t
A. SALARN6 I WAlae
SALARIES                                           3,041.5          -  3,061.5 427,095.9            - 427,095.9          -         9
WAGES                                                395.7          -    395.7  55,422.7            -  55.422.7           -         1
Stutot.l SALARl   & URGS                              3,437.2          -  3,637.2 482,51,.7             - 662,51,.7          -        10
S. TRAVEL
LXCAL TRAVEL                                         368.9          _    368.9  51,661.6            -  51,661.6          -          I
REGIONJAL TRAVEL (PIOE.aTAN6E.                        16.6          -      16.4   2,296.1           _   2,296.1          -         -
OVERSEAS TRAVEL                                           -    590.6    590.6            -  82,720.0  82,720.0         100          2
TRAVEL ALLCWANCES                                    265.1      47.4    312,S  37,127.6   6,638.3  43,765.9             IS          I
t oa.  TRAVEL                                            650.3    630.0  1,280.6  91,085.4  89,358.3 160,443.7              50         4
C. EQtIP./OPERATIMGAIO AINT.                            268.0    261.4    509.4  37,536.3  33,607.7  71,36.0               67         1
D. VEHICLESI6OATS/OPERATINHSKAINT.                    1,368.9          -  1,386.9 194,526.1             - 194,526.1          -         4
E. RESEARCH VESSEL/OPERATINGSKAINT.                          -  1,601.0  1,601.0            - 224,233.2 224,233.2          100         5                                                                                     07
F. OTHER ZNCREHENTAL OPERATING COSTS                 _I 333.4  1,804.8  3.138.2 286,751.5 252,775.6 439,527.3              S5          9                                                                                     '0
Total Reocureot Coet.                                      7,077.9  6,265,2 11.363.1 992,410.0 600,175.0 1,592,593              38        33
Totl RASELC COSTS                                         14,940.8 19,764.0 34,712.7 2,094,766 2,769,666 4,.64.272              57       100
Physic-l Contiogeocie.                                      913.0  1,229.2  2,162.2 127.069.4 172,163.7 300,033.1              57         6
Pric  Contin.qe-oIe                                       1,934.4  2,630.0  4,565.2 116,157.2 159,539.4 275,696.6              56         6
Total rEcT COSTS                                           17,796.1 23,624.0 41,620.1 2,33,813 3,101,109 5,440,001              57        112
Tu  Nov 01 11:53:66 199
2-1 Project Coot Mrimary



MALM2
Sh7C LAKE NALWIIITNAPA II0iVl!xSITY       ERVco AsTlS PUECCT
Eoditan. Ano.t, by C            natte - S.e Ct.
4W o0002
STRENTNIlINC                                                                Physic1l
HATICONAL                                       POJECT                 Contingncits
lESEAICO       CAPACITY       LEGISLATION   IOTECTED AREA ADNI'STRAT1IO  7Toa1            S    Amount
X.  nweWtaet Ceete
A. CIVIL  WORKS                                           3,403.7            110.3               -               _               -  3,504.5    10.0   359.5
a.    mmr
RESI I EWJIFNNPIS                                         34.9                        -               -               -             36.9    10.0      1.7
oFrics  gIpNEw                                           302.7             81.2               _       -               -            363.9    10.0    38.4
VESICLES/8OATS                                            73.8           524.2                        -               -            596.0    10.0    59.6
ubtotal  E ShnT                                             413.4            605.4               -               -               -  1,010.4    10.0   101.9
C. TPA 3  AND  TDUIz3
TXAINING AND STUDIES                                          -        1,030.8                _               -               -  1,030.8      5.0    51.5
P. TECOSIAL A 00I6TA1C
INTERXATIONAL EXPERTS/WNSULTANTS                       4,208.2                -           443.0               -        4,452.9  9,104.1       5.0   455.2
WCAL EXPERTS                                                  -               -            55.3               -               -     55.3      5.0     2.0
Subtotal TECIC    A0018T05                                4,201.2                -           4.3                 _         4452.9  0,159.4       5.0   45.
T. 0nex   6aYTEO  coEs34
SEPORT PROWCTION                                         903.5                -            02.0               -               -    175.5    10.0    17.5
OTHER HISCELLANEuIS IIESTIENT COSTS                      221.5            275.7               -               -            06.4    595.5    10.0    59.6
"btotal OTHS MOESrISOT  mBTE                                 315.0           275.7            e2.0               -            96.4    771.0    10.0    77.1
F. NA31U9A PSNINSULA/LAKE MIALWI NATIONAL PARK                   -               -               -         7.775.1                  7,775.1      7.7   597.1
Total InvWteet Cost.                                           8,420.3         2,022.7           500.3         7,775.1         4,551.3 23,349.6       7.0 1,645.1
1I. Ro,nt Cost.
A. SALARLIS WS
SALARIES                                               2,401.2                -               -               -           640.3  3,041.5      2.7    61.1
WAGES                                                     307.6            88.1               -               -               -    395.7      5.o    19.8
oubtotal aua1s  flA                                      2,700.8            66.1               -               -           640.3  1,437.2      2.9   100.9
D. Tm'AV:L
IOCAL TRAVEL                                             205.1                -            73.8               -               -    368.9      5.0    18.4
REGIONAL TRAVEL (OfZ.OTANZ.I                                                  -            16.4                               -      16.4     5.0      0.8
OERSEAS TRAVSL                                            332.2               -           110.7               -           147.7    590.6      5.0    29.5
TRAVEL ALIMANcEs                                          164.4               -           128.1               -               -    312.5      5.0    15.6
subtotal TRAVCL                                              411.7               -           320.0               _           147.7  1,286.4      5.0    64.4
C. ELQUIP./OPERATINsWNAINT.                                  509.4               -               -               -               -    509.4       5.0    25.5
V. VE6ICLESSORATS/OPERATING4HAINT.                         1,400.0           366.9                                                   1 -  _ ,366.9  5.0    69.4
S. RESEAXCH VWSSEL/OPERATINGOMAINT.                        1,601.0               -               -               -               -  1,601.0      0.0    30.1
F. OTHER INCRSKSNTAL OPERATING ODSTS                      2,513.2             50.09                              -           574.1  3,131.2      5.0   256.9
Total R.ouzoaot Coat.                                          9,144.2           527.9           320.0                -        1.362.1 11.363.1       4.4   497.2
Total  AW.MI  COSTN                                            17,564.5         2.550.5            909.2         7,775.1         5,013.4 34,712.7      6.2 2,142.2
Physical Contingencies                                        1,017.8           177.1            49.6           507.1           300.6  2,142.2         -       -
Pries Contingencies
Inf lation
Local                                                    1,101.0            311.5            15.7            01.6           424.5  1,9134.4       -        -
Freig1n                                                     625.7            51.5             0.5           265.8           201.7  1.139.1        -        -
subtotal 3flati-                                           1,721.8           363.0            25.2           347.4           616.1  3,073.5         -       -
DeveluetLin                                                   709.9            63.3            12.6           480.0           217.9  1,491.7         -       -
Subtotal Price Cw,tingencles                                  2,431.7           426.3            37.8           635.4           634.1  4.565.2       6.2   264.8
Total SflTE COT0                                               tl6.1  4.0       3,154.0           096.5          9,207.6        7,048.0 41.420.1       5.9 2,427.0
Taxes
Foreign Exchang                                              10i160.o           656.5           653.2         6,404.6         3,546.6 23,624.0      5.9 1,395.7
Tue Nov 01 I1:53:57 1004
3-1 Expenditure Accounts by Cape_ntg - S. Coets



6AC LAKE S6SASSeS ASA 61'101V90817 CwSI.6tIf P6O36ies
_.dt    h'_  by 0             _     -  _e  mte
VORA"
sATIna ML                                      P0oJttT                    _r..tIh , I
0ESEAACU       CAPACITY      L3LSsATtIQW   W73ICTED AMREA AI195StATIQW _ot                 I      A,c,nt
A. CIVL WOS                                            46967            11.120                                -               - 603*411.         " '. 5S,41.7
*. t  mm
lEsEANdI OaWinWI                                      1,17J.0               -                              *               _    5 .176 .      I0.0     S17.6
officE 34IPM   t                                     42.36.4.0       11,374.0               -              _               -   S3.768.6       I0.0   S,376.6
VWllCLS/60A?S                                        IJ)40.1 _       !1.dlL*                                               _   U *),751s4.0   100   16171.
tt1  0             27,94.6                                              04,730 .0                 -            _ -            -  142102.         10 .   14,269.2
C. sMAIM SM em=a
TOAINtWO AND STUOltS                                        -       144S.63.6               -                                 144.3636         S.6   7,21S.2
D. SOIch, AOIJO
SITSU4ATIOa.L ESPERTS/ICO1SLTAMS                    S09604,S .                      62_0*640                       623,661T.  1.27S.61         S1.0  63,174.1
LCAL SPIOTS                                                                 -         7 749                 -              -    7 72 5.3       1.6     367.1
Idtow  2NZCAL AWIIOTM              S       S      S      050.0                  -   57 9J.                     - 0 2J,SS1.1 1,2;2,U31            S1   04,141. S
C. ernT  Dw'gamS  mess
rt2 T PRODUjCTION                                    1)0943.                -        11,460.4               -                  24,176.9       10.0   2,417.1
OTHss   NISCELLANIXs  ISSVESIIIT CUTS                a1.0!           36J613.9               -               -       13 774 5   JS 410.3       It.*      34J.0
&t"Al eornm  nt        Oa      4o1 14.1                                 3,611.9         11,40.4                -       l3S77.S  107:6.1.3        10.0  10,706.1
r. SAtnSA PWIISULA/LaSt HAL6  NATIIAS L PAM                     -              -               -      1696 376                _  1 30;.370        7.7 T 3S632.3
otld 1me.t_t C-to                                           1.179.311      261,21.          11,269.7       1,99693%       637.437.0  3,211,673         7.0 230,463.5
I1. Saar_t Cost.
A. 3*SM    
SALAXISS                                            2)7.420.3                               -               -       0_ ,671.6  427.09S.T       2.1  I,3S4.6
ESKS                                                 43  'S.'        12-336.6               -               -               -   SS 422.7        1.    2 771 1
6.eal 6AM     6                                        360.100.2        12,336.6                               -    SS,675.5  40*116.7             2.0  ii 111.S
*. s9a4U.
LOC.L TRAVCL                                         41.32.4 t                       10,332.4                                   St-  -    1,661.6  s.6   2,1S
RErGIn0AL TSSAWL (P    A1.&TMS.)                             -              -         2, 2.                 -               -    2,266.1       1.0      314.6
OERSEAS TRARL                                        46,S30.0                -       ISs1,1.6               -       20.0   62,720.0             1.0   4,i36.0
TPAvtL, ALIANU                                          63.                  -   1 7.931.0          J                             .J,7S1.      S10   2.1J..
01btata1 TSSVL                                         113*11                   -       460713.4               -       20mg   I16,4437              .    6.622.2
C. 3l1P./O?rATIWONsAIT.                                 71,344.0                -              _               _                   71,34.0         1.6   3147.2
D. v1XICLUaSDOATS/O9URATIMIAJallST.                    140,04.0         S4,440.3J                                              -  124,26.1         S0   0,725. JVl
s. RsEsEAR7 WESSWOMRATNG.AsI't.                        2240233a                 -              -               -               -  226,213.2        1.0  11,211.7
F. ONtA  SJNCiM. OSUTSASID  nWTS                       3     .4          7.120,3               -               -       69.406.6  439.S27.         S1.   21 976.4
I.L&   S_ggnt Cto                                           1.2013824       73. 931 .4        167)7 -                    41 4.7.3  1.192.11            4.4 I.0).629.
S.a       c      a                                            ,SS1.1i3     317,217 3       127,343.1       1,060,37      020,262.1  4.804,272          6.2 30,0)3.
flysicel CeatLnyscls                                      142,153.7        24,607.0          ,043.2        03,632.)       42,006.0  30,0 33.1                     _
fltecmil_      d
Lal                                                   314,206.2        43,626.1         2,202.3        11,4311.        1.440.9  270,019.7           _         _
Forelg                                                 66 037 4_        7.211,0         1.M32L9       ALL3            2.6447.11 ISO S.9             -
I Zll                                     ~10,630.261,-57                S83.1             11,S22        4      S611.   66,294.5  436,41.             -         -
De     l.stioa                                          -1.1S26.0       -23,709.6        -1.0 0.S        -6,314.1       -30.009.9 -314,162.1          _         _
Subtotal Ptice Contlr cies                                146616. 1        276160           2 467.4 6       03)7.1 36.20S46  27606.6                  1.9  36 460 6tS
tal g,a tm mes               ,          ,           7          1.i                 IJ                     ,nz.@  3,234,4     20,101.4  1,440.603       } 1.
foreign ESebSe                                            1,323,671       111.00s.2        09,723.7       1.11,1.01      46"6,09.7  3,101.149         1.0 161,011.9
Tow                  10*41   IIn4I Ia -' --                                                                                 - -s _.-
4-1   _ 1omtt        _eak     Ssr c _mon   -  am"b C_to



sAfC LAiR NAItWI/WASA  I01DIV91WIT1 (WSSVTI ll Pra3CT
it     A..mat  bt                 6  - f.tale m.1L.g ooat_._Me
IKATI(WAL                PAOrCT3CD    ?aagcy
aRsiARCa   CAPACITY   LIGISLATOI(   AMfA    AUKIIISTRATIP  T*otal
1. zwwtmwft Cto
A. CtVIL NOS                                         4,65.7          33.7                                            4,461.4
*. mam
R3SS3tA   W    4 UII.S                                                -             -         -                -     42.6
OFTfC3 rwIHDir                                      372.1         066.8             -          -                    473.3
V1ICLESI,7ATS                                        64.6         60.1 I            _            _                  754.2
Subtotal    uM r                                       696.6        *771l.             -          -               -  1,269.
C.  s3AI        ARD QIID
TrAlHlte AMD STtmDgS                                    -       1,247.3             -          -               -  1,247.3
D. T    ICAL AM6I6M
I2STRUIATI(AL EXPIRTS/C4SULtATS                   5,1,6.3            4- 1.3                    -        1,362.0 16,69.6
LOCAL UrERTS                                            -             -         69.6           -               -     60.6
"total TdCstA.L A081  SA                            13.106.3              -        141.9          -         s,36z.0 166950.2
C. on I, IUE6Df costs
cr5oat r?NcOJTI(U                                   121.2              -        94.6           -               -    21S.3
OTHE0R5 MISCELLANEOUS IWsTMm? COSTS                 283.2         351.6             -          -           123.1    7S7.9
bt-tal o0TR    DVE6nEmI  COns6                         464.4         351.6          94.0          -           123.1    973.2
r. mANwSUA PoHImSULAIAK  NALSn HATaIOAL  ARK                -             _            -   9,207.6                _  O.zO7.4
Total la..toost Coate                                    10,274.6       2,500.6        636.0   9,2617.6         5,42.1 28,049.3
XI.   W-eat Cot.
A.  tALARM  A      8
SALARIES                                          2,616.2              -            -          -           761.2  3,363.3
WAES                                                374.1          106.2            -     _                    -    402.3
f.btotal 6MLARX6 S IA                                2,992.4          101.2            -          -           765.1  3,65.7
S. TSAVEL
LOCAL TRAvEL                                        3S2.6              -        69.6           -               -    433.4
REGIONAL TtAVWL (tOZ.TANZ.)                             -              -         19.6          _               -      19.6
OVERSES  TRAVEL                                     401.f              -        120.3                      171.3    701.1
TRAVEL ALLWAHCIs                                    224.3              -        139.6          -               -    364.1
Suhtotal d    AVEL                                     982.4              -        360.6          -           175.3  1,S16.2
C.   JIrP./oP5RAUT1GIHA1NT.                            606.6                           -          -               -    600.0
D. VEHICLEZSAOATS/OPERATIRGAMAINT.                   1,200.2          477.6            -          -                   1,677.6
C. RESEAtCH WSSEL/OPERATIGUNAMAIT.                   1,942.7              -                                       -  1,942.7
F. OTH0 R INCREMEIITAL OPERATING COSTS               3,013.S          62.5                                  _ 662.5  L,78.
Total RecIreat Cost                                      10.139.1         646.3        360.6           -        1,622.9 13,370.9
Total NOW=     CTO                                        21,014.0       3,1.560        996.5   9,207.6          7,046.0 61,420.1
T.xes                                                          -             _            _          _                _        _
For.lgn Exchange                                        10,160.9          6S5.1       6S3.2   8,404.6          3,45S.6 23,624.0
Tue Now 01 11:54:26 1994
F-  V      it.ro Accemt  b,r cap ts  - Totals Including CmtinUe_loo



MMl!
SADC LAXE HALAWI/H`YASA 8IODIVERSITY CCOSERVATION PROJECT
Ep.nitu   At-  by C _qeta  -  otal.  Ieluiing Ceti.esci.e
U'STRFNTHF-1ING
NATIONAL                 PROTECTRD    PTOF.CT
RESEARCH    CAPACITY   LIGtSLATICN   AREA    ADlMINISTRATIAN   Total
1. lenatowt Coat.
A. CIVIL WIORS                                      553,268.4      37,599.1             -          -               - 570,867.5
D. TWf T
RESEAICH EQUtINCOT                                 S,772.3             -             -          -               -   S,772.3
OrFICE EWJIFENT                                   46,214.9      13.010.0             -          -               -  62,24.9
VEHICLES/SOATS                                    Il,s44S6      86,915 7             -          -               -         3
f.btata i  UISIT                                     66,531.8      99.9957              -          -               - 164,527.5
C. TUADWID  AlO  TWSID
TlAINING AND STUDIES                                     -    161.703.2                                         _ 161,783.2
D. T5WYCAL As3ZEEaf
INTELRNATIG4AL EXPgRTSIC(PSULTANTS               664,134.7                   66,119.1           -      696,976.1 1,427,232
LOCAL EXPERTS                                             -             -     8,323.4           -               -   6,323.4
Sbttctl TSW6ICA3L ASIESTAuC                         664,134.7              -    74,442.5           -       696,978.1 1,435,555
C. OTHE   3WCESTIT C7OS
REPORT PRODUCTION                                 15,940.1              -    12,916.2           -               -  26,050.3
OTHER MISCELLANEOUS INvEsTnENT COSTS              36,729.2      45,605.1             -          _        16,187.3  98,521.7
Ibtot. OTiS lNTIVZTIbT COSTS                         52,669.3      05,605.1    12,918.2            -        16,187.3 127,379.9
F. HANJUInA PENINSULA/LAUKE  ALAWI  NATIONAL PARK            -                          - 1,214,340                - 1,214.340
Tottl inn.taet Cots                                      1,336,604    324,983.2    47,360.7 1,214,340          713,165.4 3,676,453
II. E      nt Cot.
A. 8ALARIES &  A
SALARIES                                         355,846.5              -            -          -       100,579.0 456,425.5
WAGES                                             46,524.6      14,032.2             -          -               -  62,557.0
Subtot.l  AAARS & WS                                404,371.3       14,032.2            -          -       100,579.0 518,962.5
B . T RAvl:L
LOCAL TRAVEL                                      46,354.5              -    11,097.9           -               -  57,452.4
REGIONAL TRAVEL  MoZ.&TANZ.)                              -             -     2,575.3           -               -   2,575.3
OVERSEAS TRAVEL                                   52,569.6              -    16,529.8           -        23,039.8  92,159.2
TRAVEL ALLOWANCES                                 29,091.6              -    19,208.4           -               -  48,300.1
lubtotal TRAVUL                                     128,035.8              -    49,411.3           -        23,039.8 200,486.9
C. EQUIP./OPERATHG&94AINT.                           79,869.0              -            -          -                -  79,069.0
D. VEHICLES&BOATS/OPERATINGKMAINT.                  157,588.0       61,949.9            -          -                - 219,537.8                                                                                          N
E. RESEARCH VESSEL/OPERATING&MAINT.                 251,971.3              -            -          -               - 251,971.3                                                                                            0
F. OTHER INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                394,669.4        6,109.0            _          _        09,721.4 492,700.2
Total R.eUet Co-t.                                       1,416,705      64,091.0    49,411.3            -      213,340.2 1,763,548
Total PROJEC  CO8TS                                       2,753,309    409,074.3   136,772.0 1,214,340          926,505.6 5,440,001
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                                        1,323,675     111,085.2    69,723.7 1,110,195         466,509.7 3,101,189
Tue Nov 01 11:54:37 1994
o'a-,..._44r  Actounte by Capnants - Tateis Including Cmtingneies



- "    l -~'  I      M         1
;- o .4.  .        4 .  .    U .I;  
2-                                                                9   * : . L; -~~~~~~~~ .  .  .  -s
-   _I 00   _,    ._aC_     .4.
-   ' ^o  --   'f1  --  ..
68 ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 6



69
S. .0.1.
I  n* .r*-  .  O
-: NN  0O
I 0_5 0 _ _ 
F             -u   
_   -,  .I o 
I ..'f^':
1. r      1    00I.III 
0I'!- " .1.
v. _   rlel  -r    .  I.



YAIAWI
SAnC LWxs NAIJI/wiYASA 92D0V5991TY CONSERVATION rP9035C
Irojt C _oasts by Tsar -- I             tda           t Casts
Totals IncludInq rontlng.nclss nIx  oooM,             Totals Includlng C2ntlntsncIS! IUSI
95/46    96/97    97/98   97/99    Total_    95/96            96/97      77/99   9_/99         T,.tal
A. RE0r 4
Inv-stant Costs                             512.6  5,932.6  1.970.9  1,658.S 10,274.9  70,414.4 769,667.5 255,627.8 261,094.7 1,136,606
Recurront Costs                           2,464.9  2,751.1   2,963.4 _3,156-6 10,739.1 341,535.2 357,208.3 1!_18!0.! 111,600.S 1,!6,705
fubtota1 II5ECW                             2,977.6  6,666.7  64,93.3  6,415.5 21,014.0 413,949.6 1,126,676 639,988.6 572,695.5 2,753,309
B. *Srmnmnn   lasIcmL CAPACM
In-st"nt Cost.                                  -    911.6  1,341.9    252.1  2,95S.6               - 118,240.7 174,045.7  32,696.9 324,983.2
RIcurtant Costa                                  -    205.7    215.9    226.7    646.1              -  26,674.4  26,008 .1  29,400.5   4,091.0
Subtotal wT9ETcsWXg  SAIOWEAL CAPACM                -  1,117.1  1,557.9    476.6  3,154.0              - 144,915.1 202,053.9  62.105.3 609,074.3
C. LISIATIOX
Invitmnt Costs                              636.0          -         -         -    636.0  67,360.7            -          -          -  S7,360.7
lacarrent Coats                             345.5       4.6        5.0       5.3    360.6  47,452.6        621.1      652.4      685.0  49,411.3
lubtotal IISLAThIS                            962.4        4.6       5.0       S.3    996.5 134,S1313        621.3      652.6      665.0 136,772.0
D. PROTC=TD AR8A
Inva.tant Costs                           1,03    7,403.9                      -  9,207.6 254,047.0 960,292.9        1               - 1,211,340
subtotal PROTEUm  ARA                        1,603.7  7,403.9           -         -  9,207.6 254,947.0 960,292.9              -          - 1,214,340
t. PROJEC  AEaa9IST9AlO
Invs-tnt Costs                            1,242.3  1,341.2  1,393.7  1,648.0  5,425.1 170.611.9 173,955.1 160,761.9 187,806.4 713,165.4
R.c.rr.nt Costs                             371.7    400.4    416.9    431.9  1.622.9   1,052,0  51,937.6  54,069.0  56,281.6 213,340.2
Subtotal PR0.2DT AflIBTRAXin                1,613.9  1,741.6  1.810.5  1,.9619  7,049.0 221,693.9 225,992.6 234,830.9 244,006.1 926 505.6
Total FPRTJ   COSTS                           7,376.7 18,954.2  0,307.7  6,781.5 41,420.1 1,026,504 2,45,8390 1,077,526 979,573.9 5,440.001
Total Inv-st-ot Costs                       4,194.6 15,569.3  4,706.5  3,550.9 26,049.3 512,466.0 2,021,956 610,435.4 461.697.9 3,676.453
Total  s-ornant Costs                       3,182.0  3,365.0  3,601.3  3,222.6 13,370.9 442,039.6 436,441.6 467,090.3 417,976.0 1,763.541
T N  Goo II 11:55:14 1994
-i Pregst a fa               O_   -  tms   t



u~~sma1jvM  mmmum   iwmioe
X.  -waoma     "
BAUMA  61H1?                                        316.9         -                   -      36.9    266.0       36.6    1,170.0             -           --    51,7.6.                  160.0   51270..
CIWICA sinDiNU                                       203.0      61.2    166.1           -    363.6    IWO.    303.6   14,47606   11,374.6   27,616.0                   -   53,766.0       106.6  13,7661.9
VINCIZS/11CATS                                        7)61          -    124.2               16$6.0    104.6    166.    20340.9               -   73 414.0             -    3,714.        166o. 0 3.754.0
sutowa  owzd                                            214.1      61.2    723.1               ,1.         160.6  =1,61.9   26116.0   113.74.0  101,332.0                 -   42663.6        166.0 142.692.0
C. TRAMEM AM 611031
TRAINIM ND I  312323                                      -    440.1    446.1    137.7  1,038.0                       -           -   62,313.3   626 30.3   19.287.1  144,363.6               -          -
IWM?NA?2I4A   8XPEATI/COSIILTAbTS                  2,777.7  2,442.1  2,442.1  2,442.1  9,164.1          77.4  7,660.2  240,67S.32  342,031.3  342,635.3  342.035.3  1.275.061              77.4 967.420.4
LO  CAL DISTS                                         55*3                    -         -     11.3          -         -    7,749.3            --                       -    7,746.3           -          -
pubt.ta1  UZCMlwC. ASIMAPCt                           1.833.i  2*-442.1  21,142.1  2,-442.1  0,-.119-.4    -77.6  7,-00.2  256,724.6  3142,031.3  34-2,035.3  3F42,031.3  1,2L2,631         -77.0  0 -7.4286.
R. OTHE  z0fteal    cons
31101? PRIZCT1C                                      106.06         -         -     60.9    171.1           .         .   14,924.5            .            -    9, 656. 4   24,174.9          -          -
0963R NIISC3LIANO4EO  INWSIHDI  OTSOT                 24.6    222.6    194.7    113.7    111.            46.     290.3    3,444.1   31,170.7   27 267 I   21,527.6   63.410.3              46.8  40,063.1
f.bt.t.1 0T1M INESTMEN  COno                            1 3r.-2   2-22.6   -194.7    222.6    771.0         37.7    290.3   16,300.0 -1,170.7I  27,201.08   31,176.1  107.901.3                37.7  40,003.1
1'. NAMKI.9A 9'MINSULP.IJLAK  MA2AII NATIOAL PMS  1,830.7  5,971.3               -             7 77753      9 1.0  7.119.3  254,047.0  836,323.1              -           -  1090.370          91.6 990,527.6
Total ?n          Clt oete                                 3,6.6 12,7510.    ,0.    ,0.   3 96.3                   35,767 11,1220.2  1.706,676  533,173.5  3912,5$00.1  3, 27 1,'6179              00.3 2,109,311
II. 3.Gat coet.
Ak. SALARIE  & 1WNE
SAIARIOS                                           1,031.7    469.9    469.9    469.9  3,041.1              -         -  229,611.6   01,614.0   01,014.  605,614.8  427,091.9                  -          -
WAGKS                                                     .    112.4    112.4 ....j.          391.7                   .           -   21.340. .0       346.f..6L  12,729.5   5S 422 7          -          -
D.btotal MIOAItUU   A6                              -1,432.7   6022.3    0-22.3    1-60.   3,-437.2           -         -  229,651.0   07,161.4   671l01.4   76,544.3  462,5107                  --
B. TRAVEL
IOCAl TRAVEL                                         I47.       73.g       73.0      73.6    366.9                    -   20,664.7   10.332,4   10,332.4   10,332.4   11,641.0                 -          -
6SGrO1RL TILAWL (10Z.&TAJIZ.1                          4.1       4.1        4.1       4.2      10.4         -         -       174.6       174.0       17.0.        574.9    2,266.1            -          -
OVERARM  TRAVEL                                      147.7    147.7    147.7    147.7    190.6    160.0    599.6   20,680.0   20,000.0   20,600.0   20,000.0   62,720.0                   109.0  02,720.6
TRAVEL ALLOWICSI                                     120.1      73.0       73.6      36.9    312.5       15.2      47.4   17,935.6   10.332.4   10.3)2.4    5. 160.2   43.701.9            15.2   6. 638.3
S.bt Lal T6AR .47.                                                  993      29.       262.4  1200.4        49.5    630.0   59,853.7   1,1.           4,9.7        36,752.5  1806,443.7        4.16,5.
C. EOUIP./OPE6AT1IW4GaAlNT.                              121.4    125.4    129.3    133.3    510.4          47.4    241.4   16,090.1   17,550.7   16,11S.3   10,073.9   71,344.0               47.4  33,607.7
D. VWNICLI.SID03Ts/oPERATIIIG&KIkINT.                    229.5    359.1    400.1    400.1  1,366.9              -        -   32,145.1   50.306,2   14,040.4   56,040.4  194,520.1                 -          -
1. RESEMCH4 VSSEIJOPERATING&KRINT.                           -    649.4    640.4    320.2  1,601.0    100.0  1.601,0                  -   69,693.3   69,693.3   44,640.0  224,233.2           120.0 224.233.2
1'. 0THER II4CEKODTAL, 0P1RA121G COSTS                  623.3    613.7    650.6    050.0  3.131,2           17.5  19064.8   07,299.6  113,962.0  119,132.0  119.132.6  439.527,3               57.5 252,775.8 
Tota  R.,.ot Coet.                                         3,033.3   ,0.    ,4.   2,527.51 21363.1               37.7  4,95   -25,94.!  400,          12. 42061.7  353,990.3  1.592.593           31.  6000,175.0r
Tot.1 0ASLa,M  COSTS                                        7,011.3 25,610.5  6,749.0  5,329.9 34,712.7           506.9 19,764.0  905,074.2  2.167,471  945.235.2- 746.490.0  4.864.272              56.9 2,769.486
Physlcal Contingencies                                      206.0  1,274.4    303.4    277.0  2.142,2          17.4  1,229.2   26,909.1  176,406,6   13,091.6   30,663.4  300.033,1               57.4 172,163.7
Pric. Cmtiagq.eo.
ZoO latbo
Local                                                   79.7    635.6    472.6    546,S  1,934.4              -         -   II,154,4  117,027.5   00,191.3   74,546.9  270,919.7                 -          -
ror.ign                                                 32.2    432.2    330,5    344.3  1,139.1    100.0 1.13.1.!           4,508.3   00,S25.4   40,289.6   48,215.9  159,539.4            100,0 159,539.4
a,,bto.al  wia~tim                                        111.0  1,267.7    003.1    090.0  3,473.5          37.1  1,139.1   15,664.3  177,552.9  112,461.0  124,760.6  430.459.0               37.1 159,539.4
Deo-luatico                                                42.7    793.4    372.3    203.2  1,491.7    104.0  1,491.7   -5,203.6   615,211S.3  -33,662.3  -30,542.1 -154,742.S                     -          -
s.btot*1 Price Conting.nci..                                154.0  2,001.3  1,17S.4  1,173.9  4,505.2           57.6  2,630.0   10,460.5   92,437.0   76,594.6   94,199.7  _275,696.6             57.91953.
Tot.1 PROJECT COITS                                         7,370.7 10,954.2  6,307.7  6,701.5 41,420.1           57.0 23,024.0  1,924,504  2,450.396  1,6-77,520  070,573.9  5,440.001              57.0 3,101.189
T..*.
Foreign B.ch.nge                                          4,024.4 10,734.0  5,035.4  3,630.0 23,424.0              -         -559,110.7  1,392,21-7  453,105.8  490,715.7  3,101.199                             -
T.. Nm 01 11:55:25 1094
10-1 Expenditure A...,.ts bY TealS



tnuw
SADC um6 HLAiA/TMASA SIODIVWITVY C6M3VTlWl P9           t
we 6.a  AMs& by v..w
Totels Includina  CCMei.            100'           t1l.1. including Coatipsenies  (US$)
95/96    96IS7    77/96    96j9      Tota      VS/96     n927       97/96     96/99     Total
1. Taww06t  otw
A. CIVILWO                                              -  4.41.4         -         -   .451.4         -  79 5967.    5               - 5705567.5
D. ~mvnm
913a3A0  60Ip"OT                                  42.0        -        -         -     42.6   S,772.3         -          -         -   S,772.3
orrrcs 6Wlh4iT                                   117.7    100.e    2549.         -   473.3  16,162.S  13,Io0.6  33,692.4           -  62,294.9
WIICL  /OAT0                                      64.6        -    670. 1        -    754.2  11,544.6          -  S6 91.t          -  9n,40.3
lit.tel m 1%                                        243.7   166.0    925.6          -  1269.5  33,479.4  13,660.6 l19,66.1            - 166,527.5
C. TUA lg A h 
TUAIKII  AID STUDIUS                                 -  521.9  346.0    17715  1,247.3              -  67,691.3  711,75.9  230156.1 161,763.2
D. !001. A18pW
IHTEATIUIAL UPSM/04sULTARTS                    1.936.1  2,666.3  2,963.7  3   3.9 S 10,669.6 26S,945.2 374,357.0 366S794.9 39s 934.1  1427,232
CL  UE2IITs                                       60.6        -        -         -     46.6   8,323.4         -          -         -  6,323.4
Subtotal TWXI)  *J8E16T6U                         1,996.7  2 66. 3  2,9.7Y 3,663.9 51 6,9.2 274,266.6 374,39 7. 3I T.694  399,934.1 1.435,555
C. VIRM  nrsnw   OT
REPOT PfiCIaI                                    122.3        -        -      93.e    215.3  16,793.6          -         -  12,864.7  26,69e.3
OTNEO NISCSELJMELS JNIETHIT COSTS                 26.2    279 0    249.6    20S.6    797.9   2 073.4  35 "6 6   32 396.6  26,583.1  9,9521.7
subtotal aIm  zEUT  2coot 190.9    275.6    346.6  296.4 5937i 20,e09.1 2396   G.4  32,396.6  36,647.6 127,379.9
F. IAnIWA DIINSULA/lAKS HALPOI NATIONAL 9W   1.603.7  7 403 9              -        -  9,207.6 2S4,647.  610,292.9               -      1-214,340
Total 2,wteet Cost.                                   4.194,6 ISSS9, 3  4,766.9  3,996.9 26,49.3  62,414.6  2,0215,956  10,435.4 461,597.9 3,676,453
II.      te  Costs
A. LMAs  a
SALARIS                                        1.691,6    549.2    576.7    605 9  3,303.3 231,44.4  712237.1  74,799.7  7, S39.6 4SS,425.5
WAGIS                                                -    176.1    197.1    117.1    462.3           -  23,1659.   24.26.6  IS 919. 6  62, 57. 
Sutotal BALhR         N6                          1,1.9  7i27.4  763.          722.7  3,965.7 236  t6.   94,343.3  99,060.   93,736,3 916,962.9
D. SmAVm
LOCNL TSAWL                                      161.6     96.2    90.5       99.1    433.4  22,199 7  11,16S.7  11,742.9  12,336.0  57,492.4
ANIMIAL TRAWL t"D.oTMZ.)                          4.S      4.        9.S0     5.3     19.6     616.5      621.3     652.4       9.6 0   2,975.3
OVERSLEA  TRAVWL                                 10.4    179 .      160.2    19564    701.1 22,639.7  22,700.9  23.376,4  24,046.2  92 IS9. 2
TRAVWL ALI.WMCES                                 139.6     06.2      96 .     47.    364.1  19,266.4  113163,7  11.7I2372 9  6,1650 48,361
Subtotal. TNmLS                                     466.4    352.3    366.3    333.3  ISU.62  64,9 C.4  49,.69,6  47,5096.   43.226,2 266,467.9
C.  0IP ./OPCIRATIICN&AINT.                         132.4    147.9    IS.3    169.7    6406.   16,190.3  19,136.6  26,533.2  22,604.7  79,669.0
D. VSHICLZSA9oATS/OpERAT1NGAINT.                    251.4    419.6    491.1    91S.6  1,677.6  34,526.7  S4.644,   6 3,696.9  66,679.4 219,937.1
E. RESEAC1 V9SSEWOOERATINGMINA .                        -    759.1    73.95   402.1  1,942.7            -  949.5I 3 161,362.21  52,196. 291,971.3
F. OTNSR INCIDITAL OCPERATI  COSTS                  660.1    99S.9  1646.I  1l07S.S  3,7.S6 9 3 414 6 124,374 7 134,935.0 13.3976S  492,766.2                                                              '
Total benmeat Costo                                   3,12. 6  3.3-659    3 601 3  3,222.6 1333709 442.039,6 436,441.6 401,696.3 417,976.0    76354946
Total 9CMT  COMES                                      7,376.7 16,994.2  *.307,7  6,761.9 41,426.1 1,024.904 2,450,390 1,677,5*6 *79,573,9 So140,601
Tue No. 61 Il S5:45 1994
11-1 F-meitur. Accut.t bT Yars



OWC Lart IAIAMI/IOAA 02eDlClWMIT C           WA0vTmIG  PeJ0
4- *006I
Phyical
Coat.
bass     Plu.
Cots 4   Price
Oa". Cost                    Physical Contingencies               Price Coetinoeocles                    Total Ioel. Cant.             price    Coot.
Local                                 Local                              Local                               Local                        Cont.        o
For.    EKel.   Duties                For.   idcl.  Duttis              For.   (ltel.  Duties               For.    (tKel.   Duties                  leses  Fhysical
lack.    TsAss)  A Taxes   Total    lnch.  Tas   t Tones  Total  Lach.  Taoe     A Taxes  Total  tlch.  T2Ms   A Taxes   Total    Coast                       Coot.
1. 3'ae.e   t ceoWe
A. CIVIL WDRKS                                              -  3594.S          -  3,194.5         -   3S9.1        -    M1.1         -   447.4        -   447.4          -  4,401.4          -  4401.4  4.0,1.3    400.1
D.  m in_ 
RESARCH  lI2I99T                                     36.9         -         -      36.9      3.7       -               3.7     1.4        -        -      1.4     U2.S         -         -      42.0      30.2       3.0
0r0lc3 tWIl?lT                                      383.9         -         -    303.9    30.4          -       -    30.4    11.1          -       -    11.1    473.3           -        -    473.3    430.3        43.0
VSHlCLZ/ORTS                                        SSt.0         -         -    190.0    19.0                        59.-    96.4        -        -    90.4    754.2          -     _         714.2    601.6      60.6
C. 2SA W AND 9         =                             1,026.0         -         -  1,020.0   101.9          - -          181.9   140.0                      140.0  1,269.5          -         -  1.269.5  I.IS4.1    121.4
TRAINING Alh7 STUDIIS                                   -  1030.0           -  1,030.0         -    11.S        -    51.S         -   16_.1        -   261.1          -1,247.3           _  1,247.3  1,120.0        19.4
D. TWWICaL  A          t826lCE
liNATAlUNUL UPRWS/eCOSUL>M47S                     7.056.2  2,853.0          -  9,104.1   352.5   102.7          -   415.2 1,032.t   297.7          - 1,330.3  9,435.4  2,454.2              10.059.6 10,371.0    516.1
LOCAL tXl^RTS                                                   5.3         -      55.3        -     2.         -      2.0        -     2.S        -      2.5         -     60.6         -      l0.6      57.7       2.9
st*tetl T tCinICZL  A82SM_ct                         7,050.2  2,109 2           -   ,115.4   3152.15  2O15          -   410.0 15032.0   3t0.2          - 1,332.t  t,US4.4  21514.0           - 10.950.2 l0,420.0    521.4
e. oTnm Ozmr mets
REPORT PF>XICT2O 4                                      -    17.5           -    175.5         -    17.S              17.5        -    22.3        -    22.3          -    215.3         -    215.3    195.7        19.6
O7THE  HISCILLANBMS INInST7I4OT COSTS               290.3    305.2          -    595.5    29.0    30.5         -     9.       9.3    53.5          -   102.8    360.7    309.3           -    757.9   6S9.0         60.9
f.btstal 0fl   3fTEiT CO TS                            290.3   4t0.7            -    771.0    29.0   40.1           _    77.1   49.3    71.0           -   125.1    360.7    604.1           -    173.2    964.7       00.S
F.  ANKUHA   FEIISULAJLAKSI  WAl12 NATIONAL PARK  7,119.3   6tSS.               -  7.775.1   531.0                                   -                    03147.1   753.0  . -   83.4  ,404.  03.0  S,207. * ,34.5    673.1
Total 1- ast Costs                                       11,470.7  7,070.9          _ 23,349.3 1,015.0   630.1          - 1,64S.1 1,S4.S 2,070.1          - 3.054.6 18.478.2  *,571.1           - 20,049.3 2.,191.3  1,857.9
IX. Runrres t Casts
A. auaR        I
SAILASIS                                                -  3,041.5          -  3,041.5         -    01.1        -     12.1        -   260.0        -   260.6          -  3,313.3          -  3,3t3.3  3,209.5       93.5
WY=                                                      -    395.7         -     395.7        -    19.6           129. u  -    6.o.                 o   6..          -    402.3          -    402.3    459.3       23.0
Sbtotal NA2AJ    a l                                         -* 43.7.2           -7 3,437.2        -  10 09          -_ 109        _     327.6          -  32.76 7        - 3, 65.7             361.7  3 7,459.2    116.5
D. !RAR.
LOCAL TRAVSL                                            -    30.9           -    300.9         -    1.4         -    10.4         -    46.1        -    46.1          -    433.4          -    433.4    412.t       20.6
atcleWL TRAV.L IMB.4?T/Z.)                              -      16.4          -     16.4        -      0.O              0.0        -     2.4         _     2.4         -      19.6               19.6      1S.7         9
OVERSEAS TRAVWL                                     *90.0          -         -     9.6    29.1          -        -    29.5    O0.9         -        -    00.9    701.1          -         -    701.1    667.7    3IS4
TRAWL ALLMANCIS                                      47.4    265.1                312.5      2.4    13.3         -   21.6       1.7    34.3         -    36.0    S1.1    312.6            -    364.2    346.0       17.3
ocktotel TRAV.L                                         630.0    050.3          -  1,200.4    31.9    32.5          -    64.4    02.7    02.0          -   161.4    752.6    761.S6          --       11l.2  1,441.0   72.3
C. EWrF./OPKRATIMaMNAr.                                241.4    260.0           -    S09.4    12.1    13.4          -    2S.1    33.6    39.5          -    73.1    267.0    320.9           -    600.0    579.0       29.0
D. WSK2CLl5'OATS/OPRAT2NcSNlA2WT.                           -  1,300.9          -  1,30.9         -    69.4         -    69.4        -   219.4         -   219.4         -  1,677.1          -  1,677.0  1,597.9       79.9
E. RESuARCN VWSSIL/OPFATINGAMAINT.                   1,601.0          -         -  1,601.0    00.1         -        -    00.1   261.6         _        -   261.6  1,942.7          -         -  1,942.7  1,IS0.2       92.5
r. OTHR INCRED4TAL O?PRATING WOSTS                   1.604.8  1,333.4           -  3.130.2    90.2    S6.7          -   216.9   260.4   291.0          -   463.4  2,163.5   ,595.1.             3758.6 t3579.         179.0
T.t1 P.,wyaet Cents                                      4,2S.2  7,77.9            - 11,363.1   214.3   202.9           -  497.2   646.3   064.3             1,10.6 1,145.0  6,225.1            - 13,370.9 12,02.8    169.1
Tetal                                                     19.764.0 14,940.0          - 34,712.7 1,229.2   913.0          - 2.142.2 2,630.0 2,934.4          - 4,565.2 23,624.0 17,796.1            - 41,420.1 30,993.1  2,427.0
Tus N3I 01 11:56:13 1994
12-1 lupeamitut A.-couts stelkdom



OMAWn
SADC LAII HALAWI/IYASA 3ODIVERsItY CONSt-VATI0CA  FW3ECT
(US$)
as* Cost                  _            hyslel Conti ncles                             Price Comtionencios                            Total Incl. Cent.
Local                                         Local                                          Local                                         Local
f.r.      (Eacl.   Duties A                   For.       (EXc!.   Duties a                   rot.        Excl.   Duties aFor.                         (Ixel.   Duties a
Exch.     Taxes)       Taxes       Total      txch.      Taxes)      TasOx       Total       Exch.    Taxes)        Taxes       Total      Exchb      Teas)        Taes
1. EAW*t_ t Cast
A. CIVIL WOERS                                                   - 5C0,437.0            - 583,437.0            -  50,343.7             -  50,343.7            -  17,086.8            -  17,080.8            - 578,867.5
*. ~IWU1
OIESEAxCN tCUIHPNET                                   5,170.0            -           -   5,170.0       517.0           -           -      517.0        85.3           -           -       65.3   5,772.3             -          -
OFrICE COUIPHE4                                      53,760.0            -           -  53,760.0    5,376.0             -          -   5,376.8   3,150.1              -           -   3,IS0.1  62,294.9
VEHICLES/BOATS                                       83,750.0       _                -  03.754,0   0,375.4              -          -   8,375.4    6 330.9             -      _         6*330.9  9 60.3               - 
.bt.otal  xUIuPZ04                                      142,692.0           -           - 142,692.0  14,209.2              -           -  14,269.2   9,560.3              _          -   9,566.3 166,527.5              -           -
C. TRAMID        AND 5TUDIU
7TA39MIPG AND STUDIES                                        - 144,363.6             - 144,363.6            -   7,218.2            -   7,218.2             -  10,201.4            -  10,201.4            - 16I,783.2             -
D. TCUICAL A58I8WAIK
INTe3ATIONLAL EXPERTS/CONSULTANTS                   907,428.6 287,652.7              - 1,275,061   49,371.4  14,302.6              -  63,754.1  67,804.4  20,592.2                -  80.396.5 1,104.604 322,027.5               -
LOCAL tXPERTS                                                -   7.749.3             -   7,709.3            -      387.5           _      307.5            -      186.7           -      196.7                8 B,323.4
Subtota.  TEOCUICAL A5I8TANsr                           967,428.0 295.402.0             - 1,262,831  09,371.4  14,770.1                -  04,141.5  67,004.4  20,776.9               -  68,563.2 1,104.604 330,950.9                -
C. OTII3  D4nVE3T     COSTS
REPORT PROLUCTICN                                            -  24,574.9             -  24,570.9            -   2,457.5            -   2,457.5             -   1,825.6            -   1,825.0            -  26,85B.3             -
OTHER MISCELLANEOUS INVESTHENT COSTS                 *0,663,1  42,147.2              -  13,410.3   4,066.3   4,274.7               -   6,341.0   3,089.3   3.6B1.0                -   6,770.3  47,010.7  50,702.9                -
fubtot.l OTL  DrINVETMENT COITI                         40,663.1   67,322.2             - 107,965.3    4,066.3    6,732.2              -  10,798.5    3,089.3   5,506.0              -   6,596.2  47,010.7  79,561.2
F. NANXUPHA PENINSULA/LAKE MALAIEI NATIONAL PAIMK 990,527.0  91,3.1                     - 1.090,370  74,448.0   9.184.3                -  83,632.3  37.220.3    3.117.2              -  40,337.5 1.110,195 104,144.6                -
Total Io.ateant Co-ta                                       2,169.311  1,102,366             - 3,271,679 142,154.9  06,246.5               - 230,403.5 117,680.3  56,691.1                - 174,371.4 2.429.146 1,247,308
II. tee=rnet Co.t.
A. AALAk=8 C U
SAIARIES                                                     - 427,095.9             - 427,095,9            -  11,354.0            -  11,354.0             -  17,974.6 8              17,974.8           - 456,425.5             -
WAGES                                                         -     42               -  55,422.7            -   2,771.1             -   2,771.1            -   4,363.1            -   4,363.1             -  62,557.0            -
lubtotal SALAZ   C TWs                                           - 492,510.7            - 462.510,7                14,125.9            -  14,125.9            -  22,337.9             -  22,337.9            - 518902.5
S. TRAVtL
LOCAL TRAVEL                                                 -  51,661.8             -  51,661.6            -   2,583.1            -   2,563.1             -   3,207.5            -   3,207.5            -  57,452.4             -
REGIONAL TRAVEL IWOZ.&TANZ.)                                 -   2,296.1             -   2,296.1            -      134.6           -       114.6           -      164.4           -      164.4            _   2,575.3            -
OVERSEAS TRAVEL                                       62.720.0           -           -  62,720.0    4,136.0             -           -   4,136.0    5,303.2             -          - S ,303.2  92,159.2               -           -
TMAVEL ALL(IAANCES                                     6,638.3  37127.6              -  43,765.9        331.9   1,056.4            -   2,180.3        104.6   2,241.3             -   2,345.9    7,07t.7  41.225.3               -
subtot&l TRAVEL                                          09.356.3  91,005.4             - 160,443.7    4,467.9   4,514.3               -   9,022.2   5,407.7    5,613.3               -  11,021.0  99.233.9 101,253.0               -
C. EQUIP./OPERATING&MAINT.                               33,007.7  37,536.3             -  71,344.0   1,690.4   1,676.0                -   3,567.2   2,210.3    2,747,6               -   4,957.9  37,706.3  42t160,7               -
D. VEHICLESABOATS/OPERATING&nAOIT.                               - 194,526.1            - 194,526.1             -   9.726.3            -   9,726.3            -  15,285.5             -  IS.2B55             - 219,537.8            -
E. RESEARCH VESSEL/OPERATINGHkAINT.                     2242.33.2            -          - 224,233.2  11,211.7              _           -  11,211.7  16,526.4              -           -  16,526.4 251,971.3              -
F. OTHER INCREHENTAL OPERATING COSTS                    252,775.8 186,751.5             - 439,527.3  12,636.B    933.6                 -  21,976.4  17,714.7  13,481.9               -  31,196.5 283 129.2 209,571.0            _
Total R.ouec..t Costs                                       600,175.0 992,tlB.0              - 1,592,593  30,00B.7  39,620.9                - . Z69629.   41,859.1    9,4 66.1            -  10132 5. 2672,042.8 1.091,505               _
Total                                                        2.7069,46 2,094,766              - 4,064,272 172,163.7 127.869.4                - 300,033.1  159.539.4 116,157.2              - 275,696.6 3,101.169 2.331,813                -
T.. Nov 01  11:56:33 1994
13-1 Ixpenditw. AMcouot, br.akdem



Physical
hae       Cent.
Coest 4    Plus
Price     Puce
Coet. an Cet. as
Bas    thysicel
Total     Coets      Cant.
%70.667.S 516.976.5  51,197.0
5,772.3   S,247.1       524.6
62,294.9  56.631.    S,6 3.2
-94,466.)  69.3 S o     956.9
166.527.S 151366.7  15,138.9
61,783.2 154,679.3   7,764.0
1.627,232 1.359.269  67,963.6
6,323.4   7,927.1       396.4
1,435.555 1,367,196  66,3s9.6
28.160.3  26.234.6   2,623.5
98,521.   *9,565.2   6,956.5
127,379.9 115,799.9  11156e.6
! 214,340  ,1.27.141  *7.2994
3.676,453 3.434,474 241,979.0
456,425.5 444,214.6  12,210.7
62,557.0 5.!572.1   2,978.9
516,92.5 563,792.9  IS1,19.4
57,452.4  54,716.6   2,735.6
2,575.3   2,452.6       122.6
92,159.2  67,776.6   4,366.5
_46,366.1  46,066.1   2,300.6
200,466.9 196,939.9   9,547.6
79,169.6  16,665.6   3,603.3
219,537.1 269,063.6  10,454.2
251,971.3 239,972.7  11,998.6
*92,70e.2 469,236.3  23,461.9
!,763,548 1.689,93  74.454.7
S.446,601 5,123,566 316,433.7



0'
-  u' enteig                  t - -       : j                  - " 1
*   gg.7 . 1*s;iet
W  11                       n =
Lern)



SADC LAUI MALwI/NYMaA zODIViSw I  causumvat1w P*Cr
Dim. _.mmt, by _inm ter-,  d _        nmnt Ca_   n
(US$)
Financing  vailable        Coats to
Global                             be
by.                            Financed        The Govwenmat
tFcility  Canadian                ?trjact                  Cilative
Amount    Anmt         Totel      pt        Cash rlow    Cash Flow
I           -          -          - 512,251.9   -512,251.*   -5X2.251.9
2  295S226.4 127,023.5 412,251.9 512,251.9   -166.90.9.   -412.25s.9
3  Z55,225.4 127,023.5 412,251.9 1,229,199   -616,947.0 -1,429,191.9
*  1229.199           - 1229,199 1,229,199                 - -1,429.199.9
5  1,229.199             1.229.199 538,762.9    690,434.1   -7386762.9
6  531762.9            - 536,762.9 S36.762.9               -   -731,762.9
7  538,762.9             536,762.9 439,706.9        96,975.9   -139,706.9
439,76.9              - 439,766.9 439,766.9                -   -6391,7f.9
9  139,76.9            - 439,7S6.9           -    439.7866.    -200.9 00 
Tral 1,95.954 254,647.0 5,240,001 S,440,00                     -   -6391.66.
Tu. PO 1 ItSli39 1994



MALAWI
SADC Lake Malawi/Nyasa Biodiversity Conservation Project
Disbursements by Semesters and Governuent Cash Flow
(USS)
LERD Fiscal                           Cumulative
Year                    Semester      Amount        Amount        Percentage
FY95                        Sep-94                0             0           0%
FY95                        Mar-95           554101        554101          10%
FY96                        Sep-95          1108205        554104          20%
FY96                        Mar-96         2324210        1216005          43%
FY97                        Sep-96          3540215       1216005          65%
FY97                        Mar-97         4064673         524458          75%
FY98                        Sep-97         4589131         524458          84%
FY98                        Mar-98         5014566         425435          92%
FY99                        Sep-98         5440001         425435         100%
78



IBRD 257
To Dor EsS o             _            \    Kre1o                                   '',L)o.._e l,iod
o1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)henE'\\,,
hr pa        Ngekenge o Nb ng _.                                     Nankumba
~~ A            \   <                 *             >N8~~~~~~eninsula
C  ~K-og.                       4~ 
t a            9 ~Korango       \\ en,nsL                                               , o
4>                        t  ~~~~~~CrrangO   \                     -2                              1W! M,kep BJV0   Nylwts:wt
NkhW oW.
KILOMETERS 0    20   40   60   80   100  N,  kh-olik                                                          o
MILES 0        20       40        60                        r'6 LingSIOeiO
\ .4Le *    h;/              V       ~/deieM bo
z   j  CEk_erldene    i ake   a-                 MALAWI
/ I '' ~~~Nkrrato 
LByI                                     GEF/SADC
TMworbay2              utnLAKE MALAWI/NYASA
Mzimbs u              1           /               BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION
$    f ChrsuI l(MA  Wl)PROJECT
ZAMBIA                               Os --                                                  BA )      RESEARCH STATIONS
/              t      _.
.3 -(                             t                           NATIONAL PARKS and
_/     /r             \           \                                     GAME RESERVES
Mo  \lerrgolo  ~~- ~---   PRINCIPAL ROADS
M'low/   *togl
RIVERS
t        Ch.[.gt 
i  ' -_                                      1                          1 .   ''   |  -"    TOWNS
| Z            7Dt Nkhot.ko.o
|      DISTRICT CAPITALS
/O s                            t/Ntchrsi                                       (*3     NATIONAL CAPITAL
. J    .   \,   f   .   \  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
5.-t  -d \%t    {   4    -  - 7 \REGION BOUNDARIES
T. L-sak.       <       Mchinni, {                '   ~  >      _i _y,>S                    \               INTERNATIONAL
S  mnc    Are, ot irse'   \         BOUNDARIES
tt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o so s  
LILONGW           '(                l  , 
L, ~   ~        ~       ~        ^   Bolko>       
MOZAMBIQUE                                                          ,          ,a M-hLng,
/       \           (S ~~~KZomrbo
t ~   ~~~            ~~~ zE,                                                              MpaIso',\' ./   ',  jt\404t t
KEN 05 A       I                          -I       z '                 Chirad  MS
LA ruS     ] ,.^        ,-                      To Tele  r                    BIoor/
V   \  1 4 >S<        o.t                               \   ~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~Chikw.wo.z (>,-     , 
X   .  >  r  Mokorrrbe   Tb,                   T     .yodo  _
r  AO6IA         .4<>Q 1r*.  ,         Wt}_                                             ,gb                                The oourdoores  coors,
deOon, hotins Arid ano
.    .  & r   -   B  ACn roiro  othebr riormoht.oi  shown
rMI/OLrIfr                                                                                               on tonis nrop  do  not
-Toe \/or d Boonk Group.
ons' 1-g-en on rIhe ;eg.1
S EVrr*^NA K .   '                      . o                                                         ,0  OUof any O                         errrosy,
~nAGWB-                                                                                       r  e'  endorse-et
COdE/ SOUTH  -        Az^DAGA9CAR                   ,                                 e    s                      or cceptonce of s,lch
I~ ~           wOo                              j                        /                     _FRICA                            boIodor os
Jo OTT9 









Printedaon recycled paper
@ Printed on recycled paper



