Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GET GRANT NUMBER 28671 MAI
Global Environment Trust Fund
Grant Agreement
(SADC Lake Malawi/Nyasa Biodiversity Conservation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
Dated June 8, 1995
GET GRANT NUMBER 28671 MAI
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1995, between  REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee of grant funds 
provided by Participants of the Global Environment Facility into the Global 
Environment Trust Fund (GET) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS: (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors of 
the Bank (the Resolution), established the Global Environment Facility consisting of 
the GET, Cofinancing Arrangements with the GET and the Ozone Projects Trust Fund, to 
assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby environmentally 
sound and sustainable economic development;
(B)
certain members of the Bank (the Participants) have provided resources by 
way of grant into the GET and the Participants have requested and the Bank has agreed, 
to administer such grant funds as Trustee, for the purposes of, and in accordance 
with, provisions of the Resolution;
Page  2
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance 
from the resources of the GET in the financing of the Project, and the Trustee has 
determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the 
Resolution; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GET Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement. 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (g), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 
and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
     (viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Article XII.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that 
in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in 
its own capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GET Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GET Grant Account; and
Page  3
(vii)
A new sub-paragraph shall be added after sub-paragraph (j) in 
Section 6.02 as follows: "An extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen in which any further disbursement under the GET Grant would 
exceed the resources available for disbursement from the GET."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"MFNR" means the Recipient's Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources;
(c)
"Lake" means Lake Malawi/Nyasa;
(d)
"Riparian States" means the States of Malawi, Tanzania and Mozambique;
(e)
"UNDP" means the United Nations Development Programme; 
(f)
"SADC" means the Southern African Development Community; and
(g)
"Project Implementation Plan" means a comprehensive implementation plan, 
satisfactory to the Trustee, which shall be prepared by the Recipient prior to the 
Effective Date.
ARTICLE II
The GET Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the GET Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 3,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GET Grant may be withdrawn from the GET 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in U.S. Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection 
against set off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1999 or such later date as the 
Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) 
carry out Parts A (1-4), B, C and D of the Project through MFNR; and (ii) cause UNDP 
to carry out Parts A (5)(a) and A (5)(b) of the Project, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices 
and with due regard to ecological, biodiversity and environmental factors, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall make available to UNDP a portion of the proceeds of 
the GET Grant for the carrying out of Part A (5) of the Project.
(c)
Without any limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
Page  4
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GET Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall, not later than twenty-four months after 
the Effective Date, conduct jointly with the Trustee and the Riparian States, a 
midterm review of the Project. Without limitation upon the generality of the 
foregoing, the review shall cover, inter alia: (i) the draft biodiversity map and 
management plan and its policy, legal and financial implications; and (ii) the 
implementation and management aspects of the Project, implementation procedures, 
progress made by the Project, the status and results of training, reporting, 
accounting and audit performance, disbursement procedures and the overall 
sustainability of the Project.
(b)
Not later than ninety (90) days prior to the midterm review referred to 
in (a) above, the Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee, for its comments, a report 
in such detail as the Trustee shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the 
progress achieved in implementing the Project.
(c)
The Recipient shall, promptly thereafter, carry out the recommendations 
resulting from the aforementioned review.
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall, not later than forty-two months after the 
Effective Date, submit to the Trustee and SADC a time-bound proposal, satisfactory to 
the Trustee, for the implementation of the biodiversity map and management plan for 
the Lake to be prepared in accordance with Part D(2) of the Project.
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Trustee not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Recipient and the Trustee, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Trustee 
shall reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Trustee a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Trustee's comments 
thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures: (i) of the departments or agencies of the 
Recipient responsible for carrying out Parts A (1-4), B, C and D(1) and (2) of the 
Project; and (ii) of UNDP in respect of Part A (5) of the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
     (ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than nine months after the end of each such year the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
    (iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
Page  5
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GET Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statement of expenditures, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
     (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GET Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
    (iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such records; and
     (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditures submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Recipient shall have failed 
to carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GET Grant Agreement:
(a)
the Steering Committee has been duly established pursuant to paragraph 1 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b)
the Project Manager and Financial Controller have been appointed pursuant 
to paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the Recipient has finalized the Project Implementation Plan.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GET Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Recipient's Minister of Finance is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance 
P.O. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe 3
Malawi
Page  6
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANCE
44407 MI
Malawi
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By /s/ Aleke K. Banda
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT as Trustee of
the Global Environment Trust Fund
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GET Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GET Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
  Amount of
the GET Grant
  Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works:
100%
(a) under Part A.5
   138,000
(a) of the
Project
(b) under Part A.5
   138,000
Page  7
(b) of the
Project
(c) other
   118,000
(2)
Equipment
    47,000
100%
(3) Vehicles and boats
    67,000
100%
(4)
Consultants'
 2,100,000
100%
services and
technical
assistance
(5)
Training
   112,000
100%
(6) Incremental
   780,000
100%
    Operating Costs
TOTAL
 3,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "incremental operating costs" means 
expenditures incurred for office rental, administration, operating and supply costs, 
salaries and wages of Senga Bay site security workers, research vessel crew, drivers 
and mechanics; local travel and subsistence costs; vehicle, boat, equipment and 
research vessel operating and maintenance costs; and site running and investment 
costs.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding SDR 50,000 may be made in 
respect of Categories (4) and (6) on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after September 1, 1994.
4.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GET Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to 
the Trustee for deposit into the GET Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so 
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
5.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the GET Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure: (a) for expenditures for goods, works and services 
under consulting firms' contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (b) for 
expenditures for services under consultant contracts with individuals not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Trustee shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Riparian States in creating the 
scientific, educational and policy basis for conserving the biological diversity of 
the Lake and its unique ecosystem.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A:
Research
1.
Carrying out biodiversity surveys to inventory fish species and distribution, 
identify critical habitats to identify biodiversity hotspots in the Lake, produce a 
preparatory map of critical habitats and identify threats to the Lake's biodiversity.
2.
Research on taxonomy, ecology and distribution of the cichlid species.
3.
Carrying out a limnology and water quality monitoring program to identify 
pollution threats to hotspots and fish replenishment areas.
4.
Rehabilitation of the Recipient's Cape Maclear research station.
Page  8
5.
Rehabilitation of: (a) Kyela Centre Fisheries Research Station in Tanzania, and 
(b) Metangula Fisheries Research Station in Mozambique.
Part B:
Strengthening National Capacity
1.
Enhancement of the capacity of the Riparian States through the provision of 
on-the-job training and technical assistance in the areas of ecology, taxonomy, 
limnology and environmental education.
2.
Promoting public awareness of community activities' implications on the 
ecosystem of the Lake through the preparation and dissemination of management and 
conservation messages concerning the Lake's resources.
3.
Development of community awareness programs including media productions.
4.
Establishment of twinning arrangements with scientific and management 
institutions involved in environmental cooperation and biodiversity.
5.
Rehabilitation of the Environmental Education Facility at Lake Malawi National 
Park.
Part C:
Strengthening Environmental Legislation
Review and evaluation of the compatibility of the existing legislation of the 
Riparian States for the management of the Lake's biodiversity.
Part D:
Protected Areas Management
1.
Preparation of a strategic plan for the sustainable development of Nankumba 
Peninsula and Lake Malawi National Park and identifying community roles in the 
management and conservation of the Park.
2.
Preparation of a biodiversity map and management plan for the Lake including 
identification of potential protected areas and parks.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines) and in accordance with the 
following additional procedures.
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. 
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid 
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior review in 
accordance with the provisions of Part D.1(a) of this Section, the Bank's prior 
approval will be required for (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the 
period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any subsequent extension of the 
bid validity period.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this     Part A, the 
Recipient shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank with 
such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Bank, the Recipient shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
Page  9
recognized standard forms agreed with the Trustee.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for scientific and office equipment, 
including computers and printers shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
3.
Goods procured under ICB will not be subject to price verification under 
preshipment inspection.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Malawi may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
(a) Civil works up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$600,000; and (b) goods up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$166,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Trustee.
2.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee. 
Part D:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of (a) 
$100,000 or more for civil works, and (b) $50,000 for goods, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the 
Trustee prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect 
of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Trustee 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Trustee as part of the evidence 
to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the GET Grant Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out Parts A (1-4), B, C and D of 
the Project, the Recipient shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience 
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Trustee. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Trustee on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants 
by World Bank Recipients and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the 
Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, 
the Recipient shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of 
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as 
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have 
been issued by the Bank, the Recipient shall use other standard forms agreed with the 
Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
Page  10
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Trustee review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Trustee review shall not apply to (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Trustee, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
MFNR shall be responsible for the overall implementation of the Project. MFNR 
shall be assisted by a steering committee (The Steering Committee) to be chaired by 
the Principal Secretary of MFNR, which shall comprise of (a) members from relevant 
institutions of the Riparian States with expertise in natural resources management, 
environmental and international law, (b) experts with international expertise, as 
needed, in the technical disciplines of the Project and (c) representatives of 
selected non-governmental organizations and academic institutions with a particular 
stake in the Lake environment.
2.
The Steering Committee shall meet at least three times a year to review progress 
in the implementation of the Project and shall provide strategic guidance to the 
overall management of the Project. It shall, inter alia, review and approve annual 
work plans, periodic progress reports, results of completed studies, recommendations 
made by consultants, assist in the organization of the midterm review, and review and 
approve the biodiversity map and management plan for the Lake.
3.
(a)
A Project Manager reporting to the Principal Secretary of MFNR, assisted 
by a financial controller and support staff, shall be responsible for the day-to-day 
management of the Project consistent with the Project Implementation Plan, and under 
the overall supervision of the Steering Committee. 
(b)
The Recipient shall take all measures necessary to deploy duly qualified 
staff in the required numbers for the implementation of the Project in accordance with 
the Implementation Plan.
(c)
The Project Manager shall prepare an annual work plan and budget 
allocations for all Project components, maintain a data base on all Project-related 
activities, and prepare and furnish to the Steering Committee consolidated quarterly 
progress reports on all components of the Project, including an analysis of any delays 
in implementation and proposed corrective measures.
(d)
The Project Manager shall furnish through the Principal Secretary of MFNR 
to the Trustee (i) copies of quarterly progress reports within thirty days after the 
end of the reporting period, and (ii) with effect from the second year of Project 
implementation, draft annual work plans within ninety days prior to the beginning of 
the year covered in the plan.
Part A of the Project
4.
The Recipient shall submit for the purposes of Parts A.1, 2 and 3, by no later 
than eighteen months after the Effective Date, an interim report on biodiversity 
conservation priorities for the Lake; a draft species identification manual; and an 
interim report on water quality/pollution in the Lake. The Recipient shall submit such 
reports and identification manual to the Trustee and the Riparian States. After 
receiving the Trustee and Riparian States' comments and review, the Project Manager 
shall prepare, by no later than 30 months after the Effective Date a final draft 
report on biodiversity conservation priorities for the Lake, and a final draft report 
on water quality/pollution in the Lake. Based on copies of such reports and the 
species identification manual, the Project Manager shall coordinate the preparation of 
the biodiversity map and management plan for the Lake.
The Recipient shall take all measures necessary, and shall carry out the civil 
works and renovation required for the rehabilitation of the Cape Maclear research 
station for the purposes of Part A.4.
Page  11
5.
The Recipient shall obtain appropriate assurances from the other Riparian States 
that (a) the Rehabilitation of Kyela Centre Fisheries Research Station in Tanzania and 
Metangula Fisheries Research Station in Mozambique under Part A.5 shall be implemented 
by UNDP, and (b) UNDP shall prepare and furnish to the Project Manager periodic 
progress reports on the implementation of Part A.5 of the Project.
Part B of the Project
6.
In order to enhance the Riparian States' capacity to manage the Lake, the 
Recipient shall: (a) pursue appropriate measures to ensure that suitable counterpart 
staff to be trained in fish ecology, taxonomy and limnology are designated by the 
relevant agencies in the Riparian States; and (b) prepare and furnish to the Trustee 
annual training programs satisfactory to the Trustee.
7.
The Recipient shall carry out Conservation Awareness Programs in respect of the 
conservation of the biodiversity of the Lake  which shall take into account the 
critical hot-spots of biological resources.
Part C of the Project
8.
The Recipient shall take all measures necessary to ensure that a harmonized 
environmental policy framework for the Lake, which will be discussed during the 
Project's midterm review, is prepared for the management and conservation of the Lake 
and its resources.
Part D of the Project
9.
The Recipient shall cause its Ministry of Physical Planning and Surveys, in 
close consultation with the Project Manager and its Department of National Parks and 
Wildlife, to carry out a study on the Nankumba Peninsula with the assistance of a duly 
qualified consulting firm and local experts, and in collaboration with counterpart 
staff drawn from the Recipient's agencies involved in the preparation of its national 
environmental action plan. The study will draw up a strategic plan for the development 
of the Nankumba Peninsula, to ensure that the eventual development of the Peninsula is 
sustainable and will preserve the integrity of Lake Malawi National Park and 
surrounding ecosystems.
10.
The strategic plan relating to Nankumba Peninsula and its surrounding islands 
shall be submitted to the Trustee for its review and comments within twelve months 
from the Effective Date. The Recipient shall ensure that all development activities on 
the Peninsula and its surrounding islands shall always be consistent with the 
strategic plan.
11.
(a)
The Recipient shall take all measures necessary to develop by no later 
than 24 months after the Effective Date, a draft biodiversity map and management plan 
for the Lake which shall, inter alia, (i) recommend specific follow-up conservation 
actions and investments; (ii) identify a system of protected areas that will be 
representative of the biological hotspots of the Lake, and complementary to Lake 
Malawi National Park; and (iii) provide the framework for follow-up national, and 
potentially international action programs to manage the Lake on an environmentally 
sound and sustainable basis.
(b)
The Recipient shall furnish the draft biodiversity map and management 
plan to the Trustee and the Riparian States promptly for review.
(c)
The Project Manager shall take all measures, necessary to coordinate the 
preparation of a final draft biodiversity map and management plan incorporating the 
results of the Trustee's and Riparian States' midterm review and comments in a manner 
satisfactory to the Trustee, by not later than thirty-six months after the Effective 
Date.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for Parts A (1-4), B, C and D of 
Page  12
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $300,000 
to be withdrawn from the GET Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $150,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Get Grant 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Recipient pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
     (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee from the GET Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GET Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Trustee, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GET Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories for Parts A (1-4), B, C and D of the Project, less the amount of 
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 
Page  13
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Parts A (1-4), B, C and D of the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GET Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the GET Grant allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts A (1-4), B, C and D of 
the Project shall follow such procedures as the Trustee shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GET Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
