CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 613 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 19, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 19, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meaaings therein set forth
and the following additional term has the following meaning, namely
"Sub-project" means a particular study or project of technical
assistance to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to one million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods and services (other than advisers' and consultants'
services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the Borrower's
usual procurement procedures.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing June 15, 1986, and ending December 15,
2025, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 15, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿0                                       - 5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The purpose and scope of each Sub-project, the
method of implementation thereof and the specific allocation there-
to of proceeds of the Credit shall be determined by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) In carrying out each Sub-project, the Bor-
rower shall appoint advisers or consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall appoint counterpart personnel to the
advisers and consultants mentioned in paragraph (a) of this Sec-
tion, as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association
in respect of each Sub-project.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
0


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.05. (a) The Bureau Technique d'Etudes of the Borrower
shall be responsible for ensuring effective coordination among the
ministries and agencies of the Borrower concerned in the implemen-
tation of the Project.
(b) For each Sub-project the Borrower shall establish arrange-
ments and procedures, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for selecting services, equipment and supplies and directing
their use for such Sub-project, supervising and directing the work
of the advisers employed therefor, recommending modifications of
the advisers' terms of reference or other terms and conditions
of their employment, and reviewing the reports and recommendations
of such advisers.
(c) The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures to facili-
tate the work of the advisers in the performance of their services
for the Project and make available to them all information relevant
to the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion copies of the documents prepared by the consultants referred
to in Section 3.03(a) of this Agreement, including reports and
drafts thereof, in such number as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time
exchange views with respect to the evaluation and implementation
of the recommendations and other conclusions contained in the
documents referred to in the foregoing paragraph (a).
01


﻿-7-
(c) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to show the use of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof); shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
any records and documents relevant to the Project, including
records and documents which the consultants employed by the Borrower
shall be required to keep for the purposes of the Project; and
shall furnish or causc to be furnished to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the Project.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out any Sub-project.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date June 17, 1976 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Botte Postale 1830
Bujumbura, Burundi
Cable address:
MINIFIN
Bujumbura
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By Is! Cl&nent Sambira
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! Stanley Please
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Salaries and other          600,000          100% of total
emoluments of                                expenditures
advisers
(2)  Consultants'                765,000          100% of foreign
services                                     expenditures or
85% of total
expenditures
(3) Equipment and                 65,000          100% of foreign
vehicles                                     expenditures or
85% of total
expenditures
(4)  Unallocated                  70,000
TOTAL      1,500,000


﻿-13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of
foreign expenditures and of expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory
of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1


﻿- 14 -
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallo-
cate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Association are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that fur-
ther withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expen-
ditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is designed to strengthen the Borrower's
planning and project preparation and implementation capability,
consists of the utilization of: (i) about 10 man-years of advisory
services to strengthen the Borrower's planning and statistical
services, and its project preparation capability; and (ii) about
150 man-months of consultancy services to: (A) carry out pre-
investment and feasibility studies and to prepare projects for
financing; and (B) conduct special studies related to the implemen-
tation of projects or economic policy.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


