                                      Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR2905



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-75610)

                                      ON A LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$6.29 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                      HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

                                       FOR AN

            EMPLOYER-DRIVEN SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                  March 21, 2014




Human Development Sector
MNCO2
Middle East and North Africa Region
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2013)

             Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)
                      JD 1.00 = US$1.40
                      US$1.00 = JD 0.7

                       FISCAL YEAR
                   January 1 – 31 December

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAQA          Center for Accreditation and Quality Assurance
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA          Canadian International Development Agency
DCU           Development Coordination Unit
DSS           Decision Support System
EDSDP         Employer-Driven Skill Development Project
ETF           European Training Foundation
E-TVET        Employment, Technical and Vocational Education and Training
ICR           Implementation Completion and Results Report
IEG           Independent Evaluation Group
ISR           Implementation Status and Results Report
JD            Jordanian Dinar
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MOE           Ministry of Education
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOHE          Ministry of Higher Education
MOL           Ministry of Labor
MOPIC         Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
NET           National Employment Training Company
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PDO           Project Development Objective
TA            Technical Assistance
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
VTC           Vocational Training Corporation
VTI           Vocational Training Institute

                 Vice President: Inger Andersen
               Country Director: Ferid Belhaj
         Acting Sector Manager: Hana Brixi
           Project Team Leader: Juan Manuel Moreno Olmedilla
              ICR Team Leader: Juan Manuel Moreno Olmedilla




                              ii
                THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
     THE JORDAN EMPLOYER DRIVEN SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                                                         Contents

Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph
1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN ........................................ 1
2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES ...................................... 6
3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES ..........................................................................................................14
4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME...........................................................20
5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE ...................................................20
6. LESSONS LEARNED.............................................................................................................................23
7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING
AGENCIES/PARTNERS............................................................................................................................25
    ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ..............................................................................................26
    ANNEX 2. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT .........................................................................................................28
    ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .....................................................................................30
    ANNEX 4. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES ............................31
    ANNEX 5. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS ...............................................................................................33
    ANNEX 6. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS ...................................................................34
    ANNEX 7. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR ......................................35
    ANNEX 8. COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS ..................................49
    ANNEX 9. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS ............................................................................................50
MAP ..............................................................................................................................................................51




                                                                                iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                            Jordan Employer
Country:                Jordan                    Project Name:             Driven Skills
                                                                            Development Project
Project ID:             P100534                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-75610
ICR Date:               03/24/2014                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            HASHEMITE
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:                 KINGDOM OF
                                                                            JORDAN
Original Total
                        USD 7.50M                 Disbursed Amount:         USD 2.37M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 6.29M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Labor
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 CIDA

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process            Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/05/2007      Effectiveness:           07/23/2008           07/23/2008
Appraisal:            12/03/2007      Restructuring(s):                             03/04/2013
Approval:             06/03/2008      Mid-term Review:         03/30/2011           05/08/2011
                                      Closing:                 09/30/2013           09/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      High
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
                                                                            Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:
                                                                            Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower            Moderately
                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:                Unsatisfactory


                                                 iv
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     31                  31
Vocational training                                                   69                  69


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for the knowledge economy                                   50                  50
Improving labor markets                                               50                  50

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Inger Andersen                       Daniela Gressani
Country Director:          Ferid Belhaj                         Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:            Mourad Ezzine                        Michal J. Rutkowski
Project Team Leader:       Juan Manuel Moreno Olmedilla         Soren Nellemann
ICR Team Leader:           Juan Manuel Moreno Olmedilla
ICR Primary Author:        Michael T. Mertaugh

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Realign policy formulation with Employment, Technical and Vocational Education and Training
(E-TVET) operational mechanisms through the development of employer community
participation in (i) sector policy formulation, (ii) institutional development and reform, and (iii)
skills development program design and delivery.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Realign the E-TVET sector with the National Employment Strategy by enhancing the enabling
conditions for employer participation in: (i) TVET institutional development; and (ii) skills
development program design and delivery by the Vocational Training Corporation.



                                                 v
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                            Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                              approval           Target       Completion or
                                             documents)          Values        Target Years
                  Number of employer-driven occupational profiles (OPs) developed and endorsed
Indicator 1 :
                  by the E-TVET Council
Value
quantitative or   0                        NA                 6              6
Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/01/2008               09/30/2013         09/30/2013     09/30/2013
Comments
                  Target was completely achieved by Year 3 of the Project and progressively being
(incl. %
                  adopted by CAQA
achievement)
                Organizational audit, staffing plan and organizational structure introduced in
Indicator 2 :
                VTC
                                                                               (a) Organizational
                                                                               Structure accepted
                                                                               in April 2013
                                                                               (b) Organizational
                                                                               Audit accepted in
                                                              Organizational May 2013
                                                              audit, staffing (c) Staffing Plan
Value                                                         plan and         accepted in June
quantitative or Not Available               not applicable    organizational 2013
Qualitative)                                                  structure        (d) VTC revised
                                                              introduced in by-laws (Finance,
                                                              VTC              Supplies, HR,
                                                                               Administrative)
                                                                               submitted to
                                                                               Cabinet for
                                                                               endorsement in July
                                                                               2013
Date achieved 08/01/2008                    08/01/2008        09/30/2013       09/30/2013
Comments
                Partially achieved. The new organizational structure would be introduced to VTC
(incl. %
                once the By-laws are approved
achievement)
                Number of employer-driven skills development programs designed and
Indicator 3 :
                implemented
Value
quantitative or 0                           not applicable    3                0
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/01/2008                    09/30/2013        09/30/2013       09/30/2013
Comments
                Three training programs (Carpentry, Air-Conditioning, and Metal Fabrication)
(incl. %
                developed but not delivered.
achievement)




                                                vi
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                             Values (from                    Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                           Revised
                                               approval                     Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                              documents)                     Target Years
                  Development and introduction of a TVET Sector Performance Assessment
Indicator 1 :
                  System (PAS)
                                                            E-TVET
                                                            Sector Annual
                                                            Assessment
                                                            Report
                                                            generated

                                                              E-TVET          Revised Second
                                                              Sector Annual   assessment report
                                                              Assessment      submitted in
Value
                                                              Report          September 2013;
(quantitative   none                       not applicable
                                                              discussed &     and
or Qualitative)
                                                              endorsed by     TVET Providers
                                                              the E-TVET      reports were not
                                                              Council         developed

                                                              TVET
                                                              providers are
                                                              generating
                                                              PAS-based
                                                              reports
Date achieved     08/01/2008               09/30/2013         09/30/2013    09/30/2013
Comments
                  Partially achieved as the TVET providers have not generated PAS-generated
(incl. %
                  reports
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Increasing public awareness for E-TVET sector
Value
(quantitative     3.4                      not applicable     3.4-3.6         not applicable
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/30/2010               09/30/2013         09/30/2013      09/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Due to MOF budget cap, the follow-up survey was not carried out.
achievement)
                Piloting of employer-driven Business, Training and Governance Models in three
Indicator 3 :
                VTC centers
                                                             New Business
                                                             Model Piloted
                                                                           Preliminary steps
Value                                                                      towards piloting
                                                             New Training
(quantitative   not applicable            not applicable                   conducted but not
                                                             Model Piloted
or Qualitative)                                                            full piloting of the
                                                                           models
                                                             New
                                                             Governance

                                               vii
                                                               Model Piloted

                                                                New
                                                                Organizational
                                                                Structure
                                                                Piloted
Date achieved 08/01/2008                   09/30/2013           09/30/2013      09/30/2013
Comments        Partially achieved. It would be difficult to quantify the preliminary steps taken
(incl. %        towards the piloting of the new models, considering the high risk facing the
achievement) project outcomes.
Indicator 4 : Increased enrolment rate at VTC
                                                                2% increase in 12% increase from
                Baseline value for regular                      regular         baseline in 2012 for
Value           courses is 7603                                 courses         regular courses
(quantitative                              not applicable
or Qualitative) Baseline value for short-                       5 % increase 11% decrease from
                term courses is 5194                            in short-term baseline in 2012 for
                                                                courses         short-term courses
Date achieved 09/30/2012                   09/30/2013           09/30/2013      09/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Project attribution may not be possible due to cumulative delays in Component 2.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Increased female enrolment rate at VTC
                                                                2% increase in 36% increase from
                Baseline value for                              regular         baseline in 2012 for
Value           regular courses is 1938                         courses         regular courses
(quantitative                              not applicable
or Qualitative) Baseline value for short-                       4% increase in 42% decrease from
                term courses is 2031                            short-term      baseline in 2012 for
                                                                courses         short-term courses
Date achieved 09/30/2012                   09/30/2013           09/30/2013      09/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Project attribution may not be possible due to cumulative delays in Component 2.
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Completion Rate of VTC graduates
Value
(quantitative   65 percent                 not applicable       70 percent      73 percent
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/01/2008                   09/30/2013           09/30/2013      09/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Project attribution may not be possible due to cumulative delays in Component 2.
achievement)




                                                viii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
        Date ISR
No.                            DO                       IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1    11/10/2008         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    06/18/2009         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.50
  3    12/14/2009         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.50
  4    04/21/2010     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              0.59
                                                   Moderately
  5    12/04/2010     Moderately Satisfactory                                     0.64
                                                 Unsatisfactory
                                                   Moderately
  6    07/17/2011     Moderately Satisfactory                                     0.73
                                                 Unsatisfactory
                                                   Moderately
  7    11/04/2011     Moderately Satisfactory                                     0.73
                                                 Unsatisfactory
                                                   Moderately
  8    05/21/2012     Moderately Satisfactory                                     1.08
                                                 Unsatisfactory
                           Moderately              Moderately
  9    07/06/2012                                                                 1.08
                         Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                           Moderately              Moderately
 10    01/06/2013                                                                 1.71
                         Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                           Moderately              Moderately
 11    02/25/2013                                                                 1.86
                         Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                           Moderately              Moderately
 12    06/18/2013                                                                 1.86
                         Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                           Moderately              Moderately
 13    09/29/2013                                                                 2.10
                         Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                           Moderately              Moderately
 14    11/25/2013                                                                 2.35
                         Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     (i) revise the Project
                                                     Development Objective (PDO);
                                                     (ii) revise Project Components;
                                                     (iii) cancel the Component 3
                                                     (related to the E-TVET Fund);
 03/04/2013       Y       MU    MU            1.86
                                                     (iv) revise the project’s results
                                                     framework; (v) reallocate funds
                                                     within expenditure categories;
                                                     and (vi) cancel US$1.21 million
                                                     from the Loan

                                            ix
If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                            Moderately Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                    Moderately Unsatisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory


I. Disbursement Profile




                                             x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.       Country and Sector Background. At the time of appraisal of the Employer-Driven
Skills Development Project (EDSDP) in November 2007, Jordan’s economy was growing at 6
percent per year and the share of population in poverty had declined to a low level of 13 percent.
Unemployment was strikingly high for a setting of such rapid growth, averaging 14 percent. Most
of the unemployed were less than 25 years old. At the time of appraisal, 21.8 percent of the
population was between 15 and 25 years old, 1 with 60,000 citizens entering the labor force each
year. 2 An unusual feature of the employment situation in Jordan was that many unemployed
Jordanians were reportedly willing to work, but only at higher-than-prevailing wage rates. 3
Foreign workers willingly filled the gap, accounting for two-thirds of new employment. 4

2.       The 2006-2015 National Agenda established the overall framework for design of the
EDSDP. 5 This document was developed under a participatory process involving representatives
of the Government, Parliament, civil society, the private sector, media, and political parties.
First-phase implementation of the National Agenda was proposed to focus on actions designed to
improve employment and measures to improve the availability of entry-level workers with the
skills needed in the labor market, as well as training programs to upgrade the skills of those
already employed.

3.      Various technical and vocational skill training programs are available in Jordan –
particularly through the secondary vocational secondary schools managed by the Ministry of
Education (MOE) and the skill training programs of varying duration managed by the Vocational
Training Corporation (VTC). At the time of appraisal, the persistence of unemployment signaled
problems of relevance and quality of the training offered in these programs. As the National
Agenda noted: “The vocational training sector has been yielding poorly trained and uncommitted
workers. Moreover, the lack of private sector collaboration at all stages of training has widened
the gap between private sector expectations and the skillset taught to vocational trainees.
Consecutive governments have taken these challenges seriously yet the efforts have yielded
modest results, primarily due to fragmented programs adopted and the lack of a holistic
approach in addressing this issue.” 6

4.       The E-TVET Fund 7 – financed primarily by a 1 percent training levy on enterprise profits
to finance skill training relevant to enterprises’ needs – was not working as intended. As the
EDSDP appraisal report pointed out: “The Fund has collected about JD 40 million through a 1
percent levy on enterprise profits. However, it has been ineffective in linking the funding with
training provision, outreach activities and intermediary services and has largely functioned as an
effective commercial bank.” 8


1
  United Nations Economic and Social Commission for West Asia (ESCWA),
http://www.escwa.un.org/popin/members/Jordan.pdf
2
  Page 3, Project Appraisal Document on, World Bank Report No. 41218-JO, May 2, 2008.
3
  World Bank, Resolving Jordan’s Labor Market Paradox of Concurrent Economic Growth and High Unemployment,
Report No. 39201-JO, March 31, 2007.
4
  Ibid
5
  National Agenda Steering Committee, 2006-2015 National Agenda: The Jordan We Strive For, 2006.
6
  Ibid, page 25.
7
  During EDSDP implementation, the TVET Fund was renamed the E-TVET Fund.
8
  Pages 4-7, EDSDP PAD, World Bank, 2008, op. cit.
5.       The EDSDP project was designed to address these problems. The appraisal report
identifies five key issues that the project was designed to address: (i) a lack of long-term strategic
planning of TVET needs and delivery; (ii) supply-driven and low quality vocational training; (iii)
the absence of employer participation in decision making related to most aspects of workforce
development; (iv) diverted training funds under the E-TVET Fund, and (v) undeveloped private-
sector training initiatives. 9

6.       In early 2007, nine priority areas were identified from the established 96 goals and agreed
among stakeholders and included: (i) Establish policy making bodies; (ii) Stakeholder
participation in E-TVET strategy; (iii) Capacity building and institutional development; (iv)
Strengthen public-private partnerships; (v) Improve capacity of training providers; (vi) Enhance
information systems; (vii) Review financing of public and private training provision, including E-
TVET Fund; (viii) Initiate the development of the design of a Jordan National Qualification
Framework; and (ix) Promotion/ awareness of TVET. According to the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD), “through consultations and discussions with key stakeholders, it was agreed
that the Bank should focus its support on the overall capacity building and system development,
the restructuring of the Vocational Training Corporation (VTC)VTC, and support to Training
Employment Fund(TEF)to fulfill its mandate. The project’s design is also consistent with the
findings and recommendations of preparatory studies carried out under a Japanese PHRD grant,10
as well as two reports that appeared shortly before project appraisal: a 2006 sector report by the
European Training Foundation (ETF) 11 and a 2007 report by the World Bank on the reasons for
high unemployment under rapid economic growth. 12 The 2006 ETF report suggested that
“Development partners could be instrumental in helping to design and support initial
implementation of the National Agenda in technical and vocational education and training.”13As
described below (Section 1.5), the EDSDP supported activities in all these areas.

7.      The EDSDP’s objectives and activities were also consistent with three of the key
recommendations of the 2007 World Bank report: (i) involvement of employers in the operational
level of sector policy formulation and institutional development; (ii) improved efficiency and
responsiveness of VTC’s training programs; and (iii) rationalized financing of vocational
education and training under the E-TVET Fund.

8.      An alternative approach for involving employers in vocational training was piloted under
an earlier Bank-supported operation in Jordan, the Training and Employment Support Project
(TESP). 14 Despite its promising results in terms of employment outcomes, 15 the project was de
facto cancelled prior to completion “because the MOL no longer supported the TESP
approach.” 16 Though the EDSDP PAD does not mention the TESP experience with the MOL
pertaining to lessons learned, as part of project preparation, a consultant was contracted to review
TESP, as well as all other background documents and interventions to be incorporated in the



9
  Pages 5-7, EDSDP Appraisal Report, World Bank, 2008, op. cit.
10
   Policy and Human Resources Development
11
   European Training Foundation, Technical and Vocational Education in Jordan: Areas for Development Cooperation,
Turin, 2006.
12
   World Bank, Resolving Jordan’s Labor Market Paradox of Concurrent Economic Growth and High Unemployment,
Report No. 39201-JO, March 31, 2007.
13
   Page 10, European Training Foundation, 2006.
14
   World Bank, Project Appraisal Document for a Proposed Loan in the Amount of US$5.0 million to the Hashemite
Kingdom of Jordan for a Training and Employment Support Project, World Bank Report no. 17151-JO, April 21, 1998.
15
   85% of participants were employed twelve months after completion of training.
16
   Page 9, Implementation Completion Report on a Loan in the Amount of US$5 Million to the Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan for a Training and Employment Support Project, World Bank Report No. 25576, March 14, 2003.
                                                       2
project design. All lessons learned that were found relevant were included in EDSDP: Supporting
employers’ participation at the institutional level, and putting great emphasis on restructuring the
Vocational Training Corporation (VTC) into a demand-driven training provider.

9.       Rationale for Bank Involvement. The EDSDP’s objectivities and activities were
consistent with the Bank’s 2006 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which generally endorsed
the National Agenda and gave a high priority to strengthening skills. The first of four pillars in
the Bank’s 2006 strategy is “productive job creation through strengthening the investment
environment and human resources for a skill-intensive and knowledge-based economy.” 17 The
PAD emphasized the Bank’s experience with TVET reform. The Bank had supported manpower
development in Jordan since 1972, and had acquired significant global experience in reform of
vocational education and training to make it more responsive to employers’ needs. Annex 9 of
the PAD described another element of the project rationale: the market failures that justified
public investment in TVET. More so, the rationale for Bank involvement arose from the
expected public-good benefits of the interventions in terms of improved employment and
productivity, and reduced public expenditures for safety-net programs for unemployed job
seekers.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

10.      Original Project Development Objective. As described on page 2 and in Annex 3 of
the PAD, the original project development objective was “to align policy formulation with
Employment, Technical and Vocational Education and Training (E-TVET) operational
mechanisms through the development of employers’ participation in (i) sector policy formulation,
(ii) institutional development and reform, and (iii) skill development program design and
delivery.” The presentation of the PDO in the Loan Agreement was worded differently: “The
objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving its TVET sector through the
harmonization of policies pertaining to the development of said sector and the realignment of
such policies with the operational functions of E-TVET, including the development of employer
participation in the formulation of said policies and in carrying out institutional development
reforms as well as in the design and delivery of a skills development program.” 18 As described
below, the PDO was revised under the 2013 project restructuring and the discrepancy between the
PAD and the Legal Agreement addressed.

11.     Key Performance Indicators. The PAD presents four key performance indicators for
monitoring and evaluating achievement of the PDO:
• a functional employment, technical and vocational education and training (E-TVET) system
    with a functional E-TVET Council and functional Secretariat,
• an autonomous, restructured VTC (new business structure and training delivery model,
    increased linking of financing with training centers’ fulfillment of performance targets),
• improved VTC internal efficiency through increased trainee/instructor ratio (6.4 in 2006 to
    10 in 2013) in restructured VTC centers or re-oriented training programs,
• increased number of firms receiving training through the E-TVET Fund.




17
   Page 17, International Bank For Reconstruction And Development and International Finance Corporation, Country
Assistance Strategy for The Hashemite Kingdom Of Jordan for the Period FY 2006-FY 2010, World Bank Report No.
35665-JO, April 6, 2006.
18
   Page 4, Loan Agreement (Employer Driven Skills Development Project) between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 8 July, 2008.
                                                       3
In addition, Annex 3 of the PAD lists fifteen intermediate outcome indicators related to the
various components and subcomponents of the project.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

12.     The project was restructured in March 2013 to: (i) revise the Project Development
Objective (PDO); (ii) revise project components; (iii) cancel Component 3 (related to the E-
TVET Fund); (iv) revise the project’s results framework; (v) reallocate funds within expenditure
categories; and (vi) cancel US$1.21 million from the Loan amount.

13.    The PDO was revised to read: “to realign the E-TVET sector with the National
Employment Strategy by enhancing the enabling conditions for employers’ participation in (i)
TVET institutional development, and (ii) skills development program design and delivery by the
Vocational Training Corporation.”19

14.      The PDO indicators were revised to be:

•     Number of employer-driven occupational profiles developed and endorsed by the E-TVET
      Council;
•     Organizational audit, staffing plan and organizational structure introduced in VTC;
•     Number of employer-driven skills development programs designed and implemented.

15.       The project restructuring aimed to ensure and enhance the project’s relevance to Jordan’s
National Employment Strategy (NES), which was formally launched in June 2012. It removed
activities that were deemed unachievable within the remaining life of the project. It was
envisaged that the Project would focus on activities that are relevant and realistic in the current
country and sector context. By doing so, it scaled down the project’s objective from achieving
employers’ participation to “enhancing the enabling conditions for employer participation”. As
will be detailed in section 2.1, the key outcome of the May 2011 Mid-Term Review was the need
to restructure the project, including revising the results framework. At that point, it was not
possible to anticipate that the restructuring process would last for more than a year, a delay that
was caused mostly by MOPIC’s doubts about the project and the restructuring itself. Yet, both the
Bank and the GOJ agreed on moving ahead with the restructuring as it was understood that it was
possible to accomplish the revised PDO in the remaining implementation time; a Project
extension was also a possibility, and the request did in fact come from MOPIC, though just a few
weeks before closing date and when it was clear that the implementation constraints did not make
it likely for the Project to achieve its revised objectives.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

16.     The PAD described expected project benefits and beneficiaries as follows: “The private
sector, SMEs, businesses, Chambers, Federations and Associations will benefit from increased
support, the opportunity to participate, and funding which will lead to higher productivity and
profitability. The employees and unemployed will benefit from better training and support and
better skill levels, leading to increased employability and therefore mobility. Ultimately, the
Government and the country will benefit from better labor market outcomes and an improved



19
   Page 5, Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Jordan Employer Driven Skills Development
Project Loan June 3, 2008 to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, January 30, 2013, World Bank Report No.
                                                        4
linkage between macroeconomic policies, productivity and economic growth, and active and
passive labor market policies. Specific groups like youth and women will be eligible for support
under the piloting of the active labor market programs.” 20

17.     The expected benefits were based on two implicit assumptions: (i) that an improved
process for planning and delivering TVET with active employer involvement will lead to more
relevant and higher quality training, and (ii) that these changes will in turn lead to higher levels of
employment and higher productivity and earnings for TVET graduates. In effect, the building
blocks developed under the project, including the new business model for VTC to cater for a
more demand-driven training would enhance the relevance of training programs developed and
delivered, and eventually also graduates’ employability and workers’ productivity.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

18.        The project as appraised comprised four components:

Component 1 – E-TVET system and Council Development with employer participation to
support institutional development of the E-TVET Council and its Secretariat and implementation
of key aspects of employment-related planning, development and training with TVET
stakeholders through the following subcomponents: (i) E-TVET Council orientation and capacity
development; (ii) E-TVET sector policy, planning, and organizational development with active
employers’ participation; (iii) E-TVET system performance assessment with active employers’
participation; and (iv) E-TVET sector promotion and awareness among TVET stakeholders.

Component 2 - Restructuring of the Vocational Training Corporation to increase completion rates
in training courses and to provide incentives for improved job-relevance and quality of training,
through three subcomponents: (i) Establishment of the mandate, governance structure, and
regulatory framework for the new Skills Development Agency; (ii) Organizational restructuring
and staff development; and (iii) Reorientation of the training delivery model to reflect employer-
defined competencies.

Component 3 - Strengthening the E-TVET Fund to make it more responsive to labor-market skill
needs, and

Component 4 - Project Management.

1.6 Revised Components

19.      In addition to revising the PDO and results framework (Section 1.3), the 2013 project
restructuring eliminated component 3, made several changes in components 1 and 2 to remove
activities that were no longer feasible or relevant, and added a new technical assistance activity to
support implementation of the National Employment Strategy. Specifically, the restructuring
cancelled further project support and capacity building activities for the E-TVET Council and its
Secretariat, reflecting the less-than-satisfactory outcome of the Council in providing employer-
driven policy guidance to its stakeholders. It also ended project support for performance based-
planning, development of a medium-term expenditure framework, and realignment of budget
allocations in accordance with established objectives and results framework. These changes and




20
     Page 18, PAD.
                                                  5
those in the related performance targets are further described in the 2013 Restructuring Paper. 21

1.7 Other significant changes

20.      Partial Loan Cancellation. The changes in project activities under the restructuring
affected estimated costs where project costs declined under the restructuring from US$8.8 million
to US$7.59 million; estimated loan costs declined from US$7.5 million to US$6.29 million. It
was agreed to cancel the US$1.21 million of loan cost savings (driven by component 1 and
component 3) under the project restructuring, resulting in a revised Loan amount of US$6.29
million.

21.      Reallocation of Proceeds. The allocation of loan proceeds was changed as follows to
reflect the changes introduced under the restructuring:

          Category of                            Allocation                       % of Financing
          Expenditure
                                     Current             Revised
    1.   Goods                       1,800,000           1,800,000           100% of Foreign Expenditures;
                                                                             100% of Local Expenditures (ex-
                                                                             factory cost), and 90% of Local
                                                                             Expenditures for other items
                                                                             procured locally.
    2.   Consultants’                4,881,000            4,471,250          90% for firms within territory of
         services,                                                           the Borrower; 95% for services of
         including audit,                                                    individual consultants within
         and Training                                                        territory of the Borrower; and
                                                                             100% of foreign expenditures.
    3. Unallocated                   800,250             0
      Front End Fee                  18,750               18,750
      Total                          7,500,000           6,290,000
      Cancelled as of
      October 4, 2012                                    1,210,000

22.      A minor change in implementation responsibilities was also introduced under the
restructuring, mostly to reflect a de facto situation: The E-TVET Council Steering Committee
was deleted from the project because the Development Coordination Unit (DCU) and the E-
TVET Council Secretariat were in fact performing the role foreseen at appraisal for such Steering
Committee.

23.     A subsequent request for closing date extension (dated July 21, 2013) was rejected by the
World Bank because the proposed implementation schedule from September 2013-March 2014
and the level of progress witnessed did not offer a solid ground to guarantee that the revised
project development objective and the end of project targets could be met within the proposed
time period.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry


21
   Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Jordan Employer Driven Skills Development Project,
Approved on June, 2008 to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, World Bank Report No. RES9540, January 30, 2013.
                                                        6
24.      Project Risks. The November 2007 Quality at Entry Review expressed concern about
the risks related to the Government’s future commitment to TVET reform in Jordan, but agreed
with the project team that the conditions at that time appeared auspicious for attempting the
reforms which the project aimed to support: “Previous projects attempting to support the
development of policy in the TVET sub-sector have had disappointing results, in part because of
weak buy-in from the government. Recent years have seen greater evidence of political will to
reform, expressed in the National Agenda, government policy documents and in government and
royal backing for reform. These indications suggest that there may now be an opportunity to
support meaningful reforms of the sub-sector. The pressure for reform will come also from a
combination of economic factors, such as: economic growth, evolving labor market demand and
competition from qualified immigrants. However, there remains a significant implementation
risk, and the team has candidly recognized that the policy environment is subject to change, and
that while there is high-level support for the objectives of the project, the practical implications
may not be as well supported. This risk should be adequately reflected in the project risk
assessment. The panel suggests that some work can be done to mitigate the implementation risk
by (i) explicit planning at the appraisal stage, (ii) working closely with the other donors to ensure
consistent policy messages, (iii) de-emphasizing the retrenchment of staff and centers, and (iv)
providing positive institutional incentives for reform through “quick wins”.22

25.      This advice was reflected in project design and implementation, 23 except for the final
point: it was difficult to provide quick wins in a project focused on institutional reforms. The
“Critical Risks” section of the PAD acknowledged the high risk of waning political ownership.
The Team attempted to minimize this risk by situating the project firmly within the framework of
the Government-endorsed National Agenda and by developing institutional capacity and broader
ownership among stakeholders. The fact that the project complemented other ongoing and
planned assistance from other donors also helped reduce the risk of waning government
ownership. But it remained a calculated risk: As the PAD acknowledged project success would
inevitably depend upon sustained government support, including support for changes in legal
statues for the E-TVET Council and the VTC.

26.      Project’s Objective. At the time of project appraisal, the project’s objective of aligning
policy formulation with operational mechanisms; involving employers in sector policy
formulation, institutional development and design and delivery of vocational training, appeared
feasible given that (i) the National Agenda was developed with effective stakeholders
participation and that it was adopted by the Royal Court as the “roadmap” for Jordan’s
development; (ii) TVET was at the core of the National Agenda; and (iii) the Minister of Labor as
well as other related representatives in the E-TVET Council showed strong ownership and
commitment during project preparation. The project design also benefitted from TESP experience
and lessons learnt (a consultant was hired just to identify those during project preparation). The
implementation experience revealed that these expectations may have been somewhat ambitious.
Yet, in the summer of 2007, none of the changes that followed could have been foreseen. This
includes the global financial crisis of 2010 that impacted Jordan’s fiscal situation, resulting in
lower budget ceilings for line ministries and cuts in capital expenditures (including IBRD). Still,
this was adequately reflected in the Bank Team’s assessment, the Project was rated as “High” risk
and was approved as such based on its relevance and potential high rewards. It was understood
that there were many potential benefits in involving and including employers’ in the sector in a


22
   November 6, 2007 memorandum from QER panel to the task team leader, “Quality Enhancement Review Panel
Report, Jordan Employer Driven Skills Development Project, P100534”
23
   This included assurances that VTC reforms to improve efficiency would not entail staff layoffs, despite redundant
VTC training staffing in some specializations.
                                                         7
systematic and progressive manner and that such potential benefits were worth taking the risk.
The project’s objective was to start a paradigm shift that required sustained government
commitment, decision and support. It was understood that operationalizing this paradigm shift
would be a long-term process, involving changes in the enabling environment and participation
incentives as the first steps in an evolution towards more employer-driven training.

27.      The 2013 project restructuring recognized the ambitiousness of the project objective by
scaling down the PDO from “...the development of employers’ participation in sector policy
formulation, institutional development and reform, and skill development program design and
delivery” to “... enhancing the enabling conditions for employers’ participation in TVET
institutional development and skills development program delivery by the Vocational Training
Corporation.” As indicated earlier, the need to revise the PDO was agreed in May 2012; albeit the
Level 1 restructuring could only be approved in May 2013.

28.     In hindsight, the description of the project’s main beneficiaries may seem to be rather
broad and untargeted. Yet, it does seem relevant considering the institutional nature of the PDO
which aimed to create and set up “building blocks” towards institutional development, demand-
driven training provision, and more generally employers’ participation in the TVET sector, all of
which are not just limited to one group or the other but rather to potentially serve all the socio-
economic stakeholders in the country.

29.      Selectivity. In a vocational training arena that was characterized by many challenges and
by the complexity of multiple, stakeholders, providers, and donors,24 the EDSDP was deliberately
designed as a small operation with a selective and focused institutional development objective
and design. 25 The design process involved consultation with stakeholders and donors, and built
upon the findings of the preparatory work financed under a Japanese-financed PHRD 26 Grant. It
also reflected the policy orientation of the National Agenda and the findings of recent research
and analysis. 27

30.      The EDSDP implementation experience raises two questions about whether the project
objective and design should have been even more selective. The first concerns the
appropriateness of EDSDP support for technical assistance to help strengthen the institutional
capacity of the Training and Employment Fund. The US$60,000 of support that the EDSDP
provided for this activity was minuscule in comparison to the US$6 million that the Fund was
receiving from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), to the extent that the
choice of this component had just a symbolic value for the sake of donor harmonization.
However, it was obvious from the outset that the success or failure of this activity depended upon
that of the larger CIDA assistance. There was no evidence provided by the Fund to suggest an
interest in seeking the Bank’s support after the closing of CIDA’s intervention prior to the agreed
time, coupled with low GOJ commitment towards the Fund, did not allow a substantive enough
engagement to deal effectively with the situation. This led to the eventual deletion of this
component from the project.

31.      A second design question concerns the role of the Ministry of Education (MOE) and



24
   The PAD documents other donors activities to improve TVET effectiveness.
25
   The “Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection” section of the PAD discusses rejected alternative project
designs involving broader scope.
26
   Policy and Human Resources Development
27
   Notably, World Bank, Resolving Jordan’s Labor Market Paradox of Concurrent Economic Growth and High
Unemployment, Report No. 39201-JO, March 31, 2007
                                                         8
Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE) in the project. Although the Ministry of Labor was the
lead implementation agency and the focus of the project was on VTC programs, the MOE and
MOHE were duly represented in the E-TVET Council; the original project objective included the
expectation of improved employer participation in sector policy formulation. During
implementation, the MOE and MOHE were not fully engaged in the activities of the Council and
the improvements sought under the project. With the benefit of hindsight, it appears that the E-
TVET’s Council composition, which certainly included relevant stakeholders, was not enough to
effectively address sector fragmentation and to issue enforceable sectoral policy directives. It is
debated that the E-TVET Council Law has fallen short of an appropriate legal provision that
would effectively engage MOE, MOHE and Balqa University representatives in a sectoral policy
dialogues beyond MOL, E-TVET Fund and the VTC. This limitation was reflected in the project
restructuring of 2013 (provisionally agreed upon in 2012), whereby further policy level support to
the Council was eliminated, though the project maintained support to the operational mechanisms
and “enabling conditions.”

2.2 Implementation

32.      Any VET or skills development operation entails a lengthy and complicated preparation
and its implementation requires strong ownership and sustained commitment from policy makers
given the multiplicity of actors in both the public and the private sectors. This was not the case
for this Project, which started off with adequate political backing and a generally supportive
context but with the changing political situation in the region; and the frequent Cabinet
reshuffles, , the whole governance fabric shifted. While, skills development continues to be a
high priority at all levels, as clearly reflected in the recently approved National Employment
Strategy, there is no longer an effective platform for national policy dialogue that can address
related issues as they arise; and there is still no overhaul of the E-TVET Council and sector
related policy directives.

33.      Bearing the above context in mind, the, implementation of the three main project
components lagged seriously behind schedule. And, in such a shifting and distracted context,
attentive supervision efforts by the Bank team were insufficient to turn around the Project. The
efforts made by the DCU and implementing entities also proved to be insufficient in arising the
political challenges and implementation constraints to the Project.

34.      The rating of implementation progress was downgraded to “moderately satisfactory” in
April 2010 and to “moderately unsatisfactory” in October 2010, where it remained through
closing. The E-TVET Council has not been effective in fulfilling its mandate of providing
employer-driven policy directives to its stakeholders, and the Ministry of Education and Ministry
of Higher Education did not prove to be willing partners to the E-TVET Council’s work. As a
result, the work of the E-TVET Council has been limited to looking after the needs of the MOL’s
own programs, and even there it achieved only modest results. This has been documented in the
National Employment Strategy which notes that the E-TVET Council failed to play the umbrella
role envisioned and was limited to setting the strategy for MOL programs, VTC, and the NET. 28

35.    There were several reasons for this disconnect between project aspirations and project
achievements, involving a combination of exogenous events and a failure on the part of the
Government – particularly but not exclusively the Ministry of Labor -- to deliver on agreed
implementation actions:



28
     Page 41, National Employment Strategy 2011-2020,
                                                        9
•    The E-TVET Council’s work focused on operational and implementation issues involving the
     VTC and the E-TVET Fund rather than on strategic and policy issues affecting TVET more
     generally. Be it a result or a cause of this narrower focus, the MOE and MOHE did not play
     the expected strategic role in the E-TVET Council and the Council failed to play the intended
     broader strategic role The Government did not act on the repeated recommendations of
     Bank supervision missions to shift the Council’s attention to the broader strategic function
     agreed at appraisal.
•    Although the MOL at the time of appraisal was supportive of the project, the successive six
     Ministers of Labor were not as supportive. The political commitment and focus at project
     conception dissipated as implementation progressed and as priorities evolved under
     successive changes in Ministry leadership. Apart from the varying degrees of project support
     under successive Ministers of Labor, the frequent changes in MOL management (every six
     months on average since 2011) led to inefficiency as new Ministers needed to be brought up
     to speed in understanding the goals, activities, and implementation challenges of the project.
•    The Government did not firmly pursue implementation of the 2006-2015 National Agenda,
     which had provided the strategic framework for the EDSDP.
•    In 2011, the National Agenda was replaced by a new strategic orientation in the form of the
     2011-2020 National Employment Strategy (NES). 29 The NES included a more detailed
     analysis of skill needs and TVET training issues and more specific recommendations for
     TVET reform than the National Agenda, including a recommendation to make vocational
     training more responsive to private-sector needs. 30 Despite its initial enthusiasm, evidence of
     government adoption of the NES is yet to be seen.
•    In January 2010, the Government suspended the 1% training tax levy that was the main
     source of financing for the E-TVET Fund. Suspension of the training levy meant that the E-
     TVET Fund relied essentially on financing received from expatriate workers permit fees.
     Moreover, 70 percent of work-permit revenues were allocated to the National Employment
     and Training Company, whose training programs were primarily remedial in nature rather
     than oriented to the priority skill needs of employers. All this entailed that the intended
     purpose of the Fund continued to be diverted. Although E-TVET Fund allocated a smaller
     share of its revenues to the National Employment and Training Company during the final two
     years of implementation, it still did not fulfill the expectation of allocating Fund resources to
     private-sector training needs as intended under the project and National Employment Strategy.
•    Budget caps imposed by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) on all budget expenditures,
     including loan-financed activities, and the lack of proper planning to include the project’s
     expected expenditures within these caps, delayed a number of project activities during the
     final stages of EDSDP implementation. These delays were the practical reason leading to the
     deletion of some project activities under the 2013 restructuring, especially within
     Component1.
•    Technical assistance (TA) under the project suffered from ineffective management by the
     Ministry of Labor, the E-TVET Council, and the DCU involving: (i) reluctance to revisit


29
   The project’s design remains fully appropriate under the new National Employment Strategy. The National
Employment Strategy essentially maintains the employment and training goals of the National Agenda but adds
significant detail in the diagnosis of employment and training issues in Jordan and in the specificity of recommended
actions. It underlines the urgency of better planning and governance of vocational education and training, where “the
challenge is not so much the diversity of providers, but rather the poor state of governance of the sector”. It also
recommends improvement in the Employment, Technical and Vocational Education and Training (E-TVET) Fund, to
make it more effective in meeting actual skill needs of employers. This activity was not specifically included in the
National Agenda, but was included in the EDSDP PAD.
30
   Page 19, National Employment Strategy 2011-2020, Jordan Ministry of Labor and Ministry of Planning and
International Cooperation, 2011.
                                                        10
    TORs that were deemed inappropriate over the course of activities’ implementation; (ii) lack
    of optimal representation or appropriate skills on the part of technical assistance TA
    evaluation committees, or to subordination of quality factors to cost factors in evaluation, and
    (iii) insufficient supervision of consultants by the E-TVET Council Secretariat, VTC and the
    DCU. These deficiencies contributed to several of the implementation delays experienced
    under the EDSDP, including the need to rebid TA to design and implement the VTC
    restructuring. MOPIC delays in approving termination of the initial TA for VTC
    restructuring also contributed to the delay in rebidding this vital activity and contract signing
    till May 2011. Management by the VTC of the activities under component 2 lacked
    dynamism and was generally reactive rather than proactive. This was reflected in cumulative
    delays with shared responsibility between the VTC and the TA firm, and unrealistic action
    plans to address the delays.

36.     Project implementation suffered from a lack of an effective leadership by the
Government – particularly, by the Ministry of Labor. Although the Minister of Labor at the time
of appraisal was firmly committed to the project, subsequent ministers did not share that
commitment. Due to a lacking legal framework, the E-TVET Council failed to motivate
cooperation by the MOE and MOHE. But if the Government had been genuinely committed to
the objectives of the National Agenda, and later the NES and of the project, the Prime Minister
could have exercised leadership to ensure that the E-TVET Council performed its intended role in
E-TVET strategy and policy development involving all stakeholders.

37.      An issue that has affected many of the projects in Jordan’s portfolio, including the
Employer Driven Skills Development project, is the lack of timely disbursements from the IBRD
loan which in turn slows down the payment of contracts and the implementation of projects.
From the perspective of the line ministry, disbursements from the loan are held back because of
spending caps set by the Ministry of Finance. However, these caps actually reflect the line
ministry’s budget allocations at the time the government’s annual budget is agreed, are in line
with national fiscal and debt targets, and cannot be changed throughout the course of the year.
As such, it is important for the line ministry to ensure that the necessary amount of the IBRD loan
is factored into the ministry’s spending plan for the year and is included in the budget request to
(and eventual allocation from) the Ministry of Finance. This requires that a realistic and credible
spending/disbursement profile is developed on the basis of which the allocations can be made.
The Bank team should work together with the line ministry counterparts to facilitate the
development of such a profile and to ensure that it is prepared or updated in time to inform the
national budget process.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

38.      M&E Design. The project’s M&E system was designed to track implementation
progress against agreed targets, and to monitor achievement against the project development
objectives. The Original Performance indicators for implementation targets included staffing and
staff training of the E-TVET Council Secretariat and appointment of Board members, drafting
and passage of by-laws for the restructured VTC, and development of a new business model for
the VTC. Performance targets for development outcomes included the number of firms receiving
training under the E-TVET Fund, the percentage of VTC financial resources allocated against
vocational training institute (VTI) performance, and the level of employer satisfaction with
quality and relevance of VTC training. Three monitoring instruments were to be used to assemble
this information: (i) tracer studies and structured surveys; (ii) key informant interviews and focus
group discussions; and (iii) tracking of internal processes.


                                                11
39.     After more than four years of implementation, performance indicators were modified
under the project restructuring to provide a more realistic set of expected achievements (Sections
1.6 and 2.2). As shown in the Restructuring Paper, most of the key performance indicators were
dropped; targets for others were revised; and several new indicators were added.

40.      M&E Implementation. M&E implementation was rated as “satisfactory” in the first
ISR, then downgraded to “moderately unsatisfactory” in the second ISR (in June 2009) because
the initial M&E actions were not carried out as agreed and the M&E officer in the DCU resigned.
M&E was rated as “moderately satisfactory” in all subsequent ISRs through January 2013.
Although progress reports were prepared and baseline studies carried out as planned 31 during this
period, supervision missions continued to recommend improvements to data collection and
reporting. The approval of the restructuring in March 2013 brought M&E accomplishments into
alignment with the reduced expectations of the revised results framework; M&E performance
rating was upgraded to “satisfactory” in the June 2013 ISR. The ICR concurs with this
interpretation.

41.      M&E Utilization. Because of the delays in implementation of components 1 and 2, the
main uses of M&E findings have been to inform management of project implementation by the
DCU and the design and implementation of the public information and awareness efforts during
the final year of project implementation.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

42.      Financial management implementation was essentially problem-free throughout
implementation, with timely and satisfactory financial reports and unqualified audit opinions.
The presence of a qualified full-time financial officer in the DCU, outsourced from outside MOL,
played an instrumental role in ensuring problem-free financial management performance.
Financial management implementation was rated as “satisfactory” in the first 10 ISRs for the
project, and downgraded to “marginally satisfactory” during the January 2013 mission due to the
exogenous factor of insufficient budget funds allocated for the project under the 2013 national
budget restrictions and lack of clear arrangements for funding the DCU finance officer and M&E
officer during the grace period of the project. The Bank provided an exceptional 6-month grace
period that ends in March 2014 so that all payments can be processed under the 2014 national
budget. It was agreed during the March 2013 supervision mission that the costs of DCU finance
officer and M&E officer were to be covered by counterpart funds.

43.      Procurement implementation was rated as “satisfactory” in the first three ISRs, reflecting
proper procurement processing and quality of reporting, evaluations of proposals, and contract
management. The rating was downgraded to “marginally satisfactory” in February 2010 due to
the delay in settling the dispute that rose after termination of the technical assistance contract for
VTC restructuring. The “moderately satisfactory” rating for procurement implementation was
retained through project closing, reflecting the stagnation in procurement and disbursements by
comparison to the appraisal schedule as a result of lack of decision making from the different
project stakeholders. The rating was retained for the final mission in September 2013 due to the
inability to process procurement as a result from the MOF-imposed budget restrictions. Although
not directly caused by procurement actions, these shortcomings seriously affected implementation
of planned procurement activities.


31
   Ministry of Labour, VTC Employer Satisfaction, February, 2010 and E-TVET Awareness Raising Campaign,
Knowledge, Attitudes & Perceptions, Quantitative Research Study - Baseline Survey July 2010, Amman, Jordan.

                                                       12
44.     No environmental or other safeguard issues were identified during appraisal or arose
during project implementation. The project did not trigger any safeguard policies. 32

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

45.     The DCU will conduct a number of dissemination activities for the key project
deliverables. These include policy tools and concrete manuals of procedures, as well as reviews
and assessments. Such dissemination has a potential value added in the development of the sector
as it ensures that the building blocks created by this Project can eventually be put into use by
policy makers and practitioners alike. It was agreed that these events will be held both in Amman
and in other selected governorates to enhance adequate outreach to different stakeholders. This
will be done in collaboration with the implementing entities/ project beneficiaries and in synergy
with the project’s ongoing awareness campaign so that a coherent and consistent message is
transmitted to all audiences.

46.      E-TVET relevant tools have been developed, but are yet to be fully adopted. Under
Component 1, a number of activities were achieved that are considered acceptable project outputs
as well as relevant to the implementation of the National Employment Strategy (NES). These are:
(i) Roles and responsibilities of the E-TVET Council and Secretariat; (ii) E-TVET Sector Action
Plan, to be developed and updated by the Secretariat; (iii) adopting a participatory approach –
engaging employers – while developing the procedural manual to create employer-driven
occupational profiles and initial set of six profiles for demonstration purpose; (iv) the know-how
to identify priority sectors and the identification of three economic priority sectors closely
correlated with employment opportunities; (v) a TVET performance assessment system,
including sector performance indicators, tools for data collection and data analysis, and data
reporting process (on-going); and (vi) a communication strategy driven by market surveys to
better understand attitudes and perceptions of the potential TVET sector beneficiaries. Still, the
issues in the institutional set-up, inadequate staffing of the Secretariat and the lacking sustainable
financing of the sector have prevented putting such tools into use.

47.     Still a number of the main products of Component 1 have been put into operation by
the E-TVET Council Secretariat, including the decision support system (DSS), sector
performance assessment system, and the awareness campaign (whose preparation was financed
under the loan and implementation with local resources). The Center for Accreditation and
Quality Assurance (CAQA) has adopted and is applying the occupational profiles and
occupational profiles manual. The priority sectors identified under the project have been adopted
by the E-TVET Council and are to be revisited as part of the Council’s ongoing work in updating
TVET strategy over the coming 3-5 years.

48.      Under the piloting of the new VTC business, training and governance models, local
business leaders worked with VTI staff to assess training needs and to adapt VTC training
programs to meet those needs. The VTC is committed to implementing those new models in all of
its VTIs as soon as the enabling by-laws are approved by the Cabinet. In the meantime, the VTC
has taken concrete steps to launch the models on a pilot basis in three VTIs -- Yajooz, Mafraq,
and Aqaba -- and has developed a two-year roadmap for extending the new models to other VTIs.
VTC experts are being trained in Malaysia under the TA supported by the project to prepare them
to participate in the scaling-up of the new models.



32
     PAD, Annex 10.
                                                 13
49.     GOJ is strongly encouraged to seek alternative routes to establish a platform for TVET
policy dialogue that offers concrete policy directives to all TVET stakeholders and is binding to
all TVET providers. This may not necessarily be the revival of the Higher Council for Human
Resources Development, but could very well be streamlined within an inter-ministerial committee
as suggested by the Bank Team during project implementation.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance of Objectives: High Relevance of Design/Implementation: Significant

50.      The original PDO of developing employer participation in the sector policy formulation,
institutional development and reform, and design and delivery of training programs in order to
improve the quality and relevance of training was highly relevant to Jordan’s development
priorities and to the Bank’s country assistance strategy at the time of appraisal. This objective
appears as a priority under both the National Agenda and the National Employment Strategy. As
implementation revealed the limitations of achieving this objective, the PDO was changed in
order to restore the PDO’s relevance to what was possible to achieve in the remaining months of
project implementation in a situation of reduced political support. The revised PDO remains
highly relevant to Jordan’s development priorities and to the Bank’s country partnership strategy.
The project´s contribution to the sector, albeit not fully accomplished due to the MOF-imposed
budget cap and the delayed delivery of the VTC pilot programs, remains relevant and valid. This
is evident, for instance, in the on-going EU and ILO support to the sector, where both
organizations are drawing and building on this Project’s deliverables and outcomes. In addition,
now that the NES is hosted by the King Abdulla Fund, several of its key activities and
interventions are being supported by the E-TVET Council and the E-TVET Fund.

51.     Given the changing country context since the time of project preparation, it is worth
mentioning to state that EDSDP project design was relevant to the country needs and priorities;
and the results achieved, even if less than originally anticipated, are relevant as well. The Project
has developed a set of critical tools at the level of institutional development and training program
design that can potentially be adopted and scaled up if and when there is the political will to do so.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

52.     Original PDO: “to align policy formulation with Employment, Technical and Vocational
Education and Training (E-TVET) operational mechanisms through the development of
employers’ participation in (i) sector policy formulation, (ii) institutional development and
reform, and (iii) skill development program design and delivery.” Rating: Modest

53.    Revised PDO: “to realign the E-TVET sector with the National Employment Strategy by
enhancing the enabling conditions for employers’ participation in (i) TVET institutional
development, and (ii) skills development program design and delivery by the Vocational Training
Corporation.” Rating: Modest

54.     Enhancing the enabling conditions for employers’ participation in TVET institutional
development (Significant). The Technical Assistance supporting the institutional aspects of the
sector through its support to the E-TVET Council and Secretariat has provided effective
“enabling conditions” that fit into the implementation of the National Employment Strategy
(NES). The tools are now readily available to be put in action, once there is a clear institutional
                                                 14
set-up, funding, and policy directives to do so.

             a.      Developed and piloted employer-driven Occupational Profiles Manual,
             currently adopted by CAQA: adopted a participatory approach – ensuring employers
             participation in developing employer driven occupational profiles and their adoption by
             Center of Accreditation and Quality Assurance (CAQA) both as a modus operandi as
             well as using the developed profiles in the accreditation process;
             b.      Introduced an E-TVET Sector Performance Assessment system. Developed the
             E-TVET sector Performance Assessment System, including data collection tools on key
             sector level indicators, and producing the first and second TVET sector performance
             assessment report through the joint effort of TVET providers and industry
             representatives;
             c.      Contributed towards a TVET Communication Strategy. Developing a
             participative TVET Communication Strategy driven by the views and perspectives of
             TVET stakeholders (including MOE) that led to a well-designed awareness campaign.
             d.      Developed and piloted an employer-driven modality to identify priority sectors
             for new training programs. The Project has developed a mechanism for the
             identification of three economic priority sectors closely correlated with employment
             opportunities; the assessment of TVET provider’s capacity to respond to the needs
             expressed by the priority economic sectors; and the gap analysis between demand and
             supply of TVET services for each of them. And, this mechanism is now available for the
             sector to dynamically identify priority sectors, as well as assess TVET providers’
             capacity to respond to the needs.
             e.      Established a baseline for public perceptions of TVET. The Project has
             contributed towards baseline surveys pertaining to “knowledge, attitude, and perceptions”
             of the general public towards the TVET sector, and employers’ satisfaction with VTC
             programs.

55.     All the above remain of solid value at the governance, regulatory and institutional levels,
with employers and other public TVET providers (MOE, MOHE, and Balqaa University) actively
involved in the development and the piloting of the tools. They all took part in piloting these tools
over the course of the project implementation. Thus, there has been tangible progress at the
working/technical level. What remains, once a political commitment and ownership emerges is to
step up into the E-TVET Council level to draw on the outcome of those tools and actually
produce “policy directives” that are well-informed and driven by the employers’ needs.

Enhancing the enabling conditions for employers’ participation in skills development program
design and delivery by the Vocational Training Corporation. (Modest)

56.      Although the piloting of the models and the three pilot training programs were not fully
conducted by the time of project closing 33, most of the necessary background work leading to
those pilots and a number of key enabling conditions were introduced in the Vocational Training
Corporation: (i) a business, governance, and training model adhering to employer-driven training
delivery with clear lines of authority and accountability both at the level of VTC, the regional
offices, as well as the VT Institutes (VTIs) were developed and approved. This also included a



33
     Training Delivery was not launched prior to project closing.




                                                            15
modular approach towards VTC training programs that allows for open entry and exit for students
and trainees; (ii) a steering committee at the level of VTC headquarters comprised of a majority
of employers was created to review and take an active role in the restructuring of VTC; (iii) three
pilot VTIs were effectively introduced to a potential paradigm shift in the way the VTI
communicates with the employers community and in the way a Strengths, Weaknesses,
Opportunities, and Threats (SWOT) analysis is carried out towards a self-assessment to be further
validated by peers and with the active participation of the MOL, VTC regional office and the
employers; and (iv) a rigorous M&E/MIS system, including tracer studies, is being developed.

57.      Indicators measuring enrollment and completion rates were retained by the restructuring
of the project. Both rates were envisaged to increase in response to the potential improvement in
public perception of TVET and skills development programs as a result of the renewed training
offer – employer driven – after the restructuring of the VTC and, to some extent, of the awareness
campaign. Yet, considering both the evolution of the Jordanian labor market and more
importantly the changes introduced in opening paths from VET to higher education, it is clear that
the increase in enrolment in VTC programs cannot be attributed exclusively to the effects of the
activities supported by the Project. On the other hand, a partial impact cannot be denied either,
particularly in the area of hospitality and tourism training programs.

58.      The Project has provided concrete building blocks and a clear set of enabling conditions
for the GOJ to build on and for donors to draw on while designing new interventions, as detailed
below. Most remarkably, the Bank Supervision Team field visit in March 2013 to the three pilot
VTC Institutes provided solid reasons to be optimistic about the pilots, as the managers and staff
of the three VTIs: (a) showed high commitment to the new business models; (b) appreciated the
training received and the self-assessment process and procedures initiated; (c) pointed to the
strategic value of having established internal quality units and external committees that
institutionalize the dialogue with employers; (d) firmly believed that the new models could easily
be extended and scaled up to other specializations and VTIs; and (e) showed clear awareness of
the need to conduct tracer studies of their graduates (the Center in Aqaba is actually doing it as of
this academic year).

59.    Overall. As shown in Annex 2, the project delivered most of the outputs that were
expected of it under the restructuring, but the expected development outcome has not been
achieved because:

•   For Component 1, the E-TVET Council has not been effective in fulfilling its mandate of
    providing employer-driven policy directives to its stakeholders, although a number of
    relevant tools has been developed under the project that contribute to more employer-
    responsive TVET programs. All those tools can be quickly implemented once the institutional
    set-up, funding and policy directives are ready.

•   The imposed MOF cap on project funds led to the cancellation of strategic importance
    activities (despite not having major budget implications) that were meant to contribute to the
    sector’s enabling conditions. These activities included: (a) technical assistance to support a
    tri-partite working committee under Component 1 to facilitate the policy dialogue among the
    three TVET Councils/Boards to promote awareness of their roles and responsibilities. It
    would have been very useful to adequately rationalize the links between the VTC and the
    MOE-Vocational Education in terms of resources, infrastructure, teaching capacity, practical
    training, and outputs relevant to the market needs; (b) dissemination of project deliverables;
    (c) follow-up survey on knowledge, attitudes and perceptions towards TVET to determine
    impact of the awareness campaign; and (d) media spots included in the awareness campaign.

                                                 16
     For Component 2, the new VTC business, governance, and training models have not yet been
     fully piloted, pending delivery of the pilot training programs and the Cabinet approval of the
     VTC new by-laws that would support the introduction of the revised organization structure in
     the VTC. It should be noted that this Component suffered from extensive delays originally
     caused by the need to rebid the TA for reasons completely beyond the control or
     responsibility of the DCU and VTC; and then by challenging implementation plans proposed
     by the TA firm and the VTC itself that were difficult to adhere to. Subsequently, the piloted
     training programs were not delivered at the time of project closing. Still, the ICR mission
     ascertained that there is a clear intent at the level of the three VTIs where the models are
     being piloted to push forward with implementation and to potentially replicate to other
     specializations. Similarly, the VTC management has expressed its commitment to adopt the
     models fully, once the revised by-laws are approved.

3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Modest

60.      As project efficiency is addressed, this needs to be situated in an overall country and
portfolio context. As detailed above, the Project was implemented in an ever changing policy
environment and critical fiscal deficit, which was most notably reflected in MOF financial cap on
government budget, including the related Bank loan. The high turn-over of ministers with
diversity of background has not only had an impact of EDSDP, but other Bank-supported projects
as well. For it is not conducive to repeatedly invest in presenting the new minister’s with project
issues at such high frequency. During the recent Country Portfolio Performance Review, a drop in
the overall portfolio was noted and this is essentially due to exogenous pressures from
neighboring countries; including the Syrian refugees crises.

61.      The EDSDP project approach involved an effort to improve the quality and labor-market
relevance of TVET programs by providing the sector with enabling conditions and by involving
employers in the operational mechanisms as well as the design and delivery of the long-
established TVET programs delivered through Government agencies – notably, the Vocational
Training Corporation. 34 As such, it should be clear that this is not a “Training Delivery Project”
but one that aimed at setting up a new governance framework and a new set of strategic
incentives to change the way TVET programs are conceived, designed, set up, delivered and
evaluated.

62.     The cost-benefit analysis provided in the PAD was admittedly based on incomplete
information, and “mostly serves to illustrate the relation between number of graduates, costs,
wages, and economic rates of return.” 35 In the absence of evidence on the potential impacts of
the project on earnings, employment rates, and costs of revised TVET programs, it assumed
values for these key parameters. Yet, it goes without saying that even a fully successful four-year
VET or skills development project would not have enough time to produce a tangible impact on
employment and unemployment rates, let alone earnings. This ICR does therefore not try to
update the PAD cost-benefit analysis because any quantitative evaluation of benefits on the basis
of currently available information would be only speculative. Meaningful quantification of the
benefits of the project-supported interventions will require that the improved business,


34
   The Vocational Training Corporation is a semi-autonomous agency. But the Minister of Labor chairs its Board of
Directors and thus exerts considerable influence on its operational decisions.
35
   Page 86, Annex 9, PAD.
                                                        17
governance, and training models are in operation for a sufficiently long period of time and allow
observation of actual earnings and employment outcomes for completers of restructured training
programs, as well as costs of those programs.

63.      All that said, this ICR attempts to assess other aspects of efficiency. All technical
assistance related to this project involved competitive bidding with a balanced mix of cost and
quality. The DCU, together with the implementing entities and with constant support from the
Bank Team reviewed all deliverables to ensure acceptable quality and meaningful value added to
the whole sector. A participatory approach was adopted throughout the set of institutional-
oriented activities to ensure that the resulting deliverables/tools will be indeed adopted by other
entities and not limited to MOL.

64.      Each of the deliverable produced under Component 1 would contribute to improved
responsiveness to the job market needs, graduates employability, and workers potential
productivity, including: (i) Roles and responsibilities of the E-TVET Council and Secretariat; (ii)
E-TVET Sector Action Plan, to be developed and updated by the Secretariat; (iii) adopting a
participatory approach – engaging employers – while developing the procedural manual to create
employer-driven occupational profiles and initial set of six profiles for demonstration purpose;
(iv) the know-how to identify priority sectors and the identification of three economic priority
sectors closely correlated with employment opportunities; (v) a TVET performance assessment
system, including sector performance indicators, tools for data collection and data analysis, and
data reporting process (on-going); and (vi) a communication strategy driven by market surveys to
better understand attitudes and perceptions of the potential TVET sector beneficiaries.

65.     For example, the communication strategy that was approved by the E-TVET Council
now served MOE awareness activities as well. Similarly, the tools developed to support the
development of occupation profiled manual are now being used by CAQA and thus allowing the
newly-established CAQA a quick-start with a modality already tested and found acceptable to
relevant stakeholders.

66.      Another key dimension is related to the restructuring of VTC, which aimed to ensure
market-relevant training courses. In doing so, there were also savings from the discontinuation of
supply-driven courses which would not be easy to quantify; still efficiency gains out of the
restructuring of the VTC could clearly be claimed.

67.      On cost-effectiveness, in the context detailed above and in the absence of specific
numerical data information, an estimate can still be reached to offer the order of potential benefits
that this Project would trigger. If the tools for a more e employer-driven and efficient E-TVET
system, and the models for a demand-driven training provision by VTC that were developed
under the project are eventually put into operation systematically, the project could prove to have
contributed to improving the quality, relevance, and efficiency of VTC training programs
currently costing over US$25 million per year, as well as offering a replicable model for
improving TVET programs under the MOE and MOHE. This outcome remains possible given
the VTC’s plans to proceed with training delivery for the piloted programs, as well as plans to
replicate to other programs/ other VTIs – could yield benefits in excess of the US$4.3 million 36.

68.   Yet, this ICR can draw on the successful experience of the USAID-supported initiative
“SIYAHA” where VTC benefitted from improved infrastructure, demand-driven curricula, well-


37
   Implementation Completion and Results Report Guidelines, Attachment to Appendix B, World Bank OPCS, August,
2006 (10/05/2011 Update)
                                                     18
targeted awareness activities; strong employers engagement, including internships; as well as
relatively functional M&E system. This has been, and continues to be a show-case for the
benefits that can arise from offering a truly demand-driven training course; in terms of increased
enrollment, higher completion rates and highly satisfactory employment records in the field of
hospitality and tourism.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

69.      Under World Bank guidelines, 37 ICR final outcome ratings of projects with formally
revised project objectives are to average the interim outcome ratings before and after
restructuring, weighted by the respective shares of project disbursements before and after
restructuring. Weighting of performance before and after restructuring is not an issue for the
EDSDP because although progress against expected outputs improved after restructuring,
progress against expected outcomes did not improve.

70.      Based on the above assessment of highly relevant objectives, modest relevance of design
and implementation, along with modest achievements of both PDOs and modest efficiency, the
overall rating is Moderately Unsatisfactory (both before and after restructuring). Although the
project delivered most of the outputs that were expected of it under the restructuring, the expected
development outcome has not been achieved because: (i) the E-TVET Council has not been
effective in fulfilling its mandate of providing employer-driven policy directives to its
stakeholders, and (ii) the new VTC business, governance, and training models have not yet been
fully delivered

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

71.     As observed in the PAD, there are important gender issues in employment in Jordan:
Labor-force participation rates are far lower for women than for men; unemployment rates are
higher; and earnings for equivalent levels of education are lower.38 The project made a start in
addressing these gender issues through the public awareness campaign under component 1, which
provided information about training opportunities for women in specializations with good
earnings and employment prospects.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

72.      The focus of the entire project was on institutional change. Despite the delays in piloting
the new business, governance, and training models for the VTC, the project did make progress in
strengthening institutional capacity for the E-TVET Council Secretariat and CAQA (Section 2.5),
as well as VTC. Conducive institutional tools are available to be adopted and used once there is a
political commitment towards an effective TVET sector.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Not Applicable.


37
   Implementation Completion and Results Report Guidelines, Attachment to Appendix B, World Bank OPCS, August,
2006 (10/05/2011 Update)
38
   PAD, page 87.
                                                     19
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not Applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

73.      As indicated earlier, the Project has produced a number of relevant deliverables towards
the sector’s institutional infrastructure. And a number of these deliverables have already been
adopted at the technical and operational level. In addition, the 3 pilot vocational training institutes
seem intent on fully adopting the new models in training delivery and in potentially using the
models in additional specializations. Yet, a the policy level, a sustained ownership and
commitment is yet to be demonstrated for the E-TVET Council to fulfill its mandate and to fully
adopt the project deliverables. In addition, the Cabinet has not yet approved the VTC By-laws
that are necessary to enable employer participation and delivery of VTC training programs in an
institutional and consistent manner.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

74.     Project Preparation was launched within a favorable context characterized by a clear
vision and high political commitment on the part of the GOJ to adopt an institutional approach
towards skills development. Although insufficient political commitment and weak leadership
proved to be a serious obstacle to attainment of EDSDP’s development objective, this risk was
anticipated and reflected in project design. It was decided to proceed with the project despite this
known risk that was clearly acknowledged in the PAD. The ICR finds that this approach was
appropriate since the prospective benefit of successful implementation was large enough to justify
the recognized risk that lack of political commitment that could ultimately frustrate attainment of
the project’s objective. A 2010 portfolio review of Bank-supported education projects by the
Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) found that the most prevalent factor contributing to
unsatisfactory project performance was “overambition in relation to strength of political
commitment.” 39 Nevertheless, as discussed above, the down-stream route that the Project took
could not have been anticipated during project preparation. Accordingly, Bank performance in
project design is rated as “moderately satisfactory”.

75.      Extensive efforts were invested during project design to review the country and sector
context (including PHRD-supported preparing documents that fed into each component’s design).
Moreover, the Bank Team did adequately secure an effective arrangement to support the E-TVET
Fund and maintained a symbolic amount of US$60,000 for component 3. This certainly was not
sufficient to safe-guard a rather promising TVET funding mechanism that was envisaged to be
the “leverage” arm for the E-TVET Council over TVET providers, within MOL, MOE, MOHE,
and others. In any case, the EDSDP implementation experience suggests that there were two
shortcomings in project design: (i) the objective of establishing an effective sector council that
can issue policy directives within the current non-obliging legal framework of the E-TVET
Council law was not realistic enough; and (ii) the minimal level of involvement of the E-TVET


39
     Page 40, Independent Evaluation Group, World Bank Support to Education Since 2001: A Portfolio Note, 2010.
                                                          20
Fund under the EDSDP did not allow for a substantive enough engagement that could anticipate
and deal with the decline in government support and the reduction in – and eventual cancellation
of – CIDA’s support and financial commitment.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

76.      Quality of supervision is rated as “moderately satisfactory” as the project benefited from
intensive technical and operational support through frequent missions as well as informal
channels (including skype and audio, as well as extra meetings while team members were in
Amman to supervise other projects) throughout project implementation, all of which provided
consistent handholding support. Among other things, this is reflected in the continuity of key
project staff throughout project preparation and implementation. Even if there were a total of
three task team leaders, continuity of the core task team and sector manager throughout
preparation and implementation helped to ensure consistent high supervision standards and strong
institutional memory to carry the initial project vision through to the close of the project. Sector
management, together with extensive and continued support from the Country Management Unit
(CMU), provided consistent support for the team’s work.

77.     Supervision missions were frequent and timely. Performance ratings in the fourteen ISRs
were well justified and well documented. The mission Aides Mémoire and post-mission letters to
Government clearly identified implementation problems and recommended appropriate corrective
actions by implementing agencies and, especially, by MOL management and Government. In
most cases, these involved more proactive management by Government in carrying out agreed
actions under the project, including (i) adoption of more strategic and sector-wide oversight by
the E-TVET Council; (ii) an expedited approach towards rebidding of the restructuring of the
VTC and project restructuring; (iii) a more firm commitment towards the E-TVET Fund; and (iv)
adoption of the new by-laws for VTC restructuring. Supervision missions also offered technical
assistance in carrying out the recommended actions. The frequent changes in Ministers of Labor,
who played a key role as Chairman of the E-TVET Council and Chairman of the Board for the E-
TVET Fund and the VTC, help explain why the recommended actions to improve implementation
performance were often not acted upon. This risk was reflected in the project design and
appropriate action was taken to minimize it by working to build enduring institutional capacity
particularly on the part of the E-TVET Council, its Secretariat, and the VTC.

78.      The Mid-Term review of the project was carried out in May 2011 as originally scheduled,
with a preparatory mission in March 2011. The February 2010 supervision mission had proposed
advancing the mid-term review to July 2010 in order to resolve the already-apparent gap that had
arisen between planned and actual project performance. The proposal to advance the date of the
mid-tem review was not subsequently pursued, in recognition that more time would be needed to
prepare for the restructuring. Project restructuring was initially agreed and designed right after the
Mid-term review in May 2011. A specific restructuring mission took place in September 2011 to
finalize all the technical details of the restructuring. Despite MOL agreement, MOPIC was
reluctant to give the green light to the restructuring and delayed the formal request despite the
team´s daily follow up and the involvement of the CMU in at least two portfolio review exercises.
MOPIC agreed “in principle” in February 2012, and again in May 2012. Eventually, MOPIC
submitted an incomplete formal request in July 2012 that was amended by another letter in
October 2012. In the interim, the Bank Team had already drafted the restructuring paper and thus
was able to quickly proceed with internal clearing processes, including that of Country Director.
On the Bank side, the restructuring underwent lengthy management reviews that resulted in the
restructuring package not being approved by the Board until March 2013 and subsequently

                                                 21
countersigned by MOPIC with additional delays in May 2013.

79.      Project restructuring in March 2013 addressed several of the exogenous developments
that affected project implementation – including the dysfunctional E-TVET Council, low
government commitment towards the E-TVET Fund, and the adoption of the National
Employment Strategy -- as well as the shortcomings that progressively limited the scope of what
could be expected under the five years and two months of project implementation. Although full
attainment of the goal of genuinely employer-driven skill training will take many years to achieve,
the actions supported under the project constitute an important start in this effort.

80.       The Bank has also demonstrated a clear sense of proactivity throughout project
implementation as shown, among others, by the following: (i) proceeding with a level I – instead
of a level II which would have been easier to process – restructuring as it was acknowledged
already in the mid-term review that a change in the PDO would be required; (ii) helping to keep
the dialogue open with – and between – MOPIC and MOL during the long restructuring process;
(iii) the Bank’s rejection of GOJ’s request for the extension of the closing date and the subsequent
dialogue with the GOJ to explain and agree on the reasons for such rejection; and (iv) the Bank’s
quick reaction in raising the issue of the potential risks for project implementation stemming from
the MOF-imposed budget cap.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

81.    Overall Bank performance is rated as “moderately satisfactory”, reflecting the
“moderately satisfactory” rating for Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry and the
“moderately satisfactory” rating for quality of Bank supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

82.      As chair of the E-TVET Council, the MOL failed to motivate genuine cooperation by the
MOE and MOHE in addressing sectoral policy directives and eventually fulfilling the Council’s
mandate in addressing sector fragmentation and moving towards a responsive E-TVET sector. It
is not unusual for ministries of education and higher education to resist any perceived dilution of
their monopoly over the content of education programs. But leadership by the Prime Minister in
the spirit of the National Agenda and later the National Employment Strategy could have made a
difference in motivating better cooperation by the MOE and MOHE. This was a crucial missed
opportunity. As of project closing, the MOL had made only very initial progress in aligning even
the training programs of the VTC, in additional to the set of tools developed through a
participatory approach with other TVET providers at the technical level. In part, this modest
performance reflects the frequent changes of MOL leadership and priorities. More generally, it
reflects a lack of commitment by the entire Government to the objectives of the project. Despite
its enthusiastic initial support for the National Employment Strategy, the Government has so far
shown little evidence as it its commitment to implement the strategy, including the enactment of
measures to make vocational training more responsive to skill needs of the private sector– a key
element of the National Employment Strategy and of the EDSDP.

83.     Borrower performance is rated as “moderately unsatisfactory” because of the lack of
leadership and support for key project actions as described in Section 2.2 – in particular, for: (i)
the lack of Government leadership in eliciting E-TVET Council’s engagement on broader TVET

                                                22
sector strategy, (ii) the lack of Government leadership in focusing the E-TVET Fund on priority
skill gaps of employers, (iii) reactive rather than proactive leadership by VTC management, (iv)
delays by MOPIC in approval of rebidding the technical assistance for VTC restructuring and in
moving ahead with project restructuring, and (v) failure to provide timely budget financing under
the budget ceilings that were imposed by the MOF during the final year of project
implementation.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

84.      Implementation agency performance is rated as “moderately satisfactory.” When defining
the implementation Agency of the Project, this should include the DCU, the E-TVET Council
Secretariat, as well as the VTC. In doing so, it should be clear that being engaged in a World
Bank operation was a novelty that is demanding, complicated and at times overwhelming. This
was reflected in the way technical assistance activities were handled starting from drafting a TOR,
shortlisting, awarding, and contract management as detailed in section 2.2 above. In that context,
it should be noted that all parties (with varying degrees of capacity) have indeed climbed a
learning curve that would now allow them to potentially benefit from the project deliverables and
to make better use of forthcoming interventions from the Bank as well as other donors/agencies.
The DCU discharged its role responsibly within the constraints of inadequate staffing and
frequent staff turnover during early implementation. The transition from first director to the
subsequent directors was smooth, first to the former DCU procurement officer then to the former
DCU financial management officer. The DCU monitoring and evaluation officer also effectively
managed the implementation of component 1, including technical assistance to support the
development of the decision support system and sector performance assessment, as well as
overseeing implementation of the VTC management information system. Similarly responsible
work was carried out by the DCU officer responsible for coordination of component 2 and by the
DCU communication officer.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

85.     Overall Borrower performance is rated as “moderately unsatisfactory,” reflecting the
“moderately unsatisfactory” rating for Government performance and the “moderately satisfactory”
rating for implementing agency performance. The former is rated most heavily due to its
importance in impeding achievement of the project’s development objective.

6. Lessons Learned

86.      Lesson 1 – In highly fragmented sectors, the need for a Gradual Process of Change
should be recognized. EDSDP project design was prudently selective and actions appeared
feasible with the supported interventions. But the implementation experience revealed that it was
overly ambitious. The main lesson learned from this is that the paradigm shift from supply-
driven to demand-driven E-TVET program design and delivery involves a longer-term process –
longer than that foreseen by the project. This entails: (i) a gradual buy-in on the part of employers
on the demand side, providers on the supply side, as well as the different government entities; (ii)
a willingness and capacity on the part of employers and training providers to assume a lead role
in revisiting the content of training programs to meet the actual skill needs of employers; and (iii)
building this willingness and capacity, as is the development of awareness on the part of parents,
trainees, and the community that this change provides better preparation for productive and
remunerative employment than the former, familiar programs from the past. A closely related

                                                 23
lesson learnt is the need to adopt a more urgent approach towards concluding a project
restructuring process, which is a shared responsibility between MOL and MOPIC, as well as the
World Bank. EDSDP experience suggests that once the need for project restructuring is identified,
time was of great essence to finalize the scope of such project restructuring, and conclude the
process through the signing and countersigning of the Legal Amendment. 40 Similarly, once a
restructuring process is launched, the World Bank is mandated to effectively respond in a timely
manner to maximize the chances that impact will be realized over the remaining implementation
time.

87.      Lesson 2 – Successful Reform Requires Ongoing Support by Key Advocates. Project
design and supervision attempted to minimize the political risk that was identified at appraisal by
situating the project firmly within the framework of the Government-endorsed National Agenda –
and later the National Employment Strategy -- and by developing institutional capacity and
broader ownership among stakeholders. At appraisal, the Government’s high-profile endorsement
of the National Agenda appeared to offer adequate assurances that the Government would
provide the leadership to achieve the objectives of the project. The Government’s subsequent
endorsement of the National Employment Strategy appeared to confirm that commitment. But
despite its endorsement of these strategies and of the project, the Government did not provide the
leadership necessary in a number of areas (Section 5.2a) to achieve the project’s development
objective. Conceivably, the Bank might have been able to motivate Government action through
higher-level advocacy in the context of its broader country assistance strategy. But apart from
that possibility, the project experience illustrates the irreducible risk -- in this project and all
projects that involve policy reform -- to development outcomes arising from changing policy
priorities under successive governments, and or inability of governments to provide the
leadership to prevail over the vested interests that oppose reform. To the appraisal team’s credit,
the PAD fully acknowledged that risk.

88.      Lesson 3 - Effective participation of all parties is critical in addressing Technical
Assistance design and implementation Risks. As described in the various mission Aide-
Mémoires over the past five years, many of the delays in project implementation resulted from
problems with technical assistance (TA), which contributed to the incomplete achievement of
project targets. Symptoms of the problem include rejected inception reports and the need to rebid
one major TA contract. Problems with technical assistance occur in many projects, but it is rare
for TA problems to affect project activities as consistently as they did for the EDSDP. There are
important lessons to be drawn where the project encountered three kinds of problems with
technical assistance: (i) unrealistic or unclear terms of reference; (ii) lack of optimal
representation or appropriate skills on the part of technical assistance TA evaluation committees,
or to subordination of quality factors to cost factors in evaluation (including English language,
evaluation of technical proposals vis-à-vis TORs); and (iii) insufficient supervision/ contract
management of consultants. As the ICR describes more fully, EDSDP implementation experience
suggests suitable safeguards to prevent a recurrence of these TA implementation problems in
future projects: ensure the effective participation of all relevant stakeholders in all stages starting
from drafting of the terms of reference (TOR) up to implementation of the activity. EDSDP
experience does suggest that better results were achieved in cases where the implementing entity



40
 In case of EDSDP, this process took from September 2011 until the amendment was countersigned by MOPIC in
May 2013; where it was approved by the World Bank Board in March 2013.




                                                   24
and the DCU were more actively involved in the drafting of the TOR, included in the
composition of the technical evaluation committee, and took part in the effective contract
management of the activity. A key lesson is specifically drawn from the rebidding of the VTC
related contract, which is a shared responsibility between MOL and MOPIC, which led to
extensive delays of over a year in finalizing the rebidding package. EDSDP experience suggests
that once a rebidding decision is made, the rebidding process should be launched to avoid double
adverse impact that resulted from the termination of the original contract and the delays in
rebidding. The second contract was only signed in May 2011 while the original contract was
terminated in February 2010. As a related note, while the Bank does clear TORs, the
responsibility of ensuring they are adequate for the implementation context lies with the
implementing entity; including the responsibility to amend the contract and revisit the respective
tasks and deliverable.

89.     Lesson 4 - Meaningful steps can be taken, even in the Absence of a Supportive Legal
Framework. Management attention during early implementation of Component 2 for the
“Restructuring of the VTC” focused on putting in place an improved legal framework (revised
VTC by-laws) for implementation of the new business, governance, and training model, which
the project developed for the Vocational Training Corporation. Although prospects are good for
eventual approval of the new By-Laws for the three models, implementation experience has
shown that it is sometimes possible to launch implementation even in the absence of a supportive
legal framework. An important element of the new VTC business plan is the signing of
production contracts with firms for the delivery of training in the context of specific production
agreements. Cabinet approval of the new By-Laws is required before VTIs are authorized to sign
production contracts. But even in the absence of the new By-Laws, the three pilot VTIs initially
managed to assemble the necessary equipment, materials and instructors to launch the piloting of
new training modules; with required delegations provided by the VTC Director General. The
Mafraq VTI is in the process of signing a Memorandum of Understanding with a local firm that
was involved in development of the program in order to start training program delivery for air-
conditioning.

90.     Lesson 5 – Staff Continuity – and more importantly sustained commitment – Promote
(but does not Ensure) Success. EDSDP supervision benefited from an unusual degree of staff
continuity, with the same core team (albeit three Task Team Leaders), sector manager, and
sustained support from the Country Management Unit from project identification through project
completion. Staff continuity provided a strong consistency of vision and supervision standards
throughout implementation, and contributed to the “moderately satisfactory” rating for Bank
performance. Yet, as it is clearly evident in this project, high quality supervision cannot
compensate for lack of Government commitment and weak ownership. .

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Not applicable.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable.



                                               25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

   (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)




                                                               26
(b) Financing
                                                                                                   Project Financing   Percentage of
                                                                  Actual/Latest
                                            Appraisal Estimate                    Percentage of   under Restructured   Restructured
                 Source of Funds                                    Estimate
                                             (USD millions)                        Appraisal            Project           Project
                                                                 (USD millions)
                                                                                                    (USD millions)
Borrower                                          1.33                0.96           72.1%               1.3              72.1%
International Bank for Reconstruction and                                                                                 53.6%
                                                  7.50                3.37           44.9%              6.29
Development




                                                                 27
       Annex 2. Outputs by Component

       Revised Overall Project Outcome Indicators


 Performance Indicators     Baseline     Target Values Year 5          Results Achieved (Cumulative year 5 )
                                                                    6 OPs were developed and endorsed for:
                                                                         • Metal Fabrication “Welding and
                                                                             Sheet Metal”
Number of employer-
                                                                         • Metal Fabrication “Metal
driven occupational
                                                                             Machining”
profiles (OPs) developed       0                    6
                                                                         • Automobile Repair
and endorsed by the E-
                                                                         • Retail and Sales
TVET Council
                                                                         • Electricity “House Electricity”
                                                                         • Construction and Press Packaging
                                                                             and Printing
                                                                  - Organizational Structure accepted in April
                                                                   2013
                                       - Organizational audit
Organizational audit,                                             - Organizational Audit accepted in May 2013
                                         Accepted
staffing plan and                                                 - Staffing Plan accepted in June 2013
                             None      - Staffing Plan Accepted
organizational structure                                          - VTC revised by-laws (Finance, Supplies, HR,
                                       - Organizational Structure
introduced in VTC                                                  Administrative) accepted by the VTC in June
                                         Endorsed
                                                                   2013 and sent to Cabinet for endorsement in
                                                                   July 2013
Number of employer-
                                                                 - 3 training programs (Carpentry, Air-
driven skills development
                               0                   3              Conditioning, and Metal Fabrication) designed
programs designed and
                                                                  in March 2013
implemented




                                                       28
       Revised Intermediate Outcome Indicators, Component 1

    Performance Indicators      Baseline           Target Values Year 5              Results Achieved (Cumulative year 5)
Development and                               - E-TVET Sector Annual         - PAS revised and approved in February 2013
introduction of a TVET                          Assessment Report            - Data collection tools designed and approved in
Sector Performance                None          generated                      March 2013
Assessment System (PAS)                       - E-TVET Sector Annual            Data collected through March – July 2013
                                                Assessment                   - Second assessment report received in September
                                                Report discussed &             2013
                                                endorsed by the E-TVET
                                                Council
                                              - TVET providers are
                                                generating PAS-based
                                                reports
Increasing public awareness                                                  - Terms of Reference drafted in March 2013.
for E-TVET sector                  3.4                3.4 – 3.6              - The survey will be conducted following
                                                                               implementation of the awareness campaign to
                                                                               measure its effectiveness


       Revised Intermediate Outcome Indicators, Component 2

   Performance Indicators       Baseline           Target Values Year 5           Results Achieved (Cumulative year 5 )
Piloting of employer-driven                   - New Business Model           - Organizational Structure accepted in April
Business, Training and                          Piloted                        2013
Governance Models in three       None         - New Training Model           - Organizational Audit accepted in May 2013
VTC centers                                     Piloted                      - Staffing Plan accepted in June 2013
                                              - New Governance Model         - Trainers’ program conducted in June 2013
                                                Piloted                      - VTC revised by-laws (Finance, Supplies,
                                              - New Organizational             HR, Administrative) accepted by the VTC in
                                                Structure Piloted              June 2013 and sent to Cabinet for
                                                                               endorsement in July 2013
                                                                             - Training Plan accepted in September 2013
                                                                             - Organizational Manuals accepted in
                                                                               September 2013
                                                                             - Training Completion Report and project
                                                                               Completion Report accepted in September
                                                                               2013
Increased enrolment rate at   § Regular       - 2% increase in regular       - 12% increase from baseline in 2012 for
VTC                           courses: 7603    courses                         regular courses
                              § Short-term    - 5% in short-term courses     - 11% decrease from baseline in 2012 for
                              courses: 5194                                    short-term courses
Increased female enrolment    § Regular       - 2% increase in regular       - 36% increase from baseline in 2012 for
rate at VTC                   courses: 1938     courses                        regular courses
                              § Baseline      - 4 % increase in short-term   - 42% decrease from baseline in 2012 for
                              value for         courses                        short-term courses
                              short-term
                              courses: 2031
Completion Rate of VTC            65%                  70%                          Completion rate for 2012 is 73%
graduates




                                                             29
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Not Applicable (see Section 3.3)




                                           30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
          Names                          Title              Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Afifa Alia Achsien        Senior Program Assistant        MNSHD Administrative
Arup Banerji              Sector Director                 HDNSP
                                                                Financial
Robert Bou Jaoude         Program Coordinator             SACPK
                                                                Management
Hyacinth D. Brown         Division Manager                CTRLA Disbursement
                                                                Financial
Diana C. El Masri         Consultant                      MNAFM
                                                                Management
Linda English             Lead HD Specialist              AFTHD
Mourad Ezzine             Education Sector Manager        MNCMI
Lina Fares                Senior Procurement Specialist   MNAPC Procurement
David Freese                                                    Disbursement
                                                                Technical and
Amira Kazem               Senior Operations Officer       MNSHE Operational
                                                                Support
Kirsten Majgaard          Education Economist             AFTEW Economic Analysis
Kenneth Mwenda            Program Manager                 HRDVA Legal
Soren Nellemann           Country Sector Coordinator      ECSH2 TTL
Harry Patrinos            Sector Manager                  HDNED
J. Roger Pearson          Consultant                      MNSHE Technical Expert
Susan R. Razzaz           Senior Country Economist        SASEP
Kanta K. Rigaud           Lead Environment Specialist      CPF Safeguards
Alberto Rodriguez         Sector Manager                  ECSH2
Haneen Ismail Sayed       Lead Operations Officer         MNSSP
Colin S. Scott            Lead Specialist                 OPSOR
                                                                Operational
Eileen Brainne Sullivan   Health Specialist               EASHH
                                                                Support/costing
Alexandria Valerio        Senior Economist                HDNED
Arvil Van Adams           Consultant                            Peer Review
Sophie Warlop             Operations Officer              HDNSP
Ai Chin Wee               Consultant                      CSABI
Supervision/ICR
Afifa Alia Achsien        Senior Program Assistant           MNSHD Administrative
                                                                   Financial
Mona El-Chami             Sr Financial Management Specialist MNAFM
                                                                   Management
Aissatou Dicko            Senior Executive Assistant         MNSHD Administrative
Emma Paulette Etori       Program Assistant                  MNSHE Administrative
Lina Fares                Senior Procurement Specialist      MNAPC Procurement
                                                                   Technical and
Amira Kazem               Senior Operations Officer          MNSHE Operational
                                                                   Support

                                          31
                                                                  Financial
Jad Raji Mazahreh         Sr Financial Management Specialist MNAFM
                                                                  Management
Juan Manuel Moreno        Lead Education Specialist, TTL    MNSHE TTL
Soren Nelleman            Country Sector Coordinator        ECSH2 TTL
J. Roger Pearson          Consultant                        MNSHE Technical Expert
Haneen Ismail Sayed       Lead Operations Officer           MNSSP
Moukim Temourov           Senior HD Economist               MNSHD TTL


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY07                                        16.83                    140 747.96
  FY08                                        22.27                    177 298.90
                          Total:              39.10                    318 046.86
Supervision/ICR
  FY09                                        12.89                     96 325.64
  FY10                                        23.45                     94 885.90
  FY11                                        19.17                     71 453.63
  FY12                                        20.25                     98 230.63
  FY13                                        17.60                     95 241.00
  FY14                                         5.41                     29 688.13
                          Total:              98.77                    485 824.93




                                         32
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Not Applicable




                                      33
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not Applicable




                                        34
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




  THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF
                              JORDAN
      T H E M I N I S T R Y OF L A B O U R



   DEVELOPMENT COORDINATION UNIT (DCU)
     EMPLOYER DRIVEN SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
                          PROJECT (EDSDP)


      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                             JANUARY 2014




                       Prepared By: DCU – EDSDP/ MoL




                                       35
                   SECTION 1: PROJECT BACKGROUND, DEVELOPMENT
                                      OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN


Country Background
In 2008, when the design for the Employer Driven Skills Development Project was initiated it was
based on assessment of country, macroeconomic and sector background. At time, The Hashemite
Kingdom of Jordan has averaged 6% economic growth per year over the past five years. Jordan had
a 40% labor market participation rate, one of the lowest in the region (67% of males and 14% of
females), totaling a labor force of 1.4 million. Government employment marked 30%. Half of the
remaining employment was dominated by micro enterprises (less than 4 persons) mostly in
vocational/technical skills. Unemployment was at 14%, particularly among youth (21.7% among
females and 11% among males). 60,000 citizens are entering the labor market every year, posing
a major challenge for the government and society at large. Unemployment in Jordan is affected
with three main factors: (i) geographic mismatch with most of the unemployed in the rural areas
and most of the new jobs being created in Amman; (ii) skills mismatch arising from the
inadequate and poor quality provision of public training (e.g. Vocational Training Cooperation
VTC) and limited private training; and (iii) market failure and the lack of capacity to match job-
seekers with job opportunities, fueled by the reluctance of applicants to work in less than
satisfactory working conditions (including low salaries).


TVET Sector at time of project design faced the following issues:
Socio-economic Fragility and Social Cohesion: Given the regional tensions, the demographic
composition and youth unemployment, sector policies are conducted on ad hoc basis with a
short-term focus making any consistent reform involving institution building and employer
participation inherently difficult.
Weak Technical and Vocational Education and Training TVET System and Limited Use of Market
Driven Mechanisms: The internal and external efficiency of the current TVET system is very weak.
Weaknesses identified in the current TVET system include:         (i) a governance model that lacks
clarity in terms of mandates, accountabilities, prospects for conflict of interest and not inclusive of
social partners’ views, especially employers; (ii) the consequent absence of mechanisms for
employers to assume a leading role in the articulation of required occupational profiles and
related competencies, or to participate in a meaningful way in the development of training
programs and the measurement of training outcomes; (iii) inadequate facilitation of school-to-
work transition, including career guidance and job placement support; (iv) a need to improve labor
market flexibility; (v) lack of an accreditation and certification body; (vi) lack of qualified training
providers; and (vii) lack of awareness of the concept of life-long learning within a comprehensive
package to upgrade firms’ productivity and alleviate unemployment.
Supply-Driven and Poor Quality of Training Delivery: There are some obvious problems with the
TVET system, a certain level of reading and writing ability and technical skills is mandatory for a
trainee’s success in the labour market.      The employer’s ability to “customize” the employee’s
technical skills to fit that specific work environment is greatly affected by the employee’s level of
literacy.
Absence of Employers’ Participation in Workforce Planning and Development: The absence of
employers in the participation and decision making of most aspects of workforce development is
the current dominating characteristic of the system.


                                                  36
Diverted Training Fund: Another concern is the E-TVET Fund. It was stipulated to work with the
Employment-Technical and Vocational Education and Training E-TVET Council to develop policies,
regulations, budgetary and subsidization decisions, there has been little evidence of interaction or
support from the Council.


Government TVET Strategy
In 2006, the Government of Jordan embarked on a reform of its E-TVET sector in response to the
National Agenda which identified E-TVET as one of the country’s priorities. The Agenda proposed
restructuring of the institutional framework of the E-TVET system including the establishment of
the Higher Council for Human Resource Development HCHRD to ensure efficient and effective
collaboration among the main three public TVET providers (Ministry of Education MoE, Ministry of
Higher Education MoHE and Ministry of Labour MoL/the VTC). An E-TVET Council was established
to guide a holistic approach to the development of the TVET sector with policy directives being
provided primarily by the employer community. In early 2007, nine priority areas were identified
and agreed among stakeholders. They are:
1.      Establish policy making bodies: Strengthen E-TVET Councils;
2.      Stakeholder participation in E-TVET strategy: enhance the participation of relevant
        stakeholders in the planning of employment aspects of the E-TVET strategy;
3.      Capacity building and institutional development: enhance capacity of MoL to promote
        employment;
4.      Strengthen public-private partnerships: develop cooperation between MoL and private
        sector to meet the demand of employment, especially for small and medium enterprises
        (SME);
5.      Improve capacity of training providers: develop the capacity of all public and non-
        governmental E-TVET providers in the field of planning, policy design and decision-
        making;
6.      Enhance information systems: develop and enhance the Human Resources Information
        system and build capacity for its use for policy making;
7.      Review financing of public and private training provision, including E-TVET Fund;
8.      Initiate the development of the design of a Jordan National Qualification Framework; and
9.      Promotion/awareness of TVET Sector.


Rationale For World Bank Assistance
The Bank has extensive experience and a comparative advantage in supporting the Government of
Jordan in transforming its TVET structure into a more demand-driven and functional system,
drawing upon the experiences of relevant operations in other countries worldwide. Their
assistance   aimed   to   contribute   to   developing   the   institutional   capacity   through:   (i)
operationalizing the National Agenda including the empowerment of the E-TVET Council with the
close involvement of the various stakeholders; (ii) transforming supply-driven systems of training
into demand-driven systems; and (iii) creating incentives for the employers to benefit from
market-relevant and higher quality services. The Employer Driven Skills Development Project
EDSDP aimed to contribute to the policy dialogue to improve the E-TVET sector. The project was
designed to run from 2008 – 2013 under the leadership of the MoL as an implementing agency
and managed by the Development Coordination Unit DCU within the Ministry.
EDSDP Original Results Monitoring Framework
Original Project Development Objective PDO


                                                  37
                      PDO/ sub-components                                                Outcome Indicators
PDO is:                                                                  Functional E-TVET system (functional E-TVET
                                                                          Council; functional Secretariat).
Realign    policy     formulation     with   E-TVET   operational        Autonomous VTC (new business and training
mechanisms through the development of employers’                          delivery model, increased percentage of linking
participation    in    (i)   sector    policy   formulation,   (ii)       financial   resources    with    training    centers’
institutional development and reform, and (iii) skill                     fulfillment of performance targets).
development program design and delivery.                                 Improved    VTC’s    internal   efficiency   through
                                                                          increased trainee/instructor ratio (6.4 in 2006 to
                                                                          10 in 2013).
                                                                         Increased number of firms receiving training
                                                                          through E-TVET Fund.


          Beneficiaries
          E-TVET Council and Secretariat, Vocational Training Corporation, E-TVET Fund, TVET Sector
          Stakeholders, Private Sector involved in TVET,TVET Trainees.


          EDSDP Original Components
          Component 1: E-TVET System and Council Development with Employer Participation (total cost
          US$2.49 million).
          1.1 E-TVET Council Orientation and Capacity Development. The objective of this sub-component
          was: (i) to build a common understanding of employment driven TVET systems, structures, and
          operational practices amongst the E-TVET Council members and TVET Stakeholders, and (ii) build
          the capacity of the Secretariat to provide policy options analysis in the TVET sector, and establish
          an agenda and action plan for the work of the Council, based on an analysis of its mandate and
          the surrounding regulatory framework.


          1.2 E-TVET Sector Policy, Planning and Organizational Development with Active Employers
          Participation. The objective of this sub-component was to support the E-TVET Council and the
          Secretariat to: (i) formulate national policy directions for the TVET sector, (ii) establish and
          harmonize explicit policy objectives and accountabilities for the respective public and private
          TVET providers, (iii) initiate the establishment of common performance based planning and
          management procedures amongst public sector TVET providers within MTEF framework, (iv)
          recommend resource allocations for public TVET providers, and (v) progressively build the
          national qualification, certification and accreditation bodies and procedures.


          1.3 E-TVET System Performance Assessment with Involvement of Training Providers and
          Employers. The objective of this sub-component was to build the capacity of the Secretariat as the
          Council’s technical arm to: (i) establish performance indicators for the E-TVET system derived
          from national policy objectives, (ii) design data gathering tools and reporting mechanisms, (iii)
          undertake performance analysis and recommend remedial action, and (iv) ensure feedback into
          the policy assessment cycle.


          1.4 E-TVET Sector Promotion and Awareness among TVET Stakeholders. The objective of this sub-
          component was to engage employers and TVET Stakeholders in enhancing and promoting
          understanding and awareness of occupational opportunities in the TVET sector.


                                                               38
Component 2: Vocational Training Cooperation (VTC) Restructuring (total cost US$7.48 million).
Component 2.1 Establishment of the Mandate, Governance Structure, and Regulatory Framework
for the new Skills Development Agency. The objective of this sub-component was to support the
first phase of the reform program leading to the establishment and the implementation of the
legal framework and governance structure of the new organization.


Component 2.2:     Organizational Restructuring and Staff Development. The objective of this sub-
component is to support the development of an organizational structure, operational capability,
and business plan consistent with the assigned purpose of the new organization.


Component 2.3: Reorientation of the Training Delivery Model to Reflect Employer Defined
Occupational Competencies. The objective of this sub-component was to support the
development and implementation of an employer driven business and training service delivery
model consistent with (i) employer community expectations, (ii) the mandate assigned by the E-
TVET Council, and (iii) the National Qualifications Framework currently under development.


Component 3: Strengthening the E-TVET Fund Development (total cost US$ 0.06 million). The
objective of this component was to support the institutional capacity of the E-TVET Fund in the
fulfillment of its mandate to identify, finance and facilitate the delivery of skill development
initiatives that will enhance the operational efficiency of the productive sector. The E-TVET
Council will provide policy guidance for implementation of the component.


Component 3.1: E-TVET Fund Development: Institutional Development of the E-TVET Fund under
the E-TVET system reform. The objective of this component is to enhance the institutional
capacity of the Fund in fulfillment of its mandate to identify, finance, and facilitate the delivery of
skill development initiatives that will enhance the operational efficiency of the productive sector.
This component was supported by Canadian International Development Agency CIDA through
parallel financing with an amount of US$1.9 million. The following activities were funded:
Awareness and Outreach; Institutional Development of E-TVET Fund; MIS Development;
Monitoring& Evaluation System.


Component 4:      Implementation Support (total cost US$1.06 million). The objective of this
component was to support project implementation arrangements. This component funded key
staff hired for the implementation of the proposed project.         This will, inter alia, include an
Executive Director, Procurement Officer, Financial Management Officer, Monitoring &Evaluation
M&E Officer and VTC Component Coordinator. It also funded activities related to the overall
project implementation including minor goods, materials and operational expenses and services.




                                                  39
            SECTION 2: KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND
                                            OUTCOMES


Assessment of Project Original Design
According to the Project Appraisal Document PAD, the appraisal of the EDSDP was done as a team
work of members from the World Bank, MoPIC, National Center for Human Resource Development
NCHRD, VTC and E-TVET Fund; which mean that all implementing entities were involved in the
design of the project. At time of project appraisal and negotiation during 2007-2008, project
components, sub-components, activities, expected results and time-line had seemed realistic
with highly optimistic assumptions. Through the life of the project, several challenges were faced
which proved that the project assumptions where highly optimistic: lengthy government
procurement procedure required to initiate project activities; the need to go to several layers of
approval to endorse deliverables; obstacles faced to engage more the private sector in the
development process; and the fact that development projects in the public sector usually require a
long period of time to show results (that usually show impact after the project life). Having said
that, raises a question on how adequately all these assumptions were considered when the time-
line for project activities, goals and objectives, risk analysis and expected results were planned.


EDSDP Restructuring
As a result of the Mid-Term Review (MTR) conducted in December 2010, the need to restructure
the EDSDP was raised early 2011. The MTR aimed at: (i) assessing the progress of the project
during the first half of operation, (ii) validating relevance of project objective, (iii) addressing
critical issues and agree on remedial actions if necessary, including possibly restructuring project
components/ activities and (iv) planning the second half of the project life. The MTR indicated that
the project development objective was still relevant, nevertheless; the original design of project
activities was not achievable as well as several of the expected intermediate objectives and
outcomes by component. This raised the necessity for project restructuring to use the remaining
life of the project to focus on implementing realistic activities that were expected to provide
fruitful results, support the achievement of project objectives and reduce the risks the project
could face by removing activities that are neither relevant nor realistic.


In September 2011; restructuring scope was discussed with all related parties including:
implementing entities, World Bank, sector stakeholders and Ministry of Planning and International
Cooperation MoPIC and agreed upon. The restructuring aimed to draw on the following: Project
support to Component 1 (E-TVET System and Council Development with Employer Participation) to
continue and activities under this component to be revised. Support to Component 2
(Restructuring of the Vocational Training Corporation (VTC) to continue as designed. Due to the
symbolic contribution of the EDSDP to Component 3 (Strengthening the E-TVET Fund), the
weakness of the project impact on the challenges this component is facing and other donor’s
interventions in this direction, the need to drop out this component from the project design was
raised. Component 4 (Project Management of the EDSDP) remained as in original design and the
RMF was revised to be more coherent with project activities,more directly linked to the Project's
Development Objective and reflect implementation progress as accurately and as transparently as
possible. Annex 1: Restructuring Document.




                                                  40
        Revising the EDSDP Results Monitoring Framework
        After the restructuring of the EDSDP a revised RMF was adopted effective on 27th of May 2013
        when EDSDP restructuring was finalized. The project PDO was revised and new performance
        indicators were identified in cooperation with all related parties including the E-TVET Secretariat,
        the VTC, the DCU, the World Bank and MoPIC in order to provide accurate and transparent
        measurements of project progress. New baseline values were identified as well as target values.
        The revised RMF was used in reporting for the last two progress reports generated in 2013.


        Revised EDSDP Results Monitoring Framework


Revised PDO
Realign the E-TVET Sector with the National Employment Strategy by enhancing the enabling conditions for
employer participation in (i) TVET institutional development, and (ii) skills development program design and
delivery by the Vocational Training Corporation.
Project Outcome Indicators
Number of employer-driven occupational profiles developed and endorsed by the E-TVET Council
Organizational audit, staffing plan and organizational structure introduced in VTC
Number of employer-driven skills development programs designed and implemented
Component One Indicators
Development and introduction of a TVET Sector Performance Assessment System (PAS)
Increasing public awareness for E-TVET sector
Component Two Indicators
Piloting of employer-driven Business, Training and Governance Models in three VTC centers
Increased enrolment rate at VTC
Increased female enrolment rate at VTC
Completion Rate of VTC graduates


        Revised Financing Agreement


                                                               Project Costs (US$ m)
                 Components                        Original                            Revised
                                          Loan      Gov.       Total      Loan          Gov         Total
        1. E-TVET Council
        Development with Employer                              1.90                                 0.90
        Participation                      1.6      0.3                    0.6          0.3
        2. Restructuring of Vocational
        Training Corporation              5.24      0.9        6.14       5.24          0.9         6.14
        3. Strengthening the Training
        and Employment Fund               0.06       0         0.06         0            0            0
        4. Project Management              0.6      0.1        0.70       0.45          0.1         0.55
                        Total             7.50      1.3        8.8        6.29          1.3         7.59




                                                          41
                          SECTION 3: ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES


Achievement of Project/Program Development Objectives
The EDSDP was one of the main vehicles of the E-TVET reform. Its goals and objectives were
highly relevant for developing the sector and improving its overall performance. However; the
operational and procedural delays the project faced did not allow it to fulfill all these objectives.
The project design was relevant to major policy priorities under Jordan National Agenda and the
National Employment Plan. It was effective in achieving enabling conditions to achieve most of the
targeted outputs and outcomes.


Project Relevance
The Project was highly relevant as it supported the Government‘s major education and economic
sector policy priorities under the National Agenda and the National Employment Strategy. It
focused on the importance of TVET in improving the human resource development as an
instrument of socio-economic development. The Project conformed to World Bank‘s objectives to
reduce poverty and its emphasis on human resource development through skills training and
employment promotion.


Project Effectiveness
The scope and activities of the EDSDP were largely appropriate and its interventions were timely in
addressing the rising demand for skilled workforce and technicians in a rapidly changing labour
market that is in need for TVET skills. The project contributed in developing a number of building
blocks for the E-TVET sector, a decision support system for the E-TVET Sector which enhanced
the E-TVET Council’s ability to issue policy directives and to assess the extent to which the E-
TVET stakeholders' performance is aligned to such policies. The set of guidelines for the creation
of Occupational Profile and the selection of 6 occupation subsectors for which occupational
profiles were developed as well as the identification of 3 economic priority sectors. Moreover, the
assessment of TVET providers’ capacity to respond to the needs triggered by the priority
economic sectors as well as a gap analysis between demand for and supply of TVET services which
help in aligning macro level employment demand projections and occupational profiles to guide
training providers’ planning. The project also contributed in developing a Communication Strategy
driven by the views and perspectives of TVET stakeholders. The Project developed an employer-
driven training model for the Vocational Training Corporation which is characterized by
responsiveness, relevance, cost-effectiveness, efficiency, accountability and sustainability. The
model includes internal quality control procedures integrated with a business model for a
decentralized vocational training delivery system. It was understood from the beginning that this
project‘s goal would be to lay the foundations for this transformation into employer-driven
training delivery, a process which will need more additional time and resources in order to be fully
completed.


Efficiency of the EDSDP
The project’s internal operation was efficient and matching the regulations of both the World Bank
and the Government. The project tried its most capacity to utilize all available resources however,
the several outside challenges and delays the project faced did not allow showing the efficiency of
internal operation. The project issued the requested M&E progress reports according to the
approved RMF. The IFRs were issued on a quarterly basis as well as the VTC Restructuring monthly

                                                 42
progress reports. The procurement procedures were conducted according to the World Bank
guidelines and the government guidelines. Regular meetings with stakeholders were conducted to
discuss views on project, achievements, and challenges. All implementing entities were involved in
reviewing deliverables and providing their acceptance on the final deliverables. In order to ensure
that project deliverables were matching requirements DCU outreached various experiences to add
value to the project's final outputs/outcomes. The auditor issued unqualified “clean” opinion on all
audited financial statements. Most of the major deliverables agreed in the project (before and
after restructuring) were delivered, however not all were endorsed and are currently in use.


Preliminary Assessment of Sustainability
EDSDP deliverables represent a major contribution to the E-TVET reform. Deliverables were
accepted by all implementing entities however full endorsement and implementation of the
deliverables is expected to be witnessed in the near future. This should take into consideration
the availability of needed resources which should be secured by implementing entities and their
commitment to implement these deliverables. Coordination with donors’ intervention is also
important to build on what is available and avoid duplication. Implementing entities are
encouraged to include implementing these deliverables within their action plans.


Deliverables of the EDSDP
Component 1: E-TVET System and Council Development with Employer Participation
1.1: E-TVET Council Orientation and Capacity Development: Deliverables are:
       Stakeholders’    Roles     and   Responsibilities including   that   of   the E-TVET Council
        Secretariat which the only officially endorsed by the E-TVET Council,
       An Action Plan that is endorsed by the E-TVET Council and is being updated by the
        Secretariat, though it does not include either cost estimates or financial resources,
       Capacity Assessment Tool for the stakeholders responsible for the implementation of the
        E- TVET action plan,
       Secretariat’s Training Plan and Development Plan which is being partially adopted,
       A number of capacity building activities targeting the E-TVET Council members and the
        Secretariat,
       E-TVET Council Secretariat Operations Manual,
       A Decision Support System built according to the Sector Performance Assessment System
        developed under sub-component 1.3.


1.2 E-TVET Sector Policy, Planning and Organizational Development with Active Employers
Participation: Deliverables are:
       Identification of three economic priorities sectors and recommendations for further
        development with justifications for the choices and alignment with macroeconomic
        setting and labor demand projections. The three sectors are: (i) Manufacturing, (ii) Whole
        Sale, Retail and Maintenance of Vehicles and (iii) Transportation, Storage and
        Communication. Sectors were endorsed by the E-TVET Council,
       A set of operational guidelines for creation of Occupational Profiles and a selection of six
        occupational subsectors for the three selected sectors. Occupational Profiles are for:
        (Metal Fabrication “Welding and Sheet Metal”, Metal Fabrication “Metal Machining”,
        Automobile Repair, Retail and Sales, Electricity “House Electricity”, Construction and Press
        Packaging and Printing). Occupational Profiles were endorsed by the E-TVET Council are
        were disseminated to TVET training providers through the Center of Accreditation and

                                                  43
        Quality Assurance CAQA,
       An assessment report of the capability of TVET providers to respond to the needs of
        identified economic sectors.
       A final evaluation report of the assignment including Action Plans for each of the three
        sectors for further development. The first report was endorsed by the E-TVET Council.


1.3 E-TVET System Performance Assessment with Involvement of Training Providers and
Employers: Deliverables are:
       Workplan template to plan for sectoral evaluation, endorsed by the E-TVET Council and
        Secretariat,
       Performance Assessment System, endorsed by thee-TVET Council and Secretariat,
       Data collection and analysis tools including: questionnaires, organizing focus groups,
        conducting key informant interviews, endorsed by thee-TVET Council Secretariat,
       Assessment findings’ matrix, and endorsed by thee-TVET Council Secretariat,
       Reporting formats where the first and second assessment reports were generated. The
        first report was endorsed by the E-TVET Council and disseminated to sector stakeholders.
        The second report is still pending finalization to be endorsed by the E-TVET Council for
        dissemination.
       As a result of this assignment a national committee for M&E was established as a
        reference for future sector assessment.


1.4 E-TVET Sector Promotion and Awareness among TVET Stakeholders: Deliverables are:
       Baseline surveys of Knowledge, Attitude and Perception of TVET sector (Quantitative,
        Qualitative and Secondary research studies)
       Shared image among TVET sector stakeholders,
       Communication Strategy,
       Creative Development,
       Implementation plan
       M&E Plan
       Media Plans
       National campaign to introduce TVET sector which included using all media channels and
        social media to implement the campaign on a national scale.


Component 2: Vocational Training Cooperation (VTC) Restructuring (total cost US$7.48 million).
2.1 Restructuring of the VTC: Deliverables are:
New Business, Governance and Training models (Modular Competency Based Education & Training
MCBET),endorsed by the VTC,
Organizational Assessment Report and new Organizational Structure, endorsed by the VTC,
Staffing Plan and Training Plans, endorsed by the VTC,
Organizational Manuals, endorsed by the VTC,
Project Completion Report, endorsed by VTC,
The new models are being piloted in three selected centers: North, Middle and South. It has
started in the North and the MoU was signed meanwhile the Middle and South will be started
during the first quarter of 2014 pending finalizing of the infrastructure preparation.




                                                  44
Component 2.3: Improving the Infrastructure at the VTC.
A local firm was contracted in March 2013 to develop a M&E System for the new structured VTC,
however, the firm was not able to deliver all required deliverables as agreed in the ToR/ contract.
Following the firm’s inability to provide the agreed upon software (Strat and Go) for the system
that was mentioned on their offer, the counterpart team and the DCU agreed that the firm will not
be able to deliver a satisfactory M&E system. Therefore, the contract is the process of termination.




                                                45
                   SECTION 4: ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER
                                          PERFORMANCE


Bank Performance
World Bank performance was generally satisfactory in reference to the several review missions
conducted, mid-term review and restructuring of the EDSDP mission. The Bank closely supervised
and monitored the project and provided guidance through implementation on technical aspects,
on procurement and recruitment of consultants.


During project design, the World Bank consulted with representatives from the government and
local implementing entities that will be directly engaged in implementation to ensure full
understanding and mutual agreement among all related parties.


As per the loan agreement, the World Bank team engaged in the project conducted two
supervision missions every year one in March 41 and one in September. The World Bank team met
during all missions with the DCU team, implementing entities, government officials and donors
who have interventions in the TVET sector. After each mission, an Aid Memoire AM was submitted
from the Bank to all sector stakeholders clearly identifying mission findings. An updated action
plan was also attached to each AM in order to follow up on implementation progress.


The World Bank team was continuously in contact with EDSDP to follow up on progress and
achievement of results. They provided consulting as possible and advised on possible remedial
actions to push implementation forward in certain cases.


Borrower Performance
The Ministry of Labour MoL hosted the EDSDP and was one of the main leaders of the E-TVET
reform. As per the loan agreement, a project management unit – the Development Coordination
Unit DCU - was established at the Ministry to follow up on implementation. The unit was also
expected to be responsible to coordinate donor’s interventions in the E-TVET sector.


The DCU was responsible to coordinate and support the implementation of project activities and
the roles and responsibilities of all partners and implementing entities to ensure effective and
efficient implementation of project activities. Despite that the DCU’s role was not fully understood
by MoL and sector stakeholders, it was        generally accepted. The DCU was able to manage the
EDSDP to the best of its capacity to ensure achievement of expected results; however, its role in
terms of donors’ coordination was not fully obtained. The DCU needed more support and
empowerment from the MoL and MoPIC to perform its roles and responsibilities effectively and
efficiently. The DCU’s role would have been strengthened if it had enough power to force effective
and efficient review/approval of deliverables to save the long time the review process used to take
and the several layers of approvals the process was going through.




 Except for the first and last years of the project three missions were conducted. Also in 2012, the March
41


mission took place in May 2012.


                                                   46
Partner entities such as the VTC were heavily engaged in the implementation of EDSDP activities
while the E-TVET Council and Secretariat were expected to show more involvement and
cooperation, this was due to the lack of staff members.




                                               47
                               SECTION 5: LESSONS LEARNED


During the life of the project, several challenges were faced and resulted in lessons learned. Those
lessons were taken into consideration during the EDSDP implementation and would be useful for
future project planning as well. The following represents a selection of the most important lessons
learned:

A clear ToR should be developed and discussed with all related stakeholders and agreed upon: a
number of meetings should be conducted with the awarded firm / consultant and the
implementing entity to discuss the TOR thoroughly and to agree upon the objectives, activities
and deliverables. These meetings should be documented and a succinct minutes of negotiation
should be developed and signed by all partners. Any changes during implementation of any
assignment should be reflected in the TOR, the contract and the project time frame.


Dealing with retendering an activity: retendering an activity requires a long procedure and
consumes time. The time consumed in implementing this activity should be discussed and
compensated in the time frame of the project once it is raised. The retendered activity should be
retained with the same time frame and content without losing its outcomes as a result of
retendering.


Change requires Time and Funds: restructuring institutions/corporations needs more time for
implementation and adoption of the new concepts. Funds should be allocated and post action
plan should be designed to ensure sustainability.


M&E Reporting: The quarterly progress reports should be issued solely by the project without any
intervention from the implementing entities to ensure its objectivity and credibility.


Secure of Government Budget Allocation: the necessity of increasing the capital allocations for the
Ministry when implementing a World Bank loan projects especially during the last years of the
project.


Provide training on World Bank Procurement and disbursement guidelines at the beginning of the
project to the MOL financial department and deputies of the Audit Bureau and the Ministry of
Finance at MOL as well as the Special Tendering Committee.




                                                 48
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable.




                                         49
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


   1. European Training Foundation, Technical and Vocational Education in Jordan: Areas for
       Development Cooperation, Turin, 2006.
   2. International Bank For Reconstruction And Development and International Finance
       Corporation, Country Assistance Strategy for The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan for the
       Period FY 2006-FY 2010, World Bank Report No. 35665-JO, April 6, 2006.
   3. Japanese PHRD Grant funded reports (2007 - preparation stage)
   4. Jordan Country Assistance Strategy
   5. Loan Agreement (2008)
   6. Ministry of Labour, VTC Employer Satisfaction, February, 2010 and
   7. Ministry of Labour, E-TVET Awareness Raising Campaign, Knowledge, Attitudes &
       Perceptions, Quantitative Research Study - Baseline Survey July 2010.
   8. National Agenda Steering Committee, 2006-2015 National Agenda: The Jordan We
       Strive For, 2006.National Employment Strategy (2011).
   9. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of US$7.5 Million to the
       Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan for an Employer Driven Skills Development Project,
       World Bank Report No. 41218-JO, May 2, 2008.
   10. Project Aide Memoires
   11. Project ISRs
   12. Loan Amendment (2013)
   13. QER - November 6, 2007 memorandum from QER panel to the task team leader,
       “Quality Enhancement Review Panel Report, Jordan Employer Driven Skills
       Development Project, P100534”
   14. Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Jordan Employer Driven
       Skills Development Project, Approved on June, 2008 to the Hashemite Kingdom of
       Jordan, World Bank Report No. RES9540, January 30, 2013.
   15. World Bank, Resolving Jordan’s Labor Market Paradox of Concurrent Economic Growth
       and High Unemployment, Report No. 39201-JO, March 31, 2007.




                                           50
                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33424
               35°E                                                 36°E                                  37°E                                           38°E                                39°E
  34°N                                                                                                                                                                                                         34°N




                      n
            Se anea
                r
              a
             er
       dit




                                                                                                       JORDAN
 Me




  33°N                                                                                                                                                                                                         33°N
                                       To                                     To
                                      Zefat                                 Damascus
                                    Lake                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                 Tiberias                                                                                                                                                                Baghdad

                                                       Um Qais
                                                           Irbid

                                                    IRBID
                                                    IRBI D                                                                                                        Ar Ruwayshid
                         AJLUN
                                                           Ajlun                 Al Mafrak
                                           River




                    JARASH                                         Jarash                                                                      MAFRAK
                                           n




                                                   Arda                                                            Mahattat al Halif
                                       Jorda




                                                   BALQA                    Az
  32°N
                                              As Salt                                                                                                                                                          32°N
                                                                            Zarka
                                                                    AMMAN                    ZARKA
                                                                                                       Azraq ash
                                                                                                         - -
                                                                                                       Shishan
                                               Madaba
                       To
                   Jerusalem
                                           MADABA                           AMMAN
                                                   Dead
                                                   Sea
                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                     Al Jawf
                                           Al Mazra’ah

                                                                              -
                                                                       Al Qatranah
          To                           Al Karak
       Beersheba
                                              KARAK
                                               --
                                           As Safi
  31°N                                                                                                                                                                                                         31°N
                                                                                                       Ard
                                           TAFILAH                                                               as
                                  At Tafilah                                                                           Sa
                                                                                                                              w
                                     -
                                         Al
                                 Rashadiyah
                                                                                                -
                                                                                               Ba’ir                              aa
                                                                                                                                         n
                               Ash Shawbak
                                                                                          MA'AN
                                    Petra
                                                                      Al Jafr
                                                                                                                                                                     0       0         50 Kilometers
                                                          Ma'an

                                                                                                                                                                     0            25                50 Miles
  30°N                                     Ra’s an Naqb                                                                                                                                                        30°N
                                                                                                                                                           38°E                                  39°E

                      AQABA
                                 Ad Disi

  To
Nuweiba
                                                                                                                                                                         JO R D A N
                               Jabal Ram
               Aqaba           (1,734 m)                                                                                                                                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
      aba




                                                                                                                                                                         GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
                                                   Al Mudawwarah
 of Aq




                                                                                                                        This map was produced by                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
                To                                                                                                      the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                        World Bank. The boundaries,
               Al B'ir                                                                                                                                                   RIVERS
Gulf




                                                                                                                        colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                        any other information shown
  29°N                                                                                                                  on this map do not imply, on                     MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                        the part of The World Bank
                                                                                 To                                     Group, any judgment on the                       RAILROADS
                                                                                Al B'ir                                 legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                        or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                        acceptance of such
                                                                                                                                                                         GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                        boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
            35°E                                                   36°E                                   37°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                        JANUARY 2005
