Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14977-RU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
CONMUNITY SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
APRIL 2, 1996
buman Resources Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of March 6, 1996)
C'urrency Unit     =            Ruble
Rb I million                    US$207.4
US$1               =            Rb 4824
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AGETIP                - Agence d'Execution de Travaux d'Infrastructure Publiques
BSEP                  -  Black Sea Environmental Program
CAS                   - Country Assistance Strategy
CIS                   -  Commonwealth of Independent States
CPAR                  - Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPIU                  - Central Project Implementation Unit
CPPR                  - Country Portfolio Performance Review
DRD                   -  Decentralization and Regional Development Loan (Mexico)
GDP                   - Gross Domestic Product
GNP                   -  Gross National Product
GPN                   - General Procurement Notice
IBRD                  -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                   -  International Competitive Bidding
IMF                   -  International Monetary Fund
MINNAT                -  Ministry of Nationalities and Federal Affairs
MIS                   -  Management Information System
MOE                   -  Ministry of Education
MOF                   -  Ministry of Finance
MOH                   -  Ministry of Health
NAB                   - Novosibirsk Advisory Board
NBF                   -  Parts of the Project with no financing from the World Bank
NCB                   -  National Competitive Bidding
NPV                   -  Net Present Value
NS                    -  National Shopping
Oblast                -  Region
OECD                  - Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PB                    -  Project Bureau
PCU                   -  Project Coordination Unit
PlJ                   -  Project Implementation Unit
PPF                   -  Project Preparation Facility
Raion                 - Sub-division of a region
Rb                    -  Ruble
SA                    -  Special Account
SEDESOL               -  Mexico National Solidarity Program
SOE                   - Statement of Expenditure
TCHIF                 - Territorial Compulsory Health Insurance Fund
TOR                   - Terms of Reference
VAT                   -  Value Added Tax
Vodokanal             -  Water Company
WBF                   -  Parts of the Project with financing from the World Bank
RUSSIAN FEDERATION-FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



STAF F APPRAISAL REPORT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
COMMUNITY SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. INTRODUCTION    .......                      .........................................    I
A.   Economic and Sectoral Background    ...............................    I
The Soviet Legacy   ........................................    2
Sectoral Situation in Novosibirsk and Rostov Oblasts ...................   4
B.   The Government's Reform  Strategy ................................   6
Economic and Budgetary Reforms   ..............................   6
Sectoral Reforms   .........................................    7
C.  The Bank's Assistance Strategy   ..................................   8
HI. LESSONS FROM  EXPERIENCE   ................                                    .....................    10
A.   Lessons from  other projects in Russia  .............................    10
B.   Lessons from  Other Countries  ..................................    11
III.  THE  PROJECT   ............................................. ...                                                           13
A.  Project Evolution                            ..........................................    13
B.  Government Commitment and Beneficiary Participation  ...................                                           13
C.  Project Objectives  ....................................... ...                                                    14
D. Project Description ................                                ................  15
1.  Education Component ...................................    16
2.  Health Component    ....................................    19
3.  Water Supply and  Sanitation Component .......................    25
4.  Budget and Expenditure Management Component   .................   29
5.  Monitoring and Evaluation Component  .......                          .................                 31
6.  Preparation of Future Projects  ..............................    32
IV. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION  ...... ..                                                       ...........  33
A.  Project Administration at the Federal Level  ..........................    33
B.  Project Administration at the Oblast Level ...........................    34
'Ihe report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in lune-July 1995. Tbe team comprised: Timothy King (task manager and
mission leader), David 0. Davies (education), Howard Carter (water and sanitation), Dov Chernichovsky, Elena Potapchik (health),
Mahesh Reddy (finance), Hugues Casting (contract management), Maria Van Beek (procurement), Ezedine Hadj-Mabrouk (enviromnent
specialist), Joele La Vourch (disbursement and accounting), Eugene Finkel (participation specialist), Joy de Beyer (operational manual),
Maria Gracheva (operations assistant), and John Pickard (Project Coordinator, Moscow). loe Scearce (implementation and procurement)
also contributed to the Report. Peer reviewers are: William Dillinger (LAIEU), M. Louise Fox (EC4HR), Christine Kessides
(TWUDR), and Leslie Pean (AF51N). Staff assistance was provided by Arlene Pastor. Robert Liebenthal and Yukon Huang are the
managing Division Chief and Department Director, reapectively, for the operation.



V.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT  .......  39
A. Project Costs .     .............................................  39
B. Project Financing  ..........................................  41
C. Procurement ..............................................  43
D. Disbursement .      .............................................  49
E. Reporting  ...............................................  51
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ...............................  53
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...................  59
ANNEXES
1.1    Economic Situation in Novosibirsk and Rostov Oblasts
1.2   The Structure and Capacity of Construction Enterprises in Novosibirsk and Rostov
1.3   Fiscal and Budgetary Systems in Novosibirsk and Rostov Oblasts
3.1   Selection Criteria and Model Appraisal for Education Subprojects
3.2    Education Facilities Management and Supporting Management Information
System (Novosibirsk Municipality)
3.3   Selection Criteria and Model Appraisal for Health Subprojects
3.4   Proposed Pilot Reforms in Health Financing
3.5   Selection Criteria and Model Appraisal for Water Supply and Sanitation Subprojects
3.6   Budget and Expenditure Management Component:
Consultant Terms of Reference and Hardware Specifications
3.7   Performance Monitoring Indicators
4.1   Project Implementation Schedule
4.2   Project Supervision Plan
5.1    Project Cost Estimates
5.2   Flow of Funds for Implementation of the Project
5.3    Detailed Procurement Arrangements
5.4    Technical Assistance and Training: Terms of Reference
6.1   Institutional Strengthening Program: Environmental Issues
7.1   Selected Documents Available in the Project File (to be prepared)
MAPS         Russian Federation    IBRD No. 27262
Novosibirsk Oblast   IBRD No. 27263
Rostov Oblast       IBRD No. 27264
PROJECT ID Number: RUPA35761



TABLES IN TEXT
3.1     Education Component: Schedule of Proposed Program of Disbursements
(Identified Subprojects) ...............   17
3.2     Health Component: Schedule of Proposed Program  of Disbursements
(Identified Subprojects) ........................  22
3.3     Water Supply and Sanitation Component: Schedule of Proposed Program of Disbursements
(Identified Subprojects) ..........................................   26
5.1     Components Project Cost Summary ..................................   39
5.2     Summary of Project Cost by Expenditure Category ........................   40
5.3     Financing Plan                .......................................    42
5.4     Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements ........................    44
5.5     Summary of Estimated Disbursements of IBRD Loan .......................   50
5.6     Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements .............................   50



I



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
COMMUNIfY SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Russian Federation
Benericiaries:         Ministry of Nationalities and Federal Affairs, Novosibirsk and Rostov Oblast
Administrations, and suboblast administrations in these oblasts.
Amount:                US$200 million
Terns:                 Payable in seventeen years, including five years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate for LIBOR-based dollar single-currency loans.
On-lending terns:      The two participating oblasts would receive $194 million, half on a grant basis
and half as a loan at a variable rate of interest of up to 2.5 percent above the
World Bank's lending rate, payable in twelve years, including three years of
grace. Repayment obligations of raions and other local beneficiaries will be
determined by their revenue capacities, but should not be smaller than 10%
of their share of the loan.
Project Objectives:    This is intended as a replicable demonstration project, designed to: (i) reduce
the present deterioration of education, health, and water supply and sanitation
facilities in Novosibirsk and Rostov oblasts; (ii) improve the efficiency of
managing public resources; (iii) foster private sector development;  (iv)
promote broad participation, including non-governmental participation, in
decision-making; and (v) monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of new
financial, procurement and participatory practices and disseminate the reults
in order to improve such practices elsewhere in the Russian Federation.
Project Description:    The proposed Loan would finance small-scale investments in selected types of
education, health and water supply and sanitation infrastructure and would
introduce new mechanisms for appraising and implementing such subprojects.
(i) The Education Component would finance the rehabilitation of schools
providing general education (including an expansion of capacity in a small
number of schools, and two to three new schools).  (ii) The Health
Component would include the rehabilitation and upgrading of the core
functions of selected municipal and emergency hospitals and polyclinics. (iii)
The Water Supply and Sanitation Component would include small-scale
investments to rehabilitate and upgrade existing water and wastewater
infrastructure. Each sectoral component would include consulting services and
training to strengthen local subproject design and implementation capacity and
financial, managerial and environmental practices. (iv) A Budgetary and
Expenditure Management component would provide consulting assistance to
the administrations to reform budgetary processes and control expenditures.
(v) A Monitoring and Evaluation Component would focus on the lessons for
project replication, and assistance would be provided to prepare future
projects.



- ii -
Benefits:               The project would meet an urgent need by preserving and improving essential
community services that are fundamental to social well-being. It would also
demonstrate important improvements in the efficiency of use of public
resources, through innovations in: (i) the process of determining expenditure
priorities and project selection at a local level; and (ii) improvements to the
quality of social infrastructure, through design improvements and greater
attention to construction quality. Approved subprojects would meet a set of
selection criteria, would be cost-effective, and where appropriate would show
positive present values at a 15% rate of discount. The project would also
foster private sector development by encouraging the break-up and
privatization of existing architectural and engineering design institutes and
introducing competitive bidding procedures to private construction companies.
The project would promote broad participation, including non-governmental
participation, in decision-making, which should itself contribute to
improvements in design and construction quality of social facilities, and
improved maintenance procedures. More generally, it should contribute to a
sense of local ownership of, and responsibility for, social infrastructure, and
contribute to the Russian Government's policy of decentralization.
Risks:                  The complexity inherent in a multi-sectoral project in two oblasts could
impede implementation. To reduce this risk, the project has sharply limited
the range of eligible subprojects within each sector. The introduction of new
methods of subproject selection and implementation is being done in a phased
manner, beginning with a strategy of "preparation by doing" which has
involved extensive training in issues of subproject selection, appraisal and
design of model subprojects, and procurement processes. An alternative risk
is that in the interests of rapid implementation, the longer term benefits of the
project in changing the way subnational administrations do business would be
neglected. To reduce this risk, a strong emphasis would be placed on local
ownership and participation, and the use of the established administrative
structures at oblast level to the extent possible. A Mid-Term Project Review
would focus on ways to ensure that the proven methods of implementation and
other lessons from the project are gradually transferred into the regular
programs of the oblast. Similarly there may be a reversion to construction
methods that speed up subproject completion at the expense of construction
quality, higher maintenance costs, and shorter life of the facility. To reduce
this risk, there will be extensive training of architects, engineers, site
supervisors and clients, and regular supervision by consultants until a new
implementation culture takes hold.
Poverty Category:       Although the project is not part of the Program of Targeted Interventions,
because its benefits are spread broadly among the population as a whole,
preservation of universal access to basic social services is an essential element
in any safety net. In Russia, this is particularly important because there is
virtually no private provision of health or basic education services outside
major metropolitan areas, both as a consequence of Soviet policy, and because
the vast majority of the population have suffered a severe decline in living
standards, and could not afford private social services.



- iii 
Environmental
Aspects:                    This project has an environmental rating of "B".  Environmental aspects
related to the rehabilitation of hospitals and schools are limited to the use of
non-hazardous materials and proper management of medical waste and other
solid waste. Subprojects of the water and sanitation component as well as
construction of new schools and extensions and medical facilities would
require appropriate environmental analysis. The project would have a positive
envirommental impact as it would: (i) improve overall hospital and school
conditions and waste management in these facilities; (ii) facilitate access to
water supply and sanitation; (iii) reduce environmental damage to underground
water supplies; (iv) augment wastewater treatment capacity and improve the
standards of treatment and quality of water delivered to the supply networks;
and (v) limit losses of treated water from leakage and pipe failures. The
project includes an environmental institutional strengthening program which
consists of three subcomponents: institutional support, training and
environmental studies. Some of the training activities took place during
project preparation, partially financed by the Black Sea Environmental
Program (BSEP). Support from this source is expected to continue, and
additional grant financing is being sought.
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS:
_________ fin US$ '000)                                 % Total
.__________ -                             Foreign       Base
Components                  Local          Foreign         Total      Exchange    Costs
1. Education - Rostov                        36,667.0        3,799.0      40,466.0       9            15
2. Education - Novosibirsk                   33,787.9        4,230.0      38,017.9       11           14
3. Health - Rostov                           28,519.7       20,773.4      49,293.2       42           19
4. Health - Novosibirsk                      32,850.6       24,565.5      57,416.1       43           22
5. Water and Sanitation - Rostov             23,662.6        7,085.7      30,748.3       23           12
6. Water and Sanitation - Novosibirsk        21,717.1        6,613.2      28,330.3       23           11
7. Expenditure Management - Rostov              597.0        1,227.0      1,824.0        67           1
8. Expenditure Management - Novosibirsk         597.0        1,227.0       1,824.0       67           1
9. Project Implementation Unit - Moscow       4,664.4        1,780.0      6,444.4        28           2
10. Project Bureau - Rostov                   4,428.2        1,041.0      5,469.2        19           2
11. Project Bureau - Novosibirsk             4,495.6         1,041.0      5,536.6        19           2
TOTAL BASE COSTS (WBF & NBF)                 191,987.2      73,332.8     265,370.0       28          100
Physical Contingencies                        9,348.5        5,418.1      14,766.5       37           6
Price Contingencies                                          8,001.6      8,001.6       100           3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS 1/                       201,335.6      86,802.4     288,138.1       30          109
1/ Price cotingeccies are based on rtandard inflation estimates and physical contingencies are 5% for consultant servicer, training and equipment, and 15 %
for civil worka. Cout include US$40.69 million equivalent in duties and taxes.



- Iv -
PROJ3CT FINANCNG PLAN:
Local          ForqBn            Total
i(n USS million)
WBF
IBRD (90% of WBF-net of duties and taxes)       113.19            86.81          200.00
Government
Cash Contnbution (10%)                      24.21                            24.21
Duties and Taxes                            40.69                            40.69
Sub-total Government                        64.90                            64.90
TOTAL WBF                                      178.09             86.81          264.90
NBF
Government (in-kind):                           23.24                             23.24
TOTAL PROJECT (WBF+ NBIF)                      201.33             86.81          288.14
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Bank
Fiscal Year               FY97        FY98      FY99    FY00        FY01    FY02    FY03
Annual                     7.0        22.5       47.0     49.0      35.5      29.5      9.5
Cumulative                 7.0        29.5      76.5    125.5       161.0     190.5   200.0



I. INTRODUCTION
A. Econoniic and Sectoral Background
1.1            Decentralization is the cornerstone of Russian economic and political reform. This has
been particularly rapid and dramatic in the social sectors, where, since 1992, subnational authorities have
had increasing financial responsibility, and considerable freedom of policy action, for most education and
health activities.'' The importance of municipal budgets in the provision of social services is growing.
In 1992, the Federal budget share in the total social expenditure (without housing subsidies) was 32%;
in 1993 and 1994, it declined to 18%. Meanwhile the share of enterprise-financed services (including
housing and social services) has been decreasing as enterprises have been struggling to survive during
a period of severe economic decline, and as privatization encourages and sometimes forces the transfer
of their social assets and the costs of their maintenance to municipality budgets. In the past, enterprises
often provided maintenance services to an adopted school or public building, even where they had no
ownership or formal responsibility to do so. Such help is less and less available.
1.2             The fiscal position of subnational authorities varies considerably, and although a
reallocative mechanism intended to reduce these disparities improved in transparency and automaticity
during 1994, the capacity to cope with increased expenditure responsibilities remains very unequal.
Difficulties have been compounded by a fall in tax revenues. Tax contributions by enterprises have in
many cases dropped substantially, as large enterprises have encountered serious financial difficulties and
mechanisms for taxing a growing private sector remain weak. For many subnational administrations, the
fiscal situation is extremely grave.
1.3             Although budgetary reform  was intended to eliminate the automatic norm-based
budgeting of the Soviet period, many authorities find it difficult to exercise any budgetary discretion.
Salary scales for workers paid from the budget are established in Moscow, and other recurrent
expenditures are likely to follow established norms-for example, a norm for class size and teaching hours
may determine school staffing ratios, and the number of hospital beds for a particular sort of treatment
may determine a norm for expenditures on pharmaceuticals and patient food. In these circumstances, a
municipal government facing a fiscal crisis is apt to defer most maintenance and capital repairs. Of the
very limited resources available for investment, most are going to housing and public utilities, with little
remaining for social infrastructure and services. For example, in the city of Novosibirsk in July 1994,
only about 20% of the minimum requirements for the regular winterization program of schools was met.
In many of the local jurisdictions., no resources have been allocated to the maintenance of facilities in the
last three years.
1.4            This proposed demonstration project would focus on the rehabilitation of infrastructure
to provide basic health, education, and water supply and sanitation services. These sectors were selected
because of their importance to household welfare and the immense need for additional investment. The
need to continue to supply such services is unchallenged, although new financial mechanisms to be
' In this Report, the term "oblasts' is used to refer to the first level down of sub-national governments--i.e. to
the 'subjects of the Federation"--and "raions" to refer to the second level--i.e. municipal governments and
rural raions.



2                                                                                    CHAPTER 1
developed in this project can increase efficiency. Moreover, rehabilitation can often be justified from
the potential savings in recurrent costs alone.
The Soviet Legacy
1.5             Lack of maintenance is only partly responsible for the very poor state of social
infrastructure. The root causes lie in a Soviet system that underinvested in education and health facilities
and housing, regarding such investment as "unproductive" compared with investment to produce
commodities, misallocated the investment that did take place, and vastly overcentralized processes of
decision-making, design and implementation, ignoring local circumstances and distorting individual
incentives.
1.6             Underinvestment in educational facilities can be seen in the fact that multiple shift
schools are common throughout the country, and the share of children assigned to the second or third
shift has been growing steadily over the 1980s and 1990s. In the 1992/1993 academic year, 24% of
pupils attended second and third shifts, ranging from 10% in Komi-Permyatsky Autonomous Okrug to
38% in Chechen and Ingush republics. The most advanced area was the North-West with an average
coefficient of 15%; the city of St. Petersburg had only 12% of students attending the second shift. In
general, the European part of Russia tends to be better placed than average, and Siberia, the Caucasus
and especially the Far East, worse than average. Although there may be efficiency reasons in favor of
a two-shift system (in terms of space and premises utilization), the pressure on facilities is great, the
length of the school day is short, and the quality of education can suffer; and the third shift is clearly
undesirable. In addition, there has been marginal investment in basic maintenance of existing facilities.
Schools are often very poorly equipped in terms of basic sanitary facilities. This has led to facility
closing and placed additional pressure on the education system.
1.7             Some health facilities were originally designed for other uses. Another manifestation
of underinvestment in, and misallocation among, health facilities is the fact that some of the world's
highest ratios of doctors and hospital beds per head of population are found in under-equipped and often
unsanitary facilities. A 1988 government survey of the condition of health facilities found that 20 percent
of Russian hospitals lacked piped hot water, three percent lacked piped cold water, and 17 percent lacked
appropriate sanitation facilities. The survey also found that among hospitals and polyclinics, one in seven
buildings needed basic renovation. A 1988 inventory of facilities found substantial underinvestment in
maintenance of polyclinics and hospitals, with 19 percent of polyclinics and 23 percent of hospitals rated
as either "disastrous" or as "requiring reconstruction" 2-' Poor facilities, together with outdated technology
and medical approaches, may have contributed to the stagnation in Russian life expectancies in the 1970s
and 1980s, in contrast to sustained improvement in OECD countries.
1.8             A well developed infrastructure of water supply and distribution and wastewater
collection and treatment appears to exist only within urban centers. Wastewater facilities in rural areas
generally rely on individual septic tanks, with municipalities' providing an emptying service. Much of
the infrastructure was developed in the early 1960s and some school buildings and polyclinic (and their
plumbing) date back to the early 1900s. Owing to a combination of poor quality construction materials
and standards and subsequent lack of maintenance, much of the infrastructure is in a very deteriorated
v Chernichovsky, D., Potapchik, E., Barnum, H., and Tulchinsky, T. Russia: Health Sector Reform. World
Bank. Mimeo. 1994, p. 18.



CHAPTER 1                                                                                    3
condition. For example, most pipelines for water and wastewater are of unprotected steel construction.
As a result of corrosion there are now high leakage losses from water mains (believed to be in excess of
30% of water supply) and high levels of infiltration of ground water into water mains and sewers. Little
attention has been paid to standards of quality in plumbing and sanitary installations in building
developments with the result that water wastage within properties is excessive.
1.9             Over-centralization has had many adverse consequences. For example, the design of
facilities has generally been standardized, and local design institutes have normally only adapted central
designs to local conditions. The extent of local adaptation has varied considerably, depending on the
climate, soil conditions, and the local availability of building materials. Appropriate adaption was not,
however, always possible --for example, the introduction of quantity-oriented prefabrication in the 1960's
led to very simplified designs for schools, which could not easily be adapted to site conditions or to the
individual wishes of the clients. More cost-effective and efficient designs should be developed.
1.10            Architects and engineers have worked in isolation from technological improvements
elsewhere--for example, the design of hospitals has continued to incorporate inappropriate facilities which
reduce cost-effectiveness and even success of treatment. Designers and builders have paid little attention
to existing Government building standards, without fear of adverse professional consequences or financial
retribution. The inefficiency of the water supply system is largely due to technical faults. Water losses
are excessively high and although water consumption varies widely, it is generally far above levels
commonly found in Western Europe and North America. Distribution systems generally rely only on
pumps to control the pressure, which results in high energy costs (over two-thirds of the operating costs
in some cases) and frequent pressure fluctuations and network disruptions and breaks. Such designs
therefore lead to very high general operating costs and prevent municipal water authorities from
controlling or cutting costs, or improving the condition of the water system. In wastewater treatment,
many costly investments have been made in projects that have proved to be inoperable. This applies
particularly in the field of sludge treatment and disposal, where the technology used is significantly below
international standards.
1.11            Distorted incentives created many problems. Building programs were inefficient -- too
many projects were started, and relatively few were completed, at least in the past decade; it may have
been felt by their initiators that the more construction that was started, the larger would be the subsequent
construction budget. It is not unusual for construction of schools and water supply treatment works and
pipelines, and sewer networks and wastewater treatment plants to take up to 12 years to complete. In
some cases, steel pipelines failed through corrosion before other construction on the project was
completed.
1.12           There has been little attempt at a careful analysis of priorities and needs, resulting in
an imbalance between new investment and maintenance. Maintenance and repair of the existing water
and wastewater infrastructure have been significantly less than required for efficient operations.
Investments have been largely directed towards the construction of new capital works to meet inordinately
excessive per capita norms for drinking water supply and wastewater treatment. (A water consumption
figure of 360 liters per person per day is considered the norm, compared with about 200 liters in Western
Europe.) Moreover responsibility for public investments in the social sectors was previously carried out
by the relevant central branch ministries (e.g., Ministry of Health or Ministry of Education) whereas
responsibility for maintenance expenditure was vested in local budgets.0 Decisions about new investment
did not consider sustainability, and there was little incentive to maintain the facilities properly since their



4                                                                                  CHAPTER 1
replacement would be financed by another budget. As a result, maintenance has been neglected and
repairs made only on an ad hoc basis when something has gone seriously wrong, with the result that
buildings have progressively deteriorated.
1.13            Little attention has been given to cost-effectiveness in design, especially given the
distortions in prices compared with international ones, which kept the price of energy low. Insulation
of buildings and pipes is lacking, resulting in three times the input of energy compared with normal
international standards3'. Designs of many schools have an excessive proportion of corridor space to
teaching space, and are poorly adjusted to needs; classrooms frequently have the same design and
equipment for all grades. In health, the use of hospital beds as the primary budgetary norm led to an
overemphasis on bed capacity and lack of attention to other medical requirements. The ultimate users
of facilities have played no part in the design process.
1.14            The inadequate state of existing infrastructure owes even more to the low quality of
construction than of design. Such things as material for sealing the junction between window frames and
walls, or seasoned timber for roof trusses, might be specified by the architect, but not readily available
to the contractor. As a result the windows leak and roof trusses warp, and buildings are uncomfortable
and waste energy.  In general, the quality of construction deteriorated after the introduction of
prefabrication in the 1960s; as a result, older buildings are often in better condition than comparatively
new ones. In addition, on-site supervision was lax: nobody involved in a civil works project had any
incentive to reject construction work because of its low quality and the city building inspectors still lack
power to reject poor workmanship or materials. By the time a Department of Education took possession
of a new school, it might be too late to do anything to correct its faults. The problem was a systemic
one, rather than a lack of construction skills; well constructed buildings can be found, reflecting either
the political clout of the original user, or an unusually tough and energetic construction supervisor.
Sectornd Situation in Novosibirsk and Rostov Oblasts'-
1.15           The oblasts of Rostov and Novosibirsk have been selected for the Project as being both
different from each other in economic structure and geography, but also representative of a large number
of oblasts. The sectoral situation in both oblasts does not differ significantly from the national picture.
1.16           In education, insufficient funds have been allocated to carry out even minimal
maintenance and rehabilitation. In Novosibirsk Oblast, while the school population has remained
relatively constant, the number of school places is actually declining due to a decreased number of
classrooms available for instruction. Rostov Oblast has been able to finance school rehabilitation at a
level that is only marginally better than Novosibirsk and substantial rehabilitation work is required there
as well. In addition, substantial new construction is required due to lack of investnent in new schools
during the past decade and in order to meet the needs of growing school age populations in the suburbs
of major municipalities.  The settlement of new migrants in the suburbs has resulted in severe
overcrowding in surrounding catchment areas -- double shifting of schools is the rule and triple shifting
is common. Oblast and municipal levels of government do not have adequate capacities for school facility
3' Defining a New Investment Policy in Russia, Report No. 13438-RU, August 1994, Annex 5, p. 14.
1' Annex 1.1 describes the economic situation in the two project oblasts.



CHAPTER 1                                                                                    5
planning consistent with their new responsibilities in this area. School facilities planning has only
recently devolved from the Federal level of government.
1.17           In health, in 1988, 22 percent of the hospitals in Rostov oblast lacked access to sewage
systems and about the same percentage lacked access to hot water. For Novosibirsk oblast, only
information about access to hot water is available: 20 percent had none. Russia's allocation to health,
which was estimated to be about four percent of GDP in 1993, has been low compared to that of other
industrial economies, particularly in view of liberalization of prices of equipment, pharmaceuticals, and
other supplies over the last several years, although Russia still benefits from the favorable ratios of
medical personnel and hospital beds inherited from the past. Recent estimates suggest that per-capita
health expenditure levels reverted in 1993 to 1990-91 levels, but the state of medical facilities must have
further deteriorated in 1992-1993. This is certainly likely to be the situation in the project oblasts where
levels of health finance are still only about 70-80 percent of 1990 levels.
1.18           The water supply and sanitation situation is particularly serious. In recent years, the
income of water utilities has fallen and in consequence investment in operational repairs and maintenance
has been further curtailed. In most municipal water supply systems there are daily interruptions in supply
-- e.g. water availability is confined to two hour periods in the morning, afternoon and evening. In many
districts leakage levels from the distribution network are so high that it is not possible to maintain
adequate pressure to properly supply dwelling apartments at the 4th or 5th story level and above. Lack
of maintenance at water treatment works coupled with inefficient treatment systems are responsible for
water quality problems both chemically and bacteriologically. The problems in bacteriological quality
are further exacerbated by lack of investment in cleaning and re-lining of the water main distribution
network. Many municipalities obtain raw water for drinking water by abstraction from rivers, which are
usually heavily polluted due to untreated or inadequately treated sewage or industrial effluent discharges.
In both oblasts great reliance is placed on high levels of pre-chlorination in order to overcome the
problems of pollution of the raw water abstractions. The operational condition and standard of
maintenance of the chlorination stations is not considered to be satisfactory.
1.19           Sewerage systems in all the municipalities visited during project preparation are in a
deteriorated state. In many rural municipalities sewer cleaning equipment is not available. Sewer
blockages occur frequently due either to hydraulic overloading, poor design, insufficient gradients or
structural failure of the pipeline. Most sewer networks depend on pumping stations at some point in the
system. Standards of electrical and mechanical maintenance at these stations are inadequate as finance for
the purchase of spare parts is not available. Much of the electrical and mechanical equipment in the
pumping stations is now past its recognized life span (15-20 years) and is in need of replacement. Where
pumping stations break down, pollution of an adjacent watercourse by a sewage overflow is usually
inevitable. Similarly the vehicle fleets used for providing the municipal cesspit emptying service are in
poor operating condition due to the age of the vehicles and the lack of spare parts. As a result the
municipalities are not able to empty cesspits as frequently as required and as a consequence there are
health hazards arising from cesspit overflows. The continuing deterioration in the condition of the
sewerage and wastewater infrastructure is the cause of enviromnental damage particularly with respect
to pollution of both surface and underground waters.
1.20           Water demand management (control of water leakage, water wastage and misuse within
properties) has been ignored. In both oblasts, there are high levels of water wastage due to the poor
condition of plumbing and sanitary installations within most residential properties. Most factory



B                                                                                CHAPTER 1
enterprises have metered water supplies but meters are old and have not been adequately maintained. In
the cities of Rostov-on-Don and Novosibirsk the water undertakings are operated on behalf of the
municipal authorities by vodokanals (water companies). Revenue income to meet operational costs has
in the past been derived largely from factory enterprises with shortages in operating budgets being made-
up by subsidies from either municipal budgets (in the case of the larger cities of Rostov and Novosibirsk)
or by oblast budgets. For domestic consumers water charges are based on norms and cost recovery is
only a fraction of the true cost of supply, although it is planned to phase out these subsidies by year
20055'. Rural raion administrations have neither the financial resources nor the professional expertise
required to enable them satisfactorily to operate and maintain the existing facilities.
B. The Government's Reform Strategy
Economic and Budgetary Reforms
1.21           Economic reform is the establishment of new systems of responsibilities and incentives.
However, old habits are difficult to change and today, the Russian economy resonates with echoes of all
the problems of the Soviet system. Nevertheless, since 1991, major advances have been made towards
a system in which decisions have been genuinely decentralized, and are increasingly taken in the light of
true social costs and benefits. These include the substantial liberalization of prices and foreign exchange
markets, and also of most import and export controls. Despite obvious pressures for protection, average
tariffs on imports are only about 14%, and the recent Stand-by Agreement with the IMF reduces
maximum import duties to 30%. The massive subsidization of food and housing expenditures that
characterized the Soviet regime has been considerably reduced, in some instances being replaced by
targeted assistance. Of particular relevance to this project is the phased elimination of subsidies on house
maintenance and public utilities to domestic consumers which is due to be completed by the end of 1998.
This should enable municipal vodokanals, such as those in Rostov-on-Don and Novosibirsk, which would
benefit from this project, to recover their costs after that time.
1.22           A centerpiece of the economic reform program has been the largest privatization
program ever undertaken. By the time the voucher program ended in October 1994, over two-thirds of
large and medium enterprises and over 80% of small enterprises had either been privatized or had a
majority interest auctioned for vouchers. The construction industry is now almost entirely privatized, and
there have been some moves in the direction of competitive bidding for publicly-financed civil works.t'
1.23           As already noted, the centralized budgetary system has been replaced by a system of
fiscal federalism, based on pre-assigned shares of the major taxes7'. However, the Federal budget still
retains a significant redistributive function. In 1992 regions of the Russian Federation received transfers
5/ Removal of all subsidies to housing maintenance and public utilities by year 2005 is a Federal legal mandate.
There have been suggestions that the time period may be lengthened but the policy objective is clear.
6' Annex 1.2 discusses the results of a survey of private construction firms in Novosibirsk and Rostov-on-Don,
undertaken as part of the preparation of this project.
7/In 1995, subnational govermments retain 25% of VAT, up to (but usually) 63% of profit taxes, 90% of
personal income taxes, and 50% of the excise tax on alcohol.



CHAPTER 1                                                                                 7
from the Federal Government of 13.5% of their other revenues; in 1993, 17.8%, and in 1994, 24.9%.
This is still a low proportion by international standards and the 1995 budget law as passed by the Duma
proposes a significant reduction in this percentage.-8) In 1992 and 1993, the principles on which these
transfers were distributed were far from transparent and invited a negotiation process between oblasts and
the Federal Government, which was not conducive to fiscal discipline, and results were far from
equitable. In July 1994, the Government formed the Fund for Financial Support to Subjects of the
Russian Federation to which it allocated 22% of VAT revenues (raised to 27% in 1995) to be distributed
on a lump-sum basis among the regions in need of budget transfers in proportion to (a) the tax capacity
of the region and/or (b) an estimate of expected expenditure needs. The latter has tended to reduce the
transparency and equity of what in principle could be a much improved arrangement. The introduction
of this Fund has not eliminated targeted transfers. To ameliorate problems created by enterprise
divestiture of social assets, for example, the Government included funds in the 1994 budget to contribute
to the costs of operating the transferred facilities. Oblasts submitted requests that greatly exceeded the
amounts budgeted, and again the resulting allocation lacked transparency.
1.24           Much less attention has been paid to fiscal relations between oblasts and raions, since
these are entirely an oblast responsibility. Sub-oblast authorities continue to lack an incentive to manage
expenditures efficiently. The extent to which the levy of authorized local taxes can augment existing
revenues is in most cases less than 2-3 % of the budget2'. Moreover, the budget preparation/management
system currently in place is reactive rather than proactive. This reflects both uncertainty of revenue
yields in a declining economic situation, and unpredictability of expenditure needs. The prior-year
collection information is used and prior-year (enterprise) production information is used to forecast
revenue yields. Both of these sources have proved ineffective in a hyper-inflationary situation. While
desirable from a macroeconomic standpoint, the biggest problem for local budgets, and the single
significant contributor to the deficits being experienced from Rostov to Vladivostok, is the price of energy
--fuel oil and coal. Funds provided in the beginning of a budget year to lay in fuel stocks at seasonally
low summer prices are being diverted to other areas of expenditure and then when winter sets in,
additional funds are sought from the oblast or other higher government.
1.25           Current practices of budget preparation are partly "norm" based and partly "prior-year
actual" based. In both cases, real needs are ignored and the "bottom-line" budget is a result of
negotiations with the higher government. These methods do not provide the necessary transparency for
budget preparation. Often budgets are balanced on paper, but in fact operate at a substantial deficit due
to deferred payments.
Sectoral Reforms
1.26           The Government has initiated reforms in each of the social sectors. The Government
strategy for education reform was reflected in the 1992 Education Law which encouraged curricular
diversity and decentralized responsibilities for finance and management of compulsory education to
subnational governments. The same objectives provide the main thrust of the 1993 Federal Program for
Educational Development. Gradual redistribution of governance and management functions is evidently
!' See Fiscal Manaiement in the Russian Federation (World Bank Report No. 14862-RU, November 29,1995),
Chapter 2.
2' Annex 1.3 describes the recent budgetary situation in Novosibirsk and Rostov.



a                                                                                CHAPTER 1
underway. Elements of new funding principles are being discussed and introduced, and the content of
education is changing. Institutional autonomy is increasing in areas of curriculum development, selection
of teaching methods, and budget management. The pace of reform, however, has been uneven and a lack
of clear distribution of functions, appropriate institutional structures and incentive systems make effective
implementation of government plans very difficult, and in some cases unlikely.
1.27            In health, an April 1993 amended health insurance law fundamentally changed the
structure of health system finance, organization, and management according to basic principles common
to most OECD countries. The legislation separates systems of (a) financing health care; (b) organizing
and managing it or purchasing of care through "insurance companies" or sick funds; and (c) providing
care. While the first function remains primarily "public," so as to ensure universal access and equity,
it is anticipated that the two other functions, especially the third (provision of care), will eventually
become decentralized and "non-governmental," possibly private, so as to promote production efficiency
and client satisfaction. The separation of functions and the changes in ownership and management of the
provision of care potentially revolutionize the system. Implementation of the reforms has varied widely,
however. One element in the health component of this project will be to introduce new financing
procedures on a pilot basis.
1.28           Reforms are also affecting the water supply and sanitation sector. In major cities,
vodokanals have been established as notionally independent enterprises, expected to make an operating
surplus to be invested in system improvements. This surplus is generally not sufficient for any major
investment and has been eroded by the rate of inflation which has been much greater than permitted
increases in tariffs. The Anti-Monopoly Committee, for example, allows a 30% margin on costs when
setting tariffs, but excludes many customary costs from the rate base including Environment Committee
fees and fines. In addition, household fees only cover 10 to 20% of costs and have to be cross-subsidized
by other users. As was noted above, the government has legislated changes in this situation by raising
user fees. Existing cross-subsidies and accounting practices tend to distort decision-making (for example
by encouraging vodokanals to inflate costs or enter into barter arrangements with enterprises). However,
many of the costs are beyond the control of vodokanals and their inability to set tariffs further limits their
capacity for rational and effective financial management and planning.
1.29           Financial problems are further exacerbated by existing institutional arrangements. The
municipal vodokanals lack management autonomy and in many cases do not control investment priorities
or planning. Distorted financial incentives bias investment towards new capacity expansion projects even
when the existing facilities are in critical need of rehabilitation and improvement. In many cases, deferred
and under-funded maintenance has led to further operational inefficiencies.
C. The Bank's Assistance Strategy
1.30           The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was discussed by the Board on June 6, 1995;
a CAS Progress Report was discussed with the Board on March 28, 1996. Since the last CAS, the Bank
has continued to operate under an Intermediate Case scenario, which remains broadly appropriate in the
current environment. This scenario assumes that there will be continued progress in macroeconomic
stabilization, as evidenced by the recent agreement with the IMF on an Extended Fund Facility (EFF)
program. In this situation, the Bank would aim to provide around $1.2-1.5 billion annually in investment
lending, including a "core" program of relatively straightforward projects in infrastructure and the social



CHAPTER 1                                                                                    9
sectors. In addition, the Bank would be willing to provide up to $1.5 billion annually in relatively fast-
disbursing assistance if substantial progress was achieved on key structural reforms in specific areas of
the economy, such as agriculture and the social sectors, that are critical to the long-term sustainability
of the stabilization process. Over the past year, the Bank has been working with the Government, both
within the framework of the EFF negotiations and in separate discussions, to develop a consensus on
specific programs of structural reforms that would allow these latter operations to move forward. In the
meantime, the Bank has continued to prepare 6-7 priority investment projects as the basis for a sustained
program of Bank support for the Russian economy over the medium term.
1.31            The proposed operation is fully consistent with the CAS described above and has been
developed in close collaboration with the Government. The project directly supports two of the Bank's
priority objectives described in the CAS: (i) the development of public sector institutions and procedures
that would be supportive of open and competitive markets and oriented toward the provision of physical,
social, legal and institutional infrastructure not normally provided through the private sector; and (ii)
measures to moderate the impact of transition on socially vulnerable groups by, among other things,
maintaining social services and infrastructure while improving the efficiency of public expenditures.
1.32           The proposed project emphasizes more strongly the specific needs of subnational
governments, and especially the need to reduce the likely social and fiscal problems resulting from the
withdrawal of enterprises from their traditional role of providing social services to their workers and
others in their local communities. The proposed project would also respond to the problem that
investments in constructing, equipping, and maintaining educational and medical facilities and public
utilities were often made by Soviet enterprises, even where the operating costs were paid from the State
budget. Since these expenditures were often on an ad hoc basis, there are no data on amounts spent.
However, it is certain that the withdrawal of this assistance has clearly contributed to the deterioration
of social infrastructure, which is being addressed in this project. The need to address these concerns was
expressed in communiques of the July 1993 Summit by the G-7 countries and at the meeting of the
Finance Ministers in January 1994. It was requested that World Bank assistance be directed towards
ameliorating this problem. The proposed project was to be the first response to this request; however,
it soon became apparent that the issue was too complex to be addressed in a single project.
1.33            Eventually, three potential projects emerged. A reallocation of part of the Privatization
Implementation Assistance Loan (Loan No. 35460-RU, 1993) is being used to facilitate the transfers of
kindergartens to municipal administrations, responding to the fact that enterprises have frequently
abandoned the provision of kindergartens and day care, which accounted for about one-third of enterprise
social expenditures. Other planned projects would focus on issues of housing maintenance and utility
subsidies which were the most important social expenditures of enterprises. Although national legislation
requires these subsidies to be phased out over three years, the withdrawal of this enterprise support
threatens an immediate fiscal crisis; a Housing Divestiture Project to deal with housing maintenance and
improvements is also under preparation.






II. LESSONS FROM EXPERIENCE
2.1           This proposed project would be the first IBRD loan to the Russian Federation where
prime responsibility for implementation would be that of oblast administrations, involving the three
sectors: education, health, and water supply and sanitation1!'. Nevertheless there are lessons from the
experience of projects in other sectors in Russia, and from similar multisectoral, regionally-oriented
infrastructure projects in other countries.
A. Lessons from other projects in Russia
2.2           The 1994 Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) observed that almost all projects
approved by the Bank up to that time had experienced difficulties in implementation. Not all the
problems were those of project design. However, it was observed that most Project Preparation and
Implementation Units were established when the process of preparation was largely complete, and that
this had reduced the participation of the implementing agency in the definition of the project, as well as
resulting in start-up delays. For the preparation of this proposed project, a small Preparation Unit
(financed by a Japanese Grant) was established in the Ministry of Nationalities and Federal Affairs
(MINNAT) soon after the project was identified, and it has worked very closely with regular Ministry
staff.  In addition, oblast-level project coordinators were nominated by the two project oblast
administrations in consultation with the Ministry. These preparation units would become fully operational
PIUs (to be known as Project Bureaus.)
2.3           The CPPR also highlighted the need for training and other assistance to develop a strong
local capacity for procurement management. An explicit objective of this proposed project is to improve
methods of public procurement, especially of civil works. Officials involved in project design and
coordination have already attended training in procurement; other relevant courses are under preparation.
2.4           Sources of delays reported in the CPPR include the time needed to receive necessary
internal approvals prior to loan effectiveness. Where these delays have prevented starting construction
at an optimum time, they have been very costly in terms of timeliness of output, given the short
construction season in Russia. Also, unfamiliarity with competitive bidding procedures and slow
contractor prequalification processes in other projects initially gave rise to skepticism about the openness
of the competitive bidding process and reduced the amount of competition. The preparation process of
this proposed project is addressing these potential problems, and is establishing mechanisms which would
eliminate unnecessary delays in 1996, once the loan is effective.
2.5           It was also found that Government priorities among subprojects initially put forward for
financing could change quite substantially between appraisal and the start of implementation, and that
there was a need for flexibility in the program. The substantial unidentified component would allow for
the adjustment of priorities over time.
 Projects in all three sectors are, however, in the lending program in the next two years. It is anticipated that
the preparatory work for this project and the eventual implementation experience will enable these other
projects to focus more on policy and institutional reform objectives and less on issues of design and
execution of civil works.



11                                                                              CHAPTER 2
B. Lessons from Other Countries
2.6           The World Bank's support of Mexico's National Solidarity Program offers some useful
lessons. The Program combines Federal grants, loans from national development banks and state and
local government contributions, to finance over 30 subprogramns, including several types of social
infrastructure, often intended to complement and strengthen normal investments. Since 1989, for
example, Solidarity has provided over $600 million in additional financing for educational facilities in
poor communities. The program involves effective community participation in project selection and
implementation, and shared responsibility for programs with state and municipal governments (varying,
however, with the type of program).
2.7           Evaluations of the first Decentralization and Regional Development (DRD) Loan to
Mexico (3310-ME, 1990) made in support of the Solidarity Program have found that the project has been
successful in selecting investments that reflect community priorities and carrying these out cost-
effectively. Introduction of eligibility criteria eliminated a significant number of uneconomic investments
and led local agencies to appropriate planning and prioritization. The project was, however, spread too
broadly over sectors and institutions, which diluted the impact of institutional development, and made
project monitoring and supervision difficult. Consequently the second DRD Loan cut the number of areas
of project from ten to four, and the number of implementing state agencies from over 70-24 (three in
each of the eight states participating in the project). The proposed project establishes firm selection
criteria for subprojects and limits sharply the number of these; only a narrow range of subprojects in
three subsectors in two oblasts would be eligible.
2.8           The first DRD project found that there was a lack of institutional incentives and capability
on the part of the Federal agency managing the Solidarity program and other state agencies to provide
technical review and guidance. In the proposed project, each oblast Project Bureau (acting as a PIU) will
be advised by strong technical consultants with the mandate to monitor technical issues arising in the
project (which among other things, would reduce the burden of supervision and increase the capacity to
provide advice to all project beneficiaries as required).
2.9           One of the proposed project's objectives is to promote private sector development by
stimulating local competitive bidding for small public works. In its approach to local contracting by
construction companies with no previous experience of competitive bidding, the project is drawing heavily
on the successful Bank experience in Africa with projects using the approach of AGETIP (Agence
d'Execution de Travaux d'Infrastructure Publiques) (for example, Credit No. C2075 to Senegal, 1990).
The AGETIP experience emphasizes tailoring the approach to the situation in each country and taking
into consideration the capacity of the local construction industry. Part of project preparation has involved
surveys of the local construction industry (Annex 1.2). Among other things, experience suggests the
importance of training contractors how to respond to bidding documents, and the importance of ensuring
prompt payment to contractors. Attention would be paid to both of these during project implementation.



CHAPTER 2                                                                                     12
2.10          In emphasizing strongly the role of local beneficiaries and in having a substantial
unidentified component, the Project has a number of features of a Social Investment Fund111. It is likely
that if this project were to be replicated in other regions of Russia, more explicit Social Investment Funds
would be formed. A problem with such funds has been their tendency to by-pass line ministries, with
the danger that any improvements in decision criteria or manner of implementation has not been carried
into the regular program. In this project, the sectoral administrative departments have been the principal
players in the identification and design of subprojects, and they would play a critical role in the selection
of the unidentified components. Another issue has been a tendency for Social Investment Fund projects
to avoid traditional sector conditionality, such as cost-recovery. These elements have not been neglected
in either the water supply or the health components of this project.
2.11          Of the twenty-five municipal infrastructure fund projects approved in the 1980s, only a
few have operated long enough to show sustainable results. The major lesson appears to be, however,
that reforms in the structure of capital financing (more technical allocation procedures; shift from grant
to loan terms) or internal financial management (accounting, taxation, capital budgeting) do little to
improve local performance if functional responsibilities and revenue authority among different levels of
government are ill-defined. The intergovernmental fiscal dimension is critical. In most countries, a
corresponding reform is required in the design and administration of intergovernmental transfers (both
recurrent and for capital funding). Russia is just now instituting an explicit intergovernmental transfer
for recurrent purposes but does not have a directed grant or federal loan program for capital financing.
The proposed project would, in effect, initiate such a channel that might be replicated elsewhere. In
addition, it would focus on intraoblast fiscal relations between the oblast and local administrations. While
the project is not proposing any immediate change in fiscal mechanisms, consulting services are being
provided to help design a more transparent and efficient system, which may then be implemented on a
pilot basis.
IL' A review by Soniya Carvalho 'Social Funds: Guidelines for Design and Implementation' (ESP Discussion
Paper Series No. 24, March 1994) defines a social fund as "a mechanism through which resources are
channeled, according to pre-determined selection criteria, to demand-driven subprojects proposed by public,
private, or voluntary (formal or informal) organizations.' Individual subprojects are generally not designed
at the time the Fund is established, although often several are prepared for disbursement upon loan
effectiveness.






HI. THE PROJECT
A. Project Evolution
3.1           The proposed project evolved from discussions with the Russian Government on project
concepts that would support decentralization of Federal responsibilities, help to maintain a basic minimum
of social services, and respond to the additional problems created by enterprise divestiture of social assets.
In addition, there is a need to promote reforms in the management of public expenditures at a subnational
level. The concept agreed with the Government was for a project that would: (a) be multisectoral, to
stress the need to select expenditure priorities rationally, rather than relying on traditional norms; (b)
emphasize improved management of public expenditures, focusing both on the choice of activities and
the efficiency of implementation; and (c) be a monitorable and replicable pilot project in two or three
oblasts.
3.2           To facilitate project design, and, especially, implementation, only subprojects in health,
education and water supply and sanitation infrastructure would be included; subproject types within each
sector would be restricted to the basic services of polyclinics and general hospitals, to school facilities
providing a general rather than a vocational education, and to small-scale water and sanitation
investments. These priorities are all central to Russian Government policy of continuing to provide every
household with basic social services. It was also found that design and quality of construction of facilities
were often so unsatisfactory that it would be cost-ineffective to rehabilitate them; instead, it was suggested
that the proposed project could provide a valuable opportunity to improve design standards and foster an
implementation culture that would lead to improved construction quality, and to reduce implementation
and supervision complexities. The oblasts of Novosibirsk and Rostov were selected by the Russian
Government on the basis of agreed criteria. These are oblasts that are each reasonably representative of
a broad class of oblasts, but that differ substantially in geographical and economically setting.
Implementing the proposed project in only two oblasts reduced project complexity and length of
preparation, without seriously compromising the benefits from regional diversity.
B. Government Commitment and Beneficiary Participation
3.3           Although the project finances activities which are exclusively the responsibility of either
oblast or sub-oblast administrations, it is essential to have an active interlocutor at a Federal level to (a)
assist with the many preparatory activities that require Federal action; (b) serve as a coordinating agency
during the process of project implementation; (c) carry out monitoring and evaluation activities whose
results can be used in any future projects with similar objectives and more generally to ensure that lessons
from the project are disseminated to appropriate Federal ministries; and (d) represent the interests of the
Federal Government, which is not only the borrower and guarantor of repayment, but will also directly
finance half the loan repayment. The Ministry of Nationalities and Federal Affairs (MINNAT) was
selected for this role, and has been very active in assuming this responsibility. At the start of project
preparation, MINNAT provided facilities for the Preparation Unit, and staff of MINNAT have
participated in all major Preparation Missions, as well as in discussions in Moscow. The proposed
project has also been discussed with other concerned Ministries. An Interministerial Group has been
organized to comment on some of the proposed methodological or financial innovations, to review the
results and to disseminate project lessons for individual sectors. Under the Chairmanship of MINNAT,



14                                                                                   CHAPTER 3
the Group includes representatives of the Ministries of Education, Health, Construction, Finance,
Economy, and Environment.
3.4            Project preparation has been mainly the responsibility of the two oblast administrationsL2.
Facilities have been provided for a project coordinator in each oblast, and a long list of suitable
subprojects of high priority was almost immediately proposed. All subprojects on which preparatory
work has been carried out were initially suggested by the oblast, in some cases following consultations
with the administrations of cities and rural raions. In most instances, the local governments have eventual
responsibility for operating and maintaining the facilities and the project is designed to ensure that these
administrations, together with the directors of the facilities concerned, would play a much more direct
role in implementation and in selecting future subprojects for consideration.
3.5           A major objective of the project would be to assist in introducing new methods of
appraising and implementing social infrastructure projects. Therefore, the preparation process has, to
the extent possible, been one of "preparation by doing." Appraisals and design work on some of the
identified subprojects prepared by local and international consultants have served as models for training
Russian consultants to do the same thing with other identified subprojects, and eventually with the
unidentified component. The latter represents 25% of the subprojects to be financed by the Loan, and
would prepare the way for eventual replication as a "Social Investment Fund" project (para 2.10). The
importance of beneficiary participation has already become evident. For example, work required for
school rehabilitation was originally assessed by a local firm which provided technically competent
assessments, but did not consult school staff adequately. Only when the survey results were subsequently
discussed with the school director and staff, did it become clear that there were many other items in the
school that were also in urgent need of attention, and the rehabilitation plans were modified accordingly.
C. Project Objectives
3.6            The principal goals of the proposed project are to:
(a)    Reduce the present deterioration of social infrastructure by financing the rehabilitation
and limited replacement of high priority facilities for providing health care, education,
water supply and sanitation;
(b)    Improve the efficiency of managing public resources by:
(i)    ensuring that the selection of subprojects is based on sound criteria;
(ii)   raising facility design standards and improving the incentives to observe them;
(iii)   improving the quality and sustainability of construction by improved site
supervision, and by encouraging beneficiaries to take a more active role as clients
during the design and the construction process;
(iv)   introducing competitive procurement practices;
(v)    introducing improved methods of expenditure programming and budgetary
management by public authorities; and
LI Funds to assist project preparation were provided by Japanese Grants (Nos. TF025243, dated November 2,
1994, and TF 029126 and TF 029234, dated July 24, 1995) totalling $1,650,000 equivalent.



CHAPTER 3                                                                             15
(vi)  strengthening environmental management practices through a program of studies
and training linked to the health and water supply and sanitation components;
(c)    Promote private sector development through:
(i)    encouraging the break-up and commercialization of existing design institutes into
independent engineering and architectural firms;
(ii)   providing training in procurement processes for engineers, architects, local
construction firms, and public bid evaluation committees; and
(iii)   providing an environment that can facilitate the emergence of private providers
of medical care.
(d)    Contribute to the Government's policy of decentralization by promoting broad
participation, including non-governmental participation, in project decision-making; and
(e)    Monitor the effectiveness of new practices, and disseminate the results, to promote their
use in similar activities elsewhere in the Russian Federation.
The indicators that will be used to monitor these objectives are described in Annex 3.7.
D. Project Description
Overview
3.7          The proposed project would introduce new mechanisms for evaluating and implementing
small-scale investments in social infrastructure, and finance a number of eligible subprojects to be
implemented using these mechanisms. To expedite project implementation, and to maximize benefits
from work carried out during the project preparation phase, preparation funds have been used to identify,
appraise and advance implementation of a number of selected subprojects in each sector. About 75%
of the subprojects have been identified and the remainder would be identified as experience is gained with
implementing the project. Each oblast would make a 10% cash contribution to the cost of each
subproject. These subprojects, together with other Bank-financed components, are described here as
World Bank Financed (WBF) subprojectsL''. In addition, the project includes a number of subprojects
that would be entirely financed by the Government, using the same selection and implementation
processes as those financed by the loan. These are brought into the project after about two years
experience has been gained with project implementation experience in order to encourage the use of
procedures developed under the project in the regular program of the oblast. These are described as Non-
Bank Financed (NBF) subprojects. The Bank and the Government would agree annually on the additional
NBF subprojects. At Negotiations, it was agreed that the review procedures to be adopted with respect
to these NBF subprojects would be the same as for the unidentified subprojects to be financed by the
Bank. The proportion of the loan to each sector (health, education and water supply and sanitation)
would be not less than 25% and not more than 40% of the total loan amount in each oblast. This
restriction would not apply to NBF subprojects. To ensure a broad geographic spread of the use of the
3/ The government contribution in WBF also includes other direct expenditures, such as incremental operating
costs for health facilities.



16                                                                               CHAPTER 3
new mechanisms, not more than 50% of the loan in each sector would be for subprojects in the capital
city of each oblast.
1. Education Component
Summary
3.8          In Novosibirsk oblast, the identified parts of the education component include the
rehabilitation of 20 schools, the construction of two new schools and assistance to improve the planning,
management and operations of school facilities in the Novosibirsk municipality (MIS program). Energy
efficiency would be a major consideration. In Rostov oblast, the education component comprises the
rehabilitation of 14 schools, building extensions to four schools, and the construction of one new school.
One of these subprojects would be used to assist facilities planning, management and operations following
an evaluation of experience with the implementation of the MIS subproject in the Novosibirsk
municipality. A school in each oblast was selected as a pilot subproject to provide experience in design
and procurement procedures. In both oblasts, assistance would also be provided to assist the Department
of Education in all aspects of school facilities project management, including identification, preparation
and implementation of the unidentified education subprojects. A summary of the education project
components in each oblast is shown in Table 3.1.
Education Component Objectives
3.9           Recent World Bank education sector reports have called attention to the crisis in the
physical condition of school facilities and the lack of capacity of oblast and raion administrations to
perform newly assigned functions formerly performed by the central governmentL4. These general
findings were confirmed for Novosibirsk and Rostov oblasts by identification missions during visits in
July and October, 1994. The immediate objective of the education component would be to help relieve
an emergency situation in schools that have become so dilapidated, uncomfortable, inefficient and even
unsafe as to constitute a constraint on effective teaching and a threat to the welfare of students and
teachers who use them. This objective would be achieved by rehabilitating, extending or, in a few
instances, replacing existing schools. Three new schools would be built in unserved areas of new
settlement where there has been substantial in-migration and where students are now attending severely
overcrowded schools at some distance from their homes.
3.10          The long-term  objective would be to strengthen all aspects of school facilities
management, including planning and operations, through (a) improving methodologies for formulating
investment programs for schools; (b) demonstrating a facility management information system in the
Novosibirsk municipality; (c) introducing participatory processes for defining education specifications in
the design of facilities; (d) transferring recent technology and introducing modem building materials for
school buildings; and (e) providing examples of schools that are energy efficient, economically efficient
and environmentally benign.
See Bernard Salome, with Andrei Markov and Natasha Tinpenko, Russia: Education Finance Report. World
Bank, June 1994; and Russia: Education in the Transition, Draft Sector Report, September 5, 1995.



CHAPTER 3                                                                                                          17
Table 3.1 Education Component
Schedule of Proposed Program of Disbursements (Identified Subprojects)
cm US$ '000)
Itnvtmst Ellewet                                   -       IBRD FSc  Yean  -
TOTAL
ROSTOV                          1997        1998         1999         2000       2001      2002      2003
School Rehabilitations         362.9       1,658.4      5,699.0      2,151.8    701.0                        10|s"71
School Extensions                                       2,509.7      1,761.3    756.8                         5,D273
New Schools                                                          2,657.7   2,139.9    1,614.8 6T412.4
Computer, lab. equipt. & furn.                                        962.1     966.3                         1.~4
for identified schools
Oblast cash contribution for    40.3        184.3        912.1        730.1     399.7      179.4              2,445.9
identified schools
TOTAL (WBF)                    4032        1,842.71     ,118;        ,26,.0    4,96.1    1.79-.        .       6,381,6
Oblast in-kind Contribution                               300         600        300                           1200
(NBF)                                   .                                                                  ....
NOVOSIBIRSK                                                                              __:.
School Rehabilitations         311.1       3,034.5      7,098.4      1,094.9                                  11 .5389
New Schools                                                          3,189.2    2,139.9    1,076.6            6,405.7
MIS Program                    351.4        329.5       1,389.6        50.4                                   2,120.9
Computer, lab. equipt. & fum.                                        1,115.3    372.8                          1,418.1
for identified schools
Oblast cash contribution for    34.6        337.2        788.7       476.0      237.8      119.6              1,903.8
identified schools
TOTAL (WBF)                    69.1        3,701.21    O91761        5,925.    2,758.5    1,6.2              23,547.5
Oblast in-kind Contribution                  600          360         240                                      1,200
(NBF)II
GRAND TOTAL (WBF)              114003      S,5.9        2%8 7       14W J42               2,A4,3.
of which:
LOOM                         1,412A  -    ,4IA        16I,       -U.1 lm.?  I7WV.-  2O,L6                  4,4955A
Oblat cash conttibutoc         74.9       513          IEl- 1 11  :  -        637        .,A 3              4,439.7
_____.__       ....'.-..-.__  - '....... __-,'.''I                                        '   ; _ .          , .I
j Total oblast in-kind                    I    600          660    [   840         300   ||                     2,400
contribution (NBF)         j                                           =          -     j    -      J  =
Note: Including price and physical contingencies; excluding taxes and duties.



18                                                                                 CHAPTER 3
3.11          Better methodologies for formulating investment programs for schools were introduced
during the preparation of the education component. The demonstration facility management information
system (MIS) is a multiphased subproject that would, through consultancy services, training, and
computerization, progressively introduce improved facilities management in the Novosibirsk municipality.
Selection Criteria for School Facilities Subprojects
3.12          The selection of schools to be rehabilitated is based upon a cost-effectiveness analysis
detailed in Annex 3.1. Generally, this analysis gives a higher priority to schools with large enrollments,
particularly those that are double- and triple-shifted and whose usage could be extended for at least 10
years at relatively low cost. A large number of existing schools, which were in other respects of high
priority, were rejected for rehabilitation or extension, because of severely damaged foundations or
unsatisfactory design features. School facilities planning in both oblasts is complicated by a precipitous
decline in fertility largely, but not entirely, offset by substantial in-migration during the last five years.
New construction would, therefore, be confined to situations where there is a need to replace existing
facilities or, where there are substantial shifts in the geographic distribution of the population due to
migration and/or the growth of new population centers. The Oblast would make a direct budgetary
contribution of 10% of the cost of the rehabilitation and construction of the selected subprojects; in
addition, the purchasing of all furniture, laboratory and other equipment required to make the school
operational would also be the responsibility of the Departments of Education in the two oblasts. Before
a school subproject was finally approved, the School Board would make a formal comrnitment to
maintaining the facility and would specify how this would be organized.
3.13          Specifically, the following selection criteria are applied:
(a)    For rehabilitation school subprojects, the selection criteria are:
(i)    The subproject is cost-effective in terms of costs per student place. This cost-
effectiveness measure compares the school with and without the project.
(ii)    After reconstruction, the school would have an extended life, of at least 10 years:
i In general, this implies that buildings with damaged foundations and unstable
load-bearing wails would not be eligible for repairs and reconstruction under the
proposed project.
* In general, a school's eligibility for reconstruction would be enhanced if its
design and workmanship of its existing facilities are deemed to be of adequate
quality. Many older buildings superior to newer structures would be considered
as candidates for reconstruction.
(iii)   All required utilities serving the school are adequate.
(b)    School Extensions (in addition to the adequacy of utilities):



CHAPTER 3                                                                                19
(i)   the existing school should be rehabilitable to a standard comparable to the new
construction; and
(ii)   the new construction should be based upon established educational specifications.
(c)    For new schools, the specific criteria include, in addition to (a) iii above:
(i)    The school replaces an existing school that is no longer viable, or it reduces
overcrowding in the schools that are in adjacent catchment areas.  The
justification would be based upon an analysis of school age population projections
in the areas affected and careful analysis of all affected school catchment areas.
(ii)    The location of the school should be consistent with existing master plans.
(iii)   The site of the proposed new school should not involve the displacement and
destruction of existing valuable structures, and should be the property of the
oblast or raion government.
3.14          Consultancy Services and Training. The project would finance 15 person-months of
consultant services to train and assist oblast staff in both Rostov and Novosibirsk in selected aspects of
school facilities project management, including the identification, preparation and implementation of the
unidentified education subprojects. Consistent with training needs, particular attention would be given
to the location of schools, education specifications and to all aspects of procurement.
3.15          Demonstration School Facilities Management Information System Project (MIS
program). The work would require 22 person-months of consultancy services to advise the municipality
of Novosibirsk on a strategy for the progressive improvement in organization and management processes,
the design of a supporting management information system and to organize two study tours to examine
state-of-the-art school facilities organizations in Europe or North America. About 24 person-months of
local consultancy services would be required for programming software. In addition, about 120 person-
months of local technical staff would be employed to establish information data bases and arrange for
their maintenance. The component would finance networks for the central administration and links to
at least two of the ten raions in the municipality in a pilot demonstration project. This would include the
installation of about 50-80 computers. This pilot would be evaluated before the system is extended during
the project to the remainder of the municipality. See Annex 3.2 for details.
2. Health Component
Sunmary
3.16          The proposed project would finance the rehabilitation and upgrading of selected city and
raion hospitals. Each such component would include: (a) an emergency and admission rooms; (b) an
intensive care unit; (c) an operating room; (d) a central laboratory; (e) a central X-ray and imaging
facilities; (f) wards; and (g) a delivery unit. The first five items are "core" requirements to enable
hospitals to function adequately. Supplies for operating the diagnostic and imaging equipment procured
under the project would also be partially financed for the first two years of its operation. WBF also



20                                                                                   CHAPTER 3
includes equipment for selected facilities, whose rehabilitation is being financed by the Government as
part of NBF.  Consultancy services would be provided to assist the introduction on a pilot basis of new
financial mechanisms to promote efficiency and financial stability.
3.17          In addition, the proposed project would finance the rehabilitation and upgrading of
selected polyclinics. The polyclinic component would normally include: (a) rooms for medical specialists;
(b) laboratories; (c) x-ray and imaging; and (d) a day care unit for minor surgery.
3.18          The selection criteria listed below and elaborated in Annex 3.3 are met by many facilities.
The identified subprojects are shown in Table 3.2. They include three hospitals and two polyclinics in
Rostov, and four hospitals and two polyclinics in Novosibirsk.
3.19          Two sites, one in Rostov and one in Novosibirsk, have been chosen as pilots prior to full
project implementation, and the oblasts would receive substantial technical assistance to enable their
designers to utilize the lessons of international experience. These subprojects would both provide needed
lessons for the designs of the remaining facilities, and also establish building standards and provide
training that would enable Russian specialists to design the remaining facilities themselves under normal
project supervision.
Component Objectives
3.20          The objectives of the health component are: (a) to rehabilitate and upgrade selected
medical facilities in the oblasts of Novosibirsk and Rostov; (b) to improve the methodology and
institutional capacity for similar efforts in the country as a whole; and (c) to develop new financial
mechanisms on a pilot basis and test these using project facilities. It is anticipated that achievement of
these objectives would serve the broader systemic goals of improving the quality, efficiency, and equity
of medical care in the country.1'5
3.21          Specifically, the proposed project seeks to improve access to modern care technology in
selected facilities and management of patients. These improvements would be achieved by a "package"
of mutually complementary program components, ultimately leading to:
(a)    better patient flow within and across facilities;
(b)    an  improved  physical infrastructure designed  to  support basic  medical
technology, equipment, and patient conditions;
(c)    access to equipment essential for proper and efficient diagnosis and treatment;
(d)    improved (acceptable) patient accommodation;
(e)    personnel who are trained to use and maintain the facilities and equipment; and
(f)    improved financial and institutional mechanisms to support the functioning of
rehabilitated facilities.
3.22          Accordingly, the proposed project is designed not only to rehabilitate facilities but also
to upgrade them; simply to reinforce existing, less effective, less efficient, and unsafe systems and
15' For detailed discussion of health priorities, see Chernichovsky, D., Potapchik, E., Barnum, H., and
Tulchinsky, T., Russia; Health Sector Reform. World Bank, Mimeo. 1994.



CHAPTER 3                                                                                  21
facilities for delivery of care would be counterproductive. Moreover, the rehabilitated facilities would
serve as prototypes and stimuli for similar efforts beyond the immediate scope of the project.
3.23          This component is also designed to improve methodology and local capacity to invest in
medical facilities through: (a) developing an initial investment program in medical facilities in each oblast;
(b) establishing criteria for setting investment priorities in medical care; (c) developing a financial
mechanism for investment in Russian medical facilities in conjunction with the territorial health insurance
funds; (d) developing guidelines for functional designs for buildings; (e) identifying and providing
essential equipment; (f) training programs; and (g) developing guidelines for maintenance of facilities.
3.24          Annex 3.3 illustrates some of the common problems in both the structure and layout of
existing medical facilities and how the subprojects would serve as models. It is expected that this health
component would improve the quality of care by improving diagnosis and treatment which could reduce
the length of patient stays by as much as one-third.
Subproject Selection Criteria
3.25          An oblast investment program  would be initiated as part of project planning and
implementation. Within this program, Bank finance would be provided for selected parts of city and
raion hospitals that would qualify as general hospitals in western terminology, and polyclinics. WBF
would not finance specialized facilities, whether these are separate institutions such as maternity homes,
psychiatric hospitals, and tuberculosis hospitals, or specialized departments within general hospitals.
These hospitals are the mainstay of the system dealing with the majority of the population; outside the
main cities these hospitals, usually with an adjacent polyclinic, are normally the only medical facility
available to the population. As such these facilities deal with the main causes of morbidity and
(preventable) mortality: cardiovascular problems and trauma. Better functioning of these hospitals should
shorten the average length of stay of patients and reduce the need to refer patients to higher-cost oblast
hospitals. Moreover, this focus reduces the potential complexity of the project and facilitates replicability.
This does not, of course, imply that all specialized facilities should be abandoned or neglected, and where
their rehabilitation is undertaken in conjunction with loan-financed investments, such rehabilitation could
be financed as part of the oblast contribution to the Project.



22                                                                                                       CHAPTER 3
Table 3.2 Health Component
Schedule of Proposed Program of Disbursements (Identified Subprojects)
(in US$ '000)
Invtmet Elenent                                     -        MD r_a Yea  -
TM AL
ROSTOV                         1997        1998       1999       2000         2001       2002        2003
Polyclinic #1 (Rostov-on-Don)  523.3      1,381.8     95.7      1,550.4       714.0      725.6                 4,99 0.
Hospital (Martinovsk)                     1,303.8    1,316.9    1,887.7       337.9      343.4        5,119.7
Hospital (Novocherkasak)                  1,303.8    1,316.9    1,887.7       337.9      343.4                 5ilU97
Polyclinic (Constantinovsk)               902.6      911.7      1,755.1       714.0      725.6 _                O59h0
Hospital (Shakhty) - equipment                                  1,592.1       337.9      343.4                 2,Z73,4
Oblast cash contribution                   58.1      543.6        404.6      3,072.6    3,032.9                7,111.8
Health Finance                 251.8       84.5                                                                 336.3
TOTAL (WBF)                    775.1      5,034.6   4,184.8     9,077.6      5,5143     55143   _              30189.7
Oblast in-kind Contribution                         1,272.4     1,285.4      288.4                             2,B46.2
(NBF) (Hospital Shakhty)
contribution
NOVOSIBIRSK
Polyclinic #1 (Novosibirsk)                          903.4      2,462.8      918.8       725.6                 5,010.6
Hospital (Cherepanovo)                    716.3    2,028.5      1,738.4      337.9       343.4                 5,164.5
Polyclinic #30 (Novosibirsk)                         903.4      2,462.8      918.8       725.6                 5,010.6
Hospital #1 (Novosibirsk)                           1,304.0     2,909.2       633.0      343.4                 5,189.6
Hospital (Iskitim)                                              1,316.9      3,298.6     641.9                 5,257.4
Hospital (Chulim) - equipment                                                1,968.2     343.4                 2,311.6
Oblast cash contribution                   79.6      571.0       511.7       3,623.4    3,485.8                8,271.5
Health Finance                 251.8       84.5                                                                 3363
TOTAL (WmF1                    2M1A8        0,4     5,710.3    11,401.8    11,698.7    6,609.1                36,552.1
Oblast in-kind Contribution                                     1,272.4      1,285.4     288.4                 2,846.2
(NBF) (Hospital-Chulim
construction)
.,~~~ :                          :                 I          T                  I   T  
GRAND TOTAL (WIF)             1026.9    5,915.0    9,895.1    20,479.4    171213.0   1223A  !                           !
Loan                     | 1,026.9    5,777.3   8,780.5    19,.63.  1| ,517.0    5,64.7  |S1,2S. 
Oblu" cash                     -         137.7    1,114.6       9163   |           |6_____.7               I S3IM     |
Total Oblast in-kind (NBF)   |_        I |          1,272.4     2,557.8   | 1,573.8 J  288.4   ||5,692_ _           4
Note: Including price and physical contingencies; excluding taxes and duties. Costs for design and preparation of bidding documents is
not included.



CHAPTER 3                                                                                  23
3.26          The following criteria have been established for selecting facilities for the project, and
used to identify a preliminary list of subprojects!Y:
(a)    Centrally located and easily accessible hospitals serving at least 50,000
population (and which are expected to continue to serve at least this size
population in the foreseeable future);
(b)    Hospitals with high levels of utilization--i.e. an occupancy rate of above 90%;
(c)    Hospitals which are in need of rehabilitating and upgrading of their (i)
emergency-cum-admission units, including ambulances, (ii) intensive care units,
(iii) surgery theaters, (iv) laboratories, and (v) X-ray and imaging units;
(d)    Hospitals which are likely to have a high load of emergency patients in need of
intensive care;
(e)    Hospitals which have access to: water supply, heating, sewage, and electricity;
(f)    Hospitals that with improved functioning can reduce the need for beds both
within the hospital and in other facilities;
(g)    Hospitals that would not be classified as "structurally dangerous" by local
building codes;
(h)    Hospitals whose structures are most flexible in terms of layout and design for
rehabilitation and upgrading (e.g. spread-out facilities are given priority over
narrow high structures); and
(i)    Hospitals whose management and staff are most amenable to adoption of new
technology and functional reorganization.
Polydinic Facilities
3.27          Priority among urban polyclinics would be for those which have the capacity, mainly in
space and location, to serve also as diagnostic centers for a network of 6-8 existing polyclinics, combining
to serve a population of about 300,000. The rationale for this criterion is that it would raise the level
of care in the community, and among other things, save on the need for hospitalization. Services in the
community would become more efficient because of a more rational allocation and use of expensive
equipment. Moreover, such facilities could attract qualified personnel to care in the community and
would serve as in-service training centers.
3.28          The selected rural polyclinics would normally be adjacent to (or part of) a raion hospital,
on which they depend for almost all services. They have consequently been regarded as part of their
respective hospital complex, and are subject to the above criteria set for hospitals. They would need to
be upgraded as diagnostic centers serving the hospitals as well.
3.29          Different polyclinic services may be ultimately privatized (or given an independent not-
for-profit status), turning the polyclinic into a medical center, housing different services under the same
roof, and sharing a variety of supporting administrative and other non-medical services. Thus, the design
of the rehabilitated units provides to the extent possible for their operation as self-contained administrative
and financial units.
16Y The rationale for selecting these subprojects is described in Annex 3.3.



24                                                                                 CHAPTER 3
Financial Mechanisms
3.30          The current system for determining and financing medical investments provides little
incentive to make efficient choices, and indeed can be positively distorting. For example, where hospital
budgets still depend on the number of beds and their occupancy, hospital boards cannot be expected to
make rational investment choices that would lead a reduction in the required number of beds. Efficiency
requires that investments should be made only if these bring in a reasonable return, and this can be most
easily achieved if investment decisions are made by provider institutions that can anticipate receiving this
return through a compensation system which includes the costs of capital in the basis for reimbursements.
The financing mechanism also should provide a system of inter-facility incentives with respect to provider
compensation. For example, the proposal to establish diagnostic centers serving a network of polyclinics
will only be successful if all concerned have an economic incentive to make it function.
3.31          To address these issues, an effort would be made to stimulate work with regard to a
reimbursement system, using project facilities as a pilot. As part of project planning and implementation,
a simple but fundamental investment mechanism for the health system would be developed as a prototype
and on a pilot basis. This would have three aspects:
(a)    appropriate budgetary and other payment mechanisms to providers who benefit
from the project;
(b)    loan repayment by providers; and
(c)    financing the additional recurrent operational costs that the rehabilitated facilities
would incur following project implementation on a declining basis.
3.32          With respect to (a), it is proposed to develop a system for budgeting raions on a capitation
basis, with an intra-regional equalization mechanism, and to develop alternative payment or
reimbursement mechanisms, such as diagnostic related groups (DRGs), to medical providers. With respect
to (b) an investment facility will be established within the Territorial Compulsory Health Insurance Funds
(TCHIF) as part of the projectL'.  This facility would become an extra-budgetary means to finance
investments in medical facilities, with the ability to mobilize funds from external sources, such as World
Bank loans, and would on-lend these, along with matching local funds, to medical facilities. The
facilities would then repay the loan from the revenues they receive from the TCHIF (either directly or
indirectly through "insurers") for services rendered to the population. These revenues would include
compensation for capital cost.L" The investment facility of the TCHIF would in turn repay the loans it
received, including liabilities to the oblast budget for matching funds. The oblast authorities may use this
mechanism for some or all of the health components of the project. Annex 3.4 discusses this mechanism
in greater detail. Preparatory work on these reforms in Novosibirsk has been assisted by USAID and the
proposed project would include local consulting services to assist with the development of different
financial mechanisms, and these would be piloted in Cherepanovo Central Raion Hospital.  At
Negotiations, it was agreed that these mechanisms and the subprojects to be included in the pilot would
be agreed with the Bank before implementation of the pilot begins, which would not be later than one
year after the date of effectiveness.
2'' The TCHIF, created under Federal Health Insurance legislation in 1993, are described in Annex 3.4.
LI See Chernichovsky, D. and Potapchik, E., "Needed financial mechanisms for implementation of the Russian
health insurance and health sector reform". (project files)



CHAPTER 3                                                                                  25
3.33           With respect to (c), potential savings in length of patient stay could more than
compensate for increases in running costs associated with upgrading (see Annex 3.3).
Training
3.34          A substantial training (study tours) sub-component is proposed. (For each facility in each
oblast, 5 trainees would participate in these tours (see Annex 3.3). This would include:
(a)    Physician training courses in use of laboratories and imaging units, in emergency care
and resuscitation and on use of referral protocols. (12-week course)
(b)    Training of architects and engineers (already under way as part of project preparation)
to develop and adopt standards and/or guidelines for such things as the layout of units
in the general hospitals and polyclinics; the functional relationships among units; the
minimal size of units; and the technical requirements to meet electro-mechanical needs
such as heating, electricity, air conditioning. (7-week course)
(c)    Training for laboratory technicians, imaging technicians and maintenance engineers and
technicians and administrative personnel. (7 week-course for each specialty)
Health personnel would also participate in training activities as part of the enviromnental strengthening
program (see Annexes 5.4 and 6.1).
Consulting Services
3.35   (a)    A total of 110 person-months of foreign and 475 person-months of local consulting
services would be provided for design and supervision of facilities.
(b)    The development of new financial mechanisms would require 16 person-months of
foreign and 56 person-months of local consulting services.
(c)    A total of 21 person-months of foreign consulting services would be provided to conduct
training and supervise study tours.
3. Water Supply and Sanitation ComponentL'
Summary
3.36          The component would be targeted mainly at the rehabilitation, refurbishment and renewal
of the existing infrastructure, including the rehabilitation of water mains to reduce leakage levels, the
refurbishment of chlorination installations to provide better security in drinking water disinfection and
the renewal of electrical and mechanical pumping machinery that has outlived its useful operating life.
In wastewater, the work would include the rehabilitation of existing sewerage networks, the provision of
new cesspit tanker vehicles to improve cesspit emptying and the renewal of electrical and mechanical
L9 Grant assistance for the preparation of this component was received from the U.K. Know-How Fund.



26                                                                                                       CHAPTER 3
Table 3.3 Water Supply and Sanitation Component
Scbedule of Proposed Program of Disbursements (Identified Subprojects)
(in US$ '000)
Imvamt Elmsut                                      --IBRD Flsca1 Yearv-
TOTAL
ROSTOV                          1997           1998           1999            2000          2001        TOTAL
Drinking water                                350.0          1,325.0         527.5                      2,202.5
Water Distribution             653.4          1348.5         1,530.0        1,066.0                     4,597.9
Wastewater Treatnent                          314.3          1,175.0        1,729.3         119.2       3,337.8
Sewerage                       106.0          910.0         1,943.4         2,002.0         106.0       5,067.4
Oblast Cash Contribution        58.3           150.9          192.9          299.6                       701.7
TOTAL (WM                     817.7           3,073.7        6,166.3         5,24.4-        224.2       15,907.3
Oblast in kind                                 1,000          1,000           600                        2,600
Contribution (NBF)
NOVOSIBIRSK
Drinking water                 195.1          607.0          1,637.5         699.8          420.0       3,559.4
Water Distribution             332.2          1,799.4        1,950.0         245.0                      4,326.6
Wastewater Treatment                                         1,057.7         719.3          715.1       2,492.1
Sewerage                                      272.0          1,956.1         920.0          283.2       3,431.3
Oblast Cash Contribution       27.8           148.9           371.6           98.1          31.5         677.9
TOTAL (WE?)                    555.1          2,827.3            2                         1,449.       14,487.3
Oblast in-kind                                 850             700            500                        2,050
Contribution (NBEF)
GItMN TOTAL (WM               1372.     1    5,901.0      1 13,139.2        8,306.6         1,674   i  30,39i
..as Ca. C.t.buio             6.1            9,6.5                         3....          31.         1,3791 
Loan                        1,286.7        5,601.2        12,574.7        7,908.9        1,642.5      29,015.0
Obbt Cash Contributsbn        1 1  1        2*8       |    S645    |       397.7     |    31.5    |1,379.6
Tota Oblast in-kind      1                     1,850          1,700          1,100                       4,650
contribution (NBF)        j _             _             . _            I
Note: Including price and physical contingencies; excluding taxes and duties. Costs for design and preparation of bidding documents is
not included.



CHAPTER 3                                                                                27
plant at key pumping stations. Where new construction is proposed, it would be limited to providing
facilities to enable more efficient use of the existing infrastructure. Individual subprojects would be
limited in size and scope, with a ceiling of about US$2.0 million each. Consultancy services and training
would be provided in all aspects of design, construction, operations, and institutional and financial
management of water and wastewater services.
Component Objectives
3.37          The central objectives are to sustain and/or restore basic water supply and sanitation
services, and to the improve the technical and economic efficiency of the supplying entities.
Subproject Selection Criteria
3.38          Subproject proposals would comply with the long-term strategy for development of water
and wastewater services in the municipality. Specific criteria are:
(a)    Subprojects would be self-contained and would not rely on other works to secure the
envisaged benefits;
(b)    Where there are alternative technical feasible options, these would be subject to a net
present value (NPV) analysis, to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of the options;
(c)    Municipalities would be required to demonstrate sustainability by showing that
requirements for trained personnel could be met either by present staff or through
training programs that they propose, and that the supply of consumables for operation
and maintenance are adequately budgeted;
(d)    Where the water company (vodokanal) or other enterprise is operating the assets of the
water and wastewater infrastructure on a license or rental agreement from the
municipality, there would be an agreement on the respective responsibilities for
maintenance and renewal of existing assets and the provision of new infrastructure (i.e.
extensions to the existing installations); and
(e)    The environmental impact would be acceptable.
Financial Mechanisms
3.39          At present, vodokanals generally estimate that enterprises pay the full costs of water
supply services, but that households are still subsidized. Under the housing reform law, these subsidies
are due to be removed by 2005. Consultancy services to assist in developing standards to carry out the
eventual achievement of full cost-recovery by the major vodokanals would be provided. As an interim
measure, operating entities need to demonstrate to the Bank that their income is sufficient to cover all
operating costs and a reasonable standard of maintenance. Corporatized vodokanals would be required
to provide annual accounts and financial projections. Where water supply services have not been
corporatized, the departments that provide them should maintain separate accounts for them. At
Negotiations, it was agreed that as a condition of eligibility for a subproject in the water sector, the



28                                                                             CHAPTER 3
operating entity would be required to present a financial projection acceptable to the Bank that would
document (i) that its projected receipts (including budgetary subsidies) will be adequate to meet its costs
of operation and maintenance, and (ii) that its dependence on such subsidies will decline steadily and will
be eliminated by 2005. The institutional study (see below para. 3.42) would include a review of cost-
recovery policy, and this agreement would be reviewed in the light of the recommendations of that study.
Oblasts would be asked to confirm that as a condition of eligibility for a subproject in the water sector,
the operating entity will demonstrate that its revenue is sufficient to cover its costs of operations and
maintenance.
Training
3.40  (a) With regard to architecture and engineering: training would be include workshops for the
design of water supply and sewerage systems to western standards; design of water and wastewater
treatment plants; the design and construction of structural buried pipelines; capital works programming;
project planning and appraisal; competitive bidding procedures and the supervision of construction works.
(b) In operational management: training would be include workshops and study tours in water
demand management; leakage detection and control; asset management and planning and sewer and water
main surveys.
(c) For the construction aspects of subprojects: workshops are proposed for preparation of
specifications and bills of quantities; construction planning and scheduling and site management;
reinforced concrete construction and the constructional aspects of structural buried pipelines.
(d) On institutional aspects: training would be include workshops and study tours in management
and administration; operational control; financial management; water demand management including cost
recovery and water metering; asset management and planning and manpower planning.
A total of about 20 person-months of consulting services would be provided to carry out the above
training, which would include seminars and study tours, for both oblasts.
Consulting Services
3.41         The difficulties experienced in the management and operation of the water utilities in both
the rural raions and the city municipalities (Rostov and Novosibirsk) require that an institutional
preparation study be undertaken on an oblast-wide basis in each oblast requiring a total of 12 person-
months. The prime objective of the studies would be to examine the rationale for a reorganization of the
water/wastewater utilities so that rehabilitation of existing assets and future capital investments in
extension and improvement of the infrastructure can, in the long term, be afforded and sustained by
efficient management throughout the whole of each oblast. Initially, the institutional preparation study
would make an appraisal of the management and operation of the existing structure and activities of the
water/wastewater services in each oblast. Following a preliminary report with recommendations, the
study would then be continued and would focus on the problem areas identified. Particular aspects to
be reviewed include water demand management; asset management planning; cost recovery; capital
investment planning and revenue budgeting and cost control. During project preparation, discussions
were held with the oblast and city municipalities and their respective vodokanals and in both oblasts there
is a willingness to cooperate in undertaking the institutional study described.



CHAPTER 3                                                                             29
3.42         Institutional development of the vodokanals and their respective design institutes would
be carried out in close collaboration with the Water Sector Study to be carried out by the EC3
Infrastructure, Energy and Environment Division and the Black Sea Environmental Initiative to ensure
a unified approach. This is particularly important where an oblast is common to two or more projects.
Institutional training programs would be addressed through a combination of training courses, studies and
secondments. They would include contributions to the environmental action plan for the Azov Sea
(Rostov), environmental audit workshops, management courses and study tours. Some of the training
activities took place during project preparation partially financed by the Black Sea Environmental
Program (BSEP). Support from this source is expected to continue and grant financing is being sought.
The institutional program also includes studies which would contribute to improving the financial and
administrative structure of the agencies,  budgetary and cost control, manpower planning and
privatization. During the early stage of implementation, missions to each oblast would include an
institutional specialist from the Water Sector Study, and at the appropriate time supervision of this
component may be subsumed under the Water Sector Study, as least as far as Rostov is concerned. This
would ensure full coordination of the content, timing and direction of institutional strengthening prografns
for both projects. (See also Annexes 5.4. and 6.1).
4. Budget and Expenditure Management Component
Component Objectives
3.43         Consulting services would be provided to assist oblast and raion governments to improve
budgetary management and expenditure. This would include the development of a computerized Model
Budgeting System and improvements in fiscal relations between the oblast and raion governments. The
results would be used to reform budgetary and expenditure management processes for social expenditures.
This work would be closely coordinated with the introduction and monitoring of pilot financing reforms
to be introduced as part of the health component (see para. 3.32) and outlined in Annex 3.4.
Rationale
3.44         Annex 1.3 includes a discussion of budgetary processes at oblast level. Intra-oblast fiscal
relations are currently a function of negotiated budgeting, based on a set of traditional norms and
dominated by past allocations. The formats in which budgets are presented are inadequate as "stand-
alone" transparent documents. Sufficient detail is not requested, and it is not feasible to prepare detailed
reports manually without errors. This creates the appearance of many gray areas in the budget which
are not clearly justified, and therefore, are subject to arbitrary cuts by the oblast. Meanwhile, raions
reallocate money provided by the oblast for targeted programs to other programs without requesting
approval from the oblast on a timely basis. The timeliness of requesting approvals can be greatly
improved by an automated process.
3.45         In addition to reformed budgetary mechanics, reforming expenditure policies requires an
analysis of options for reducing, preferably eliminating, subsidies of all types, and placing greater reliance
on user-charges and/or privatization of service provision etc. For expenditures that remain a budgetary
responsibility, there need to be clear rules as to which level of government carries the responsibility.
Budget decisions should greatly reduce and preferably eliminate the use of traditional expenditure norms,
and should find other ways to ensure that the implications of investment for future recurrent expenditures



30                                                                              CHAPTER 3
are considered before investments are approved. On the revenue side it is necessary to analyze and
present options for ways to increase local revenues, for example, land and property taxes. More
transparent transfer mechanisms to redistribute revenues to poorer raions, which would also provide a
greater incentive to better budgetary management at the raion level, need to be developed. Mechanisms
are required to protect the poorest raions against a collapse of services if revenues decline dramatically.
An appropriate borrowing policy needs to be established.
Swnmary Description
3.46          Assistance would be provided with respect to the following:
(a)    Local revenues: Identify those local taxes which have significant potential and
prepare for their introduction and administration; formulate financing and cost
recovery strategies for public services for which charges are to be levied;
formulate policies for the use of borrowed funds;
(b)    Budgetformulation: Develop budgetary forecasting models which enable the
oblast to test the probable effects on revenues and expenditures of alternative
economic assumptions and policy strategies; consolidate budgets to encompass
all financial transactions at the sub-national level, including those relating to
extra-budgetary funds; review and improve procedures for drawing up annual
budgets; develop a medium-term financial programming system;
(c)    Expenditure management/budgetary control:  Devise adequate means of
controlling and monitoring expenditure and revenues against budget
allocations/targets, including systems of regular financial management reports,
supported by appropriate formal financial regulations. Implement controls on
restricted account for expenditures like utilities and seasonal expenditures.
Review self-governance legislation to possibly change expenditure authority based
on expenditure items and sub-national government; and,
(d)    Review social expenditure policy with a view to identifying areas of budgetary
expenditure for which expenditure authority might be decentralized, or wholly
privatized, or made in some way more efficient. (See Annex 3.4 on Health
Financing for a discussion of reforms that would be piloted under this project.)
3.47         The hardware component comprises 50 computers, network equipment and software in
each oblast (10 for each city or raion). System requirements are presented in Annex 3.6.
Public Finance Training
3.48          A training workshop for one week, for government budgeting and financial reporting
would be included in this component in each oblast. The course would be designed and presented by
practitioners and professors. Theory would be the first segment of the course, and followed with case
studies developed and led by practitioners. In addition, a one-month study tour is planned for about 15
financiers in each oblast.



CHAPTER 3                                                                                31
Consulting Services
3.49          A total of 44 person-months of consulting services would be required to complete this
component in both oblasts. About 192 person-months of local consulting services would be included for
both oblasts.
5. Monitoring and Evaluation Component
3.50          Annex 3.7 lists performance indicators for the project objectives as a whole and for each
of the three sectors. Responsibility for such routine monitoring--i.e., for collecting the data listed in the
third column of the Table of Indicators--would be that of the Project Bureau in each oblast. At
Negotiations. the Government and the oblasts confirmed their acceptance of these performance indicators
as the basis for routine monitoring. In addition there would be Consultants' reports and regular
supervision of the budget and expenditure management component. The Central Project Implementation
Unit (CPIU) in Moscow, reporting to the MINNAT would oversee an annual report on the project.
Causes of delays and actions to accelerate implementation would be identified by the Project Bureaus in
consultation with the CPIU.
3.51          Since this would be the first World Bank project with investments in any type of social
infrastructure in Russia, as well as representing several other innovations in implementation processes,
evaluation both of the process of project implementation and of its impact is extremely important.
MINNAT would have responsibility for recruiting academic institutions in each oblast to collaborate in
designing and implementing a series of studies to ensure that the experience of each oblast could be
evaluated on a comparative basis. Advice from foreign academics or consulting firms with experience
in the design, implementation and analysis of similar work elsewhere would be drawn on. The broad
objectives would be to assess: (a) what could be improved in the implementation of the on-going project,
and (b) lessons for the design of future projects.
3.52          The evaluation would be based on structured interviews with stakeholders. Policy makers
and implementors, such as mayors, deputy governors, politicians and financial officers in the oblast, raion
and city administrations, would be interviewed with respect to the overall shape of the project. Questions
to these stakeholders would include: Is there evidence that the sectoral mix of subprojects was very
different from what might have prevailed if there had been no constraints? What would be the results
if similar projects in the future offered a different or a wider menu to communities? What would have
been the consequence of changing the terms on which communities received finance for subprojects? Are
there any continuing constraints to wider community participation in project design?
3.53          Sector-specific stakeholders such as oblast and raion officials in charge of health,
education and water supply, school authorities, parents, hospital staff and patients in specific subprojects
would be interviewed concerning what they considered to be most important among selection criteria for
subprojects, and the extent to which these had been met, and component-specific questions designed to
complement routine measures of output in assessing the outcomes listed in the fourth column of Annex
3.7. They would also be asked to evaluate the preparation period (too long/short, use of preparation
funds, adequacy of consultation with stakeholders, etc.).



32                                                                               CHAPTER 3
3.54          Jointly with the CPIU, the oblast Project Bureaus would organize a Mid-Term Project
Review prior to December 31, 1998. It would endeavor to draw preliminary conclusions from the
monitoring and evaluation with respect to the future operation of the project and it would offer an
opportunity for the oblasts to exchange their experiences and possibly learn from each other. It would
give specific guidance on: (a) the selection of the unidentified component; (b) whether the project
management structure should be continued in its present form; (c) whether implementation procedures
have been developed that might usefully be adopted for other oblast investments; (d) implications of the
findings of the budgetary and expenditure management component, and health financing innovations, for
future fiscal and financial practices in the oblasts and raions; and (e) what, if any, measures might be
needed to ensure project sustainability. It would summarize the lessons for replicability of the project
to other oblasts.
6. Preparation of Future Projects
3.55          It is anticipated that, if the project results are regarded as successful, this project would
be followed by others of a similar type. A follow-on project might focus on oblasts contiguous to
Novosibirsk and Rostov, to maximize these oblasts' capacity to absorb the lessons from this project. (It
might also widen competition among design firms and contractors.) Close proximity of project oblasts
would also simplify supervision. The project includes US$1.25 million for consulting services to
facilitate the preparation of a second project. This component would be administered by the CPIU.



IV. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Administration at the Federal Level
4.1          The Federal Government's responsibilities would be exercised by the Ministry of
Nationalities and Federal Affairs (MINNAT), through a Central Project Implementation Unit (CPIU)
which would have oversight and coordination responsibility for the administration of the project, and
would be responsible for ensuring that the Agreement between the Government and the World Bank
would be carried out in an efficient and effective manner. A Project Bureau (PB) established in each
oblast would have the responsibility for the implementation of those subproject components contained in
their respective subsidiary agreements. The Project Preparation Unit, established with financing from
a Japanese Grant (No. TF025243, dated November 2, 1994) would be expanded into a central juridically
independent unit (CPIU). Directors of these units have been nominated and approved by the Bank. At
Negotiations, the Government submitted to the Bank for its approval the Draft Charter of the CPIU
(which will serve as a model for the two PBs) and the further steps necessary for the legal establishment
of these three units were agreed. The Government also provided assurances that the CPIU and the PBs
would be adequately staffed and maintained throughout the project implementation period. A Condition
of Loan Effectiveness would be the legal establishment of the CPIU, and the appointment of its Director
and key staff.
4.2           The MINNAT's responsibilities would include:
(a)    Establishment and Chairmanship of an Inter-Ministerial Working Group. Membership
includes relevant Federal Ministries--Education, Health, Construction, Environment,
Economy and Finance. The Group's focus would be a technical one. It would discuss
proposed methodological and financial innovations, review reports on the progress of the
project, and help to disseminate any useful lessons that can be derived from activities in
each sector or for the preparation of similar projects.
(b)    Project Administration. The CPIU would maintain a Special Account (for eligible
expenditures under WBF) and ensure timely replenishment of subsidiary Project Accounts
in each oblast. It would oversee the work of the finance sections of each PB. It would
establish an appropriate financial accounts system to provide information on the proper
receipt and use of funds in accordance with the Loan Agreement. It would also
coordinate training programs. A CPIU architect or engineer would review civil works
documents, ensure consistency across oblasts and assist the oblast technical units with
problem-solving, training and identifying specialists where required.   A  CPIU
procurement specialist would monitor the procurement activities of oblast PBs, provide
advice where required and assist the evaluation of bids for works and goods and the
selection process for consultant services, as appropriate.
(c)    Monitoring and Evaluation. Activities would include: (i) submitting semi-annual progress
reports to the Government and the World Bank on implementation progress including
works in progress, procurement of goods and services, and disbursements by each oblast
(based on data from the local PBs); (ii) organizing (jointly with oblast PBs) a mid-term



34                                                                                CHAPTER 4
review (see para 3.54); (iii) contracting special studies of project benefits, to be carried
out by Russian and foreign experts; (iv) preparation of an Implementation Completion
Report; and (v) initiating requests on the Government's behalf for Bank review, should
modifications in the project design be required.
(d)    Representation on the Advisory Board in each oblast. The MINNAT would monitor
decision-making, and the overall effectiveness of project implementation.
(e)    Assisting Replication of the Project in other oblasts. Activities would include: (i) the
development of a Project Manual as a starting point for similar activities elsewhere in
Russia. This would be based on the Operational Manuals that will be developed by the
two PBs; (ii) soliciting interest in the project's methods and achievements from other
oblasts; and (iii) administering project preparation funds for these oblasts.  At
Negotiations, the Government confirmed that the Project Manual would be submitted to
the Bank for its review no later than September 1998.
B. Project Administration at the Oblast Level
4.3           Implementation of specific components as set forth in the Subsidiary Loans would be the
responsibility of Novosibirsk and Rostov Oblasts. To carry out this work, a PB and an Advisory Board
(NAB and RAB) would be established in each oblast, as a condition of effectiveness of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements.
Project Bureau
4.4           Each Project Bureau would report directly to a First Deputy Governor. It would have
an independent juridical status, free from oblast regulations limiting numbers of oblast employees, and
allow for adequate pay to attract qualified and highly motivated personnel. The PBs would be established
initially for three years. At the Mid-Term Project Review (para. 3.54), a decision would be taken on
whether to merge its functions as a part of the administration organization or to maintain its separate
status. Incremental operating costs, including office facilities, of the PBs has been included in the WBF
Project cost and eligible expenditures may be reimbursed from the proceeds of the Loan.
4.5           Each Project Bureau would have three sections. The PB Implementation Sections would
include an architect, an engineer, a site specialist, and one to three junior staff. These staff would be
trained in all aspects of World Bank procurement procedures and would be assisted by a procurement
specialist.it' It would oversee all technical aspects of implementation, and would represent the oblast in
any formal contracts. They would be required to meet periodically with the clients, such as local sectoral
departments and the directors of facilities selected for rehabilitation. The PB staff would normally
determine whether it would attend particular meetings between clients and designers or contractors, but
would be required to do so if requested by the client or consultants. This section would work closely
with a Finance Section which would be responsible for maintaining an account in a local bank (the Project
Account) to be periodically replenished from the Special Account, for eligible WBF Project work, and
t" Training of Preparation Unit Staff has been given by The Crown Agents in Moscow (with assistance from
the U.K. Know-How Fund), and new Bureau staff would receive similar training.



CHAPTER 4                                                                              35
into which the oblast would make its budgetary contribution to the project. This section would be
responsible for establishing an acceptable accounts system which would be audited on an annual basis.
It would be responsible for ensuring prompt payment to locally-based contractors and/or other appropriate
payments. It would be thoroughly familiar with World Bank disbursement procedures and auditing
requirements.
4.6           Each Project Bureau would also contain a Planning Section. The Section, which would
include a senior specialist in project evaluation and preparation and an assistant, and would draw on the
staff of sectoral departments and local consultants where needed, would oversee the selection of staff for
the design of subprojects. It would be responsible for ensuring that clients actively participate at the
design stage of subprojects. This section would also organize the collection of data required for the
measuring of outputs listed in Annex 3.7 on Performance Indicators. It would also be responsible for
developing the Operational Manual into a document that would serve future needs in the oblast, and
would assist the CPIU to develop a more general Project Manual to use for replication in other oblasts.
It should provide this document to the CPIU not later than September 1997.
4.7          A major part of the work of the Planning Section, beginning in the second year of the
project, would be the appraisal of a new set of subprojects to be proposed by the oblast sectoral
departments. At Negotiations, the Government confirmed that: (i) the basis for their selection and
appraisal would be the selection criteria as set out in Annexes 3.1, 3.3 and 3.5 (possibly modified in the
light of experience and agreed with the Bank); (ii) a list of these subprojects, sufficient to complete the
utilization of the loan, would be available for discussion at the mid-term project review scheduled for
about June 1998, and would be reviewed at that time, or earlier, by the Advisory Board; and (iii) detailed
design of each subproject would not begin until an appraisal report on it had been reviewed by the Bank.
At Ne2otiations, the Government also confirmed that except with the agreement of the Bank, these
proposals would ensure that: (a) no more than 40% or less than 25% of the Loan funds would be
allocated for any one sector; and (b) not more than 50% of the loan in each sector would be for
subprojects in the administrative capital of each oblast.
4.8          Each PB would be advised by an internationally-recognized consulting firm, to be selected
by the oblast authorities in accordance with agreed procedures. The consulting firm would provide an
engineer, an architect and a procurement specialist who would be stationed in the each oblast, with the
ability to call on other specialized advisors from the selected firm as might be required. It is anticipated
(although not required) that such firm or firms would form a joint venture with a Russian firm, and would
ensure that the standards adopted in every facet of WBF are consistent with those as set forth in the Loan
Agreement and to the extent practicable also for NBF. As a part of any joint venture, expatriate
specialists would train their local counterparts in international procurement and financial procedures,
including those of the World Bank and in addition would provide an independent review on the technical
aspects of the project, these specialists would:
(a)    provide training and advice to ensure that designs are of high standard and bidding
documents conform with agreed World Bank guidelines, where required;
(b)    provide assistance with the procurement process as may be required; and



36                                                                              CHAPTER 4
(c)    make periodic site visits to ensure that implementation of the subprojects involving civil
works are being carried out efficiently and effectively and to provide an independent
verification of progress of each subproject.
4.9           The training and advisory program would include training of architects, engineers, civil
works contractors, site supervisors and the clients in order to involve the clients in an active role to
ensure that the work is satisfactorily carried out as set forth in the subproject agreements.
The Advisory Boards
4.10          Each Advisory Board would meet on a regular basis (at least twice a year) to review the
progress of implementing the project. Its role would be strictly advisory, without formal votes, and its
views would be non-binding. Accurate records of its discussions of subprojects would, however, be
maintained and used by decision-makers in guiding the selection of future subprojects. The Board would
be chaired by the First Deputy Governor. It is expected that the majority of its members would be
prominent local citizens. The MINNAT would be represented on the Board. Meetings would be attended
by senior oblast officials concerned with their particular sector and by the Director and senior staff of
the PB.
4.11          While its meetings would be private, regular press conferences would be held to
disseminate their outcomes, and to foster public awareness and understanding of the project and of the
benefits that it provides to its citizens. In Novosibirsk, the Board members have been selected and the
in Rostov oblast, the selection process is underway. At Negotiations, it was agreed that meetings of the
Advisory Boards would be held at least twice each year until the Mid-Term Review.
4.12          Each oblast may decide whether to ask its Advisory Board to review and comment on the
initial subproject list. Because of the progress that has already been made in preparing these subprojects,
it would not be expected that this discussion would lead to any changes but this discussion could affect
and improve the criteria used for future subprojects. Each Board would receive the list of subprojects
to be financed from the unidentified portion of the project before the mid-term review, so that its
comments would be available to the Bank at the time of the review.
Project Supervision
4.13          World Bank Supervision missions would monitor all aspects of project implementation
along with the CPIU and the PBs to ensure due diligence of the Borrower in achieving the objectives of
the project. In particular, WBF would be reviewed for compliance with the Loan Agreement. Review
would include, inter alia, the monitoring of procurement activities, contract management, and record-
keeping, and use of the Special Account. Budgetary provision for adequate funds in the Health sector
for recurrent costs (incremental operating costs) financed under WBF would also be carefully reviewed.
Project Launch workshops would be undertaken in both Novosibirsk and Rostov Oblasts on or about June
1996, and a Mid-Term Review (see para. 3.54) would be undertaken prior to December 31, 1998. Upon
completion of the project, an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be prepared. All activities
would place special emphasis on the procurement progress and financial reporting.
4.14          The consultants to each PB would visit each subproject site regularly, and would report
their findings to MINNAT and to the Bank via the CPIU as a part of periodic progress reports. The



CHAPTER 4                                                                             37
consultants would also carry out prior review of all proposed subprojects in order to streamline and
accelerate the Bank's review process. However, as this project is the first of its kind in Russia and
comprises three sectors, inter alia, about 29 weeks and two supervision missions are anticipated in FY
1997, with 20-35 person-weeks and two missions in each FY through 2002 followed by a mission in
FY2003 to discuss an ICR of the Project (Annex 4.2).
Flow of Funds, On-Lending and Repayment Arrangements
4.15   Except for the funds provided directly to MINNAT, proceeds from the Bank Loan would be on-
lent to the two participating oblasts. On-lending arrangements would be reflected in Subsidiary Loan
Agreements between the Ministry of Finance and the two oblasts. (This agreement would also include
a Schedule setting out the implementation obligations of each oblast.) Each oblast would be responsible
for repaying 50% of the funds provided to it. The repayment period would be 12 years including a three
year grace period. Interest paid by the oblasts will be at a rate which is not more than 2.5% above the
rate charged by the Bank on the Loan. Payments by each oblast would include its share of the Laon
committment fee.  The present state of macroeconomic instability makes it impossible to devise
appropriate ruble-based terms, and so repayment obligations would be denominated in US dollars.
Repayment obligations would be small in relation to the current budgets of the oblasts, and in relation
to the budgets that might be reasonably expected at the end of the Bank Loan grace period (see Tables
4R and 4N in Annex 1.3). A Condition of Loan Effectiveness would be the effectiveness of at least one
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Ministry of Finance and an oblast that reflect these terms and
obligations. A Condition of Disbursement to any oblast would be the effectiveness of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between Ministry of Finance and that oblast.
4.16         Financial arrangements between oblasts and raions have been agreed in principle, but
details still need to be determined. Each Oblast Administration would be responsible for paying the
budgetary cash contribution of 10% of WBF subproject costs into the project account maintained by the
PB in advance of disbursements from that account. At Negotiations, the Government confirmed that each
oblast would make its budgetary cash contribution of 10% of WBF subproject costs into a Project
Account on a schedule to be agreed annually with the Bank in advance of anticipated disbursements.
4.17   Repayment obligations by beneficiary administrations and organizations would need to differ
according to their revenue capacities, but oblast officials agree that it is desirable that all beneficiaries
of the project recognize that the World Bank Loan has to be repaid. This should increase a sense of
ownership of project facilities and encourage future maintenance. In the case of budget-financed
subprojects (such as all the education subprojects), it is feasible for the budgets of major major
municipalities to assume the entire repayment and debt service obligations of the oblast incurred for that
subproject. In contrast, the budgetary expenditures of many raions already exceed their entire tax
revenues by very large amounts and they have little opportunity under current Russian law and practice
to increase these revenues. For these repayment obligations should be smaller, but nevertheless should
not be less than 10% of their share of the loan. Even if the effect of this small amount is merely to
increase the implicit subsidy from the oblast it is important that the investment not be regarded as an
entirely free gift, and it is also possible that a later reform to the system of property ownership and
taxation may change the revenue situation of such local governments, so that they can develop some
repayment capacity. Repayment obligations would therefore vary depending on the revenue situation of
the beneficiary agency. These obligations would be reflected in sub-loan agreements between the oblast
and the beneficiary. At Negotiations, the Government confirmed that sub-loan agreements would be



38                                                                            CHAPTER 4
signed between the oblasts and the beneficiary agency before beginning to implement any subproject
(except where work has already begun as part of project preparation).
4.18         For education subprojects, the beneficiary agency would be a local government
department. This may also be the case for some of the health subprojc. However, for at least some
health subprojects a proposed pilot financial mechanism described above (para. 3.32) and in detail in
Annex 3.4 would, for the purposes of the loan, replace the local health department with the Territorial
Compulsory Health Insurance Fund (TCHIF). For these subprojects the TCHIF would on-lend the
proceeds of the loan to providers, and would itself be repaid by adjustments in the payments it makes to
these providers. Eventually the TCHIF would be responsible for repayment of such loans from the
revenues of medical facilities.  In the water supply and sanitation sector, there are corporatized
vodokanals (water and sanitation public utilities) in the principal cities that are organized as public
corporations, for which cost-recovery is scheduled, by law, to be completed by year 2005. These entities
would be required to make full repayment to the oblast. However, most raions operate water systems
through small government departments, which have only limited possibilities of cost-recovery, and their
obligations would need to be substantially lower.



V. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Project Costs
Summary of Project Costs
5.1    Total Project Cost is estimated at US$288.1 million which is composed of WBF (IBRD Loan plus
Government cash contribution and applicable duties and taxes) and NBF (financed by the Government
on a parallel basis). The summary of costs by components is shown in Table 5.1 and a summary of
project costs by category of expenditure for WBF is shown in Table 5.2.  Annex 5.1 (Tables 1-13)
contains additional details of project costs, including a cost breakdown by oblast and the CPIU.
Table 5.1. Components Project Cost Summary
(in US$ '000)                 %% Total
(in USS '000_       =       Foreign      Base
Components                  Local          Foreign         Total      Exchange    Costs
1. Education - Rostov                        36,667.0        3,799.0      40,466.0       9            15
2. Education - Novosibirsk                   33,787.9        4,230.0      38,017.9       11           14
3. Health - Rostov                           28,519.7       20,773.4      49,293.2       42           19
4. Health - Novosibirsk                      32,850.6       24,565.5      57,416.1       43           22
5. Water and Sanitation - Rostov             23,662.6        7,085.7      30,748.3       23           12
6. Water and Sanitation - Novosibirsk        21,717.1        6,613.2      28,330.3       23           11
7. Expenditure Management - Rostov              597.0        1,227.0       1,824.0       67           I
8. Expenditure Management - Novosibirsk         597.0        1,227.0       1,824.0       67           1
9. Project Implementation Unit - Moscow       4,664.4        1,780.0      6,444.4        28           2
10. Project Bureau - Rostov                   4,428.2        1,041.0      5,469.2        19           2
11. Project Bureau - Novosibirsk              4,495.6        1,041.0      5,536.6        19           2
TOTAL BASE COSTS (WBF & NBF)                 191,987.2      73,382.8     265,370.0       28          100
Physical Contingencies                        9,348.5        5,418.1      14,766.5       37           6
Price Contingencies                                          8,001.6      8,001.6       100           3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS I/                       201,335.6      86,302.4     288,133.1       30          109
1/ Price contingencies are based on standard iflation estimates and physical contingencies are 5% for consultant services, training and equipment, and 15%
for civil works. Costs include US$40.69 million equivalent in duties and taxes.



40                                                                                             CHAPTER 6
Table 5.2. Summary of Project Cost By Expenditure Category
(in US$ millon)            Foreign       % of
Costs as %    Base
Expenditure Category              Local      Foreign       Total      of total      Costs
1. Civil Works:                                  97.6       21.13        118.73         18          49
2. Goods:
(a) Equipment, Vehicles and Supplies-         38.66        24.70       63.36         39           26
(b) Health Sector Consumables-                12.91        14.13       27.04         52           11
-   -   -- - -  -     -- - - - - - - - -   -_-- - - -  - - - - -
Sub-total-Goods:                               51.57       38.83        90.4          43           37
3. Consulting Services:
(a) International-                             0.05        10.11        10.16         99           4
(b) Local-                                    15.61                     15.61                      7
Sub-total Consulting Services:                15.66        10.11       25.77          39          11
4. Training:
(a) International-                             0.28         3.32        3.60          92          1.5
(b) Local-                                     1.63                     1.63                      0.7
Sub-total Training:                           1.91         3.32         5.23         63          2.2
5. Operating Expenses                             2.0                      2.0                      0.8
TOTAL BASE COST (WBF) 1/                        168.74       73.39       241.13        30          100
Physical Contingencies                         9.35         5.42        14.77        37           6
Price Contingencies                                         8.00        8.00        100           3
Sub-total (WBF) Contingencies                     9.35       13.42        22.77        59           9
TOTAL (WBF) 2/                                  178.09       86.81       264.90        33
TOTAL (NBF)                                      23.24                   23.24                           l
TOTAL PROJECT COST (WBF+NBF)                    201.33       86.81       288.14        30
1/ Base cost date-March 1996.
2/ Includes duties and taxes of US$40.69 million equivalent.
Basis of Cost Estimates
5.2             The costs for Civil Works, Goods (equipment, vehicles and supplies) and Services,
including local and overseas training have been based on current prices and recent fees paid in similar
projects financed by the Bank and other donor agencies in the Russian Federation. Costs for foreign
consultants have been estimated on the basis of the cost of fees, accommodation and subsistence in the
Russian Federation and include salaries, housing, subsistence, transportation, translation and interpretation
services, and miscellaneous fees. Base cost estimates reflect prices in March 1996.



CHAPTER 5                                                                             41
Foreign Exchange Component
5.3          For WBF, the foreign exchange component was estimated as follows: (a) Civil Works-
18%; (b) Goods (equipment, vehicles, and supplies), an average of 43%; and (c) Consulting Services:
foreign consultants-100%; local consultants and local training-O%; and overseas training and study tours-
100%. The foreign exchange component WBF is estimated at US$86.8 million (39% of total WBF, net
of duties and taxes).
Contingency Allowances
5.4          For WBF, physical contingencies representing about 6% of the base cost of the project
were based on an allowance of 15% for civil works and 5% for goods and services. Price contingencies
represent about 3 % of the base project cost plus physical contingencies. Project costs and contingencies
are estimated in US dollars only, based on World Bank forecasts that after 1996 the differences between
domestic and international inflation would be offset by frequent changes in the exchange rate and, that
changes in the country's general price level will match expected annual increases in international prices.
Annual international inflation rates used are as follows: 1997, 3.8%; 1998, 3.0% 1999, 2.5%; 2000,
2.3%; 2001, 2.5%, 2002, 2.0%, and 2003, 2.0%. In making these estimates, it is recognized that in
countries which have severe price inflation and have not yet completed a very major economic
adjustment, there is a serious danger of inflation of domestic costs in dollar terms. If price contingencies
are inadequate, the number of unidentified subprojects that can be financed from the loan would have to
be reduced.
Custom Duties and Taxes
5.5    WBF would be subject to duties and taxes estimated at US$40.7 million equivalent. These
estimates are based on an estimated 20% tax (VAT) levied on all local contracts for civil works and
goods. For imported goods (equipment, vehicles, materials and supplies), an average of 20% of the
estimated cost has been used to calculate customs duties (this average percentage is based on recent duties
paid by foreign firms for similar type of works and goods). Salaries of local consultants include 41 %
health and unemployment insurance and pension contribution. Project costs include an average of 30%
personal income tax on local consulting services. For foreign consultants, it is anticipated that due to the
short term assignments (less than 183 days per annum), local tax would not be applicable. Customs
duties and taxes were not calculated for the unidentified subprojects under either WBF or NBF.
B. Project Fincing
5.6    The proposed Loan of US$200.0 million would finance 90% of the cost of WBF net of duties
and taxes. The oblast administrations would finance US$24.2 million (10% of WBF) in cash and
US$40.69 million equivalent representing duties and taxes expected to be levied on the WBF. The Loan
would finance 100% of the foreign exchange cost and about 82% of local costs for the project, excluding
duties/taxes. NBF represents about 8% of the total project (WBF & NBF) of which the Government
would finance 100%. Table 5.3 details the proposed financial arrangements.



42                                                                               CHAPTER 5
Table 5.3. Financing Plan
Local    |    Foreign           Total
(in USS milLion)
WBF
IBRD (90% of WBF-net of duties and taxes)    113.19            86.81         200.00
Government
Cash Contribution (10%)                   24.21                           24.21
Duties and Taxes                         40.69                            40.69
Sub-total Government                     64.90                            64.90
TOTAL WBF                                    178.09           86.81          264.90
NBF
Government (in-kind):                         23.24                           23.24
TOTAL PROJECT (WBF+NBF)                      201.33           86.81          288.14
Retroactive Financing
5.7           Retroactive financing up to US$15.0 million (8% of the Loan Amount) for works, goods
and services procured after March 1, 1996, under WBF, would qualify for retroactive financing provided
that payments would be for expenditures eligible under the Loan Agreement and that procedures for
procurement for Works, Goods and Services, and processing and clearance comply with the Bank's
Procurement and Use of Consultant Guidelines.  Documentation for expenditures claimed under
retroactive financing would be the same as those for disbursement against payment made after the Loan
Agreement is signed. The Executive Directors were originally notified through the Monthly Operational
Summary dated January 2, 1996. The purpose is to ensure that pilot subprojects would be implemented
during the 1996 building season.
Incremental Operating Costs
5.8           WBF includes the financing of incremental operating costs for: (a) the Health sector
consisting of consumable goods (supplies) required to operate diagnostic and imaging equipment to be
provided under WBF (US$23.8 million excluding duties and taxes; these consumables would be partially
financed by the IBRD); (b) the CPIU (US$0.75 million); and (c) the two PBs (US$0.62 million each) for
office rent and supplies, training materials, maintenance of office equipment, communications (including
international telephone calls and facsimile transmissions), and vehicle operation and maintenance.
Recurrent Cost Implications and Sustainability
5.9           Numerous proposed subprojects would result in cost-saving to the entities involved,
especially in Water Supply sector, as discussed in Chapter VI, and in Annexes 3.3 and 3.5. In the Health
component, it is anticipated that cost-savings measures would require several years to achieve measurable



CHAPTER 5                                                                            43
results, and therefore, some addition recurrent costs would be created. This is not expected to add any
undue burden on the budgetary allocations of the agencies receiving assistance under the project. Another
element in sustainability is the continuation of new implementation practices. This would be supported
by the implementation of Government-financed subprojects in the later years of the project.
C. Procurement
Implementing Agencies
5.10         The CPIU would monitor and have oversight responsibility for all procurement activities,
inter alia, of the PBs while the oblast's PBs would have the primary responsibility for the procurement
under their portion of the project. They would be responsible for the procurement of goods and services
financed under the CPIU, including the supervisory engineer and the medical procurement consultant
(para. 5.24). The CPIU would also be responsible for the preparation of a proposed follow-up project.
5.11         The Project Bureaus in Rostov and Novosibirsk oblasts would be responsible for project
coordination, including procurement, in their respective oblasts, together with Departments of Education,
water and health, of the oblast, municipality or raion where procurement would take place. The
procurement of some water supply and medical equipment, benefitting institutions in both oblasts, would
be coordinated between the two Project Bureaus.
Suummary of Procurement Procedures
5.12         WBF. All civil works, goods and services to be financed under WBF would be procured
in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines-Procurement under IBRD Loans and Credits", dated January
1995 and "Guidelines-Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency", dated August, 1981. Standard Bidding Documents for Works, Goods, Supply and Installation,
Information Systems, Computer Systems, and Form of Contracts (Services) issued by the Bank would
be used to the extent practicable and as appropriate for the works, goods, specialized medical equipment,
computers, MIS, and services to be procured. Civil works, goods and services would be grouped to the
extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding. Major project elements, their estimated costs and
proposed methods of procurement summarized in Table 5.4 and Annex 5.3 contain a detailed procurement
plan and schedule of identified subprojects.



U4                                                                                                         CHAPTER 5
Table 5.4. Summary of Proposed Procurement Armngements"
(US$ Millions)
Intermational        National                                 1
Competitive       Competitive                       Total       Not Bank
Project Elanent vBidding                                  Bidding          Other         WBF          Financed      TOTAL
I.Civil Works                           73.10              58.60                        131.70         23.24         154.94
(56.20)           (45.98)                      (102.18)          (0)        (102.18)
2. Goods:
2.1 Equipment                         65.85              0.70           0.40"         66.95                        66.95
(54.09)            (0.60)          (0.30)       (54.99)                      (54.99)
2.2 Vehicles                           0.38                             0.80 "         1.18                         1.18
(0.33)                            (0.70)        (1.03)                       (1.03)
2.3  Incremental Health               30.24                                           30.24                        30.24
Operational Expenses            (10.53)                                         (10.53)                      (10.53)
3. Consultants Services                                                    26.33         26.33                        26.33
(22.77)      (22.77)                      (22.77)
4. Training                                                                  5.0          5.0                          5.0
(5.0)        (5.0)                        (5.0)
5. Recurrent Incremental
Operating Expenses                                                        2.0 7/       2.0                         2.0
(2.0)        (2.0)                        (2.0)
6. PPF Refinancing                                          0.25            1.25           1.5                         1.5
(0.25)         (1.25)         (1.5)                        (1.5)
TOTAL                                   169.57             59.55           35.78        264.90         23.24         288.14
(121.15)           (46.83)         (32.02)      (200.00)         (0)         (200.00)
Figures in parentheses are the respective anounts financed by the Bank.
1/ Includes contingencies and duties and taxes on identified subprojects only.
2/ includes un-identified subprojectr in proportion to other components.
3/ WBF is World Bank-financed portion of the project, which includes the IBRD loan plus Government cash contribution and
applicable duties and taxs.
4/ NBF consists of parael Government financing.
5/ National Shopping for off-the-shelf items.
6/ NationAl Shopping for ceespit emptying vehicles.
7/ National Shopping for off-shelf items; communications and transport cost.



CHAPTER 5                                                                             45
5.13         NBF. For civil works, goods and services to be financed in parallel under NBF (not
Bank-financed), the various Government agencies involved would be encouraged to follow the same
procurement procedures as required under WBF, although this would not be a mandated requirement
under this Loan/Project.
Unidentiried Project Components
5.14         WBF includes financing for subprojects (civil works and goods), not yet identified,
estimated at US$44.8 million (17% of total WBF). Procurement under these subprojects would follow
procurement procedures established for similar identified subprojects financed under WBF. The proposed
methods of procurement for the unidentified subprojects would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
Procurement of Civil Works (VVBF)
5.15         Civil works under WBF are estimated at US$131.7 million equivalent of which US$102.2
million (78% of civil works under WBF) represents the identified works and the balance of US$29.5
million representing civil works to be identified.
5.16         Civil works under WBF would be grouped in packages that would encourage international
competition, while at the same time taking into account the scattered locations, the need to carry out the
work without disrupting ongoing operations, and extreme climatic conditions (i.e., the relatively short
Russian construction season, which only extends from April to September in the Novosibirsk area-
somewhat longer in the Rostov area), all influencing the various starting dates and packaging. Award
of contracts for bid packages combining subprojects would be based on the lowest evaluated bid on
individual subprojects contained in the package or the lowest evaluated combined bid for all subprojects
contained in the package. Annex 5.3 details the proposed procurement plan and includes the packaging
and timetable for civil works in the identified subprojects.
5.17         Civil works consisting of both new and rehabilitated works would be procured utilizing
the methods described below. Civil works not yet identified would follow procurement procedures
established for identified civil works and such procedures (including packaging) would be subject to prior
review by the Bank.
(a)   International Competitive Bidding (pCB) procedures would be utilized for civil works
estimated to cost US$2.0 million equivalent and above for a total of about US$73.1
million (56% of total civil works). Included are two bid packages estimated to cost
between US$1.0 million and US$2.0 million, for the installation of chlorination systems
in Novosibirsk and for installation of specific water supply equipment in Rostov,
involving installation techniques and equipment not available in Russia. Fourteen
separate bid packages are planned under ICB for the identified subprojects.
(b)    National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures in accordance with the provisions of
para. 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines would be permitted for the procurement of civil
works that cannot be grouped in packages above US$2.0 million, for a total of about
US$58.6 million (45% of total civil works). Such works are more suitably procured
under NCB due to the works' scattered location over a large geographical area making



40                                                                             CHAPTER 5
it unlikely that international contractors would be interested in bidding. Thirty-one
separate bid packages are planned under NCB for the identified subprojects.
5.18         To encourage participation of the local construction industry and to familiarize local civil
works contractors in the competitive type bidding process, inter alia, the staff of the CPIU and the PBs
would carry out short training courses to firms who express interest in bidding (para. 4.7). Local
contractors are expected to participate in bidding on the subprojects in various bid packages. Annex 1.2
provides an overview of the structure and capacity of construction enterprises in both Novosibirsk and
Rostov Oblasts and concludes that there should be no difficulty in obtaining effective local competition
in the bidding for civil works under the project.
Procurement of Goods (WBF)
5.19         Goods (US$98.4 million) consisting of equipment (computers, other office equipment,
medical equipment and supplies, electrical and mechanical equipment for water supply and sanitation
sector; vehicles; etc.) would be procured utilizing the following methods of procurement. All lists of
goods and proposed grouping for procurement purposes would be subject to review by the Bank.
Identified goods represent about US$83.6 million (85%). Goods to be identified represent the balance
of US$14.8 million (15%). A schedule and packaging of goods for the identified subprojects is contained
in Annex 5.3. Goods not yet identified would follow procurement procedures established for identified
goods and such procedures would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
(a)   International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures would be utilized for goods estimated
to cost US$96.5 million (98% of total goods) for contracts above US$300,000 equivalent
each, and for vehicles (except cesspit emptying vehicles), regardless of their value.
Twenty-nine bid packages are planned under ICB for the identified subprojects, including
two contracts for supply of health sector consumables for operation of 11 health facilities.
(b)    National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures in accordance with the provisions of
para. 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines would be permitted for the procurement
of goods that cannot be grouped in packages above US$300,000 equivalent. This would
include such items as office equipment. NCB procurement would be permitted up to an
aggregate amount of US$1.0 million (about I % of total goods). Four bid packages are
planned under NCB for the identified subprojects
(c)    Natfional Shopping (NS) procedures for contracts up to US$50,000 equivalent each may
be used for locally available, off-the-shelf items of small value and standard
specifications, mainly office supplies, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.5 million. In
addition, the procurement of cesspit emptying vehicles estimated at US$0.8 million would
be procured using NS due to their specialized technical requirements and the need for
compatibility with existing equipment. In accordance with para. 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines, at least three price quotations from qualified suppliers would be required.
(d)    Direct Contracting (DC) procedures, in accordance with para. 3.7 of the Procurement
Guidelines, would be permitted for the procurement of proprietary medical equipment,
supplies and spare parts, yet to be identified, with prior approval of the Bank.



CHAPTER 5                                                                               47
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
5.20          Contracts for Goods for WBF to be awarded on the basis of ICB, the Borrower may, as
set forth in the Loan Agreement, grant a margin of preference of up to 15% or the amount of applicable
customs duties, whichever is lower, to qualified domestic manufacturers of goods in accordance with
World Bank Procurement Guidelines (January 1995). Where appropriate, the technical specifications of
the equipment would be specified and the procurement packages would be designed so as not to preclude
domestic manufacturers from competing. It is anticipated that Russian suppliers and/or manufactures
would be competitive for the supply of goods.
Consulting Services (WBF)
5.21          WBF would include funds for about 37 person-years of international consultants (US$11.2
million) and about 350 person-years for local consultants (US$16.2 million) which would involve, inter
alia, project implementation support consisting of: design, supervision, procurement, auditing and other
studies, including preparation of a proposed follow-up project as contained in Annex 5.3. Draft Terms
of Reference (TOR) have been prepared (see Annex 5.4).
5.22          Consultants would be hired on terms and conditions (including review  of their
qualifications) in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency", dated August 1981, and Standard Forms of Contract, where applicable, would be utilized.
5.23         Individual consultants to the CPIU and the two PBs previously hired under the Japanese
Grants may be considered for further consultancy under the project where this would be more efficient
and effective than any alternative. Retention of the services of these consultants would require prior
review by the Bank on a case-by-case basis.
5.24          Architectural and engineering (A/E) services for the preparation of detailed designs of
civil works, and supervision of construction of schools; water assets; hospitals; and clinics would be
grouped into packages which, because of their size, would be attractive for international consulting firms
to submit proposals. Such international firm(s) would be encouraged (although not required) to enter into
joint ventures with national A/E firms. From time to time specialized assistance would also be required
in the Health component for the preparation of procurement documentation for medical equipment and
supplies.
Training (WBF)
5.25          For overseas training and study tours (US$4.0 millon) and local training (US$1.7 million)
financed under WBF (total of US$5.7 million), the qualifications of candidates along with their course
of study, proposed training institutions and costs, and in-country local training courses would be subject
to prior review by the Bank. Staff would be selected on the basis of established criteria, to be agreed
upon with the Bank as part of the annual reviews. Details of the proposed training are contained in
Annex 5.3.
5.26         The Project Bureaus would organize workshops for all interested contractors on the
methodology of completing bidding documents.



48                                                                           CHAPTER 5
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
5.27         A PPF of US$1.5 million (Agreement Letter P275-0-RU, dated November 20, 1995) was
granted to the Russian Federation to finance further preparation of the Project (WBF) and would provide
funds for: (a) Consulting Services to assist in the design of (i) two health facilities, (ii) three water supply
and sanitation facilities, (iii) an educational management system, and (iv) the establishment of the two
Project Bureaus and the Central Project Implementation Unit; and (b) For the procurement of (i)
equipment to support to an educational Management Information System, and (ii) leak detection
equipment to enable engineers to complete designs of improvement to the water and sanitation
infrastructure.
Notification of Business Opportunities
5.28         A General Procurement Notice (GPN) would be published in the UN publication
"Development Business" and, as appropriate, would be updated and published annually thereafter. For
civil works and goods to be procured through ICB, individual bidding opportunities would also be
advertised in one or more major local newspapers 30 days prior to availability of bidding documents and
transmitted to potential bidders who expressed an interest in bidding. These local advertisements would
be in the English and Russian language. The local advertising procedures would be repeated for all
bidding packages using NCB. These advertisements would be in the Russian language.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
5.29         Scheduling of Procurement. Prior to the issuance of any invitation for bidding, the
proposed procurement plan (Annex 5.3) for the project (WBF) would be reviewed by the CPIU and the
PBs and the Bank advised of any proposed modifications for its review in accordance with the provisions
of para. I of Appendix I of the Procurement Guidelines of January 1995. Procurement of all works,
goods and services would be undertaken in accordance with the agreed procurement plan which would
adjusted as appropriate and included as a part of the semi-annual report and would be subject to Bank
review.
5.30         Prior Bank review:
(a) Civil works and goods. Prior review of the bidding documents for civil works and goods,
including review of evaluations and recommendations for award of contracts, would be carried out for
all procurement utilizing ICB procedures. For NCB, all bidding documents above US$1.0 million
equivalent; and (b) all documents and recommendations involving direct contracting would require prior
Bank review. Accordingly, about 75% (by value) of procurement transactions would be subject to prior
review by the Bank. Master list of goods to be procured would also be subject to prior review by the
Bank.
(b) Consultants. Terms of Reference for all consulting assignments would be subject to prior
Bank review.  Terms and conditions of contracts, invitation packages and evaluation reports of
assignments costing more than US$50,000 each for individual consultants, and US$100,000 each for
firms would be subject to prior review by the Bank. All documents and recommendations involving sole
source selection of consultants would also be subject to prior review. Accordingly, about 80% (by value)
of these transactions would be subject to prior review by the Bank.



CHAPTER 5                                                                             49
5.31         Post Review. In respect to each contract not covered by the above would be carried out
in accordance with para. 4 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines for Procurement, dated January 1995 and
would also be reviewed during the Bank's project supervision missions.
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR)
5.32         A CPAR for the Russia Federation is currently being discussed with the Government and
is expected to be issued about June 1996. For this proposed project, the Borrower would follow agreed
procurement procedures (in accordance with Bank Guidelines) as described above and as set forth in the
Loan Agreement.
D. Disbursement
Schedule
5.33         The proposed Loan would be disbursed over a period of six and one-half years which
includes six (6) months for finalization of accounts and submission of withdrawal applications. The
method of disbursement and schedule, shown in Tables 5.5 and 5.6. The Project is expected to be
completed by June 30, 2002, with a Loan Closing Date of December 31, 2002.
5.34         Disbursement procedures would be in accordance with those described in the
'Disbursement Handbook' and as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Method of Disbursement
5.35         A summary of the estimated disbursement is contained in Table 5.5 below.



50                                                                                CHAPTER 5
Table 5.5. Summary of Estimated Disbursements of IBRD Loan
(US$ million equivalent)
Amount of loan    Percent of expenditure
Category                     allocated           to be financed
1. Civil Works                               100.00                 75%
2. Goods:                                    50.00         100% of foreign
Equipment, Vehicles and Supplies                       expenditures; 100% of
local expenditure (ex-
factory) and 75 % of
local expenditures for
other items procured
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   lo cally
3. Consultants' Services                     22.20         100% of foreign and
65% of local
l_____________________________________ ___________________   expenditures
4. Training                                    5.00                100%
5. Health Sector                              11.00        100% of foreign and
(Incremental operating costs)                             75% of local
expenditures
6. Incremental                                 2.00                100%
Operating Expenses
7. Project Preparation Facility                1.50        Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.02 (c) of the
Loan Agreement.
8. Unallocated                                 8.30                  --
Total                                    200.00                 90%
Table 5.6. Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Bank
FBscan  Year             FY97       FY98      FY99    FYOO       FYOI    FY02    FY03
Annual                    7.0        22.5      47.0    49.0       35.5      29.5     9.5
Cumulative                7.0        29.5      76.5    125.5    161.0       190.5   200.0



CHAPTER 5                                                                            51
5.36         Disbursements would be fully documented except for items costing less than US$50,000
equivalent where certified Statements of Expenditures (SOE) would be used with payment from the
Special Account. Disbursement/procurement documents using SOE procedures would be retained by the
CPIU for a period of at least two (2) years after disbursement and made available to Bank staff and to
auditors.
Special Account
5.37         To facilitate payments of small and medium size amounts in foreign currency and all
payments in local currency, the CPIU would open and maintain a Special Account in US dollars in a
commercial bank acceptable to IBRD. The selection process and criteria would follow the Bank's
standardized procedure. The maximum authorized allocation of the Special Account would be US$15.0
million. The initial amount to be deposited at the beginning of disbursements would be US$5.0 million.
This amount would be increased to the maximum authorized allocation once cumulative disbursements
have reached US$20.0 million. The allocation to the Special Account would be replenished on the basis
of satisfactory documentary evidence, to be provided to IBRD by the CPIU, of payments made from the
account for works, goods and services required for WBF. In addition, monthly bank statements of the
Special Account, which have been reconciled by the CPIU, would accompany all replenishment
applications. Payments not made through the Special Account, either through the issuance of special
commitments or direct payments to suppliers, would be at a minimum US$50,000. The CPIU would be
responsible for monitoring any funds from this special account which would be transferred to the PB's
Project Accounts, which would be in commercial banks acceptable to the IBRD, and replenishment
procedures, etc., as outlined above would apply.
E. Reporting
Semi-Annual Reports
5.38         Semi-annual progress reports covering all components would be prepared by the CPIU
and sent to the World Bank within one month of the end of each six (6) month period (i.e., by end-July
and end-January). The format would be mutually agreed upon prior to the date of the first submission
and would be modified as necessary during the implementation of the project. The purpose of the reports
would be to provide managers with timely information on implementation of projects components and
lesson learned. The CPIU would set up reporting guidelines and deadlines for the receipt of information
from the PBs in each oblast, in order to prepare the report. The first report would be issued before the
first World Bank supervision mission. The reports would include, inter-alia:
(a)  progress achieved against agreed implementation and disbursement schedules, and key
performances indicators;
(b)  the status of all contracts with special attention given to procurement activities;
(c)  work programs and proposed expenditures for the coming quarter;
(d)  status of compliance with covenants and major agreements under the Project;
(e)  description of issues and problem areas along with recommended corrective actions;
(f)  description of progress in resolving previous problems and addressing earlier recommendations;
and
(g)  status of the Special Account.



52                                                                           CHAPTER 5
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
5.39         The CPIU would prepare an ICR upon completion of the Project and in any event not
later than six (6) months after final disbursement of the Loan Proceeds. Included in the ICR would be
an assessment on the execution and initial operation of the project, costs and benefits derived or to be
derived, the performance of the Borrower, the Bank and other agencies involved in the project regarding
their respective obligations and accomplishments, and including lessons learned. The ICR would include
plans for the future operation of the facilities which had been financed under the project, including the
indicators for monitoring and evaluating future operations.
Accounts and Auditing
5.40         The CPIU would be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the funds provided
under the loan and by the Borrower, would maintain consolidated accounts for the project and would
prepare monthly financial reports, and would ensure that audits of the financial statements or reports are
timely submitted to Bank. Accounting for all Special Account transactions and for all other project-
related accounts would be maintained in accordance with international accounting standards. Project
accounts, including the Special Account, maintained by the CPIU would be audited annually in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by
the World Bank", dated March 1982.
5.41         For WBF, audits would also be carried out at the same time and for corresponding
periods, in accordance with Bank's guidelines, for SOEs against which disbursements have been made
or are due to be made from the loan and SOEs which would be included in the audit reports
accompanying the financial statements. The audited financial statements for the Special Account, project
accounts, and SOEs of the preceding fiscal year and the resulting audit report in such scope and detail
as the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements made
against certified statements of expenditure, would be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of the
Government's fiscal year. Funds to carry out the audits have been included in WBF.



VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits
6.1           The proposed project would meet an immediate and urgent need to preserve and improve
essential community services that are fundamental to social well-being. So far, subprojects accounting
for 75% of WBF have been identified:
(a)    The education subprojects so far identified include rehabilitation of 34 schools, expansion
and rehabilitation of four schools, and three new schools.  Benefits from  these
subprojects include improvements to the learning environment, which should be safe,
hygienic, and warm in the bitter winters. School closings (because of heating and water
and sanitation failures) would be averted and instruction would not be interrupted.
Improvements to school design should improve pedagogical effectiveness. Education
subprojects already identified would provide such benefits for a total of about 40,000
pupils, and it is anticipated that several additional schools would later be identified for
upgrading in the later years of the project.
(b)    Health subprojects so far identified include the rehabilitation and upgrading of four
polyclinics and seven hospitals to benefit a total combined catchment population of about
1.5 million. Imminent closing of medical facilities because of unsafe structures would
be avoided, preventing a decline in access to care of people in their catchment areas.
Patients of upgraded facilities would receive higher quality and clinically more efficacious
and appropriate care as a result of better diagnostic and medical testing capacity. It is
estimated that the length of hospital stay would decline from an average of 17 days to an
average of 9-12 days (see Appendix to Annex 3.3).
(c)    Sixty-two water and sanitation plant rehabilitation subprojects have been identified. The
estimated beneficiary population for the identified is approximately one million in each
oblast. Benefits include the assurance of safe water and sanitary facilities, and improved
efficiency through the reduction of leakages.
6.2           The method of analysis carried out to ensure that all subprojects are individually justified
from an economic perspective is explained below, and illustrated through model appraisals for subprojects
in each sector (presented in Annexes 3.1, 3.3 and 3.5).
6.3           This project would also demonstrate important innovations in the efficiency of use of
public resources:
(a)   the process of determining regional and local expenditure priorities and subproject
selection would improve;
(b)    design improvements and better construction quality, and commitment of beneficiaries
to future maintenance in the selected subprojects would provide models for replication
elsewhere in the oblast and in other parts of Russia;
(c)    new methods of public procurement of goods and services would lead to cost-savings;



54                                                                                              CHAPTER U
(d)     pilot programs in education facilities planning and health financing would lead to more
efficient resource use in these sectors, also on a replicable basis; and
(e)     new systems of management of budgetary expenditure would be developed.
6.4              The project would also foster private sector development by promoting competition among
engineering and architectural firms and competitive bidding by private construction companies. Lastly,
the project would contribute to a sense of local ownership of, and responsibility for, social infrastructure,
and contribute to the Russian Government's policy of decentralization.
Economic Analysis
6.5              Only the benefits of the project arising from  the individual subprojects can be readily
quantified. No attempt is therefore made to try to aggregate all the benefits from the project. As with
all Bank projects, the economic appraisals serve to reduce the risk of accepting subprojects that are cost-
ineffective, or benefit only very few peopleA'. Each subproject would therefore be subjected to separate
economic appraisal, and is expected to show a positive present value when its benefits and costs are
discounted using a 15% discount rate.
6.6              Benefits are calculated by estimating cost-savings resulting from the project rather than
trying to maintain the service in alternative ways. No attempt is made to put an monetary evaluation on
the services themselvesL'. In some cases, the alternative might be no service at all--for example, where
a facility might have to be closed if it is not rehabilitated. The only alternative to rehabilitation would
be a new facility-'. In others, there would be unacceptably poor quality or dangerous services--for
example, in facilities with inadequate sanitation or without water. Another possibility might be growing
repair costs and declining services for some limited period, and then the need to replace the asset at a
21/ Note that while the cost per beneficiary household or individual may be an indicator of priority, there would be no
suggestion that this should be minimized for the project as a whole. The result might be a concentration of subprojects
in urban areas, which might not only be politicafly unacceptable, but also would limit other project benefits, such as
improved government expenditure policies, to unnecessarily few places.
r For projects providing basic health and education services, it is normaly impossible to measure the streams of benefits
and costs in comparable ways--i.e. in terms of monetary flows. Although for certain education projects-those whose
objectives are relatively narrow training ones-it may be possible to measure a high proportion of the benefits in terms of
increased labor productivity of the beneficiaries, improved earnings are only one of the reasons why countries have
compulsory general education, and there is also no way to measure how such education affects earnings in countries
where it has been virtually universal for decades. While it sometimes may be possible to estimate the life-saving effects
of alternative health investments, it is not possible to express these in monetary terms. In water supply and sanitation
projects, there is greater interest in "willingness to pay" as an indication of benefits, but since many of the benefits are
health benefits and are not confined to the beneficiary household, such a measure can at best be partial.
The alternative of leaving the population without the service at all is not considered. For example, it has long been
Russian policy to make nine years of general education free and compulsory, and to provide two further years almost
universally (except to those students who attend vocational schools) and few would argue that this policy should be
abandoned. Similarly, there is universal access to polyclinics and to the lower levels of the hospital pyramid, and the
project's focus on core services that will continue to be provided free of charge to the user, is also not likely to be
disputed. The benefits to the population of clean water and sewage facilities are also not in dispute, and as noted,
Russia has now imposed user charges which are intended to rise progressively until they eliminate household subsidies
by year 2005.



CHAPTER 6                                                                                       55
higher future cost. A rehabilitation project is therefore "service-preserving" or "cost-saving" rather than
service-increasing.
6.7            The school rehabilitation subproject in Novosibirsk used as a basis for the model appraisal
illustrates the analysis. Without rehabilitation the school has little or no useful life, and it is assumed that
it would have to be closed in 3 years if not rehabilitated. This would mean that students would have be
transferred to two schools 8 and 12 km away, which would incur significant transport costs. This travel
is subsidized, both directly and through fuel subsidies, so there would be a difference in projected
economic and financial costs. There would be some small addition to maintenance costs in the alternative
schools. In addition, since both schools already operate two shifts, this alternative would entail a decline
in the quality of education, as well as higher recurrent costs. The alternative of building a new school
cannot yet be justified, although it is expected that in about 10 years an increase in school-age population
would justify the increase.
6.8            The cost-savings that arise in health are more complex. In one hospital for which a
detailed appraisal has been completed, it is anticipated that the improvements would enable the hospital
to operate with one-third fewer beds, and could lead to closing 256 of the present 770 beds in the system,
amounting to an annual saving of over US$800,000. Similar savings are likely to result from many of
the upgraded health facilities. Simulating on a system-wide basis--assuming that length of stay can be
reduced by 30%  and the number of beds by 35%, and 10% of patients currently treated in hospitals
would be able to be treated on an outpatient basis instead--would imply annual savings of approximately
US$5 million in a catchment area of 300,000. These benefits can be supplemented by an estimate of
health benefits to households, expressed in terms of years of life savedl'.
6.9            Evaluation of the rehabilitation of the water supply subprojects has much in common with
the education subprojects. Without the project operational, maintenance and environmental costs would
rise over time. (Environmental costs and benefits are difficult to measure and the analysis uses as a
proxy the penalties for non-compliance which are already being levied but which would rise substantially
in the absence of the project.) The model appraisal shows that the present value of these additional costs
of operating the facility in the absence of the project is greater than the present value of the capital costs
of the subproject plus the slight increase over current operating costs that the subproject would require,
when these are discounted at 15%.
6.10           Cost estimation is difficult in Russia, and the Bank and other foreign agencies have found
that estimates of civil works have frequently turned out to be underestimates. Where plausible, recent
comparative Russian estimates could not be found, European cost levels have been assumed. There seems
no need to depart from market prices either for labor or for tradable goods. The exchange rate no longer
seems very much undervalued; World Bank forecasts are that the ruble will appreciate about 10% in
1996, and thereafter will retain the same real relationship to international exchange rates. There is
therefore no longer a case for expecting a major increase in money wages in dollar terms. There is
growing unemployment, especially in Novosibirsk, but open unemployment remains below 10%, so there
M The model appraisal in health shows the very large potential for saving life, especially between ages 15 and 60.
Attempting to measure the specific health consequences of an individual subproject where such a high proportion of
health problems reflect behavioral, environmental or other factors beyond the control of an individual institution would
be excessively speculative.



56                                                                                        CHAPTER b
is no case for using a shadow price for labor. On the other hand, there is plenty of capacity in the local
construction industry (see Annex 1.2) so there is no need for concern that the project might drive up
construction labor costs. With respect to tradables, Russia's price liberalization and relatively low
domestic protection make it unnecessary to perform cost-analyses using other than domestic prices. This
appears to be true even for energy, so long as industrial rather than household prices are used.
Social Beneits
6.11           The Project is designed to introduce stakeholder participation through the involvement
of all levels of government as key actors at all stages of the project cycle, and through the participation
of several non-governmental representatives on oblast Advisory Boards. One of the most important roles
of the Advisory Boards is to discuss and influence the selection of subprojects for the unidentified portion
of the loan. Although it is more costly per beneficiary to renovate rural schools, hospitals and water and
sanitation plants because of lower population densities, but subprojects clearly should not be concentrated
in urban areas for reasons of equity. Cities are likely already to be relatively favored because of a better
fiscal position, and because schools and health facilities already benefit from their capacity to find
sponsors among prosperous enterprises and affluent users or parents. The direct benefits of the project
should be well distributed over the oblast populations; similarly, the long-run benefits of improved
government expenditure policies and procedures should be widely spread over the two oblasts.
6.12           Local participation would be particularly important in relation to future maintenance and
sustainability. School Boards, which include parents, teachers, and senior pupils, already organize
programs of winterization, painting, clearing rubble and delegating to parents, teachers and school
children the task of completing it, using both voluntary labor and monetary donations.21' As a condition
of final approval of the subproject, the Board would be asked to make a formal commitment to
maintaining the facility and to describe how this would be organized. For subproject schools, Directors
together with selected Board members and a representative of the local administration would form a
construction committee to represent the client interest in the construction process. Workshops would be
held to introduce the staff of raion sectoral departments, headmasters, and representatives of teachers and
parents to key aspects of subproject implementation, and their own responsibilities26'.
6.13           Hospitals are currently managed by a hospital board headed by a chief doctor and heads
of departments in the facility. The Boards take decisions on the maintenance of the facility in consultation
with the local administration and to a lesser extent solicit the views of patients through patient satisfaction
questionnaires. However, in Novosibirsk oblast, there are plans to establish a Guardian Council
comprising the chief doctor, his first deputy, city administration officials and chiefs of some state and
private companies. The aim would be to educate the public on environmental and hygiene issues, and
generate enthusiasm in the private sector to contribute funds to the maintenance and modernization of
2' In one subproject (School No. 30 in Novosibirsk), out of approximately Rb5O million needed for maintenance in 1994,
about RblO million were given by the city Department of Education and a similar amount was collected from the
parents. In another school in Rostov (School No. 34) also included in the project, out of a similar amount needed for
maintenance in 1994, parents contributed about Rb30 million in cash and kind (labor), and the rest was drawn from the
raion budget. Schools in urban areas have been able to attract sponsorship from state enterprises and the military
industrial complex. However, in some areas, the level of contribution has dropped due to shutting down of these
enterpises.
E Such workshops have already been held as part of project preparation of the education component.



CHAPTER 0                                                                              57
hospitals. For hospitals, the role of Board and/or Guardian Council would be as described for the School
Boards above.
Future Selection of Subprojects
6.14         Oblast sectoral departments would be expected to consult with city and raion officials in
developing a list of proposed new subprojects for the unidentified component of the project, which would
be reviewed by the Advisory Board. These need to meet the agreed sectoral selection criteria. An annex
to the draft Operational Manual suggests procedures that might be followed, but these are not the only
possibility.
Environmental Aspects
6.15         The project is classified in Category B. Major environmental concerns have been
identified and addressed for the known and pre-appraised/appraised subprojects of the three project
components. The environmental aspects of the rehabilitation work of hospitals and schools (health and
education components) concern generally the use of non-hazardous building and insulation materials, the
proper disposal of building materials and old equipment and materials, proper management of medical
and solid waste, adequate storage and handling of pharmaceutical and chemical products and proper
indoor and outdoor safety of the facilities and its systems. In general, the environmental concerns of the
water and sanitation component of the project are related to: poor potable water, water availability,
leakage and loss of water, lack of water and wastewater treatment capabilities, lack of treated water
storage facility, inadequate storage and handling of chemicals, sewage flooding and sludge management
and disposal. Water leakage has the secondary effect of undermining building foundations and causing
structural damage. Environmental analyses with enhancement and mitigation measures have been carried
out for known subprojects as part of pre-appraisal/appraisal reports (see Annexes 3.1, 3.3 and 3.5). In
conformity with Bank and Russian requirements, detailed environmental guidelines and procedures have
been developed in the Operational Manual for subprojects not yet identified or appraised. These
procedures are intended for the use of the Project Implementation Unit and Bureaus, the Regional and
Local Environmental Committees, the Applicants and the regional/local Design Institutes.
6.16         In addition, the project has developed an environmental institutional strengthening
program which includes three subcomponents: institutional support, training, and environmental studies
(see Annex 6.1). Some of the training activities took place during project preparation, partially financed
by the Black Sea Environmental Program (BSEP). Support from this source is expected to continue, and
additional grant financing is being sought.
6.17         The project would have an important positive environmental impact in the three
components as it would: (a) improve overall hospital and school conditions and waste and system
management in these facilities; (b) facilitate access to water supply and sanitation; (c) reduce
environmental damage to underground water supplies and rivers; (d) augment wastewater and water
treatment and management capacities; (e) improve potable water quality; (f) reduce health risks; (g) limit
losses of treated water from leakage and pipe failures; (h) reduce environmental degradation of the Black
Sea through improvements in the Rostov wastewater and water systems; and (i) strengthen institutional
capacities through training and better knowledge of environmental conditions and management practices.



58                                                                              CHAPTER 0
Risks
6.18          A multi-sectoral project in two oblasts suggests that a major risk would be excessive
complexity that could impede implementation. To reduce this risk, the project has sharply limited the
range of eligible subprojects within each sector. The project would introduce new methods of subproject
selection and implementation but is doing so in a phased manner, beginning during the preparation phase.
The project itself would begin with the implementation of preappraised subprojects. During preparation,
training is being provided on methods of appraisal, design and implementation of model subprojects.
6.19          An alternative risk is that in the interests of rapid implementation, the longer term benefits
to the project in changing the way subnational administrations do business would be neglected, so that
after the project is completed, reliance on top-down direction and norm-based allocations would return.
To reduce this risk, a strong emphasis has been placed on local ownership and participation. Although
initial responsibility for project implementation at the oblast level would be given to a PIU that is not part
of the regular administrative structure, the Mid-Term Project Review would focus on ways to ensure that
the proven methods of implementation and other lessons from the project are gradually transferred into
the regular programs of the oblast. Similarly there may be a reversion to construction methods that speed
up subproject completion at the expense of construction quality, higher future maintenance costs, and
shorter life of the facility. To reduce this risk, there would be extensive training of architects, engineers,
site supervisors and clients, and regular supervision by consultants.



VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1    At Negotiations, agreements were be reached, or assurances given, as follows:
(a)    The review procedures to be adopted with respect to non-Bank financed subprojects
would be the same as for the unidentified subprojects to be financed by the Bank (para.
3.7).
(b)    The health financing mechanisms and the subprojects to be included in the pilot would
be agreed with the Bank before implementation of the pilot begins, and not later than one
year after the date of project effectiveness (para. 3.32).
(c)    As a condition of eligibility for a subproject in the water sector, the operating entity
would be required to present a financial projection acceptable to the Bank that would
document (i) that its projected receipts (including budgetary subsidies) will be adequate
to meet its costs of operation and maintenance, and (ii) that its dependence on such
subsidies will decline steadily and will be eliminated by 2005 (para. 3.39).
(d)    The performance indicators proposed as the basis for routine monitoring were accepted
(para. 3.50).
(e)    The CPIU and the PBs would be adequately staffed and maintained throughout the project
implementation period (para. 4.1).
(f)    The Project Manual would be submitted to the Bank for its review no later than
September 1998 (para. 4.2).
(g)    A condition of effectiveness of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Ministry of
Finance and a participating oblast would be the legal establishment of a Project Bureau
and an Advisory Board in that oblast (para. 4.3).
(h)    A new set of proposed subprojects, selected on the basis of the criteria set out in Annexes
3.1, 3.3 and 3.5 (or modified in the light of experience and agreed with the Bank), would
be sent to the Bank and to the oblast Advisory Board in advance of the Mid-Term
Review. Detailed design of each subproject would not begin until an appraisal report on
it had been reviewed by the Bank (para. 4.7).
(i)    Except with the agreement of the Bank, the selection of this new set of subprojects would
ensure that: (i) not more than 40% or less than 25% of the Loan funds would be
allocated for any one sector; and (ii) not more than 50% of the loan in each sector would
be for subprojects in the administrative capital of each oblast (para. 4.7).
(j)    Meetings of the Advisory Boards would be held at least twice each year until the Mid-
Term Review (para. 4.11).



00                                                                           CHAPTER 7
(k)    The budgetary cash contribution of 10% of the cost of WBF subprojects would be made
by oblast administrations into the Project Accounts maintained by the PBs on a schedule
to be agreed annually with the Bank in advance of anticipated disbursements (para. 4.16).
(O)    Implementation of any subproject would not begin until a sub-loan agreement would be
signed between the oblast administration and the beneficiary agency, except where work
has already begun as part of project preparation (para. 4.17).
7.2    Conditions of Loan Effectiveness include:
(a)    The legal establishment of the CPIU and the appointment of its Director and key staff
(para. 4.1).
(b)    The effectiveness of at least one subsidiary loan agreement between the Ministry of
Finance and a participating oblast (para. 4.15).
7.3    A Condition of Disbursement to any oblast would be:
(a)    The effectiveness of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Ministry of Finance and
that oblast (para 4.15).
Recommendation
7.4          Subject to these agreements and conditions, the proposed project would be eligible for
a Bank loan of US$200 million in dollars at the standard variable interest rate, repayable in seventeen
years, including a five-year grace period.



ANNEX 1.11'
THE ECONOMIC SITUATION IN NOVOSIEBIRSK AND ROSTOV OBLASTS
A. NOVOSIBIRSK OBLAST
1.     Novosibirsk Oblast, located in the southeast of the western Siberian plain, has a total area of
69,600 square miles and a population of 2.80 million. The oblast developed rapidly in the late 19th
century because of the construction of the Trans-Siberian railway. The city of Novosibirsk is at a
junction of several railroads, and also has two airports and a river port. The region is not as rich in
natural resources as the other parts of Siberia, but nevertheless, there are coal deposits in the south, oil
and natural gas deposits in the north, and numerous sources of mineralized water are available. The city
of Novosibirsk is the largest scientific, industrial, cultural, and administrative center in Siberia. About
70,000 students study in the city's 16 universities, and in various academies and institutes.
2.     Of the oblast's total population of 2.80 million, 2.05 million (74%) live in towns. However, in
1991, as in other parts of Siberia, the negative migration toward rural areas changed to positive for the
first time since 1960-65. Until 1991, the oblast had been losing its people to other regions of Russia and
the former Soviet Union. In 1991, the migration balance changed in the oblast's favor and was
responsible for 56% of the total increase in the population.
3.     The oblast's mortality rate rose during 1989-93, with life expectancy decreasing by 4 to 5 years
for men and more than 2 years for women. At the same time, birth rates decreased dramatically and the
number of abortions per thousand women of reproductive age increased, even in comparison with the
high figures of the mid-1980s. As a result, the 1994 birth rate was only 7 to 9 per thousand in urban
areas and 9 to 11 per thousand in rural areas.
Trends in Industry and Agriculture
4.     The oblast's major sphere of production is industry, especially machine building, light industry
and the food industry. The military industrial complex dominates industry in the oblast, which has one
of Russia's highest concentrations of military production facilities. However, this industry has suffered
greatly as demand for its products fell sharply and no financing was available for comprehensive
conversion to civilian enterprises. In 1991-93 the output of military products fell by two-thirds and their
share in the oblast's overall industrial output was halved. Currently, 19 major enterprises are being
converted.
5.     The decline in civil production has not been as dramatic. Production of consumer goods was
30% less in 1993 than in 1991 because demand dropped through a fall in incomes and increased
competition for inputs. Some of the more significant declines in output since 1990 have been in the
medical industry (70%), the ferrous metals industry (65%), and the chemical industry (60%). The
T his annex is based on material prepared by Mr. V. Silvestrov of the Institute of Economics and Industrial
Engineering, Academy of Sciences, Siberian Branch, Novosibirsk; Mr. A. Kalashnikov, co-Director,
Project Coordination Unit, Moscow; Sobolev Consulting Agency, Moscow; and Messrs. V. Ovchinnikov
(director) and A. Kolesnikov, North Caucasus Scientific Research Institute of Economic and Social
Problems, Rostov State University, Rostov.



62                                                                                ANNEX 1.1
nonferrous metals industry has been the only one that was not seriously affected, with a minor decrease
in production in 1991, followed by steady growth of 2.5% in 1992 and 5.2% in 1993.
6.    In recent years Novosibirsk has lost its relative status as a highly developed industrial region,
especially since prices were liberalized in 1991. In 1992 the oblast's contribution to Russia's total
industrial production fell to 0.97%, compared to 1.54% in 1991. Later, when fuel prices stabilized, the
oblast recovered lost ground in monetary terms, but output nevertheless decreased. In 1994 and 1995
the rate of industrial recession was higher than in Russia as a whole, and much higher than in other parts
of western Siberia.
7.     The oblast's share of all-Russia capital investment also decreased during the years of reform, and
it now receives 1.2% of investment, compared with 1.6% in 1991. Many of the military industrial
enterprises, which were financed by the government of Russia's budget, have experienced cuts in
budgetary transfers and purchase orders. This became especially important in the second half of 1994,
when the financing of salary adjustments for the enterprises' employees from the federal budget was
discontinued.
8.     The oblast is dependent on fuel and energy supplies from other parts of Russia: Krasnoyarsk and
Kuzbass for coal, Tomsk and Tyumen for natural gas, and Omsk for gasoline. In turn, Novosibirsk
provides considerable quantities of agricultural produce for domestic markets and exports machinery,
equipment, and raw materials to international markets.
9.     As concerns the distribution of labor, in 1994 state-owned enterprises accounted for 68% of
industrial production, enterprises with combined state private ownership structures and without foreign
participation accounted for 23%, and the private sector accounted for 9%.
10.   In contrast with industry, the banking and finance sector, whose activities are concentrated in the
city of Novosibirsk, has experienced a boom. However, the overabundance of financial operators, the
weakness of the real sector of the economy, and the city's decreased export potential have led to a flight
of financial resources.
11.    Reforms in agriculture have not yet had a positive impact. The oblast's administration managed
to obtain centralized credit from the federal budget, and in spring, for the first time, paid for grain and
vegetables purchases in advance. However, the situation remains tense as the structural reforms in
agriculture have failed to stabilize production.
Employment Trends
12.    About 10%  of the labor force is unemployed because of the negative industrial growth.
According to information from the oblast's employment center, by January 1955 30,377 people were
looking for jobs, of which 23,249 were registered as unemployed. About 13.3% of those registered as
unemployed were university graduates, 30.7% were people between the ages of 16 to 29, and 8.9% were
approaching retirement. Hidden unemployment, estimated at 266,000 people by the end of 1994, is
growing. For instance, the number of part-time workers and furloughed employees tripled in 1994
compared with 1993, and exceeded the number of people officially registered as unemployed. The high-
tech industries, which use highly skilled labor, have laid off the most people. During 1992-93 the largest



ANNEX 1.1                                                                                 63
reductions in industrial personnel occurred in light industry (42.5%), machine building (24.1 %), and the
timber processing and paper industry (22.5%). In some areas, however, employment has increased. The
largest increases have taken place in microbiological enterprises (42%), electric power plants (25%), the
fuel industry (17%). Banking employment has also grown rapidly.
Poverty
13.   The adverse impact of the decline of the military industrial complex can be seen in people's living
standards. About 30 to 40% of people in the oblast live below the poverty line, as average wages are
dangerously close to the minimum needed to survive. A random family survey at the end of 1994
revealed that the average income of about 41 % of the population was below the subsistence minimum
standard of living.2' About 20% more people in the oblast live below the poverty line than in the rest
of Russia. Among the 78 republics, oblasts and regions of the Russian Federation, in December 1994
Novosibirsk Oblast was 76th in terms of per capita income. Average per capita income was as low as
Rb 156,000 per month and the ratio of income to the survival minimum was 1.2, compared with Rb
876,000 and 4.6, respectively, in Moscow. For most of people, the main source of cash income is their
salary (63.7% of all income).
14.   By January 1995, social protection institutions had registered 521,000 people who needed urgent
help, including low-income families with children, handicapped people, old people living alone, and
children.
Social Sectors
15.   Of all the oblasts in western Siberia, Novosibirsk has the greatest range of educational
achievement. While the share of people with higher education is larger than the Russian average, the
oblast has the second largest proportion of people with less than a secondary education in western Siberia.
Rural areas of Novosibirsk have the largest proportion of people with only a primary education or less.
The decline in the number of educated people reflects a decline in enrollment. In 1988-93, total
enrollment in higher education institutions and professional secondary schools decreased by 2.5% to
28,000 students, yet during the same period, the number of young people in age 16 to 20 increased by
8,000 (5%).
16.    Despite the budget deficit, Novosibirsk has the best medical facilities in the region in terms of
the provision of hospital facilities and outpatient clinics. Ninety-seven percent of the population is
provided with medical insurance. The oblast has developed new ways to organize medical care, a
network including in-patient departments, 8 departments to train nurses and general practitioners. Other
social services are insufficient, especially homes for the elderly and the disabled.
-' Extracts from report of Social and Economic Situation in Novosibirsk Oblast as of Jan. I-Feb. 15, 1995.



64                                                                                ANNEX 1.1
B. ROSTOV OBLAST
17.    Rostov Oblast lies in southern Russia on the Don and Severski Donets rivers. With a population
of 4.4 million in 1994 that is growing at 0.4% annually, the oblast is the sixth largest in Russia. The
area of the oblast dates back to the 17th century, when Cossacks organized into military settlements to
protect the southern flank of Russia that lived there. By the middle of the 19th century, the area had a
military administrative center in the capital city of Novocherkassk, and an industrial and trade center in
Rostov-on-Don. The latter became a major transport hub with the completion of railroad construction
and presence of the biggest port in the Sea of Azov. The oblast was also one of the biggest agrarian
centers of the Russian empire because of the availability of the large areas of fertile black earth and arable
land. In the 20th century the oblast's development was based on the following: its economic and
geographic position at the junction of the Central European part of Russia, the North Caucasus and Trans-
Caucasia; its favorable agro-climatic conditions; the availability of labor; the well-developed transport
structure; and its natural resources (coal, quartzite, limestone, sand, and other minerals).
18.    About 68%  of the oblast's population lives in urban areas, concentrated in the Rostovo-
Shakhtinski industrial district, although migration to rural areas has increased in recent years. Migration
into the oblast has also risen with 562,000 people arriving in 1994, 30% more than in 1993. More than
half the migrants (52%) are from Central Asia and the Caucases, and 16% are from Ukraine. Migration
from north Siberia and the far east of Russia has doubled in the past 10 years. The birth rate (9.5 per
1,000) and death rate (15 per 1,000) are slightly higher than in the rest of Russia.
Economic Structure
19.   The oblast's economy is based on industry and agriculture. The main branches of industry are
engineering and metalworking (27.8% ), the food industry(18.7%), electrical energy (8.8%), and the fuel
industry (8.9%). The oblast produces about 90% of the Commonwealth of Independent States' (CISs)
bio-protection equipment for atomic power stations, 80% of combine harvesters and electric locomotives,
50% of cultivators, 33% of high capacity boilers, and 25% of oil pipes. In 1993 the largest volume of
exports was in machines and equipment (about 84%). Rostov is one of Russia's foremost oblasts in meat
processing, butter and vegetable oil manufacturing, canning, wine making, and cereal production. It is
also the largest cereal producer, with gross production of wheat, barley, rice, mustard, maize, and
sunflowers second only to Krasnodar Krai. In recent years, demand for electrical energy has exceeded
production by 30%, and this deficit is growing because of Russia's declining volume of coal production.
20.    During 1993, 1,507 enterprises were totally or partially privatized, more than half of them small
enterprises belonging to the municipal authorities. The private sector accounted for about 56.2% of the
total volume of industrial products and employed 42.8% of the oblast's manpower.
Unemployment
21.    The oblast's unemployment rate is 5% of the economically active population, about 2% less than
the Russian average. As of June 1, 1995, 25,539 people were registered as unemployed, most aged 30
to 49. About 30% of the employed work in industry; 17% in agriculture; 11 % in construction; 10% in
trade and public catering; and the rest in consumer services, education, and health.



ANNEX 1.1                                                                              65
Wages
22.   In March 1995 average annual wages were Rb 213,000. Real incomes fell by 26.5% during 1995
because of inflation. In 1994 the structure of income was as follows: 53.5% from wages, 23.9% from
pensions and subsidies, 8.0% from agriculture, 14.3% from participation in private enterprise, and 0.3%
from stipends. Wages in industry and the private sector are higher than in the social sectors. In
education, for instance, the average salary in 1994 was only 60% of the average salary in industry.
Living Standards
23.   About 64.5% of the oblast's population lives below the poverty line, which in December 1994
was Rb 148,500. This number has increased by 14% since 1993. More than half of those below the
poverty line consume less than 2 kg. of meat and 1 kg. each of fruit and sugar per month. Single
mothers and pensioners are among those swelling the growing ranks of the poor.
24.   In 1995 70% of housing was private. Roughly half of the apartments have water, sewerage,
central heating, and bathrooms. The population's health has deteriorated since 1991 because of a lack
of money, equipment and drugs. The oblast has 37 health institutions and 38 doctors per 10,000 people.
25.   Of the approximately 2.2 million members of the labor force, 41% have higher and special
secondary education (mainly engineers), 32% have secondary education, 18% have an incomplete
secondary education, and about 9% have a primary or no education according to the 1989 census. Since
1991, because of reforms in the economy and in education, the number of economists, lawyers, doctors,
and financial specialists has increased and the number of engineers has decreased. In 1994/95 the oblast
had 1,928 schools, of which 15 were professional-technical schools, 73 were specialized secondary
schools, and 18 were institutions of higher education. The number of students in state higher education
establishments has decreased during the last 10 years because of budgetary constraints and economic
reforms. As a result, 10 to 30% of students in higher education attend private establishments.
m:\king\annexl. 1



ANNEX 1.2
THE STRUCTURE AND CAPACITY OF CONSTRUCTION ENTERPRISES
in NOVOSIBIRSK and ROSTOVL'
1.     An important objective of the CSIP is to support the emerging private sector construction industry
capable of handling contracts for the CSIP subprojects. During the course of three missions to the
participating oblasts, a set of interviews was conducted by an international consultant, and a survey was
conducted. The survey questionnaire was designed in English, translated and used by Russian consultants
as basis for detailed interviews with firms in each oblast. The surveys took place in Novosibirsk in
October-December 1994, and in Rostov in January-March 1995.
The following issues were examined:
*      Structure of the enterprise (assets, principals' equity, turnover);
*      Type of construction capability;
*      Previously completed projects;
*      Overview of company accounts (simplified balance sheet);
*      Organization and management;
*      Economic data (Equipment, materials in stock, labor resources etc.); and
=      Current problems facing the enterprise.
2.     About 80 to 100 enterprises were identified by each oblast administration as being licensed for
construction work. In Rostov, 54 firms were selected as a sample for interview and initially contacted
by phone; of these 39 were successfully interviewed. In Novosibirsk, only 27 firms were successfully
interviewed. The interviews were also useful as a means of disseminating information about Bank
procurement practices which should be followed in each oblast.
Results
3.     Enterprises were grouped in three categories:
(I) Large enterprises, with:
* more than 10 professional engineers and directors,
* a 1994 turnover greater than $1 million,
* net value of fixed assets greater than $1 million, and
* more than 500 employees.
4.    In Novosibirsk, 5 enterprises in this category were interviewed. One of these, with a turnover
of about $30 million in the first nine months of 1994, was several times more active than any of the
others. All five had at least 50% state ownership. Most of the contracts continued to be for the public
sector, with the share of private clients in turnover ranging from 5% to 30%. The average was 13%.
5.    In Rostov, 9 enterprises in this category were interviewed. The two largest had turnovers of a
little over $10 million in 1994. Only four out of these 9 had 50% or more of public ownership. The
proportion of turnover for private clients ranged from 10% to 100%, averaging 56%.
1' Summary of reports by R. Castaing Consultants.



67                                                                                 ANNEX 1.2
(2) Medium enterprises, with:
* 2 to 10 professional engineers and directors,
* 1994 turnover between $200,000 and $1 million,
* net value of assets between. $200,000 and $1 million, and
* between 200 to 500 employees.
6.     In Novosibirsk, 12 enterprises in this category were interviewed. Four had a majority public
ownership, in five there was a minority state shareholding, and three were fully private. The proportion
of turnover for private clients ranged from 2% to 90%, averaging 49%. There is a correlation between
the type of ownership and their clients; the three fully private firms obtain 90% of their turnover from
private clients.
7.    In Rostov, 24 enterprises in this category were interviewed. Ten had a majority and five a
minority public ownership. Nine were fully private. Forty-four percent was the average proportion of
turnover for private clients, but it was at least 60% for all nine private firms.
(3) Small enterprises, with:
* only I or 2 engineers/directors,
* 1994 turnover between $40,000 and $200,000,
* net value of assets between $40,000 and $200,000, and
* between 20 to 40 staff.
8.    In Novosibirsk, 10 enterprises in this category were interviewed. Three had a majority public
ownership, in three there was a minority state shareholding, and four were fully private. The proportion
of turnover for private clients averaged 53%.  For the fully private firms, it was at least 80%.
9.    In Rostov, 6 enterprises in this category were interviewed, three of which were wholly privately-
owned. The firms with substantial state ownership did over 90% of their business with public contracts.
The three private firms did at least 50% of their work for private clients. The average share of private
clients was 26%.
Business Conditions and Constraints
10.    The following problems were cited in interviews with the construction companies:
(a)    Ruble inflation, affecting the completion time of projects and the inability to complete
certain projects at all.
(b)    Restrictive conditions and procedures for obtaining contracts or the opportunity to bid.
(c)    Only a few firms answered questions related to unfair competition and/or dumping. They
indicated that the market is still tightly controlled, and parastatals still enjoy a
near-monopoly.
(d)    Banking conditions make short-term  construction loans either very expensive or
impossible to obtain. Interest rates up to 60% p.a. were quoted.
(e)    Due to inflation, clients often delay payments for work completed.
(f)    Delayed payments frequently lead to problems in meeting payroll obligations and other
bills.



ANNEX 1.2                                                                                       69
I.    These issues are fairly common across all sectors of the economy. Many enterprises have
diversified into other sectors. Both large and small enterprises have taken an interest in producing or
marketing building materials. Medium and small firms have also diversified into commercial activities,
equipment rental, or producing private homes or "cottages" if this is not already their primary activity.
The majority of firms that were diversifying their activities indicated that they planned to hire additional
employees in the near future.
12.    Larger enterprises were reluctant to admit that they subcontracted any of their work to smaller
specialized firms. Smaller firms, on the other hand, admitted that much of their work was subcontracted
to others in specialized fields, such as electrical work.
13.    Both oblasts indicated that they and the principal municipalities now use competitive bidding
procedures to select contractors. In reality, however, it appears that the list of contractors invited to bid
is usually small--sometimes two or three--suggesting that this is more a process of negotiation rather than
a fully transparent competition on price.
Conclusion
14.    Although public ownership and contracts remain dominant in the construction  industry,
privatization and private contracting have been important elements in the construction industry. There
should be no difficulty in obtaining effective local competition for civil works contracts under this project.
Appendix
15.    The questionnaire sought information in 15 categories:
a.    Designation/Registration or License No./Date of licensed activity;
b.    Name of Manager(s)/Director(s);
c.     Address;
d.    Telephone/Telex/Fax;
e.     Working Capital ('000 rubles)/Reference Year/Status;
f.    Human resources: (site workers, administrators, professionals, directors);
g.    Net present value of fixed assets (broken down by: vehicles, machinery, office
equipment, buildings, other);
h.    Turnover for 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 (reported in actual rubles at the time);
i.    Type of works (broken down by: civil works, housing, secondary works/rehabilitation,
non-residential works, etc.);
j.     References (foreign firms, domestic institutions, other clients);
k.     Simplified Income Statement for latest full year;
1.     Simplified Balance Sheet for latest full year;
m.    Professional staff (number of engineers and directors);
n.     Estimated or actual turnover for 1994; and
o.     Ratio of fixed assets to number of staff.
16.    Summary tables and a file of raw data on each enterprise are available in the Project Files.
m:\king\annexl .2



ANNEX 1.3
FISCAL AND BUDGETARY SYSTEMS IN NOVOSIBIRSK AND ROSTOV OBLASTS
Revenues
1.     The financial condition of all Russian oblasts (regional) and municipal governments is heavily
dependent upon the manufacturing enterprises within their jurisdiction. VAT and corporate income tax
are shared with the Federal Government ( and from 1995 personal income tax although only to a very
limited extent).  These taxes are predominantly collected from enterprises. In addition, transfers are
made to oblasts ("regions" in Table 1.3.1) both on a block grant basis, through the so-called Fund for
Financial Support of the Subjects of the Federation which aims to equalize partially the fiscal position
of different oblasts and through a variety of other mechanisms, that are sometimes netted out against each
other through the so-called "mutual settlements" channel. As can be seen in Table 1.3.1, the structure
of tax revenue in Novosibirsk and Rostov is fairly similar to the average for Russian oblasts, but in both
oblasts, especially Novosibirsk, VAT provides a larger share of total revenue, and corporate profits tax
a smaller share.
Table 1.3.1 Federal-Regional Tax-Sharing 1995,
and Contributions of Different Taxes to Revenues, 1994
Federal  Regional   % Federal   % Region.   %  Novo-    %  Rostov
Tax               %            %       Revenue       Revenue   sibirsk Rev.  Revenue
1995        1995        1994         1994          1994         1994
VAT                75         25         35.3         13.6         23.7          19.0
Profit Tax        37          63         21.6         28.7         24.0          25.4
Personal           10         90         0.16         15.7         16.2          17.7
Income Tax
Excise *                                5.60           2.7          3.0           1.6
Property Tax                  100                       4.4          5.0           5.8
Other Rev**                              37.3         14.9         10.1          15.2
Federal                                               19.9         18.1          14.1
Transfers***
Memo: %
share of GDP                             12.6         17.5
*      Only the alcohol excise is shared, 50% to Federation and 50% to Regions.
Includes Privatization Revenue.
Includes net 'mutual settlements".



70                                                                                    ANNEX 1.3
2.     Faced with declining sales and reduced orders, especially serious in the defence industry which
is important in both oblasts, many enterprises have made losses and/or have been unable to pay their tax
obligations.  Moreover, a high proportion of employees are on involuntary leave (furlough) at
approximately one-fifth the regular wage, and such wages are not taxable which further reduces local
revenues.
3.     In Rostov revenues in constant rubles fell 37%  from  1991 to 1992, and were still 21 % lower
in 19941' (Appendix Table 2R). Revenues from federally-set taxes and federal subsidies were 32% and
57%  lower respectively.  An increase of 151% in revenues from locally-set taxes, reflected a shift in
policy, but these taxes still remain an insignificant proportion of the revenue base. Consequently, the
oblast still has very little control over its own revenues, which means that its creditworthiness cannot be
established independently of national fiscal policies.
4.     The trends were similar in Novosibirsk (Appendix Table 2N). Revenues in constant rubles fell
by almost 70% from 1991 to 1992, and were still 41 % lower in 1994. Federally-set tax revenues and
federal subsidies fell over the period by 33% and 57%, respectively. An increase of 157% was recorded
in revenues from locally-established taxes, but these still provide an insignificant proportion of total oblast
revenues.
5.     The great importance of the manufacturing sector as a source of tax revenue means that the Oblast
Administrations are dependent upon their principal cities for tax revenue. Both Rostov-on-Don and
Novosibirsk municipalities negotiate the proportion of their tax revenues that will be passed up to the
oblast budget. Primarily agricultural raions receive little tax. Other jurisdictions cannot meet 20 to 60%
of their expenditures even by retaining the entire oblast share of the federally-set taxes, plus their locally
established taxes.
6.      Oblast officials expected a recovery of Federal Government orders for local industry in the
autumn of 1994. When this did not happen, the oblasts were forced to borrow money in order to
continue operating. The municipality of Novosibirsk formed a bank and began issuing "veksals". A total
of Rb 1.8 billion (US$360,000) has been issued as a test.2' The oblast has been authorized to issue an
issue of Rb 50 billion ($10 million). In Rostov, city officials are borrowing from banks and recording
these receipts as revenues. The banks are issuing commercial paper (certificates of deposit) to attract
long-term deposits. The paper is being issued as a term-deposit at 140% per annum, with a maturity of
March 1, 1997. The City of Rostov is an equity holder in the commercial bank, "Doninvest" Bank.
7.     Appendix Tables IR and IN contain the financial statements as of December 31, 1994 for the
two oblasts. Both oblasts show balanced operations, in order to remain in compliance with the budgetary
law as mandated by the Russian federation. However, both oblasts had large amounts of payables that
were not reported officially. In Novosibirsk, the payables in the beginning of 1995 were reported at Rb
200 billion (US$50 million). Oblasts and principal cities within the oblasts admitted to being in arrears
with utility enterprises. The huge debts owed to the utilities are being passed on to the federal level.
' The accuracy of the large reported gaps between revenues and expenditures in 1991 and 1994 is being verified.
2' These are promissory notes, issued in connection with a specific program and payable in three months, that can be used
to settle all payments, including taxation, related to that program.



ANNEX 1.3                                                                                   71
Expenditures
8.     Appendix Tables 1R and IN summarize 1994 expenditures for each oblast, consolidated for the
whole of the oblast, and show how the total has changed in real terms over the last few years. The
structure of expenditure does not differ greatly in the two oblasts. In Rostov, expenditures classified as
for the "people's economy" consisting of agriculture, transport, housing and utilities, comprised 43 % of
the total expenditures. Housing and utilities were about half of this amount. In Novosibirsk, the
comparable figure was 39%; compared with Rostov a much smaller proportion went to housing and
utilities, and a much higher proportion went for assistance to agriculture.  Rostov made loans to
enterprises consisting 4.1 % of its budget. These were not recorded separately for Novosibirsk, but may
be included in the 9.3%, classified as "other expenditures."  In the summary budgets, capital and
recurrent expenditures are not disaggregated. As with revenues, total oblast expenditures fell in 1992
to 30% of its 1991 figure and had recovered to only about 60% in 1994. Contrary to expectations,
capital expenditures appear to have fluctuated less than recurrent expenditures, and actually is higher in
1994 in real terms than in 1991. (This may well reflect the inadequacy of the consumer price index as
a deflator, but the rise in real investment in Rostov appears to be especially remarkable. Although
unconfirmed, it is possible that these increases are directly related to increases in federal housing funds
allotted to construct housing for the decommissioned military personnel.)
9.    For this project, there is particular interest in social expenditures (Appendix Tables 3R and 3N).
In Rostov, health expenditures in 1992 were only 44% of their 1991 level in real terms, and education
expenditures were 43 %. The deflators are those of the consumer price index, and probably overstate
the rate of inflation for a labor-intensive social sector. There was then a marked recovery, and in 1994
budgetary health expenditures were 56% of their 1991 level and education expenditures were 78%.
Since the health data do not include expenditures by the Territorial Health Insurance Funds (THIF), the
fall in health expenditure has been less severe than these data indicate.  In both sectors, surprisingly,
wages fell more sharply than other expenditures. In Novosibirsk, the trends are similar but more
pronounced. In 1992 health expenditures fell to 36% of their 1991 level and recovered to 66% in 1994.
Education expenditures fell to 37% and recovered to 73%. Non-wage recurrent expenditures had
recovered to about their 1991 level by 1994. In both oblasts, therefore, the share of both sectors has
been protected, and has even risen slightly, especially if the THIF expenditures are included.
10.   In 1994, capital expenditure in health in Rostov Oblast was 21 % lower than in 1991; in education
they were II % lower. This is a substantially smaller drop than recurrent expenditures, which is
surprising. In Novosibirsk oblast capital expenditures in health were 26% and in education 59% lower
than in 1994. This is more in line with expectations at a time of severe economic difficulty.
Debt Capacity
11.   In both oblasts, with a loan of US$72.5 million each, the repayment amount on an annual basis
with interest capitalized (as worst case scenario), will amount to the equivalent of less than 2% of the
1994 budget (see Appendix Tables 4R and 4N). For most raions the situation is quite different. Scales
of repayment which will vary from 10% to 50% of the amount of the loan will be proposed by the oblast
authorities.



72                                                                                ANNEX 1.3
Budget Preparation and Control
12.   The system of budget preparation, in both oblasts, continues to evolve from budgeting based on
expenditure norms to budgeting based on availability of revenues. The first step is to forecast revenues
based on prior-year collections. Expenditure requests from raions are based on prior year spending plus
an inflation index. The requested budgets are verified, by the oblast, for compliance with the established
norms. Expenditures are then programmed into the budget, taking into account the availability in
revenues, thereby implying across-the-board expenditure cuts. The oblast finance departments approve
the budgets of the raions only to the extent of determining the subsidy level. The raions are free to
re-program expenditures within reasonable guidelines. The entire budgetary process is in a constant state
of flux at the sub-national level due to the frequent changes in federal regulations. Year-to-year changes
in tax sharing arrangements mean that lower level authorities do not know their revenues until upper level
budgets have been finalized, and this process is often delayed. This does not encourage good budgetary
practice. While greater local budgetary control has been proposed and legislated, full autonomy over
local budget operations has not been approached.
13.   The City of Novosibirsk and City of Rostov-on-Don establish their own capital investment
priorities but capital spending priorities for rayons and smaller towns, dependent upon subsidies, are
determined at the oblast level. Capital expenditures are not separated from the recurrent budget, leading
to a loss of transparency and budgetary control. Novosibirsk and Rostov-on-Don have both a budget
and an "extra-budget." Extra-budgetary funds are obtained from user fees, and fines and other penalties
are used to provide working capital loans to municipal enterprises for various manufacturing activities.
These loans are on a revolving basis. The extra-budget fund is also used to finance some long-term
capital investments. The City of Novosibirsk utilizes extra-budget funding to finance housing construction
through the Municipal Bank of Novosibirsk.
14.    A typical budget format is shown in Table IR. The budget is a two-page summary of all
activities, and lacks transparency and a hierarchical format. Budget and accounting formats are still
those used in the Soviet period, although changes are now beginning to be implemented.
15.    Financial reporting in both oblasts is based on cash expenditures. Presently, encumbrance
accounting does not exist and although accrual accounting is in practice it is not represented on the
budget-to-actual reports. The accrued expenditure amounts are recorded and maintained only in the
sub-ledgers. Understandably, the necessary level of detail in reporting procedures would be difficult to
obtain under the manual systems of accounting currently in practice at the sub-national level. Senior
officials have requested urgent and immediate technical assistance in reclassifying the budget and
structuring a hierarchical reporting format. If effective autonomous municipal management is ever to
be realized, administrations at all levels of government must have automated accounting systems,
competent personnel, and sound technical assistance.
m:\king\annexl .3\fiscbudg



ANNEX 1.3                                                                                             73
Table IR
Rostov Oblast
Consolidated Budget as of December 31, 1994
(in million Rubles)
1994           Actual                 % Vaiance                 Actual 1.01
|Description            | 12 Month   |as of 1.01.95           for 12 Mts       for 9 M1s    | % of Total |
Revenues
Corporate Income Tax                 452,320.0       512,586.0          113.3%           60,266            25A4%
Personal Income Tax                  344,719.0       357,544.0          103.7%            12,825          17.70%
Natuml Resources Fees                 12,145.0         8,616.0           70.9%           -3,529             0.4%
Registration Fees                      3,096.0         6,157.0          198.9%             3,061            0.3%
Property Tax                         187,946.0       116,238.0           61.8%          -71,708             5.8%
Value Added Tax                      331,943.0       383,522.0          115.5%           51,579            19.00/0
Excise Tax                            42,783.0        31,658.0           74.0%          -11,125             1.6%
Privatization Income                   5,776.0        10,552.0          182.7%            4,776             0.5%
Liquor Licenses                        3,096.0         4,439.0          143.4%             1,343            0.2%
Land Tax                              29,411.0        55,976.0          190.3%           26,565             2.8%
Special Tax (3% on VAT)               31,765.0        31,503.0           99.2%             -262             1.6%
Other Taxes                          148,704.0       189,520.0          127.4%           40,816             9.4%
Prior Year balance b/f                 8,373.0         8,373.0          100.0Y                0             0.4%
Total Revenues      1,602,077.0     1,716,684.0      1,738,928.0       114,607.0           85.1%
Transfers                             35,780.3        37,782.0          105.6%            2,002             1.9%
Min. of Fin. Clearing (Federal)      267,422.0       246,057.0           92.0%          -21,365            12.2%
Budget Loans                                           5,789.0                            5,789             0.3%
Loans from Banks                                      10,808.0                           10,808             0.5%
Total Adjusted Revenues     1,905,279.3     2,017,120.0          105.9%          111,841
Deficit                                                                                       0
Total Revenues with Deficit   1,905,279.3     2,017,120.0          105.9%          111,841



ANNEX 1.3
Table IR
Rostov Oblast
Consolidated Budget as of December 31,1994
(in million Rubles)
I |   1994            Actual                 % Variance               Actual 1.01
Description            12 Month       as of 1.01.95    for 12 Mts        for 9 Mts       % ofTotal
Expenditures
1. Peoples' Economy
- Agriculture                       181,450.0       166,165.0           91.6%          -15,285            8.3%
- Transport                          66,625.0        61,852.0           92.8%           -4,773            3.1%
- Communal Services (ZEK)           599,959.0       452,717.0           75.5%         -147,242           22.5%
- Other sectors                     257,280.0       184,224.0           71.6%          -73,056            9.2%
ub-total Peoples' Economy Sector  1,105,314.0       864,958.0           78.3%         -240,356           43.0%
2. Social-Cultural Sector                                                                                  0.0%o
- Education                         445,236.0       408,979.0           91.9%          -36,257           20.3%
- Culture, Art & Mass Media          53,673.0        50,891.0           94.8%           -2,782            2.5%
- Health & Physical Culture         333,148.0       306,687.0          92.1%           -26,461           15.3%
- Youth Services                       497.0           474.0           95.4%              -23             0.0%
- Social Security                    33,230.0        33,526.0         100.9%/D            296             1.7%
sub-total Social-Cultural Sector  865,784.0       800,557.0           92.5%          -65,227           39.8%
3. Archives                             642.0           626.0           97.5%              -16            0.0%
4. Justice Dept. & Police               356.0          6,791.0        1907.6%            6,435            0.3%
5. Legislative Body expenses            535.0           956.0          178.70/             421            0.0%
6. Adminstration expenses            48,018.0         50,775.0         105.7%/           2,757            2.5%
7. Chernobyle Support                                 2,546.0                            2,546            0.1%
8. Children allowance               130,354.0        112,992.0          86.7%          -17,362            5.6%
9. Other                            121,745.0        70,979.0           58.3%          -50,766            3.5%
0.0%
sub-total Budget Expenditures  2,272,748.0      1,911,180.0          84.1%                            95.1%
Budget Loans                         21,071.0         81,558.0         387.1%           60,487            4.1%
Loans from banks                                      4,394.0                                             0.2%
Clearing with higher budget          12,683.0         12,683.0         100.0%                0            0.6%/e
Total Expenditures    2,306,502.0     2,009,815.0          87.1%
Surplus (Deficit)                                     7,305.0
Information:
includes Capital Expenditures of:   312,046.0       261,015.0           83.6%                            13.0%
Source: Oblast of Rostov, Finance Department



ANNEX 1.3                                                                                    75
Table IN
Financial Statement
Novosibirsk Oblast - Consolidated
as of December 31, 1994
[Item|                           |           1994                     Variance           %of
| # |   Description  |   Plan      |  Actual  | /age          Amount       Total
Revenues
1 Excises                              54,000       50,234      93.0%       3,766         3. 0%/
2 VAT                                 440,357   , 401,267        91.1%      39,090       23.70/
3 Tax on Profit                       476,700      405,772       85.1%      70,928       24.0%/e
4 Income                              261,963      273,134      104.3%     (11,171)      16.2%
5 Natural Resources Fees                 1,478       6,297     426.0%       (4,819)       0.4%
6 State Duty                             6,789       6,035       88.9%        754         0.4%
7 Fees and Other Non-Tax                36,515     106,904     292.8%      (70,389)       6.3%
8 Income from Privatization              8,897       9,449      106.2%       (552)        0.6%
9 Property Taxes                      231,724       84,055      36.3%      147,669        5.0%/
10 License Fees                           1,200       2,607     217.3%       (1,407)      0.2%
11 Land Tax                             26,588       18,566      69.8%       8,022         1.1%
12 Special Taxes                        34,015       18,664      54.9%       15,351        1.1%
13 Transfer(s) from Republican Bud      159,282     80,433       50.5%      78,849        4.8%
14 MOF Mutual Payments                 225,082     225,082      100.0%         -          13.3%
15 Loans from Ministry of Finance          -           -                       -          0.0%
16 Budget Balance                         1,140       1,140     100.0%         -          0.1%
Total Revenues      1,965,730    1,689,639      86.0%     276,091      100.0/e
Expenditures
1Peoples Economy                      777,386     644,763       82.9%     132,623       39.2%
-- Agriculture                      269,019      174,176      64.7%      94,843        10.6%
-- Transportation                    87,389      89,097      102.0%       (1,708)      5.4%
H Housing & Communal Services      285,087     207,513       72.8%      77,574       12.6%
Other Enterprises                  135,891     173,977      128.0%     (38,086)      10.6%
2 Social / Cultural Measures           978,912     792,933       81.0%     185,979       48.2%
- Education                          370,792     323,098       87.1%      47,694       19.6%
- Cultural & Mass Media               71,074      49,611       69.8%      21,463        3.0&/e
-- Health & Physical Training        331,693     278,818       84.1%      52,875       16.9%/e
-- Social Securities                  97,115      61,205      63.0%       35,910        3.7%
- Chernobyl                             268         184        68.7%         84         0.0%/
- Youth Policy                         2,207       2,917      132.2%       (710)        0.2%
-Rehabilitation                         182         118        64.8%         64         0.0%/0
- Summer Children's Rest               3,907       3,907      100.0%         -          0.2%
--Fees & Comnpensations              101,674      73,075       71.9%      28,599        4.4%
3 Science                                 426         355       83.3%          71         0.00/%
4 Management                           48,719      49,916      102.5%       (1,197)       3.0%/o
5 Other Expenditures                   156,664     153,653      98.1%       3,011         9.3%
6 Reserve Fund
7 MOF Mutual Payments                   3,623        3,623      100.0%        -           0.2%
Total Expenditures                 1,965,730   1,645,243       83.7%     320,487      100.0%/0
Information:
Capital Expenditures                 130,676     105,322       80.6%      25,354        6.4%
Source: Oblast Dept of Finance - Novosibirk



Table 2R
Rostov Obla
~~                200             R~~~~~~s vmu.s    A na1ysi   l991-199430
CEI 6sCOMStatl               200 1                  2,609                         940                        303
Camunaultive Idaxl               200       I           5,2181 1                   49,049 1                   148,619
Revenues                             99                                                 1993                        1994            % chg.
Amount        % of       Amount       % of         Amount          % of        Amount         % of  1991-94
Constant Rubles    TOR   Constat Rubles   TOR      Constant Rubles    TOR      Constant Ruibles    TOR    e
I,oca           890,000     6%A         915,677    10%             1,043,911    11%            2,233,361    19%   151%
Fedend         13,885,000    94%        8,157,532    88%             8,626,685    88%           9,402,319   80%
Ohuf(incl. Fed. Subs.)            -       0/           172,863    2%                95,618     1 %              74,930    1 %    -57%
Total Oblut Revenues (TOR)        14,775,000               9,246,071                   9,766,214                  11,710,610          -21%
Except for Other Revenues which is 1992 - 1994
XI
La



i .
Table 2N
Novouibirsk Oblast
Revenues Analysis 1991-1994
CPI GosComStat                 200                    2,609                          940                          303
Cumimulative Index                200                    5,218                        49,049                      148,619       j
Revenues                             1991                      1992                        1993                         1994              % chg.
Amount         % of       Amount        % of         Amount          %of          Amount          % of  1991-94
Constant Ruibles    TOR   Constant Rubles   TOR      Constant Rubles     TOR      Constant Rubles    TOR
LOcW Revenues             637,220     3%A         725,925    10%                465,043     4%             1,638,006    11%    157%
Fedena          11,431,050    45%         4,730,904   62%              5,816,547    51%             7,640,594    51%    -33%
Otlhr(incL Fed. Subs.)       13,175,395    52%         2,158,242    28%              5,023,099    44%            5,659,287    38%    -57%
Total Oblast Revenues (TOR)        25,243,665                7,615,071                    11,304,690                  14,937,887           -41%
Notice movements m
the revenues by source.
Local taxes have
increased and fedcal
revemw and subsidies
decrasedL



"q
Table 3R
Rostov Oblast
Consolidated Social Expenditure Analysis 1991-1994
1991                      1992                        1993                          1994               %chg
Constant    % of % of    Constant   I%of| %of         Constant    j%of % of         Constant      % of % of 1991-94
.__ __ __ _   Rubles    I TSE TOE  Rubles      TE_ TOE         Rubles     I TSE| TOE        Rubles       I TSE TOE
Health
Wage       1,683,000  46%               469,222  29%                 590,448  30%                  237,392  12%            -86%
Non-wage       1,695,500  46%               967,631  60%               1,200,652  61%                1,576,043  77%             -7%
Capital       310,000   8%               169,126  11%                 179,452   9%                  245,460  12%            -21%
Total SectorExpenditure (TSE)    3,688,500        12%        1,605,979       15%         1,970,552        14%           2,058,895       11%      -44%
Education
Wage       1,626,515 49%                522,906  37%                 660,419  33%                  910,341  35%            -44%
Non-wage       1,217,665  37%               651,881  46%                 949,394  48%                1,259,885  48%              3%
Capital      484,470  15%                248,411  17%                 388,426  19%                  430,301  17%            -11%
Total SectorExpenditure (TSE)    3,328,650       11%         1,423,198       13%         1,998,239        15%           2,600,528       14%      -22%
Water & Waste Water
Wage            -                           -                         19,633  12%                   18,480   4%             -6%
Non-wage            -                                                     98,749  59%                  351,913  72%           256%
Capital           -                                                    50,210  30%                  119,953  24%            139%
Total Setor Expediture (TSE)           -                          -                        168,592         1%            490,346         4%
Total Oblast Expenditures (TOE)
Wage       4,716,905  15%              1,569,882  15%              2,027,046  15%                2,036,461  11%            -57%
Non-Wage      24,048,455  78%              7,215,758  68%              8,899,085  65%                12,801,035  71%           47%
Capital     1,870,575   6%              1,824,280  17%              2,772,726  20%                 3,100,107  17%o           66%
Total Oblast Expenditure (TOE)  30,635,935                  10,609,920                   13,698,857 |    |    |        17,937,603 |41%
m
X
e1



Table 3N                                                                               m
Novosibink Oblast                                                                           X
Consolidated Social Expenditure Analysis 1991-1994
1991                        1992                         1993                         1994              %chg
Constant        ofI %of          tant    f%of %of        Constant    %of K, of       Constant     % of /of 1991-94
Rubles      TSE  TOE        Rubles    [TSE I TOE         Rubles      ITSE  TOE        Rubles      TSE  TOESE
Health
Wage        1,143,025   42%               326,181   31%                407,333   31%                538,300  28%            -53%
Non-wage        1,250,975   46%               602,076   570/               742,366   57%              1,191,263   61%            -5%
Capital       298,290   11%                127,953   12%                154,431   12%                219,552   11%           -26%
TotalSectorExpenditure(TSE)       2,692,290         11%        1,056,209         14%        1,304,130         12%        1,949,114         13%    -28%
E4ucalion
Wage        1,379,595   46%               437,967  39%/o               580,871   39%/o              783,717   36%           -43%
Non-wage        1,233,555   41%               510,112   46%                708,058  48%               1,261,165   57Y.            2%
Capital       383,815   13%                169,024   15%                199,229   13%                155,922    7%           -59%
Total Sector Expenditum (TSE)     2,996,965         12%        1,117,103         15%        1,488,158         14%        2,200,804         15%    -27%
Water & Waste Water
Wage             -
Non-wage              -
Capital 
Total Sector Exnditre (TSE)             -
Total Oblast Expenditum (TOE)
Wagel       2,903,580   12%               912,974   12%              1,209,092   11%              1,641,754   11%           -43%
Non-Wage       20,047,720   82%              5,457,491   75%              8,655,799   79%Yo           11,455,791   79%          -43%
Capitalj     1,362,755    6%               940,322   13%              1,046,276   10%              1,488,046   10%             9Y.
Total OblastEqaiitmre (TOE)       24,314,055                    7,310,787                   10,911,167    I       1     14,585,591 |40%
Nae: Mhm rdobom n wage expmn. mad coapil .zm., how1vu, o mi Obi lehw cpial
pmdiw. iom aed 9% Nos-wap a edsic    t ' by 2 %  Ovuml r.dN  -
expmu, Obbla-wido w40% Mh1oopuwid e  53%  iou awrinl.fcr& Obiol
Ob_wm ldt coDm (%  gmp 1991-1994.
U



80                                                                                                        ANNEX 13
Table 4R
Rostov Oblast
Analysis of Loan Impact for CSEP
Rostov Oblast Debt Capacity
1 As of 12/31/94                                             Rubles                      U.& Dolar
Oblast Revenues                                2,053,241,000,000                       931,301,764
Oblast Expenditures                            2,009,209,000,000                       911,329,86
Local Taxes - 9/30/94                             70,366,605,333                        31,916,635
la Population                                              4,401,000                         4,401,000
lb Expenditures/person/year                                  456,535                                207
2 Loan Amount                                                                              72,500,000
2a Loan Amount after S yrs                                                                   93,688,494
3 Annual Payment                                                                           11,976,932
4 Loan Payment as a % of:
Oblast Revenues                                                                               1.29%
Oblast Expenditures                                                                           1.31%
Oblast Local Taxes                                                                           37.53%
Average Exchange Rate assumed for 1994: Sl.00-R2204.70
Notes:
I Source is Oblast Dept of Finance - Report dafe - January 1, 1995
2 Loan amount, prelimiary etimate assumed for the Oblast
2& Loan mount with an equal cuh flow for four years with interest accruing at 7.5% p.A.
3 Annual Payment calculated on an Amortization bauis with the
following asumptions:
Term - 17 year
Grace period - 5 years
bteest Rate - 7.5% per annum even during grace period
Payments - 2 per year after five (5) years
4 Calulaion of percentage of loan payment to the total budget



ANNEX  1.3                                                                                                       31
Table 4N
Novosibirsk Oblast
Analysis of Loan Impact for CSIP
Novosibirsk Oblast Debt Capacty
1 As of 12131/94                                           Rubis                       U.S Dol,u
Oblast Revenues                               1,689,639,000,000                     766,3a0,460
Oblast Expenditures                           1,645,243,000,000                     746,243,480
Local Taxes - 12/31/94                           20,699,136,000                        9,383,641
la Population                                            2,792,000                        2,792,000
lb Expenditures/person                                     S89,270                               267
2 Loan Amount                                                                           72,500,000
2a Loan Amount after 5 yrs                                                                93,688,494
3 Annual Payment                                                                        11,976,932
4 Loan Payment as a % of:
Oblast Revenues                                                                            1.56%
Oblast Expenditures                                                                        1.60%
Oblast Local Taxes                                                                       127.57%
Average Exchange Rate aumed for 1994: S1.00-R2204.70
Notes:
I Source is Oblat Dept of Finace - Report date - January 1, 1995
2 Loan amount, preliminary etimate aumed forthe Oblat
2a Loan amount with an equal csh flow for four yeas with interes aocniing at 7.5% p.A
3 Annual Payment calculated on an Amortization basis with the
following asumptions:
Tewm- 17 yeas
Grace period - 5 yeas
Interest Rate - 7.5% per annum even during grace period
Payments - 2 per year after five (5) year
4 Calculation of percentage of loan payment to the toWal budget



ANNEX 3.1
SELECTION CRITERIA AND MODEL APPRAISAL FOR EDUCATION SUBPROJECTS
A. Selection Criteria
I .    Each education facility subproject satisfies criteria that contribute to the achievement of accepted
strategic objectives of the education sector as they affect school facilities. In addition, project proposals
require the satisfaction of criteria that are more specific. While specific criteria appear commonsensical,
they require close attention in the particular circumstances in which they are applied in this project. For
example, all school subprojects should satisfy the following criteria:
a.     The capacities and conditions of the utilities serving the school should be adequate.
Rationale: The supply of water, heat from central heating plants, sanitary and drainage
sewers and of electricity is frequently problematic and subject to failures in the areas
served by this project.  For example, school facilities can be rendered relatively
ineffective and investments in them unproductive, if the supply of hot water from the
central heating plant is insufficient, if the supply of water is disrupted or polluted, if the
sanitary sewers are broken or blocked or if the electricity supply is disrupted. Further,
a common problem with utilities involving water is that failure, if uncorrected, leads to
the destruction of the facility itself through the undermining of foundations.
b.     Environmental considerations have been taken into account and the subproject is in
compliance with Russian rules and regulations.
Rationale: Russia has stringent environmental regulations and compliance with them is
particularly important given the often severe environmental problems that are confronted.
With school buildings, this means that particular concern needs to be directed to the
disposition of building materials, sanitation, the quality and control of water, safety, and
the cleanliness of schools and school grounds.
c.     The solution (rehabilitation, extension or the construction of a new school) proposed by
the subproject should be cost-effective. Cost-effectiveness is defined in terms of the
discounted per student costs of providing adequate teaching space. In practical terms,
it becomes important to estimate the remaining life of the facility, before and after the
project and operating cost, before and after the project. The cost of the project should
also include the value of structures that would be destroyed to make room for new
construction.
Rationale: Because of costs and measurement problems, it would not make sense to
undertake a full-blown cost benefit analysis of subprojects. Rather, cost-effectiveness
analysis should be performed that estimates the discounted per student costs of providing
a school place. The stream of costs to be taken into account include operating costs as
well as capital construction costs.
d.     The school facility which is of unusually high quality in terms of design and construction
and therefore high value should be given preference over schools of lower quality. This
is an extension of criterion (c) above.



83                                                                                   ANNEX 3.1
Rationale: There are a number of older schools that fall into this category. Here the
concern is the preservation of the more valuable facilities assets that may be threatened
by failures in systems such as roofs, water, heating and sanitation systems, that have
outlived their useful lives.
e.     It should be shown that there will be a demand for the services of the facility during the
remainder of its useful life (after the project). In effect this means that projections need
to be made of the school age population during this period and account is taken of the
designation of school catchment areas.
Rationale: This matter is of particular importance in the context of this project where
fertility rates have declined to unusually low levels and where there has been large
changes in the distribution of the population due to migration.
f.     For school extensions: the existing structure should be restorable to a quality consistent
with the new construction, and plans for the extended school include a reconsideration
of the allocation of all school space consistent with effectively teaching the curriculum.
Rationale: It does not make much practical sense if the standard of finish of an extension
is substantially superior to what already exists.  Further, by considering education
specifications of the curriculum, it is likely that a pedagogically more effective school
will result if existing space is reallocated concurrent with building the addition.
A Note on New Schools
2.     Although the thrust of the project would be on rehabilitating existing facilities, it would also
include three new schools. Decisions to invest in new schools in Novosibirsk and Rostov oblasts were
based upon analyses of the demand and supply of school places. The demand for school places has
several components: the demand for additional places; a replacement demand; and demand associated
with school consolidations or geographic redistribution of the population. Analysis of the supply of
school places includes considerations not only of numbers, but of the quality and distribution of the
spaces. These analyses show that in spite of an decline in fertility, there is a very substantial pent up
demand for replacement schools because of inadequate investments in the past and for new schools in
some new catchment areas because of the redistribution of population into suburbs.
3.      During project preparation, demographic surveys of the two oblasts with particular attention
given to the areas for which new schools were proposed. These survey results are available in project
files. The findings for the two oblasts were similar. Both have experienced substantial declines in
fertility during the last five years in particular. On the other hand, both are experiencing very sizable
increases in immigration from other parts of the former Soviet Union. Immigration does not entirely
offset the decline with the consequence that the total school age population will decline somewhat (by
5-8%) until 2005, when it is expected to increase again. There is, however, a substantial redistribution
of population underway in both oblasts, largely but not entirely associated with immigration. In Rostov
oblast, immigration is largely responsible for the growth of suburbs around the main towns which are not
well served by schools and other social services. In Novosibirsk oblast, immigration, in the short term
at least, is largely associated with a growing rural population with substantial stability in the population
of Novosibirsk municipality itself.



ANNEX 3.1                                                                                   84
4.      The supply of school places is inadequate both in terms of numbers of places and in their quality.
In the first place, almost no new schools have been built during the last two decades and the schedule of
school rehabilitations is grossly inadequate. Except in some rural catchment areas, all schools are double-
shifted and many are triple-shifted. In Rostov oblast, suburbs are not served and students must travel
substantial distances to schools. There is a need to build new spaces in the suburbs and to redefine
catchment areas. (A report on the catchment areas for the proposed new schools is in Project Files.)
Second, very few new schools have been built during the last two decades to replace schools that have
little useful life remaining. Those that have been built since the mid-1960's are of very poor quality.
Almost all school have inadequate mechanical systems, are not insulated and are energy inefficient. The
design of space is poor and the schools' physical appearance is dismal, in spite of the considerable efforts
of teachers, parents and students. Designs are pedagogically antiquated. Because of their designs, they
are difficult to keep clean and to maintain. While virtually all schools require major rehabilitation, many
schools are not worth it because of major structural faults such as broken foundations and load-bearing
walls and generally poor initial construction and design. The new construction proposed for Novosibirsk
are for replacement facilities to accommodate students in facilities that would still be somewhat
overcrowded. The new construction in Rostov is proposed for suburbs where schools for adjacent
catchment areas are not only overcrowded, but are not worth rehabilitating.
B. Model Appraisal of a School Rehabilitation Subproject
I.     General Information.
(a) Name of school                         -      School 170
(b) Location                                      Kirov Micro Raion, Novosibirsk Oblast
(c) Catchment Area Physical Area served (sq. km)  - Entire Micro Raion, about 12 sq. km.
(d) Population of area served              -      12,000
(Some students in peripheral areas of the micro raion attend schools in adjacent raions because of
overcrowding and the poor condition of school 170.)
2.     Description of a School.
(a) Curriculum
(grades taught and any specialization)    -  I to 11 Some senior grades in commerce
and economics
(b) Number of places                       -      600
(c) Total enrollments                      -      800
(d) Square meters (within walls)           -      5730
(e) Number of floors                       -      3
(f) Construction system and materials      -      Concrete slab: brick fill
(g) Dates built; extended; renovated; major repairs - Built in 1963. Never renovated. Water system
substantially repaired in 1985, 1989 and 1992. Load bearing walls in main stairwell reinforced in
1989.



85                                                                                 ANNEX 3.1
3.     Description of School's Physical Condition (As reported by users: School Director, Teachers,
Parents Association).
I.     Exterior. The school was shoddily constructed in four months in 1963 as part of a large national
construction program that introduced the use of prefabricated concrete panels as a basic design
feature. The most notable features of the exterior of the building are rotten window frames and
broken windows, disintegrating masonry around windows and near the roof, missing or broken
gutters and down spouts, exposed cracks in concrete roof panels, broken steps at entrances.
There is a lack of provision for drainage of water away from the building.
(a)    Foundation and load bearing walls. The foundation on the south-west side of the
building has been gradually undermined by water from the heating, water and sanitation
systems. Currently, the loadbearing wall on that side of the building is not sufficiently
stable and requires reinforcement. Substantial work has already been done to reinforce
load bearing walls in the main stairwell. But recurring leakages in the main water system
continue to threaten the structure.
(b)    Roof and Drainage. The roof of the building leaks, has no further useful life and should
be replaced. At the same time, gaps between the concrete panels that comprise the roof s
structure should be filled. The gaps are particularly obvious and unsightly at the roof
overhangs. All gutters and down spouts are either rusted out, broken or have fallen away
from the building and have been removed. This causes water to flow down the side of
the building. This problem contributes to undermining the foundation that was noted
above. Water does not drain from the site.
(c)    Facade (integrity with respect to protection from  weather and appearance).  The
appearance of the facade was noted above in the discussion of the exterior. The facade,
lacking any grouting or caulking does not provide adequate protection from weather.
The condition of the windows leads to substantial heat loss.
(d)    Grounds. The grounds have been used several times as a dump site. There is no control
over vehicular and pedestrian traffic at the site. It is inadequately drained.
II.    Interior.
(a)    Heating. The system does not heat the building adequately. It has failed totally on three
occasions during the last five years because of broken lines or major leaks. The system
has been a major contributor to structural damage to floors, walls and foundations. The
exposed radiators and pipes in halls and rooms are a threat to children when they get too
hot.
(b)    Electrical. The electrical system was substantially renovated in 1992. But most rooms
are still too dark for reading. Provision has never been made for exterior lighting, which
is needed for security reasons. Being double-shifted, the school is open during evenings
and lighting is needed during this period. The school is also a community meeting place
during evenings.



ANNEX 3.1                                                                                 86
(c)    Water. Of all systems, the water system is in greatest need of repair. There have been
frequent and damaging leaks. Concrete floors have had to be torn up to effect repairs.
Leaks have damaged the foundation. The water itself is usually of minimally acceptable
standard, but on occasion becomes unsafe for drinking. There are an inadequate number
of water fountains. Similarly, there are an inadequate number of washbasins in latrines
and there is no sink available for custodial purposes.
(d)    Sanitation. There are two latrines and eight toilets currently in operation in the building.
One latrine was closed and converted into an inadequate cloak room. The sanitary pipes
have been subject to cracks and breaks, largely because of floor and foundation problems.
(e)    Floors. Wooden hallway floors and some classroom floors have rotted.  While fresh
coats of paint have been applied they are unsightly.
(f)    Walls.  Interior walls are cracked and dirty.  The tiled walls at the entrance are
unsightly.
(g)    Windows, caulking, insulation, etc. Next to the water system, the building's most
important problems relate to windows, caulking and insulation. The wooden casements
and frames for windows have, in most cases, rotted to a point where they cannot be
caulked. Some windows are broken. Masonry work is needed around many windows.
Since systematic preventive maintenance is never performed, it is likely that the windows
have not been painted or caulked since their original installation. There is no insulation
in the building.
(h)    Other (commentary on school closings and other constraints on teaching the curriculum).
During the last five years, the school has been closed on three occasions due to failures
in water and heating pipes. The heating system cannot heat the school to an adequate
level of comfort during cold weather.
In addition to the problems noted above, there is inadequate cloakroom space, inadequate
space for storage of materials of all kinds and no space or provision for custodial work
(equipment, supplies, a sink, etc.). Furniture in some classes is unsuitable for the age
of the students. The doors throughout the building are unsightly and inadequate. The
teaching staff do not have an adequate space for a staff room; it badly needs renovation.
4.     Governance.
(a)    Headmaster; Assistant Headmaster    -     Abrosimova Galina Ivanovna
(b)    Head of Parents Association        -      Natasha Pentovsky
(c)    Head of Teachers Association       -      (Not identified)
(d)    Process for vetting of subproject with governing bodies above. The director of the
school and the head of the teachers association were interviewed on site on two separate
occasions during the March 1995 preparation mission by Bank staff, with a representative
of the engineering firm, Elektron, and of the raion's chief building inspector. These
meetings followed the survey during December 1994 by Elektron. The upgrades proposed
here which augment the survey report are direct results of the interviews.



87                                                                                 ANNEX 3.1
5.     Statements by School Director, Parents Association and the Teachers Association on the
impact of the school's condition on their work and the performance of their separate roles.
Teachers and the School Director should include comments on the quality of education.
(Example of school Director's statement is in Attachment A.) These statements should be part
of the school's and raion's application for financial assistance for school rehabilitation or school
extension.
Note: In future appraisals, Items I to 5 above, will be completed by school and raion officials
prior to the conduct of an official survey. The terms of reference of the surveying firm will
include official interviews and consultations with the director of the school, the heads of the
teachers and parents associations.
6.     Scope of Work. (The completed survey documents should be considered part of the appraisal.
They are summarized below.)
(a)    Surveyor                            -      Elektron (Engineering
(al)   Date surveyed                       -      December 10, 1994
(a2)   Location of Survey Documents        -      Moscow Coordination Office, Novosibirsk
Project Bureau, Elektron
(b)    Summary of scope of work and estimated costs.
Roof and drainage. The roof, gutters and down-spouts are to be replaced. The
slab-construction of the roof has cracks that will be plastered filling. A culvert
is to be built to drain water from the site.
ii.    Facade. All exterior walls require pointing up. Masonry work is required near
windows and near the top of exterior walls. The exterior steps at the entrance are
to be repaired.
iii.    Grounds. A fence is to be installed around the entire perimeter to prevent
vehicular and pedestrian trespassing and dumping on the site. The grounds will
be cleaned up.
iv.    Heating. The entire heating system requires replacement, including the filtration
system outside at the edge of the site. A double system is to be installed with
adequate cut-offs.
v.     Electrical. The entire electrical system is to be replaced and upgraded providing
for a larger number of circuit breakers and more intense lighting in the
classrooms. An exterior lighting system is to be installed as an upgrade.
vi.    Water. Both water and sanitation systems are to be entirely replaced.  A total
of four new water fountains are to be installed as an upgrade. The cement floor
at the entrance which covers the water pipes is to be breached and access
provided for routine maintenance.



ANNEX 3.1                                                                                   88
vii.   Sanitation. The entire sanitation system is to be replaced and 16 new toilets
installed. Four of these will be a result of restoring the cloakroom to its use as
a latrine.
viii. Floors. Wooden floors on the 2nd and 3rd floors are to be replaced in hallways.
Floors in classrooms to be covered with sheet linoleum (imported to be of
adequate quality).
ix.    Interior walls. Cracks are to be filled and all interior walls are to be painted a
double coat.
x.     Windows, caulking, insulation. All windows are to be replaced. The entire
structure is to be caulked where needed.
xi.    Other. The foundation and exterior walls on the south side of the building are
to be reinforced. A steel band is to be installed around the entire structure at the
foundation level.
(c)    Notes on Upgrades (as opposed to repairs and replacements).
The new external culvert and fence (noted above).
The new water fountains and toilets (noted above).
The linoleum floors in classrooms (noted above).
The exterior lighting system (noted above).
All doors in the building are to be replaced. A new cloakroom is to be built. Storage
space is to be provided for equipment and materials, including maintenance and custodial
materials. The space will include a sink. Some classroom furniture is to be replaced
where grade school furniture is being used for secondary school students. The staff room
is to be renovated. The tiles in the entrance are to be replaced and the floor repaired.
7.     Envirommental Analysis.
(a)    Baseline Situation.  The school grounds have been used as a dump site and is
inadequately drained. There are safety problems within the school as one fire evacuation
door has been blocked, and fire extinguishers need servicing. Also, heating radiators
pose a hazard for children. The school lacks insulation, windows are broken and the
building is in need of caulking --it is very energy inefficient. Sanitary facilities are
inadequate and the water supply to the school sometimes poses a health hazard.
(i)    Heating system (central or individual; energy used, security aspects).  The
heating system is attached to a central heating plant for the raion that burns oil.
It is unknown how much energy is used by the school. It is known that the
current system is inefficient because of a lack of means for regulating
temperatures and because it is a single-pipe system. The situation is exacerbated
by a lack of insulation, caulking and inadequate windows on the building. The



89                                                                               ANNEX 3.1
main pipe entering the building is insufficiently insulated. Pipes and radiators
require covers to make them safe.
(ii)    Watersupply (canalization of pipes; water quality). The water pipes have had
major leaks that have undermined the foundation in one part. Nothing can be
done within the project to improve the quality of the city's water.
(iii)   Wastewater (canalization of pipes; discharges, etc.). Wastewater currently leaks
from broken and cracked pipes which are to be repaired under the project.
(iv)   Landscaping at end of rehabilitation work. The school site has been used as a
dump site. A fence is to be installed around the perimeter to prevent future
dumping and all refuse is to be removed. The grounds are to be landscaped with
trees and shrubs.
(v)    FYre security arrangements. One of the school's fire exits has been barred. This
is to be opened providing three fire exits at the bottom of three stairwells. The
site did not have workable fire extinguishers and this situation is to be rectified.
(b)    Regulatory  and  Institutional Considerations.    Record  of compliance  with
environmental and safety regulations.
(c)    Environmental impact of proposal. Proposed rehabilitation works will have positive
effects on the surrounding environment since many of the existing leaking pipes would
be replaced, and the school building would be more insulated, resulting in lowering total
heating required for its operation.
(d)    Mitigation and/or enhancement measures.
(i)    Disposal of Building and Insulation materials. The material is to be carried to
an officially approved dump site.
(ii)    How is waste material to be disposed of. Waste material is to be taken from the
site to an officially approved dump.
(iii)   How is solid waste from school disposed of? Solid waste from the school is
burned in an incinerator. Landscaping at completion of work.



ANNEX 3.1                                                                                   90
8.     Costs by System; survey results; local and foreign exchange; assumptions made.
Roof, drainage               $      50,000
Grounds                             22,000
Electrical                          30,000
Heating                            120,000
Water                               85,000
Sanitation                          83,000
Floors                              65,000
Windows, Caulking                   45,000
Exterior Walls                      35,000
Interior Walls                      25,000
Reinforcing foundation and walls    35,000
Other largely upgrades              70,000
TOTAL (Base cost)             $    700,000
9.     Estimate Remaining Life of School after the upgrades. In most circumstances, this school
would be retired from service and demolished because of its low standard of initial construction
and because there is little that can be done to make it energy and pedagogically efficient. It lacks
space for supplies, custodial services and staff. However inefficient in these respects, it can be
maintained in service for another 10 years for a total of about $1,200 per student place. By
comparison, a newly constructed school, with a life of about 25-30 years would cost a total of
over $12,000 per place which the government cannot currently afford.
10.   Implementation Schedule and Responsibilities (see Attachment B).
11.    Basis for Establishing the Priority for this Project.
(a)    Strategic or policy basis. Kirov micro raion has a population of 12,000 and a school
age population, ages 7 through 18, of approximately 1,900, 800 of whom attend school
170. Because of overcrowding, the remainder attend schools in adjacent raions or
vocational schools during grades 10 and 11. Currently, there is only a small increase in
population due to immigration but this almost exactly offsets the decline attributable to
historically low levels of fertility. The school age population of the micro raion is
projected to remain relatively static during the next few years and then begin to grow
rather gradually as fertility rates partially recover to earlier levels. Increases in school age
population are not expected until 2003-2005. Kirov School 170 should be replaced with
a new and larger school at the end of this period.
(b)    Economic evaluation. In its present condition, the school has little or no useful life. The
alternative to rehabilitating or replacing this school is to transport students to two schools
at 8 and 12 kilometers away. Both of these schools are already overcrowded operating
in two shifts.
Ideally, a new school should be built on the site that has a better allocation of
space among uses and separates primary from secondary students. A new structure



91                                                                                   ANNEX 3.1
would result in substantial saving in energy, recurrent repair and upkeep costs and be
much more efficient pedagogically. It would provide for an enriched curriculum and the
eventual acquisition and efficient installation of computers and the use of television for
distance education. It would be safer and more comfortable. The capital costs of such
a structure would be about $7 million or about $12,000 per student place and have a life
of about 30 years.
The capital costs of the rehabilitation of school 170 in Kirov micro raion, would
be about one-tenth of that at $1200 per student place and extend the life of the structure
by about 10 years. The rehabilitated school and a new school are, of course, not directly
comparable in terms of the services that they would yield. The rehabilitated school would
have higher recurrent costs for repairs and maintenance and would remain energy
inefficient because of the lack of adequate insulation. However, a comparison of the
discounted costs of operating a new school and a rehabilitated school 170 yields an
overwhelming advantage to the rehabilitated school because of the high initial costs of
a new building. A discount rate of 15% substantially diminishes the importance of
differences in recurrent costs of operation between a new school and a rehabilitated
school. Given the enormous difference in the capital costs of these alternatives, a direct
comparison of the discounted operating costs seems unnecessary. The attached table (see
Attachment C) compares only the discounted capital and recurrent costs of the project (a
rehabilitated school) with the "without-project" alternative.  The "without-project"
alternative assumes that the school would close and that new transportation costs would
be incurred.
School 170 ranks in the upper decile of all schools that are eligible for
rehabilitation in terms of cost effectiveness ratio. Most schools in the upper decile are
those that have little or no remaining life and meet technical criteria in terms of
soundness of the basic structure. Other schools in the upper decile include structurally
sound schools whose lives are threatened by failures in heating, water and sanitation
systems. The cost-effectiveness ratio is equal to the discounted costs of the rehabilitated
school divided by the number of students at risk. The former reflects the life of the
school and a 15% discount rate. The latter is total enrollments rather than total student
places.
(c)    Social considerations. School 170 is an integral part of the Kirov sub-raion community.
Most residents, parents and many teachers are former students. The community
contributes substantially to the school in terms of in-kind services. They attempt to
remove debris that is dumped on the site by outsiders, they help teachers to maintain and
decorate classrooms and are involved as much as possible in painting and winterizing.
The teachers themselves, helped by parents, do virtually all of the custodial work.
The school provides space for community meetings and community social events
within the limits of the spaces that are there. It is the social center of the community.
(d)    Other considerations.  This analysis should include a description regarding the
importance of the school to local enterprises and its relationship to enterprises, and
community and extra curricular training activities that may occur in the school.



ANNEX 3.1                                                                                        92
ATTACHMENT A
STATEMENT BY SCHOOL DIRECTOR
ON THE IMPACT OF THE SCHOOL'S CONDITION ON HER WORK
I was a student in this school, then later a teacher and, for the last five years, its director. The school's physical
condition is a source of considerable pain and embarrassment to me. It is unsightly and it is a difficult place to
teach in. It is difficult to maintain and to keep clean. I and my teachers are embarrassed when parents visit this
school. We spend a considerable amount of time cleaning and maintaining the place so that it is suitable for
students. The situation is aggravated because the school is overcrowded and operating in two shifts. The physical
condition of school 170 is nothing less than desperate.
Walking around the outside of the building, you will notice that the grounds have been used as a dump site. It is
not adequately drained particularly with respect to water coming from the roof. Looking at the exterior, one can
see that the building is clearly in need of major rehabilitation. Gutters and down spouts have rotted away and water
runs down the side of the building. In the winter, it freezes. The roof leaks. The mortar work around the top of
the building is disintegrating. There are gaps between the concrete slabs that make up the roof. Most of the
window frames are rotten and some windows are broken. Windows provide inadequate protection from cold Siberian
weather. The concrete steps into the building entrances have disintegrated and are a hazard. Also, you can see the
makeshift structure that I have had to put up to store school supplies, including such items as paint. We have no
storage space in the school except the cupboards that are installed in some classrooms.
Inside the building, you will note that there is no space for the building's custodial care supplies and equipment and
no sink for this purpose. There is inadequate provision for a cloakroom. The current cloakroom was made
converting a latrine that we also need desperately. We do have a staff room, but you will notice that it is in poor
condition and in need of renovation. We have only four drinking fountains in the building and a total of 12 toilets.
All of the doors in the building are make-shift and very unsightly. I would like to have them replaced. The
entrance to the building has tiles on the walls that are not particularly pleasant to see. The entrance hall floor has
been torn up several times to repair water pipes. The floor was restored by simply cementing over the hole made
in the floor. Leaks in our water pipes are a recurring problem that we never seem to solve permanently. The
system should be replaced.
Because we are double-shifted, we use the building after dark. The community also uses it for meeting and social
events after dark. Yet, there is no outside lighting for the building and this creates a hazardous condition for people
who use the building. The school is often uncomfortably cold in the winter, because of the condition of the
windows, lack of caulking and sometimes inadequate heat from the pipes and radiators. On the other hand,
sometimes the heat is so hot in the pipes and radiators that they are dangerous to the students. They do not have
protective covers.
The school covers grades 1-11 and this means that we need different furniture and facilities for primary and
secondary students. Currently, we have more primary school furniture than we need and insufficient furniture for
older students. Older students are crammed into seats and desks that make them most uncomfortable.
In closing, I want to say that I find this kind of international cooperation and assistance to help our school to be
most heartening and encouraging for the future.
Abrosimova Galina Ivanova
(Director, School 170, Kirov micro-raion)



93                                                                             AMEX 3.1
CY.
I              0  .11
3 C400
.....a                                     .. .
a
ma                                                  a           .
33
iU   4
0 24
0-
1W~~~~~~~~
i s-   1 .1 1  1. {    11S                      1^1i11|  
St Iii  fell



ATTACHMFNT C
Page I of 3
REHABHHTATION OF SCHOOL NO. 170 - NOVOSIBtSK
Recarmd  F SIn a Co_t Witout Pr t                                                         US$ e     (194) l
YEAR            STAFF              TEACHING              HEATING           MAMNTIANCE                  TRANSPORTATION                  ELECTRICITY               TOTAL   l
MATERLIAS                                                           _      _      _      _       _      _      _      _
2               60                3                                        3                                                                                     66
2               60                 3                                       3                                                                                     66
3               60                 3                                       3                                                                                     66
4               60                 3                                        I                          10                                                        74
S               60                 3                                        1                          10                                                        74
6               60                 3                                        1                          10                                                        74
7               60                 3                    l                                              10                                                        74
8               60                 3                                        1                          10                                                        74
9               60                 3                                        1                          10                                                        74
10              60                3                                        1                           10                                                        74
____________           ~Rmmernct Economic Costs Without Project____
1               60                 3                     20                3                                                            10                       96
2               60                 3                     20                3                                                            10                       96
3               60                 3                     20                 3                                                           10                       96
4               60                 3                                        1                          13                               10                        87
5               60                 3                                        1                          13                               10                       87
6               60                 3                                        1                          13                               10                       87
7               60                 3                                        1                          13                               10                       87
8               60                 3                                        1                          13                               10                       87
9               60                 3                                        1                          13                               10                       87
10               60                3                   1                                1              13                                10                      3 7



ArTACHMENT C
Page 2 of 3
so
Fmwi9  Capitl costs with Project                                                  USS '000 (1994)
YEAR                       TEACHING MATERIALS   LABOR                             ENERGY                     TAXES                       TOTAL
I                         256                         200                         113                        131                         700
2 x Coaversion Factor                               226
Economic Caal Costs with Project
I                         256                         200                        226                                                     682
Economic Recurrent Costs Wbth Project                                               US$ '000 (1994)
YEAR           STAFF            TEACHING             HEATING          MAINTENANCE               TRANSPORTATION                 ELECTRICITY             TOTAL
MATERIALS
1             60                3                    20               5                                                        10                     108
2              60               3                    10               5                                                        10                      88
3              60               3                    10               5                                                        10                      88
4              60               3                    10               5                                                        10                      88
5              60               3                    10               5                                                        10                      88
6              60               3                    10               5                                                        10                      8S
7              60               3                    10               5                                                        10                     88
9              60               3                    10               5                                                        10                      8S
9              60               3                    10               5                                                        10                     88
10        ~60               3                    10               5                                                        10                      85
X
U



ATACHMINr C
Page 3 of 3
U
SUMMARY: NCRE__AL ECONOUC COM OF PROJECT OVER WITHOUT PROJECT SCENARIO                                                              (USS I) 
WITH PROJECT                                                                                                           _
CAPITAL COSMS                              RECURRET               TOTAL    TOTAL                  W MINUS   DISCOUNT                PRESr JT
cosrS                 WITH          WITHIOUT           WO             a 15%              VALUE
YEAR         MATERIALS              LABOR    EhERGY                TOTAL
1            256                   200           226               6S2           108                   790          96                 694            .870               603.8
2                                                                                a8                    88            96                 -8             .756               -6.0
3                                                                                88                    88            96_  -8                           .658               -5.3
4                                                                                88                    88            87                 -I             .572              40.6
5                                                                                88                    88            87                -I              .497               -0.5
6                                                                                88                    88            87                 -1             .432              -0.4
7                                                                                88                    88            87                 -1             .376               -0.4
8                                                                                88                    88            87                 -I             .327              -0.3
9                                                                                U                     8S            87                 -1             .2S4               40.3
10                                                                               88                    38            87                 -1            .247               40.2
Present Value of Project Economic Cods (Prent value per student place - $983; Per student enrolled -  797.                                                                589.8
Notes:
I. All choobs in the project are in desperate need of either rehabilitation or replacement. It is ssumed here that the 'without proje* scenario will involve closing the school after three yean and the rasuig _mea of
students and teachmer to adjacent school districts that are already overcrowded. They will be double- nd often triple-shifted in thee schools.
2. In the 'without project scenario, it is sumuted that: (a) Teacher and teaching materials costs will not change after the third year and reasignment to other schools. (b) Maintenace costs in the school to which
reasignmen  are made will increase marginally. Note that these costs re already extemeiy low reflecing the existing situation. (c) After the third year trunsportsion costs will be incurred. Trmnqoctation cost am
financed 50% by sudent with about a 50% subsidy from the sate. The higher economic cos reflect the continuing subsidy on energy. (d) Eletricity cots will not chanp. The schools to which stuet sre reassigned
will be operating patlilUy at time that will require illumirAtion.
Z s--*l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 3.2
EDUCATION FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
AND SUPPORTING MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM
NOVISIBIRSK MUNICIPALITY
1. THE SITUATION
A.    Educational Context
1.    Responsibilities for educational planning and investment have been devolved from central to lower
levels of government but these have not yet developed the necessary organization and staffing. Indeed
inadequate resources over an extended period of time has led to an erosion of capacity to manage
educational facilities. Long-standing responsibilities for routine maintenance, rehabilitation and the
operation of facilities have suffered from a lack of finance. The need to develop new systems of
organization and management of school facilities, including the necessary management information
systems, is made more difficult because currently, information about schools is scattered and incomplete,
often existing at the level of the school itself. Novosibirsk municipality has given a high priority to an
initiative to develop planning and management systems, including a management information system, for
schools, but progress is very slow because of a lack of resources. Assistance for a management
development and management information systems component has, therefore, been included in the
project. Lessons learned in Novosibirsk municipality should prove applicable to later investments
throughout the oblast and in other oblasts as well.
B.    Organization of the Novosibirsk Municipal Department of Education
2.     The municipality has 188 daytime general schools and 182 pre-school institutions containing a
total of 1.3 million square meters of space. The organization and management of these schools and
institutions is highly decentralized. The municipal Department of Education has management and
oversight responsibilities for 10 Raion District offices to whom the directors of individual schools report.
In practice, each individual school director has extraordinary responsibilities for the operation of the
school, including instructional, administrative, maintenance, and custodial responsibilities. The burden
of these responsibilities is excessive and diminishes the ability of the school directors to provide
educational leadership.
3.    The functions of a comprehensive facilities planninU organization include forecasting student
enrollments, designing catchment areas for schools, and developing a capital improvement program of
at least five years' duration. These functions require sets of decisions that should be based upon
systematically-gathered information about demographic factors and the physical status of each school.
In Novosibirsk municipality, the planning function is carried out by two staff members--an economist and
a statistical assistant--but their role is limited. Student enrolment data are kept only at individual schools
and projections of enrollments are usually made only for the next year for each catchment area. These
projections are, in fact, based upon canvasses of homes in school catchment areas carried out by the
teachers themselves. These projections are used to estimate the materials and supplies required as well
as to make decisions about double and triple shifting. Projections of space requirements are made at the
oblast and municipality levels and are based upon norms, such as the number of places per 1000
population. Population projections, if they are made, are done by local academic institutions, but there
is no evidence that their findings are used in practice.



98                                                                                  ANNEX 3.2
4.     In Novosibirsk municipality, school design. construction and rehabilitation are performed by a
seven-person unit headed by a Deputy Chief for Technical Supervision. The unit is responsible for
construction, repairs, supplies, site plans, and technical documentation. Subsidiary units are located at
the raion level and are largely concerned with major repairs. Staffing levels at the raion level are based
on norms. But, for budgetary reasons, all positions are not filled and the raion level units are considered
to be seriously understaffed. The standards for school design and the materials and building systems used
are governed by norms that are acknowledged to have been inappropriate in the first instance.
5.     There is no organization at the municipal or raion school administrative offices to perform,
manage, or monitor routine school maintenance activities. Routine maintenance is the responsibility of
the school director and /or deputy director, and is performed by two maintenance workers assigned to
each school. Maintenance materials and salaries are budgeted at the school. Requests for major repairs
that cannot be handled by school maintenance staff are initiated by school directors and forwarded to the
raion administration and the municipal Department of Education. Occasionally these requests are sent to
the oblast department of education.
6.     The custodial function in schools is also managed by school directors. Custodial staffing is
governed by established 'norms' that are seldom met. Children help clean their classrooms. The
buildings are intensively utilized since almost all of the schools are double shifted (8:30 am to 1:30 pm
and 2:00 pm to 6:30 pm). Some schools are triple shifted. Because of their intensive utilization, schools
ar.  very difficult to keep clean. No formal custodial training and/or inspection is undertaken by the raion
or city school administrative offices.
7.    Information technology (computers) is a new responsibility of the city Education Department.
There is only one specialist overseeing this effort. The inventory and location of computers in the city
Department of Education is as follows:
Personnel                   2 IBM 286s
Economic Planning            I IBM 286
Curriculum/Innovation        I IBM 486
Accounting                   8 IBM 486s w/File Server (LAN)
Kindergarten                 I IBM 386
Director's Secretary         I IBM 486
8.     Except for accounting, computers are used for word processing and document preparation.
Accounting is the only function which uses computers for information storage, retrieval, and manipulation
for business systems applications.
C.    Problems
9.     There is no information base that would facilitate good system-wide decision-making. Instead
there are many micro-information bases mostly centered on individual schools, raion administrations and
the various offices in the municipal Department of Education. They are heterogeneous in form and
content and not accessible to each other. Access to information held in other locations is difficult and
time-consuming. There is no consolidated data base on historical or current year school enrollments.
Multi-year projections are not being made. Information on school capacities and other facility attributes
are not maintained. Most planning that now occur in the facilities area concerns finance. Methodologies



ANNEX 3.2                                                                                 Be
for assigning priorities for rehabilitation and major repair work are being introduced under the project.
But a facilities data base containing the comprehensive physical attributes of all school buildings is needed
for the effective use and refinement of these methodologies.
10.   The design and construction of new schools, either as additional buildings to relieve overcrowding
or to replace inadequate facilities, is not occurring due to a lack of planning and funding. Previously
(under the Soviet system), this responsibility was centralized with little local control or involvement. Poor
design and quality of construction and years of under-investment in school facilities has lead to the current
overcrowding and poor condition of schools. The model school component (see Annex 3.4) will develop
improved educational specifications and school designs. The use of cost-effective construction materials
and methods will be demonstrated in the model school component.
11.   It was reported that the quality of construction and repair work performed is often not
satisfactory. Inspection and evaluation procedures must be developed and employed to assure an
acceptable quality of work.
12.   Maintenance of a complex school facility requires a broad base of trade skills, e.g. electrical,
plumbing, heating, carpentry, and masonry that are difficult, if not impossible, to find in one or two
maintenance personnel assigned to each school. Additionally, records of routine maintenance activities
and expenditures are not available at the city Department of Education. A preventive maintenance
program does not exist and a training program is needed. The methodology and organization of
maintenance activities needs to be examined. It appears that improved efficiency and effectiveness could
be achieved within the resources currently available.
13.    Poor construction and choice of surface materials makes cleaning very difficult. The major
problems observed in custodial/housekeeping activities are:
e     Inadequate cleaning equipment
3     Inadequate cleaning materials (chemicals)
3     Lack of training in proper cleaning methodologies
*     Lack of a creditable methodology for determining custodial staffing ('norms' are
not applicable to all schools)
14.   Computer technology does not exist to support the facilities planning, design and construction,
maintenance, and custodial activities at local schools, raions, or the city school administration.
Information is not available to facilitate good program management and/or decision making.
II. ASSISTANCE TO BE PROVIDED UNDER THE PROJECT
A. Objectives of the Component
15. This component of the project is designed to establish a management information system for school
facilities planning, investments, program and project implementation and school maintenance in
Novosibirsk municipality, as a pilot to be evaluated. Based upon lessons learned, this would be modified,
and extended throughout the municipality. Sufficient resources are included in the component to launch
a municipality-wide implementation of the systems designed and piloted under the project. When the



100                                                                              ANNEX 3.2
component is completed, almost all schools, all 10 raion school administrations and the municipal
Department of Education should be linked in a network. However, the precise specifications of these
systems are to be determined by tasks undertaken by consultants at the initial stages of project
implementation.
B. Tasks
Task 1 - Management System Study
16.   Prior to any efforts to design a management information system to support school facilities
activities, a management study should be undertaken to examine current processes and make
recommendations regarding:
*     Organization
*     Staffing
*     Funding
*     Economic analysis
*     Management processes and decision making
Information (availability, needs, generation, storage, retrieval, distribution, etc.)
=     Training
17.   This task would require the efforts of two system management analysts, who should be familiar
with the best practices in facilities management methodologies and processes, for approximately six weeks
to assist with the preparation of a multi-year transitional strategy. Proposals must reflect Russian social
and organizational culture, rather than directly transplanting foreign systems.
Task 2 - Management Information System Study
18.   The recommended second task of this sub-component is a management information system study.
This task should overlap Task I by approximately two weeks to facilitate information transfer and task
coordination. This study effort should include and make recommendations regarding:
e     Technology needs in Facilities and its integration into a city-wide MIS
*     System configuration
*     Systems Software
*     Applications Software
*     Hardware - existing/new
*     Data base configuration
*     Staffing/Personnel
*     Telecommunications Issues - WAN connectivity
*     Training
*     Costs/Economics
*     Implementation schedule



ANNEX 3.2                                                                               101
19.   It should be noted that the city Department of Education is currently considering a letter of intent
with Apple computer for cooperation in the area of technology. The terms, conditions and intent of this
"feasibility" study could not be ascertained.
20.    A rough concept of a MIS configuration emerged in discussions with the city Department of
Education. This concept should be considered during the Task 2 MIS Study effort. The concept included
development of a MIS local area network within the City Department of Education Administrative
Building, connected via data lines to 2 to 3 computers in the raion administrative offices to form a
wide-area network. A computer would also be installed in the Administrative office at each school with
dial-up connectivity via modem to the raion offices. The initial efforts in the utilization of this conceptual
data network would be to facilitate better availability of information and management of school facilities,
particularly maintenance and major repairs.
Task 3 - Study Tours
21.   To assist in training and knowledge transfer in the area of information technology, study tours
would be organized for selected individuals in the city Department of Education Administration. School
districts in the United States, Canada, or Finland, that demonstrate good school facilities management
organizations and practices and the use of information technology in school facilities management would
be visited. The study tour would involve 5 to 6 city school administrators visiting 3 school districts. Visits
to private enterprises that provide technology services would be included. The duration of the study tour
should be approximately two weeks.
Task 4 - Consultation and Planning System Design of Pilot
22.    Following the study tours, consultants will work with municipal officials on a plan that would,
in the first instance, determine responsibilities for various functions in school facilities planning and
management. In a cooperative and consultative process, data needs for the performance of these functions
would be discussed and agreed. A plan would be agreed for gradual transition to the new system. The
plan would include substantial provision for training all of those responsible for using and maintaining
the system.
Task 5 - Implementation of Pilot
23.    A data base would be designed and local consultants hired to establish the base in the first
instance and to create new software, or to modify existing software that will provide access to the data
base on a network and to permit routine statistical analysis and data manipulation. Hardware would be
installed, tested, and evaluated for a small portion of the total network, perhaps two raions with 40
schools and the municipal administration. Training would be provided for users of the MIS. Evaluation
protocol would include the effectiveness of training and acceptance of the use of technology.
Understanding and user acceptance of installed applications software should be evaluated.
24.   The MIS component would finance as many as 85 high-end PCs with appropriate file servers,
communication devices, and data lines that are to defined in the systems configuration portions of the
Task 2 study effort.



102                                                                          ANNEX 3.2
Task 6 - Development of Systems Implementation Plan
25.   Based on the experiences through Task 5, and particularly the test and evaluation data,
modifications to the management information systems hardware and software configurations would be
made. Following this re-engineering effort, a sequenced implementation plan for the city-wide network
would be developed.
Task 7 - Progressive Implementation of Citywide Program
26.   Based on availability of resources, staff training, and organizational readiness, implementation
of the city-wide network should proceed in accordance with the implementation plan developed in Task
6.
m:\king\annex3 .2



ANNEX 3.3
SELECTION CRITERIA AND MODEL APPRAISAL
FOR HEALTH SUBPROJECTS
A. SELECTION CRITERIA
Hospitals must meet the following criteria in order to be considered for the project:
(a)    City and central raion hospitals must qualify as "general hospitals" as that term is understood in
Western terminology.
Rationale:
(i)    These hospitals are the mainstay of the system  and deal with the majority of the
population. Outside the main cities, these hospitals, usually configured with an adjacent
polyclinic, are the only medical facilities available to the population.
(ii)    Accordingly, these facilities deal with the main causes of morbidity and preventable
mortality: cardiovascular problems and trauma.
(iii)   Improved functioning of these hospitals should reduce hospitalization in upper-level
facilities, such as oblast hospitals that, although often better equipped, do not use
different care by approach and technology than that found in lower level facilities.
(b)    Hospitals must be centrally located and easily accessible and must serve a population of at least
50,000 (and must be expected to continue to serve such a population in the future).
Rationale: These criteria are intended to assure that facilities selected are needed and can operate
efficiently, the premises being that a population of this size requires hospital facilities and that
the minimal hospital size, from an efficiency perspective, is 250 to 300 acute beds.
(c)    Hospitals must have high levels of utilization--i.e an occupancy rate of above 90%.
Rationale: This criterion is intended to assure that the facilities selected are the ones most needed
and used.
(d)    Hospitals must be in need of rehabilitation and upgrading (as per the proposed functional
specifications described in this Annex and other project documents) of their: (i) emergency cum
admission units, including ambulances; (ii) intensive care units; (iii) operating theaters; (iv)
laboratories; and (v) X-ray and imaging units.



104                                                                                    ANNEX 3.3
Rationale:
(i)    These components constitute the "core" of a general hospital and are necessary for proper
management of patients, especially those in trauma and those suffering from
cardiovascular problems.
(ii)    This core, the laboratories cum X-Ray and imaging services in particular, serves the
entire hospital, as well as peripheral facilities in the community.
(iii)    A well-functioning core can provide more effective and efficient care, saving lives and
reducing the need for hospitalization at all levels.
(e)    Hospitals must have a number of emergency patients which is higher than the oblast average in
need of intensive care (with priority to the highest number).
Rationale. Given Russian morbidity and mortality patterns, these facilities can contribute most
to years of life saved.
(f)    Hospitals must have access to, in order of priority: a water supply, heating, sewage, and
electricity with priority given to facilities which have all the above.
Rationale. These elements of infrastructure are necessary for hospitals to function as hospitals
rather than as poor hotels.
(g)    Improved functioning of the hospital must result in reduction in beds both within the hospital
itself and in existing, nearby facilities.
Rationale: The objective here is to support downsizing of Russian hospital beds, which are
excessive by familiar standards.
(h)    The hospital does not have fundamental structural problems that would classify it as dangerous
by Russian building codes.
(i)    The hospital facility should be most flexible in terms of layout and design and be amenable to
rehabilitation and upgrading, e.g., horizontal, single or two-floor, spread-out. Facilities are given
priority over narrow and high structures.
Rationale: For the same objective, the investment in spread-out facilities is smaller than that in
narrow, vertical structures, as patients need to be moved to upper floors.
(j)    Hospital management and staff must be amenable to adoption of new technology and functional
reorganization.
2.     For polyclinics, the following criteria were established:
(a)    (Urban) Independent polyclinics must have the capacity, in terms of space and location, to serve
as diagnostic centers for a network of existing polyclinics, all serving a population of
approximately 300,000.



ANNEX 3.3                                                                                 105
Rationale:
(i)    Such polyclinics could substantially improve care in the community and reduce the need
for hospitalization.
(ii)    Services in the community would be more efficient due to a more rational allocation and
use of expensive equipment.
(iii)   The facilities could attract qualified personnel to care for the community and provider
training.
(b)    Rural polyclinics, which are usually adjacent to a raion hospital, must meet the general criterion
set for hospitals.
Rationale.- Rural polyclinics, which depend upon their adjacent hospitals for nearly all services,
cannot be looked upon as units separate from those hospitals and, therefore, need to be upgraded
as diagnostic centers serving the entire population.
3.     The above comprise a basic set of criteria; they will need to be refined, primarily in light of cost
and other feasibility considerations. Criteria for the community participation will eventually be added.
4.    It is noteworthy that, at this stage, no explicit effort is being made to establish criteria for
selecting between hospitals and polyclinics. This approach is being taken because, at least in rural areas,
hospitals and polyclinics are handled as a single entity providing a continuum of care. Essentially the
same approach is adopted for cities as far as "first line" hospitals are concerned. If well organized and
equipped, the city hospitals and polyclinics would be complementary rather than substitutes.
B. APPRAISAL OF PROPOSED HEALTH SUBPROJECT
REHABILITATION OF CHEREPANOVO CENTRAL RAION HOSPITAL AND POLYCLINIC
Type of Facility:                   General Hospital
Population Served:                  About 60,000
Present conditions of facilities:
I .    Structure
(a)    Without major structural repairs, part of the building will collapse.
(b)    Floors are not linked to structure of building, leading to their sinking.
(c)    Poor insulation of buildings in spite of harsh weather conditions. Most insulation is achieved
through wide external walls without added, relatively inexpensive covers either on the internal
or external walls. This is particularly notable in brick structures.
(d)    Wooden floors without appropriate drainage, leading to inability to keep them clean and sterile,
and to rotting.



106                                                                                ANNEX 3.3
2.     Utilities
(a)    Water. There are no water reservoirs; a breakdown in the municipal water systems
leaves medical facilities without water supply. Water is not treated. There is no 'reverse
osmosis' system  for 'soft water' needed for babies, and instruments.  No on-site
chlorination is available; water is chlorinated to the extent that it goes through the central
municipal system.
(b)    Sewage.  Central sewage systems are uncommon. There is a paucity of toilets and
showers for both staff and patients.
(c)    Air-conditioning and ventilation. Air-conditioning is inadequate for fresh air, especially
during the cold winters. Air-conditioning, when available, is usually not situated for
most effective operation. Most facilities lack centralized oxygen, compressed air, and
suction systems.  In operating rooms, no suction systems are available to remove
anaesthetic gases that could affect physician performance.
(d)    Heating. Heating systems depend on the municipal system which may be unreliable.
Especially where patients undress, unsafe electrical wall units were observed.
(e)    Gases. Compressed air needed for resuscitation equipment is generated in Russia by
compressors which are part of the equipment. This system is rather inefficient compared
with centralized gas, including oxygen, lines, the standard in the West.
(f)    Utility lines. There are virtually no utility lines (gases, power, and communication)
reaching the patient's bed.
3.     Electro-mechanical Systems
(a)    Electrical backup. Numerous care systems depend upon electricity for operation. These
include monitoring, operating, and resuscitation systems. Consequently, diesel generators
are needed as a backup power supply, with critical added UPS element that responds
instantly (0.5 second) to power failure and operate until the diesel generator supply takes
over. None of the hospitals visited had the necessary backup mechanism. Rather than
common diesel backup, the common power supply to the hospital emanates from two
different electrical sources or lines (each of which contains a voltage of 6kV). Each line
can back up the other. In case of an electrical failure in one line, the second line replaces
the first. Still both lines depend on city systems.
(b)    Each main switch-board in each floor receives its power supply from the two city
sources. The transfer from one line to the other is done by a manual switch-over which
takes time, precious in many instances for patients in intensive care or being operated.
There are some critical loads in which the transfer is done automatically. Some city
hospitals have generators that are below required capacity.



ANNEX 3.3                                                                                     107
(c)    The electrical system  in special medical rooms, such as in intensive care, operating
rooms, and in dialysis, are not built in accordance with codes common in the West; the
reliability of the electrical system is exceptionally low.
(d)    Grounding etc. Lacking in many instances are: an anti-static system on floors, grounding
(up to 0.2 OMS) and circuit breakers to avoid electromagnetic disturbances which affect
instruments, and explosions, especially in laboratories.
(e)    Lighting. Lighting is usually very poor even in operating rooms.
4.     Safety and Quality Assurance
(a)    Safety and general quality encompass (i) safety of patients, (ii)safety of personnel
processing tests, and (iii) safety of the public at-large in connection with disposal of
materials.  It was observed that these issues are highly disregarded.  In general,
structures are not divided so as to provide protection in case of fire, gas leaks, etc.; there
are no fire zones with special regulations, and there are no special doors to seal areas in
case of emergency. Electrical wiring is often exposed, endangering both patients and
personnel.
(b)    Electricity. Electrical switch-boards in the hospitals are in bad condition. The equipment
used is old, and spare parts are not available. The switch-boards situation is particularly
dangerous.
(c)    Radiation, and biological and chemical waste. In the case of laboratories and imaging
units, personnel, patients, and the general public are at risk, mainly because of the non-
use of high quality disposables, ineffective control of radiation, protection from radiation,
lack of electrical grounding, and inappropriate handling and disposal of biological
materials.
(d)    No facilities are available next to the laboratories for showering in case of contamination.
(e)    Fire. Neither smoke and fire detection systems nor sprinkler systems were observed.
Doors are not designed to open outward to facilitate escape in case of fire.
5.     Situation Without Project. Part of the hospital is already closed for safety reasons, and the
remainder would soon need to be closed.
6.     Principles of Redesign and Reconstruction
(a)    Overview. The subproject will encompass the following units:
(i)    Emergency and admission room
(ii)   Intensive care unit
(iii)   Operating room
(iv)    Central Laboratory
(v)    Central X-ray and imaging facility



108                                                                                ANNEX 3.3
(b)    The subproject will include some upgrading of wards, which will be accommodated under
the project. This core unit is planned as a continuum on the floor to comply with
management of patients common in the West.
(c)    All service units would be supported by appropriate infrastructure pertaining to structure,
water and sewage, electro-mechanical systems, and air-conditioning and ventilation.
Systems would be designed in a way that would enable rehabilitation and upgrading of
the same facilities in the future with more finance becoming available.
7.     Further Details
(a)    Emergency and Admission Room. This room comprises:
(i)    Emergency station beds (3)
(ii)    Reception
(iii)   Casting room
(iv)   Resuscitation station
(v)    Doctors' room
(vi)   Toilets (2), shower, baths (2)
(vii)   Room for discarding materials
(b)    Intensive Care Unit. This unit comprises:
(i)    Beds (4)
(ii)    Nursing and monitoring station
(iii)   Storage for equipment
(iv)   Storage for disposables
(v)    Toilet for staff
(vi)   Toilet for patients
(c)    Operating Theater. The theater comprises:
(i)    Operating rooms (2)
(ii)    Pre-operating room
(iii)   Washing room
(iv)   Sterilization, autoclave, storage of sterile materials
(v)    Room for discarding materials
(vi)   Storage of equipment (X-ray and Respirators)
(vii)   Storage for non-sterile consumables
(viii)  Dressing room for staff
(ix)   Post operative recovery room.
(d)    "Ward".  The specifications of the ward apply to any ward of a common general
hospital. The quantities refer to the standard surgical or internal medicine ward. This
number need to be adjusted in other cases such as maternity, pediatrics, etc. This
'standard' ward comprises:



ANNEX 3.3                                                                                      109
(i)    Ward rooms including toilets (6) - 36 beds for regular patients
(ii)    Ward rooms (2) - 4 beds for acute patients
(iii)    Nursing station
(iv)    Physicians' lounge
(v)    Treatment room
(vi)    Room for linen
(vii)   Toilets for patients (outside rooms)
(viii)  Showers and bath tabs for patients
(ix)    Waste disposal room.
(e)    Central Laboratory. The central laboratory will include the following:
(i)    Biochemistry lab
(ii)    Hematology lab
(iii)    Microbiology lab (serology, virology, immunology)
(iv)    Reception and centrifugation
(v)    Cold room
(vi)    Storage for reagents
(vii)   Management office
(viii)  Toilets for staff
(ix)    Disposal of biological material (autoclave).
(f)    X-ray and Imaging Department. This department comprises:
(i)    Radiography (I room)
(ii)    Fluoroscopy (I room)
(iii)    Ultrasound (I room)
(iv)    Adjoining developing laboratory
(v)    Daylight viewing room
(vi)    Physicians' room
(vii)   Storage for chemicals
(viii)  Storage for films
(ix)    Admission and archives
(x)    Waiting room.
(g)    Central Systems. These would include:
(i)    Oxygen tank
(ii)    Vacuum and pressurized air pumps
(iii)    Water tank
(iv)    Diesel generator (250 KVA)
(v)    Reverse osmosis (water purification)



110                                                                                   ANNEX 3.3
I. ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
Baseline Situation
8.     Medical waste in the hospital can be grouped into the following categories:
-      medical waste which is burned without primary disinfection (plastics except syringes;
bandages; rubber (gloves, catheter,etc.); others). They are burned in the hospital boiler.
-      medical waste which is sterilized and goes to the sewage system (blood, urine, etc.).
-      medical waste which goes to the sewage system without primary disinfection (reactives).
-      "reusable" medical waste - medical waste which is used after disinfection and washing
(part of bandages used in the units (except bandages of surgery and infection units). This
occurs because the facility does not have enough money for new supplies.
-      X-ray films and development solution are collected during the period of a year and once
a year are taken to a special factory for processing and extracting silver.
9.     Syringes are disinfected and chlorinated in the treatment room where there is a sterilization unit.
They are removed from the hospital monthly. During the month they are stored in a special room (with
strict accounting). There are special rooms for storage in all units.
10.    The hazard level is identified according to the level of toxic chemicals (chrome, mercury,
cadmium, plumbum, etc.) and the level of infectious substitutes (pathogenies bacteria, viruses, etc.). The
following substances are regarded as most hazardous (those included in Classes I and II of the Russian
classification of hazardous substances):
Chemicals             :      selen, dioxin, benzophuran, etc.
Bacteria pollution    :      hepatitis, AIDS, TB, plague, etc.
11.   It should be noted that toxic substances and hazardous bacteria can transform in any environment
(water, air, soil) and thus, generate more toxic substances, and can also accumulate in soil, plants, etc.
12.   In the case of laboratories and imaging units, personnel, patients and the general public are at
risk, mainly because of the non-use of high quality disposables, ineffective control of radiation, protection
from radiation, and lack of electrical grounding.
13.    In all project hospitals, storage and utilization of medical waste are identical. It should be noted
that the waste discussed above is handled in almost an identical manner in the West, in accordance with
the strictest regulations.
Regulatory and Institutional Considerations
14.   In the Russian Federation, the State Committee on the Epidemiological and Sanitary Surveillance
is responsible for development, approval and monitoring of the state sanitary codes.1' This Committee
!' Before 1991, State Sanitary and Epidemiological Surveillance Service was institutionally under the Federal Ministry of
Health of the USSR.



ANNEX 3.3                                                                                    111
comprises oblast and rayon sanitary and epidemiological stations (SES) which are responsible for
monitoring sanitary codes and environmental aspects of the medical facilities' activities at the local
(community) level. SES of the Cherepanovsky raion (Novosibirsk oblast) is responsible for monitoring
sanitary codes and environmental aspects of the Cherepanovo Central Raion Hospital.
15.    At the facility level, as a rule, staffing positions include positions for professionals responsible
for monitoring environmental and safety aspects of the management of care.
16.    The environmental and safety issues can be divided according to the following functioning
categories: construction, management of care, and waste control. While the first two concern mainly the
'one-time' construction and equipping processes with follow-up periodic maintenance and adherence to
regulations, waste control is a daily activity requiring careful regulation and monitoring.
17.    The different issues are stipulated in the following Russian regulatory documents':
(a)    "Manual on the Design of Medical Facilities", Ministry of Health of the USSR, approved
by the Director of the Central Health Design Institute, 1989.
(b)    "Sanitary Regulations on the Establishment, Equipment and Maintenance of Hospitals,
Maternity Hospitals and Other Medical Facilities." ("SanPiN 5179-90"), Ministry of
Health of the USSR, approved by the Chief Sanitary Doctor of the USSR, 1990.
(c)    Order of the Ministry of Health of the USSR (N520), 1981.
"Sanitary Regulations for Maintenance of Settlements" (N4690-88), 1988.
18.   In general, Russian "sanitary codes" governing environmental issues are strict and probably fall
in line with those common in the West for comparable technologies, as exemplified below with regard
to practices in medical facilities. At the same time, the general impression is that compliance with
regulations is low; in no facility could the person in charge of environmental and safety issues be
identified.
19.    Within the above general categories, medical waste management is probably the main issue in
Russian facilities today. There is no unified technological system of storage and utilization of medical
waste in Russia. The main problems in this area are as follows:
(a)    there is no appropriate standard equipment for waste management;
(b)    in many cases there are no special rooms in medical facilities for waste storage;
(c)    medical waste is transported without any special packing and is taken to the general
community dump;
(d)    there is no system of processing medical waste in order to remove materials (plastic,
metal, etc.) which can be reused.
20.    According to Russian regulations, after being sterilized, all specific medical waste must be burnt
in special stoves. Disinfection of sewage in hospitals must be done within the general community sewage
2 There are more regulations concerning special types of medical waste such as radiological waste. These are not,
however, relevant to the project.



112                                                                                     ANNEX 3.3
system by the regular city (rural rayon) sewage processing stations. None of these regulations (some of
which may be unnecessary) appear to be followed.3'
Environmental Impact of Proposals
21.    The project would improve the environmental aspects of medical facilities in Russia through the
choice of construction materials, design of medical units, and choice of equipment. Under the
rehabilitation, the plan is to build new rooms for discarding materials (emergency and admission room);
for storage of equipment and disposables (intensive care unit); sterilization, autoclave, storage of sterile
materials, for discarding materials, storage of equipment (X-ray and Respirators), storage of non-sterile
consumables (operating theater); for waste disposal (ward); storage for reagents, for disposal of biological
materials (autoclave, central laboratory), chemicals and films (X-ray and imaging department).
22.    The project will use insulation materials, which are almost non-existent in most Russian facilities,
for the following:
(a)    insulation against cold;
(b)    insulation of water and electrical supplies; and
(c)    insulation of walls and ceilings.
23.    Hazards appear when the materials are: toxic; toxic only when on fire (combustible); and
carcinogenic. For these reasons, materials used for construction of any of the above would not contain
substances like asbestos, MDF, nor polystyrene.
24.    Fire hazards would be minimized by the construction of walls that span the height of the room
to the ceiling, corridors which are not obstructed, heavy metal doors which limit each fire unit and
enables the containment of the fire. In each room doors would open to the exterior and safety switches
for electricity and gas inlets would be present in special niches outside each room. These features would
be enhanced by the presence of smoke alarms and sprinklers.
25.    The air in project units would be heated, cooled and ventilated with external air circulated and
vented. Care would be taken to filter out contaminants in problematic locations such as the Microbiology
laboratory. Amounts of C02 and CO would be monitored in closed areas and gases like Halothane and
N02 would be monitored in operating theaters since the hazards of these gases to personnel is well
documented. Measures are taken in the structure to secure that external air is not contaminated.
Mitigation and Enhancement
26.    In general it should be emphasized that specific pollution in medical institutions is generated either
by local power plants or waste spillage. Since in Russia, central city power plants deliver heating and
hot water, environmental control should be exercised over them. The health component recommends the
use of a diesel generator, of course complying with regulations, namely, its location, noise level
produced, and automatic fire extinguisher capacities.
3' For example, no special treatment is necessary for hospital sewage since the same bacteria are present in the
population at large. Specific contaminants are diluted by the total fluids generated at the sites and further diluted
and handled by the sewage of a city/raion. This rather natural process complies with the most rigorous standards.



ANNEX 3.3                                                                               113
27.   Building materials used during construction would be stored on site. However,upon their disposal
after construction or after being torn down, they would be transferred to central city or raion dump sites.
Old pipes and other metal objects would be transferred to smelting sites. Machinery of medical nature
would first be dismantled, parts for secondary use would be recuperated, and metal parts would be
transferred to smelting sites.
28.    Radiation exists at three different sites:  X-Ray department, laboratory, and at the site of
radioisotope imaging and treatment. Of the three, the last is irrelevant to the project. Construction
standards and specification of equipment under the project are governed by pertinent concerns.
Recommended modern X-Ray equipment is designed to secure minimum radiation exposure to patients
and personnel. At the radioisotopes work sites, care would be taken for safety of personnel during
construction (lead shields).
29.   The construction codes for X-ray departments specify the amount of radiation generated by an
X-ray machine and leakage of such radiation. Employees would be protected through the use of lead
(plumbum) coverings in walls and partitions. Gowns containing lead and other devices would be used
for the protection of patients' reproductive organs, and finally, warning signs for pregnant women would
convey the danger of X-ray exposure.
30.   The personnel working in these sites would be protected by the use of tunics and gloves, as well
as specifically designed non absorbent surfaces on the furniture and floors. Monitoring of personnel
would be mandatory and achieved through the use of tags to detect X and Gamma radiation in conjunction
with monthly and annual checkups.
31.    Chemicals that may be hazardous by being carcinogenic or combustible/explosive would be used
under a Laminar flow cabinet and used only by qualified and "hazard aware" personnel. Chemicals would
be stored in a specially designed storage facility, keeping the former and latter separate. Storage and
handling would be according to common NFPA (National Fire Protection Association-Boston, USA) and
NCCLS (National Committee For Clinical Laboratory Standards, USA) standards.
32.   The disposal of medical waste would be accomplished as follows. Biological waste would be
disposed in two phases: (a) collection in departments and laboratories; and (b) transfer to central disposal
units after decontamination (usually performed by auto-clavization suggested as part of the project).
33.   The collection would be in special plastic containers mounted with heat resistant bags present in
sufficient quantities in each ward, unit, laboratory. Needles would be collected separately in special
plastic containers. Placement into the container would be performed in a manner such that the pricking
of personnel would be avoided. At the end of the day, biological waste would be collected and transferred
to a centrally located autoclave. After the autoclave, waste would be ground and delivered to a dump (the
regular community dump could be used as all materials are sterile, hence non-hazardous).
34.    The lack of regard for environmental concerns in Russian medical facilities visited by consultants
during project preparation has been apparent in structures, equipment, management of care, and waste
control.  One of the most important potential contributions of the project would be in training
professionals to be aware of environmental issues, and to follow pertinent regulations. Environmental
safety issues would be included in the curricula of all training under the project, in addition to training



114                                                                                    ANNEX 3.3
given during installation of equipment and introduction of new technologies as part of the installation
process. Special training courses on environmental issues are not required.
II. ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT
35.    The economic evaluation of the project entails assessing the additional recurrent cost the project
would impose on the system, vis-a-vis the project's social benefits comprising the financial gains from
savings on cost of medical services, mainly hospitalization, plus improvement in length and quality of
life. That is, the social value of the project depends on the valuation of additional years of life and
improvement in their quality that ultimately cannot be reduced to any monetary equivalent except as a
political judgment.4' Consequently, the economic evaluation constitutes estimating the net present value
of the investment in the health component of the project, and contrasting this value with the project's
potential non-monetary benefits. Thereby the evaluation provides the data for the political judgment.
36.    The Central Raion Hospital, Cherepanovo, operates along with 8 other smaller facilities, all with
a total of 595 beds, in a raion of 55,000 population. This population is also served by the oblast hospital
in Novosibirsk. According to official data, the Central Raion Hospital is designed for 365 beds. It has
been operating 315 beds as it has been under renovation for some time and one of the wings has been
closed. It has been operating these beds with a length of stay of 12 days and 60% occupancy rate, and
an annual budget of US$1.03 million (1994)1', reflecting an annual cost per available bed of US$3,175.
37.    By the hospital management's own assessment (provided it is not budgeted by the number of
beds), the hospital could operate well with 200 beds, two-thirds of its current size, with modern
equipment. This is true, as discussed below, for the system at large. It is expected, therefore, that
operating as a central rural facility with modern diagnostic and therapeutic facilities serving the entire
raion, the hospital can reduce the number of beds serving the entire population of 55,000, estimated at
770 beds, by one-third or by 256 beds. This would amount to an annual savings of $812,800 (256 x
1' The impact on net health care costs is also difficult to measure since this requires a somewhat speculative
assessment of what would have happened without the project. Several of the building are in danger of
collapse, and there is a prospect of a total loss of service. Such an assessment, however, is unnecessary in
view of the project's efforts to upgrade and modernize facilities and not just to prevent further deterioration.
51 Because of the state of the hospital, it is hard to assess the accuracy of these statistics. Complicated cases,
requiring longer and more extensive examination and treatment are transferred to oblast facilities in the city
of Novosibirsk. No data are available on such transfers. Russian averages are 14 beds per 1000 and an
average length of stay of 17 days (1991-92). The relevant averages of the European members of the OECD
are 9 beds per 1000 capita with an average length of stay of 12 (Schieber, G.J., Poullier, J.P. and
Greenwald, L.M., "Health Performance in OECD Countries: 1980-1992). It is argued that contrary to
these averages, the corresponding Russian data of 14 and 17, do not include beds for long-term care, mainly
for the aged, that by-and-large do not exist in Russia to the extend known in the West (Chemichovsky, D.,
Barnum, H. Potapchik, E., and Tulchinsky, T., "Health Sector Reform in Russia". Mimeo. World Bank,
1994).



ANNEX 3.3                                                                                                                                                    115
$3,175).Y Part of this savings would be incurred through better outpatient services and a lesser need to
refer patient to treatment in oblast facilities outside the raion.
38.    The following tables estimate the investment and recurrent costs of this subproject.
Table 3.4.1: Cherepanovo Hospital - Cost of Investment Base Cost
(in US$)
Unit                            Construction                   Equipment                        Total
Cost                         Cost                          Cost
........................................................................................................................................................................................................
Planning and bidding                                                                                                    124,000
Emer. & Admis. room                                         324,000                     57,000 *                       381,000
Operating Theater                                           574,800                        99,200                      674,000
Intensive Care Unit                                         240,000                       131,700                      371,700
Wards                                                       325,600                        60,000                      385,600
Laboratories                                                705,600                      205,000                       910,600
X-Ray & Imaging                                             520,400                      385,000                       905,400
Central Systems                                              20,000                       470,000                      490,000
Russian Supervision                                                                                                      60,000
..................................................................................................................................................................... .................................................................................... ...
Total                                                     2,710,400                     1,407,900                    4,282,300
* Including ambulance.
Table 3.4.2: Cherepanovo Hospital - Annual recurrent costs, materials and supplies, and capital
costs associated with the investment (in US$)
Unit                                                     Materials &
Supplies
...............................................................................................................................................
ER & Admission                                                                     1,700
Operating Theater                                                                22,380
Intensive Care Unit                                                              30,705
Wards                                                                            22,140
Laboratories                                                                    235,175
X-Ray & Imaging                                                                  61,275
......................................................... ......................... ............... ...... .............................. ........
Total                                                                           373,375
6' Based on Russian national averages, this figure assumes that the raion is using the equivalent of additional
175 beds in oblast facilities.



116                                                                                  ANNEX 3.3
39.    The net present value (NPV) of the investment in the hospitals is based on a discount rate of
15%, 10 years until the project comes to full fruition, and 5 years until the additional cost are fully
realized. Given the benefits mentioned above, an investment of about $5 million plus additional annual
running cost of $0.37 million, the NPV is $(- 3.94) million. This means the population will have an
additional imputed recurrent cost of about $11 annually per capita (15% of $3.94 million for 55,000
capita) or about 18% increase over current spending. This would be the price of the non monetary
benefits from improved health associated with this particular facility, the potential of which is discussed
below.
40.    Simulating on a system-wide basis, assume that each hospitalization day costs, as at Cherepanovo,
about $11, based on an occupancy rate of 85%, and the Russian average of about 14 beds per 1,000
capita. Assume further that over a period of 5-10 years the modern technology implemented under the
project can reduce the length of stay by 30%, from 17 days to 12, and the number of beds by 35%, from
14 to 9 per 1000 population. Taken together, these data also mean that 10% of patients currently treated
in hospitals would be treated in the community, including treatment on an outpatient basis.2' On these
assumptions the number of beds serving a catchment area of 300,000 could be reduced from 4,200 to
2,730 and the 90% of the population currently hospitalized would be served spend 12 days, on the
average, in hospitalsY  This saving of 1,470 beds, would lead to annual savings of $5.0 million. The
present discounted values of these cost savings from the project for the system at large, by different
periods of fruition, are as follows:
Dis.   :      Years to fruition
Rate   :      5       7.5    10
US$ millions
15%    :      23.45  20.01  17.26
41.   It is estimated that the additional running cost of supplies and materials for the project would be
mainly those associated with the new and expensive laboratory and imaging equipment. They would
amount to $3.6 million in hospitals (ten-fold over the Central Raion Hospital in Cherepanovo) and about
7 This last figure is based on the identity: admissions = beds*365*occupancy rate/average length of stay.
Reduction in the number of beds by 35% and in the average length of stay by 30%, suggest about 9% fewer
hospital admissions, assuming identical occupancy rates in western Europe and in Russia.
s These are upper estimates for the potential reduction in beds. Given that Russian data do not include long-
term beds which are included in European data, the reduction in beds and length of stay can be even greater
than suggested here, up to 6 beds per thousand for general acute beds that are comparable to Russian
statistics. Further reductions, however, are not stipulated here because all reductions would require training
part of which is not included in the project.



ANNEX 3.3                                                                                    117
$730,000 per polyclinic, for a total of $4.3 million.9' In other words, once the full reforms have been
achieved there is an annual recurrent cost saving. The higher running costs are likely to be incurred
before the hospital savings are fully made. Here again, if the new cost levels are reached in full after
5 years, the present discounted value of this amount, at a 15% discount rate, is $20 million.
42.    It can be seen that if the hospitalization savings were realized in 7.5 years there would be no net
recurrent cost. If a lower discount rate--for example that used to repay the World Bank--there would
even less of a recurrent cost. Even in the worst case scenario, with full hospital cost savings not achieved
for ten years, the present value of the additional running cost is only $2.9 million, or less than $10 per
head.  The cost of the improved services are principally the capital costs. On the basis of the
Cherepanovo and Rostov data, upgrading the entire hospital and polyclinic facilities serving a population
of 300,000, would be $60 to 70 million. Assuming the higher figure and using an interest rate of 15%,
this amounts to an annual cost of $35 per beneficiary. Using an interest rate of 7.5 %, roughly equivalent
to the rate on the World Bank loan, this amounts to an annual payment of about $18 per head of the
beneficiary population, or about 30% above current expenditure per capita.
43.    As demonstrated in Table 3.4.3, the potential for health improvement in the two project areas is
dramatic. The difference in life expectancy between Europe and both oblasts is dramatic, especially for
males in Novosibirsk. This difference cannot, of course, be attributed solely to differences in medical
care, but much of it is related to trauma and cardiovascular disease, on which project-financed facilities
can have a very marked effect, especially in age groups 15 to 60. (This can, in turn, raise productivity
and the economic returns to education. Quality of life would improve as well. These very substantial
benefits need to be valued against the annual project cost per capita inputted above.)
44.    Sustainability. Recurrent or running costs are presented above. These costs should be covered
substantially through savings in hospital cost and in the longer-term by gains in income and productivity.
These are incremental cost to the operations of the polyclinics and hospitals.
45.    Maintenance of Equipment and Supplies. As for equipment, the issues are affordability and
availability of regular maintenance and supplies, especially in view of the harsh economic circumstances.
Maintenance at the operator level at the local site would be achieved relatively easily with Russian know-
how and skill. Maintenance beyond this level may be an issue and needs to be secured. It is suggested
that under the project, suppliers of equipment (preferably a single one per oblast and beyond) would be
contractually committed to (a) "down time," namely, the time during which the supplier must repair non
operative equipment, (b) to a minimum quantity of spare parts it must maintain in Russia/Oblast, and (c)
to train and retain a local maintenance capability. As for supplies, it is clear that because of the general
economic conditions, and the need to establish new types and sources of supplies, it is essential that those
are secured initially through the project. It is proposed that under their contracts, suppliers of equipment
would be contracted for supplies for several years in a declining fashion, to allow the system to adjust.
2' This is an overstatement since current laboratory and imaging cost are disregarded. Depreciation and
interest costs are not considered as added costs because although not budgeted, they are equally present on
the current building and on existing equipment. It should be stressed, however, that, as discussed elsewhere,
these costs should be incorporated in the budgets or other compensation systems of facilities, and be used to
finance investments.



-b
Table 3.4.3 Years of Potential Life Lost (YPLL)
"Europe, 1980"    "Rostov, 1992"                          'Novosibirsk, 1992"
Life Expectancy    Life Expectancy      YPLL               Life Expctancy      YPLL
Age         Female    Male    Female       Male    Female   Male        Female    Male      Female      Male
0        77.30     70.53      70.11     61.93     7.2       8.6       71.43     58.77     5.9       11.8
1        77.16     70.55     70.37     62.17      6.8       8.4       71.77     59.08     5.4       11.5
5        73.33      66.74     66.51     58.35     6.8       8.4       68.05     55.39     5.3       11.4
10       68.42     61.86      61.66     53.53     6.8       8.3       63.16     50.56     5.3       11.3
15       63.50     56.96      56.78     48.71     6.7       8.3       58.27     45.73     5.2       11.2
20       58.62      52.24     51.99     44.07     6.6       8.2       53.49     41.18     5.1       11.1
25       53.75      47.57     47.22     39.66     6.5       7.9       48.73     36.88     5.0       10.7
30       48.88     42.84      42.43     35.33     6.5       7.5       44.05     32.67     4.8       10.2
35       44.04      38.10     36.67     31.13     7.4       7.0       39.37     28.78     4.7        9.3
40       39.25      33.44     32.98     27.04     6.3       6.4       34.84     25.06     4.4        8.4
45       34.55      28.91     28.39     23.06     6.2       5.9       30.49     21.71     4.1        7.2
50       29.96      24.60     23.86     19.25     6.1       5.4       26.34     18.69     3.6        5.9
55       25.52     20.56      19.46     15.69     6.1       4.9       22.32     16.06     3.2        4.5
60       21.25      16.83     15.27     12.43     6.0       4.4       18.49     13.24     2.8        3.6
65        17.20     13.43     11.22      9.30     6.0       4.1       14.95     10.95     2.3        2.5
Source:     1.    N. Keyfitz & W. Flieger, 1990, World Population Growth and Aging, Chicago: Chicago University Press.
2.   I. Zhitnikov, 1995, "Life Expectancy at different age groups in Rostovskaya oblast, 1992-93", working materials.
3.    S. Soboleva & V. Shteinberg, 1995, "Life Expectancy at different age groups in Novosibirskaya oblast, 1992-93',
working materials.
X
U



ANNEX 3.3                                                                               119
46.   No maintenance guidelines were found in the hospital. A general observation is that while
engineers and technicians are available in some facilities, they were not in others. Even when present,
the mix of expertise is not consistent; in some instances it is a building engineer and in another it is an
electrician, and so on. The general impression is that maintenance is not routine, but done only when
things breakdown. This situation must change under the project to sustain the renovated and upgraded
units. The solution to this issue may be easily found, given Russian expertise in hiring and training the
right people with the mix of skills needed in a hospital.
47.    Sustainability is not simply a question of meeting recurrent costs and providing routine
maintenance, but also of new skills and methods of work. For example medical staff will need to work
at a different pace and at different modalities; (b) acquire new technologies and to maintain abreast new
developments; and (c) overcome structural and institutional relationships whereby lower level facilities
depend now on upper level facilities, notably Oblast hospitals and special institutes. There is probably
least problem with technology. In general, Russian personnel and professionals have been aware of their
lagging technology and need. As for the other issues, it is possible to find Russian models that come
close to the rehabilitation concept and program proposed here. Training is provided under the project
to deal with these issues (see para. 3.34, Chapter III).
48.   Implementation.!'- Functional, architectural and engineering designs will be developed as part
of project preparation. The schedule is as follows for these pilot facilities:
(a)    develop a general functional and engineering manual with specifications of design and
engineering requirements for general hospitals (by end of May 1995);
(b)    develop an architectural and engineering designs according to common practice in the
west (by end of May 1995); and
(c)    adapt the designs to Russian specifications while training Russian architects and engineers
to develop designs which synthesize the common practice and specification of the west
with Russian (end of June 1995).
Contracting for Equipment
49.   In principle the project should promote competition among different suppliers as a way to enhance
quality of product and service. Unfortunately, this may not be a realistic option in Russia at this stage.
The project needs to secure continued service to the equipment procured under the project. Given the
limited size of the project, it would not be reasonable to require of suppliers to retain on-site regional
maintenance capacity and stocks of spare parts (e.g. imaging, laboratories).
50.   Therefore, the approach taken under the project is to contract all equipment in each region to
single suppliers, but within general equipment categories and specifying the minimum contract size that
would justify local service. For example, biochemical lab equipment will be tendered separately from
chemical lab equipment. In each case an effort will be made to tender the minimum size for which it is
reasonable to secure local service. This may bring in competition after all, as most often suppliers of
one type of equipment supply the other type as well.
E This model appraisal anticipated a faster start to implementation than proved feasible.



120                                                                                ANNEX 3.3
51.   Installation of Equipment. The installation of equipment, especially for laboratory, needs an
on-site engineer for adjustment of infrastructure and exact location of equipment. For X-ray and imaging
equipment this service is rendered by the suppliers. Budget and contracts for civil works needed for
installation would also be secured (5% of construction cost), separately from the procurement of
equipment. Suppliers usually supervise the installation of equipment.
52.    Timetables and Sequencing. With work beginning in April 1995, a possible implementation
schedule is given below. The purpose is to indicate the lengths of time required for each stage, rather
than to provide a firm timetable.
Table 3.4.4 Construction Program, Hospital
No.   Details                       Duration (days)  Start  Finish  Cost
I      Planning and Bidding             251       17/04/95       01/04/96       110,000
2      Preparing Tech and econ. approval    87     17/04/95      15/08/95        40,000
3      Detailed Planning, for bidding    88       30/08/95       31/12/95        60,000
4      Bidding (Construction)            66       01/01/96       01/04/96        10,000
5      Construction                     261       02/04/96       01/04/97     2,391,000
6      Works                             66       02/04/96       02/07/96       478,000
7      Systems Preparation               65       03/07/96       01/10/96     1,077,000
8      Equip Systems                     65       02/10/96       31/12/96       478,000
9      Finishing jobs, Complete systems  65       01/01/97       01/04/97       358,000
10    Russian Supervision               400       01/01/96       11/07/97       60,000
11     Medical Equipment                649       11/04/95      03/10/97      1,367,000
12     Prepare specifications            30       11/04/95      22/05/95         15,000
13     Process bidding and Orders        30       01/10/96       11/11/96      590,000
14     Arrival of Equipment              65       01/04/97      30/06/97       738,000
15     Erection on site and commissioning    60   14/07/98      03/10/98        147,000



ANNEX 3.3                                                                               121
APPENDIX
POTENT'IAL FOR COST SAVING THROUGH REDUCTION IN HOSPITAL STAYS
A.    Medical Concepts and Practice in Facilities Visited by Mission
1.    During the course of studying different medical facilities, efforts were made to differentiate
between a lack of resources and the existence of a non-western approach to care that, although possibly
effective, might be interpreted as inappropriate. It is acknowledged here that approach to care implicates
fundamental issues that do not necessarily relate to availability of resources; nonetheless, the effectiveness
of the Russian approach observed is considered here. It is noted that the discussion is based upon visits
to selected facilities and that the situations studied may not be representative of the two oblasts or for
Russia as a whole.
Primary Care: City and Other Community Polyclinics
2.    Primary care in Russia is delivered in polyclinics, where individuals seek and encounter the
primary physician. The population approaching the polyclinic often comes with the following problems:
cardiovascular diseases, e.g., hypertension, coronary heart diseases; lung diseases, e.g., chronic
bronchitis, asthma, pneumonia; minor trauma; and malignancies.
3.    In the large cities, the administrative organization of polyclinics follows the administrative
organization of the city. The city is divided into "raions" with populations of about 300,000 each. The
polyclinics may be free-standing or part of a hospital. In rural areas the polyclinic is usually associated
with the hospital.
4.    In each city raion there are between 3 to 4 polyclinics for adults and at least one children's
polyclinic. The adult and children polyclinics form two identical and parallel systems differing mainly
in size and some specialties. Above these polyclinics, hierarchically, in each rayon there is a dual
purpose polyclinic which serves both as the primary care provider for the population in its catchment area
as well as the site for trauma treatment and specialized medicine for the entire rayon.
5.     This polyclinic, open 24 hours a day, is equipped with limited X-ray and imaging equipment,
usually on the ground floor that enables images to be taken without transportation of patients to an upper
floor, as most building do not have elevators. Specialists in these polyclinics are assigned according to
predefined standards according to the size of different sub-populations. In Polyclinic No. I in the city
of Rostov, for example, the following specialists are available: urologist, surgeon/orthopedist,



122                                                                                    ANNEX 3.3
ophthalmologist, E.N.T. (eye, nose and throat) and a part time oncologist.11' The specialists are usually
hospital physicians who work part-time in the polyclinic.
6.     When hospitalization and/or further in-depth investigation is deemed necessary, the patient is
referred to a city hospital where the final decision is made on whether or not to admit the patient.
7.     The Russian primary care physician is not a specialized family practitioner, a concept which, for
most practical purposes, is absent in Russia. Practitioners in clinics usually begin to work in this setting
with limited knowledge and experience, and a priori, they must rely upon specialists.
8.     The diagnostic and therapeutic tools available to the primary physician for dealing with the above-
referenced health problems even in the main polyclinics observed, are: chest X-ray, manual complete
blood count, and manual urine analysis. These tests are rather inadequate, by familiar Western standards,
to manage even the common medical issues facing the population.
9.     The situation is compounded when the physician, who may well be fully aware of the diagnostic
options, lacks access to diagnostic facilities due to the virtual nonexistence of modern diagnostic support
system for primary care that might otherwise allow a primary care physician to keep the patient in the
community. As a result, many, if not all, "complicated" cases are not being diagnosed, let alone treated,
in the polyclinic setting. At best, patients in need of specialists and diagnostic services--even those that
could be provided in the community--are hospitalized. As intermediate level or first hospitals have
limited capacity (see discussion below), patients have access to limited, or even worse, ineffective care.
10.    It is emphasized, however, that this state of affairs was addressed to some degree by the former
USSR, and one can observe a different approach to care, at the oblast level. In the former USSR, there
were "Diagnostic Centers," one of which was located in Novosibirsk, that served as a strategic support
for polyclinics in rural areas. In the center of Novosibirsk, one may find sophisticated laboratory and
radiographic equipment, as well as highly skilled medical personnel; however, the city polyclinics have
no access to this facility.
11.    In summary, the problems faced by primary care medicine in Russia are as follows: (a) lack of
specialization of the primary care physician; (b) lack of diagnostic support (X-ray and laboratory work-
up); and (c) inadequate specialist support.  Consequently, apart from  the health consequences,
hospitalization burdens the system, resulting in the following: (i) at city hospitals, where there is limited
access to diagnostic support, a very long turn-around for the patient (about 15 days in Russia as opposed
to 4 to 6 days in the West) and an immediate need for more hospital beds; and (ii) limited access by the
patient to modern, qualified, and promptly delivered medicine.
' Considerable manpower and space is allocated to what is called in Russia "physiotherapy". This is a branch
of internal medicine rarely found the West. It includes various methods of treatment with physical agents
such as application of heat, radiation, water-bath, etc. These methods are not alternatives to other modalities
but are key medical treatment. It is beyond the scope of this report to evaluate scientifically the adequacy of
these treatments.



ANNEX 3.3                                                                                 123
Hospital Care - Selected Units
12.    Emergency Care and "Hospital Admission" In spite of the common nomenclature ("Priyomni
Pokoi"), a western-type emergency room was not observed in the hospitals visited, except for some
elements in the newest city hospital in Rostov. Selection and referral of patients are not done at point
of admission; rather, patients are sent to wards according to insufficiently supported diagnoses by primary
physicians (see discussion above). The lack of diagnostic and therapeutic equipment and support at point
of admission appears to be attributable to approach to care rather than to lack of resources.
13.    The emergency room is not designed or equipped to deal with emergency care. Patients are
transferred immediately, without a definite diagnosis (to be established in the emergency room), to an
"appropriate" ward. Alternatively, if the case warrants, staff are called in from departments such as
therapeutics, surgery, orthopedics, and anaesthesia. In any event, patients are not immediately treated
and stabilized in the emergency room.
14.    Even in major city and oblast-level hospitals, the units consist of 3 to 5 small rooms (2 x 3
meters) served by narrow doors, at times with leading stairs that impede movement of stretchers and
wheel chairs. In each room one can find a bed, a table, and a chair. The dimensions of the room and
lack of medical equipment, e.g., syringes and other disposables, I.V. lines, electrical supply lines, central
gas systems, preclude immediate action in the case of a medical emergency involving one or more
patients.
15.    The need for X-ray and/or imaging warrant, in most instances, the transportation of a patient
across a hospital which often lacks suitable passages. Laboratory examinations are hampered since the
laboratory is situated away from the so-called emergency room, and there is virtually no system for
effective transfer of patients or specimens.
16.   Intensive Care. The Russian "Reanimazia" unit is conceptually close to the western intensive
care unit, which supplies close monitoring and supervision of critical patients and, when necessary, life
support. The Russian unit in most instances lacks appropriate infrastructure and equipment. It is
generally a converted hospital room with no special modifications for its proper functioning, e.g., a
central monitoring station, appropriate spacing between beds, central gas and electrical systems, arterial
lines and central vein catheterization, and specialized modern equipment including respirators and
monitors. To the extent equipment can be found, it is outdated. For example, in all hospitals visited,
respirators are operated by electricity rather than pressurized air. A power failure in these institutions,
which for the most part have no back-up electrical supplies, endangers critical patients in need of
respirators.
17.    Operating Theaters. The operating theaters visited do not meet standards common in the west.
The rooms are small and lack basic prerequisites necessary for their proper functioning. They have no
gas system, no anti-static floor, no air-conditioning with under pressure to support containment of
infection. In some hospitals, even the use of anesthetic apparatus was not observed. In one case,
anesthesia was administered by ether. Proper monitors for operations are not available, nor is it possible
to take X-rays or conduct laboratory examination during operations.



124                                                                                ANNEX 3.3
18.   Wards. In principle, wards in Russian hospitals serve the same purpose as do wards in the west,
with the exception that infectious conditions, such as streptococcal infection of the throat, are separated
either in the ward itself or are treated in a separate hospital. In the facilities visited, the ward provides
at best "hotel" services. Medically speaking, the general layout of the ward, usually along a narrow
corridor, does not have a nursing station that enables effective monitoring of patients. Beds in the room
are not maneuverable and do not allow for changing of position or height or even transportation of
patients. Movement of equipment into the room is hampered because of the number of beds and their
layout. Signalling devices and central gas systems are completely lacking. Hence, in case of need there
is almost no mechanism to alert staff, and even when staff arrive, the opportunity for prompt intervention
is virtually non-existent.
19.    Laboratory. The Western concept of a centralized laboratory does not exist in any of the
facilities observed, including oblast-level hospitals. In Rayon hospitals visited, labs usually consist of 2-3
small units with diagnostic functions limited to: manual determination of urine chemistry, namely acetone,
bilirubin, specific gravity, glucose; microscopic observation of urinary sediment; manual hematology,
namely complete blood count and differential; glucose analysis by the glucose oxidase method; manual,
namely spectrophotometric, analysis of other analytes, such as Total Protein, AST, ALT, Creatinine,
Calcium and Inorganic Phosphorus. Electrolytes are determined manually by chemical methods and not
by-flame photometry or by Ion Selective Electrodes.
20.    Critical "analytes" or tests are neither performed nor requested by physicians. Such tests include:
total CPK, Iron, Transferrin, Amylase, and Lipase. Acute and common problems in Russia, such as
myocardial infarction and alcoholism, cannot be supported by standard laboratory technology.
21.    With regard to quality, critical Prothrombin and Partial Thromboplastin (PT, PTT), essential for
operations, are performed manually with no integrated quality control, rendering these tests exceptionally
unreliable.
22.    Microbiology laboratories needed for isolation of bacteria and viruses and determination of
susceptibility to antibiotics are almost non-existent in the hospitals, due in part to the approach to care
of infectious disease in Russia, i.e., microbiology is part of a separate administration. This limits access
by medical facilities to relevant tests. For example, even in the Novosibirsk oblast hospital, where the
microbiology laboratory is on hospital grounds, its impact on patient care is negligible because the
laboratory, which belongs to the State Committee for Epidemiological and Sanitary Surveillance and
Control, is not accessible for regular care.1W'
23.    Furthermore, other cultures for significant bacteria, like mycobacteria (tuberculosis) or other
communicable diseases, are not performed in this laboratory but in a special laboratory for infectious
diseases, which is located elsewhere.
24.    The situation here described leads to prolonged turn-around time of laboratory requests. For
example, for routine biochemistry, critically needed for all patients, results are not available to physicians
for at least 24 hours, rendering some of the results ineffective, as in case of heart failure; different
equipment and organization could enable effective results in 4 hours. Moreover, emergency tests take
about 6 hours in the facilities visited, while the standard is about 40 minutes.
'2 On pertinent institutional issues, see Chemichovsky, et al, Chapters 3 and 7.



ANNEX 3.3                                                                               125
25.   The low level of use of the laboratory appears to be attributable not to lack of knowledge (at least
in the hospitals), but to lack of equipment. In most instances, physicians were aware of the technological
options, but required appropriate training.
26.   X-ray and Imaging. Paralleling the lack of centralized laboratory facilities is the lack of
centralized imaging facilities, in the community and in Rayon and city hospitals. In most cases, X-ray
and imaging services are scattered across facilities by wards, floors, or sections.
27.    While layout issues mainly concern efficiency, the major issue is outdated equipment leading to
both reduced effectiveness of diagnosis and major safety concerns. For example, fluoroscopy (needed
for stomatological exams) is executed through direct viewing rather than through image intensifiers and
TV  monitors.  This endangers both patients and operators and reduces the effectiveness of the
examinations. In the case of pregnant women, for example, the levels of radiation observed by the team
(10-15R) would warrant an abortion by western standards.
28.    Equipment for catheterization and examination of blood vessels, needed mainly for examination
of cardiovascular and vascular problems in hospitals dealing with such problems, is non-existent.
Similarly, equipment for diagnosis of tuberculosis should enable images of real size and, beyond that,
permit correct diagnosis.  In the facilities visited, however, the largest image was of l10 x  l10
millimeters. Processing of films is manual rather than automated, thereby reducing the quality of the
images and compromising diagnostic capabilities.
29.   Mobile equipment could, in the absence of a stationary alternative, be used in a variety of
locations, space and passages permitting, such as in operating and emergency rooms. The existing
equipment is outdated and lacks the necessary power for proper functioning.
30.   In sum, non-centralized nature of laboratory and imaging services for diagnosis and treatment is
conceptually inefficient in view of cost and capacity of equipment and is deficient in quantity and quality.
This undoubtedly contributes significantly to the ineffectiveness of the Russian health care system and to
its inefficiency as marked by high levels of clinic utilization and hospitalization.
Practice in Selected Procedures
31.   This section aims to show the different modalities in medical care delivered mainly at the raion
hospitals, as well as to suggest the implied overall expenditures incurred due to the observed practices.
The medical problems which are presented in this section are related to the major causes of morbidity
and mortality in Russia.
32.   Acute Myocardial Infarction. Myocardial infarction may serve as the best example to show
differences in technology and modus operandi that influence morbidity and mortality rates as well as use
of service. When examined, myocardial infarction is divided into two phases: the acute phase, and the
complete recovery or chronic-disease phase. In the West, direct mortality during or immediately
foilowing myocardial infarction (which is the acute stage) was reduced by 15 to 20 percent following the
introduction of intensive care units. Further reduction of late onset mortality and morbidity (chronic
stage) was recently achieved by minimizing the extent of the heart muscle involved in the infarction
process, and during the recovery stages by preventing the onset of chronic heart failure (dilative



126                                                                                ANNEX 3.3
cardiomyopathy). This was achieved by the (essential) administration of streptokinase or other drugs
within 6 hours or other drugs, and the introduction of ACE inhibitors and beta blockers.
33.   In the areas visited by the mission, after a call is received that a person is suffering from acute
chest pain, in the city an ambulance will be called, while in the rural areas a physician will be summoned.
In both instances, an E.K.G will be performed and the patient will be transported to the hospital. In the
city the maximum time lag between symptoms reported and arrival to the hospital is about 4 hours while
in the rural areas one may find time intervals up to 24 hours. These time period are exceptionally long
especially if the mobile team does not have the right medication. The patient, most likely with
complications already, will be transported in both cases directly to a cardiology or internal medicine
department.
34.    However, this does not fully explain the norm of prolonged hospitalization since not all cases of
myocardial infarction end in complications. It is hypothesized that the problem is that the Russian
medicine observed by the mission, ignores western statistics that show that major complications from the
disease occur within a week of its onset, and that other complications are not prevented by hospitalization
beyond this period.
35.    Currently, at raion hospitals (and even at some oblast hospitals) follow the only procedures as
outlined (under "Russia") in Table 3.1, the '-' sign indicating 'no-performance' as compared with the
West, a standard the project aims to achieve.
36.    Trauma. In recent years the number of road accidents and other causes of trauma have increased;
it is now of the primary cause of morbidity and mortality in Russia. Depending on place of accident,
in Russia the patient is brought in the city to an Emergency Hospital or the Department of Surgery in
raion hospitals, rather than to an emergency room and an intensive care unit.
37.   The main issue here is a rather fundamental lack of critical diagnosis as implied in Table 3.2.
This leads to improper and often late treatment, and prolonged and unnecessary hospitalization.
38.   Infectious disease. Treatment of infectious diseases in Russia are in a way a peculiarity, namely
the medical system seems to over emphasize in practice as well as in regulatory decrees the conduct vis
a vis infections. By law, infections of any kind must be hospitalized no matter what the state of the
patient, and he or she must be isolated in special departments or even hospitals, contrary to any such
notion in the West. This leads to a dual hospitalization system, redundant to a large part by Western
norms.
39.    This notwithstanding, the number of infections acquired in hospitals in Russia is far larger than
in the West, 17% and 6%, respectively. Furthermore, no attempt has been made by the medical
establishment to switch to the use of sterile disposable equipment, or to encourage the extensive use of
the bacteriology laboratory to establish the exact identity of bacteria or their susceptibility to antibiotics.
40.    Physicians are almost always ignorant as to the bacteria present, and antibiotics are given
according to the patients' response and not the established susceptibility of the bacterium. Antibiotics
administered are usually inappropriate, the amount delivered is not monitored by the minimal inhibitory
concentration (MIC), nor are side effects prevented by establishing the therapeutic level of the drug
(antibiotic) in a particular patient.



ANNEX 3.3                                                                                    127
41.    On-site epidemiology is prevented by the paucity of data generated by the physicians and lack of
computerized systems. Indeed, in an oblast hospital of 1,600 beds, only 10 blood cultures are drawn a
day, where it should be around 120.  Furthermore, antibiotics tested for susceptibility are not
standardized since they are prepared in-house; hence, sensitivity of bacteria is not always accurate and
reproducible.
42.    As for several critical examples, a patient with pneumonia by rule has to be hospitalized and
confined to the infectious disease area. However, this is not always the case, and there are instances
where patients are treated at home. The example reviewed here deals with an elderly patient who suffers
from a mild Chronic lung disease and is in respiratory distress, as in this case the patient would also be
hospitalized in the West so that comparisons can be drawn. As demonstrated in Table 3.3, here too some
critical test are not performed, and hospitalization is considerably longer in the "Russian case".
43.    Hepatitis is a major concern today in Russia. Although well recognized, few actions are taken
at the level of daily care to contain this infection. Time and again emphasis is directed to the isolation
of the patient and not to true prevention by detecting infected patients and eliminating contact with
infected blood products. To date, at least 5 different hepatitis viruses are known. There are methods
for easy detection and classification by type, that is hepatitis A, B and C (there is a variant of B which
is called "delta"). Isolation is rarely needed.
44.    In this example one has to recognize that the problem faced here is not only management and
follow up of patients during the acute illness but the major impact is on morbidity and mortality of
patients in years to come. Namely with hepatitis B and C, in a minority of cases they can become
chronic diseases with persistent infection and may transform into chronic liver disease and ultimately
cirrhosis and death.
45.    Hepatitis C is particularly problematic in this case. The disease is relatively new (the virus was
only isolated a decade ago) and extremely contagious through blood and blood products and many
cirrhosis patients (previously known as cryptogenic cirrhosis) are infected with it. Diagnosis is easily
performed, though as stated, is not performed at all in establishments visited, and the problem as a whole
is not tackled by the medical establishment.
46.    In the West, the only true remedy offered, before liver transplantation is warranted, is injections
of interferon. This treatment is extremely costly and at present is not suggested to be a standard
procedure in Russia. However, prevention and detection is most warranted, which by and large will
decrease the future expenditure, prolong life expectancy and increase well being.
47.    From these few rather incidental but most common examples, it is evident that the number of
hospital beds in Russia is not only a consequence of secondary gains, following budgetary practices,
but also of medical practice which no longer exists in the West. This practice is, in turn, partially due
to medical technology in its broader sense, namely the availability of new technologies which influence
the outcome of patients and the management of late onset morbidity. The project aims to promote
Western standards.



128                                                                                                                             ANNEX 33
Table 3.2.4. Treatment of Acute Myorcardial Infarction
Procedure                          Equipment                       Drugs                   West            Russia               Project
.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Examine and
Monitor                            Monitor                                                  +              -                    +
Arrhythmia
Correct                            Defibrillator                                            +              -                    +
Arrhythmia
Examine
valve and                          Ultra sound                                              +              -                    +
muscle
function
Measurement
of pressure
in Heart                          Arterial lines                                            +              -                    +
and Arteries
Correct                            External                                                 +              -                    +
block in                           Pacing
electrical
function of
Heart
Vasodilation                                                      i.v.
of Arteries                                                       Nitrates                  +              -                    +
Anticoagulation                                                    Heparin                  +              +                    +
Vit K
antagonists
Drug induced-                                                     Strepto-                  +              -                    +
revascularization                                                 kinase
Prevention of                                                     ACE, Beta                -               +                    +
further cardiac                                                   Blockers
damage
Support                                                                                    Full            Partial             Full
of Procedures
by Laboratory
and Imaging
Hospitalization                                                                            7-10           25-30                7-10
Days



ANNEX 3.3                                                                                                                                                 129
Table 3.2.5. Treatment of Trauma
Procedure                             Equipment                          Drugs                                West                   Russia                 Project
....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Examine and
Monitor                               Monitor                                                                 +                      -                       +
Arrhythmia
Correct                               Defibrillator
Arrhythmia
Measurement
of pressure                           Arterial lines                                                          +                      -                      +
in Heart
and Arteries
Mechanical
Respiration                           Respirator                                                              +                      -+                     +
Vasodilation                                                             i.v. Nitrates                        +                      -                      +
of Arteries
Drugs                                                                                                         +                      Few                    +
Support
of Procedures                                                                                                 Full                   Partial                Full
by Laboratory
and Imaging
Hospitalization
Days                                                                                                          7                      30                     7
m:\king\annex3.3



ANNEX 3.4
PROPOSED PILOT REFORMS IN HEALTH FINANCING1'
1.      During the course of project preparation, proposals have been put forward regarding new
financing mechanisms and reformed institutional responsibilities in health. These include:
(a)    a capitation mechanism for the allocation of medical funds to raions and insurers;
(b)    a link between health finance provided through the budget and the payroll tax earmarked
for health financing;
(c)    a mechanism to establish the financial obligation of federal authorities to the overall
oblast health budget;
(d)    reimbursement systems for providers;
(e)    an investment fund for health facilities.
2.     Under (d)--i.e., reimbursement systems for providers--Abt, Inc. (a consulting firm financed by
USAID) would provide training, information and cost-accounting systems. This would be a part of a
joint effort by the World Bank, Abt and the local authorities of Novosibirsk, to turn the Cherepanovo
raion, selected under the project for a model hospital, into a model raion of a comprehensive health care
reform.
3.     Under (e), a revolving development fund (DF) under the Territorial Compulsory Health Insurance
Fund (TCHIF) would finance investments in medical facilities. TCHIFs were created at an oblast level
by legislation, signed in April 1993, which amended and complemented the Health Insurance Law of
1991. The TCHIF is to receive the payroll tax of 3.4% and make payments to "insurers"--which may
be insurance companies or types of Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs)--or, in circumstances
where these have not yet come into existence, directly to health care providers through "branches" of the
TCHIF. In principle, the TCHIFs are supposed to receive comparable payments from oblast or raion
health budgets for individuals who are not employed, which would imply that the TCHIF would channel
all direct payments for health care. In many oblasts, this has not yet occurred, and oblast authorities
continue to finance hospitals and polyclinics in much the same way as under the Soviet system. The role
of the TCHIF with respect to capital expenditures in the health system has not yet been established. The
objective of the proposed pilot is to try out a possible modality in order that health investment should
respond more efficiently to demand. Health investments financed by the World Bank loan would be
administered by TCHIF as though they had been financed by the DF. This aspect of the financial reform
is elaborated upon here.
4.     The Russian 1993 health insurance legislation (HIL) assigns investments of different unspecified
kinds to federal, oblast and municipal budgets. Article 11 of the HIL assigns to the State and Municipal
System (i.e., budgets) the responsibility for upgrading medical facilities. Article 24 stipulates, however,
that the price of medical services should include (a) depreciation (to maintain equipment) and (b) 'profit",
a part of compensation for service that can be used for purchasing equipment. Thus, while there is
1' The financial aspects of the Russian health care system that are of concern to the project and its environment are
detailed in the paper, "Necessary Financial Mechanisms to Achieve Health System Reform Under the Russian Health
Insurance Legislation" by Dov Chernichovsky and Elena Potapchik. This paper has been the basis for discussion with
the regional health administrations and regional health insurance funds on the proposals put forward in this annex.



131                                                                              ANNEX 3.4
recognition that some types of investments need to continue to be subsidized by the state, there is also
an explicit provision in the HIL that would allow providers to invest and maintain capital on their own,
and to receive compensation for this.
5.    In Russia, neither capital markets nor compensation systems for medical services are at present
developed enough to allow the financing of non-budgetary ("private") investments in medical facilities
in any meaningful way. Second, given their public nature and deteriorated financial state, medical
facilities have no access to whatever capital markets may be emerging. Third, there are also no
regulations governing such access; medical facilities working under public contracts need to be regulated
in this regard in order not to enter into "excessive" financial liabilities and "over-investment" that could
be detrimental to the system's financial liability. Fourth, budgetary revenues are in fact being substituted
or displaced by the revenues from the earmarked tax. There is, however, no link between these and
investment responsibilities, and the declining budget remains the main investment source. This inhibits
attempts to denationalize and privatize these facilities whenever warranted as a means to introduce
decentralized management competition and thereby to improve service.
6.     A possible solution to this problem  may be as follows. As the TCHIF is responsible for
compensation of routine capital costs of providers (depreciation and 'profits'), the TCHIF can also
become an investment facility, responsible for a revolving development or investment fund which would
operate alongside the budget, but with clearly delineated responsibilities between the two. In other
words,
(a)    a revolving Development Fund would be established under each TCHIF;
(b)    oblast and possibly federal administrations would retain the regulatory role concerning
the need for facilities or equipment beyond a particular size and cost;
(c)    oblast and possibly federal administrations would remain responsible for subsidizing
investment in facilities, to be agreed upon periodically;
(d)    a permanent development committee comprising of representatives of different levels
from government, the TCHIF, and providers would be established. For funds for this
Project, the Project Bureau or the CPIU would be represented.
7.     Once established, the Development Fund would operate in the following manner:
(a)    The committee would draw up (i) a list of investments by type and cost to be subsidized
entirely or in part by the federal and oblast budgets, (ii) a list requiring the committee's
approval ("certificate of need"), and (iii) a list not requiring any approval. These lists
would be updated periodically according to need and changing circumstances.
(b)    The approval of the Federal Ministry of Health and the Medical Industry (FMOH) might
be required for particular investments, depending on regulations which are to be
developed.
(c)    At least while private financial institutions are developing, all providers, including private
and other non-governmental free-standing entities, working under a public contract,
would be allowed to apply for loans from the Development Fund for investments not
requiring the committee's approval.
(d)    Development funds would be lent to medical providers on the basis of the agreed
investment program and (financially) approved loans for free-standing providers.
(e)    Providers would, in turn, repay the loans from the TCHIF revenues.



ANNEX 34                                                                                132
(f)    According to regulations to be developed, the TCHIF may borrow from financial
institutions and/or budgetary resources.
8.    Part of TCHIF revenues, some of which have been accumulating due to lack of appropriate
allocation mechanisms, can be used to initiate the Development Fund. In any event, shortages in the
agreed investment budgets may be supplemented by borrowing from financial institutions using
government guarantees. Borrowing from international and foreign institutions such as the World Bank
should be made possible under this scheme.
Fgure 1: Proposed Development Fund -- Flow of Moneys and Institutional Relations
Federal
Government
/Repayment
Repayment  Onlending
4         tI
Local Oblast
Government
Project         Health
Bureau        Authority
Regulation Approval
OnlendinB g 
Onedn           Trr. Health Inourance 
9 ~~Dev./lnvestment Fund 
Repayment
Compensationi
Onlending  Repayment      for Capital
T  Medpal Facility g
The proposed set-up is outlined in Figure I above.



133                                                                                ANNEX 3A
9.     Specifically with regard to the project, in addition to the regular agreements or contracts, the
following agreements are to be reached:
(a)    Agreements between the oblast government and the TCHIF transferring the loan
earmarked for health (excluding funds for training) from the oblast government to the
TCHIF, and establishing the Fund's responsibilities in lieu of the loan, such as: (i)
on-lending to the medical beneficiary facilities per the Loan agreement, (ii) assuring that
the beneficiary facilities are reimbursed for capital costs at least in lieu of the Project,
(iii) collecting loan repayments from beneficiary facilities, and (iv) repaying the oblast
government;
(b)    Agreements between the oblast government--which remains responsible for training
(except for those aspects which concern the DF)--and the beneficiary facilities regarding
training of medical personnel.
(c)    Agreements between the TCHIF and the beneficiary facilities, with the involvement of
insurers, where applicable, establishing the procurement and disbursement procedures for
construction and equipment.
10.   Interaction with the Federal Health Insurance Fund, which was established for regional
equalization purposes, is not proposed under the project. However, interaction with this Fund should be
seriously considered in the future as a means to channel funds to areas in comparative need for medical
infrastructure and for establishing federal mechanisms to identify such areas. Such mechanisms were in
place during the Soviet era but have not been in use since 1988.
i1.    The statutes of the DF and its mode of operations are currently being developed with the
Novosibirsk authorities. Accordingly, under the project, the DF could develop capabilities to handle the
following functions:
(a)    procurement of moneys from different sources;
(b)    provision of training and technical assistance to medical facilities in the preparation of
development and business plans, and of tender documents;
(c)    lending moneys for the development of medical facilities on the basis of the agreed
investment programs;
(d)    supervising the appropriate use of loaned moneys, including the review of bidding
documents;
(e)    collection of repayment of loans;
(f)    assurance of fee schedules for medical care under public contracts that secure a fair
return on capital;
(g)    prudent financial management of all moneys available to the fund at any time.
12.    Apart from consulting services in developing these capabilities, the DF would be assisted by the
PB in the preparation of all project documents on behalf of the raions and facilities included in the
project. Given its nature, this assistance would provide guidance and training to the DF especially with
regard to points (a), (b), (d) and (g) listed above.



ANNEX 3.4                                                                              134
13.   Specifically, the project tender documents would be prepared by TCHIF with the assistance of
the Project Bureau/CPIU  and under the latter's supervision.  After their approval by the oblast
administration, the Project Bureau/CPIU would issue tender documents.
14.   A special committee would be established for the health component to review bidding documents.
This committee would include representatives of the oblast administration, the oblast health authority, the
TCHIF, and the Project Bureau/CPIU. This committee would select winning bids.
15.   The DF should be involved in all relevant (health) work of the Project Bureau/CPIU so that once
the CPIU is abolished, the DF can assume all relevant functions. The flow of funds and operations of
the DF in conjunction with the CPIU is depicted in Figure 1.
16.   It is proposed under the project that the World Bank loan would initiate, at least in Novosibirsk,
this Development Fund and that the loan would be administered through this Fund for at least some
subprojects. In other words, the TCHIF would substitute for the direct involvement of the raion health
authority and of medical facilities. Eventually, as part of its responsibility for processing the loan, the
TCHIF would be responsible for repayment of the loan from the revenues earned by medical facilities.
m:\king\annex3 .4



ANNEX 3.5
SELECTION CRITERIA AND MODEL APPRAISAL
FOR WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SUBPROJECTS
A. RATIONALE FOR SUBPROJECT ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA-'
1.     Subproject Capital Cost. The estimated capital cost of subprojects should be in the range
$100,000 to $2.0 million.
Rationale. To ensure that the subproject is not so small that it could be financed directly by the
oblast from its capital budget nor that the subproject is too large and would require a
disproportionate amount of the total capital fund available for the water/sanitation component.
2.     Affordability. The appraisal for each subproject is to include a financing plan giving details of:
(a)    the estimated annual cost of loan repayment;
(b)    the estimated annual cost of operation and maintenance of the proposed installation; and
(c)    the source of revenue income to meet the loan repayment costs and the future operating
and maintenance costs.
Rationale. To focus the attention of the oblast and the municipal (raion) authorities, at the
subproject appraisal stage, on the future expenditure and budgeting implications arising from the
implementation of subprojects and to direct the authorities towards initiating a program for
improvement in cost recovery.
3.     Sustainability. The appraisal for each subproject is to set out the proposals for effective future
operation and maintenance of the installations to be provided.
Rationale. To ensure, at the appraisal stage, that the oblast and municipal (raion) authorities
recognize the need for skilled operation and maintenance manpower and there is provision for
appropriate training and for obtaining consumable items, spare parts, etc., to ensure that the
efficient operation of the installation is sustained over its planned life span.
' It can be observed that these criteria, together with the information in the model appraisal, do not provide
very sharp procedures for choosing priorities among subprojects, all of which can be easily justified in terms
of appraisal methods nornally employed in World Bank projects. Since there are practical limits to how fast
these subprojects can be undertaken, it is desirable to have other tools for ranking priorities. A U.K. water
company, for example, employs a ranking procedure based on the numbers and types of consumers affected,
the age, condition and capacity of the existing installation and the number and seriousness of past failures of
the installation. During the preparation phase, the use of such rankings, adjusted to local conditions, and the
process of developing them, are being discussed with Russian counterparts. The weighting given to each
consideration is, to some degree, arbitrary--or rather, is determined as much by political as technological
factors--and, as such, must be a decision of the oblast administration.



136                                                                                ANNEX 3.5
4.     Institutional arrangements.  The subproject appraisal is required to substantiate that the
institutional organization of the water/sanitation utility will be competent to manage and operate the
proposed installation.
Rationale. To direct the oblast and municipal (raion) authorities towards undertaking the
necessary institutional reforms in the provision of water and wastewater services to provide for
future long-term efficiency in the delivery of service provision.
5.     Subproject loan beneficiary. In some municipalities (raions) some of the existing assets of the
water or wastewater infrastructure (i.e. pipelines, water sources, treatment plants, etc.) are in the
ownership of the major industrial enterprises in the municipality. In most, negotiations are being
completed for transfer of the assets of the existing infrastructure from the industrial enterprises to the
municipality. The subproject appraisal is required to confirm that the water or wastewater utility assets
which are to be rehabilitated or improved will be in the beneficial ownership of the municipality or
vodokanal.
Rationale. To ensure that subproject loan finance is only provided for the rehabilitation of oblast
or municipal infrastructure and is not directed to the assets of the industrial enterprises that may
in future be privatized.
6.     Environmental assessment. Subproject appraisals are to include an environmental analysis
prepared in accordance with World Bank Operational Directive No. 4.01 and Russian Federal guidelines,
and the analysis is to be approved by the Project Bureau and by the Regional Committee for
Environmental Protection and Natural Resources.
Rationale. To ensure that the impact of the subproject on the environment is taken into account
at its conception stage and that appropriate measures are taken to mitigate any adverse
environmental impacts.
7.     Subproject program.  An implementation program  is to be included with each subproject
appraisal. The program is to set out the periods allowed for design, contract procurement, construction,
and commissioning. Subprojects will be expected to be complete and operational within two years from
the commencement of detail design.
Rationale. To direct the oblast and municipal (raion) authorities towards ensuring that in the
implementation of subprojects, the disbursement of capital is undertaken in accordance with a
planned procedure and to provide for efficiency in the implementation and completion of
subprojects.
8.     Strategic planning. Subproject proposals in the oblasts and municipalities are to form part of
the long-term strategy for the development of water and wastewater services, and the appraisal of each
subproject is to show how this is to be achieved.
Rationale. To ensure that refurbishment and rehabilitation of existing infrastructure carried out
under the subprojects will be sustainable as part of the long-term development strategy for the
water and wastewater services.



ANNEX 3.5                                                                                       137
9.     Technical appraisal. Each proposed subproject will be required to have a technical appraisal
which is to include an evaluation of options and an economic appraisal based on a cost-benefit analysis.
Rationale. To ensure, at the planning stage, that all feasible options are carefully considered on
technical and economic merits before the subproject is included in the program for
implementation.
B. IDENTIFIED SUBPROJECTS - WATER AND SANITATION COMPONENT
I.     Rostov Oblast
No.                                           Subproject
I      Aksai - Rehabilitation of water mains (Phase 1)
3      Aksai - Completion of central wastewater pumping station
6      Novocerkassk - Rehabilitation of water mains (Phase 1)
7      Novocerkassk - System controls for water distribution
10     Novocerkassk - Renovation of wastewater pumping stations
11     Rostov - Mixers for sedimentation tanks at water treatment works
12     Rostov - Improvements to sand filters at water treatment works
13     Rostov - Installation of chemical dosing plant at water treatment works
14     Rostov - Install valves in water distribution network
15     Rostov - Pipe cleaning and lining on the water distribution system
(leakage detection equipment)
18     Rostov - Provision of balancing/overflow chamber on sewerage system
19     Rostov - Provision of sludge dewatering equipment at wastewater treatment plant
20      Rostov - Renovation of wastewater pumping stations
22      Rostov - Provision of sewer cleaning equipment
24      Azov - Provision of chemical dosing plant at water treatment works
25      Azov - Renovation of tertiary filers at wastewater treatment plant
28      Azov - Provision of sewer cleaning equipment
29      Chaltyr - Refurbishment of first stage water pumping station
31      Chaltyr - Renew water distribution mains (Phase 1)
32      Konstantinovsk - Refurbishment of water intake pumping station



138                                                                                      ANNEX 3.5
No.                                           Subproject
36      Konstantinovsk - Renovation of wastewater pumping stations and pumping mains
37      Jegorlyk - Refurbishment of water pumping station and chlorination plant
40     Jegorlyk - Renovation of wastewater pumping station
41      Jegorlyk - Replacement of I km. wastewater pumping main
44      Orlovski - Renewal of water chlorination installation
46      Orlovski - Rehabilitation of sewerage network and pumping stations
48      Donetsk - Provision of control system for water treatment plant
49      Donestk - Refurbishment of wastewater treatment plant
52      Taganrog - Rehablitation of water treatment plant on River Mius
53      Taganrog - Reconstruction of aeration plant at wastewater treatment plant
54      Taganrog - Renewal of pumps at Eastern wastewater pumping station
I.    Novosibirsk Oblast
No.                                           Subproject
2      Ordynsk - New service reservoir
3      Ordynsk - Install chorination system
4      Ordynsk - Extend sewerage system
5      Ordynsk - Improvements to cesspit emptying
6      Masljanino - Improve river abstraction
7      Masljanino - Improve potable water treatment
8      Masljanino - Rehabilitation of water distribution
12      Masljanino - Replacement screen at wastewater pumping station
13      Masljanino - Replacement cesspit tanker vehicles
14      Bolotnoe - Replacement of cesspit tankers
15     Bolotne - New reception chamber for cesspit liquors
17     Togucin - Chlorination installation for water supplies
18     Togucin - New water service reservoir
19     Togucin - New water pumping station
|   20  Togucin - Rehabilitate cesspits



ANNEX 3.5                                                                                      139
No.                                          Subproject
21     Togucin - Replace cesspit tanker vehicles
22      Togucin - Construct discharge reception point for cesspit tankers
23      Tatarsk - Rehabilitation of water distribution system
24      Tatarsk - E & M renewals at borehole pumping stations
25      Tatarsk - Rehabilitation of sewage pumping stations
26      Tatarsk - Sewer cleaning equipment
28      Kujbysev - Refurbish water chlorination installation
29      Kujbysev - New service reservoir
30      Kujbysev - Rehabilitation of sewage pumping stations
33      Kujbysev - Wastewater laboratory
35      Barabinsk - Rehabilitate pumping station at wastewater treatment plant
36      Barabinsk - Rehabilitate sewerage network
37      Novosibirsk - Refurbishment of chlorination installation
40      Novosibirsk - Instrumentation and control for water distribution system
(leakage detection equipment)
41      Novosibirsk - Sludge dewatering plant
44      Novosibirsk - Sewer cleaning equipment
C. MODEL SUBPROJECT APPRAISAL
DONETSK - RENOVATION OF EMSTING SEWAGE TREATMENT FACILITIES
1.     Subproject: Renovation of Donetsk sewage treatment works!'.
2.     Beneficiary Population: 56000
Description of Existing Situation
3.     The mining town of Donetsk, population 56,000, has a gravity wastewater collection system and
a sewage treatment works, sized for a flow of 18,000 m3/d. The system is operated by the vodokanal.
In general, only domestic sewage is treated at the works.
2/ The information used in the appraisal was obtained during a single site visit on the November 29, 1994.
(Normally greater detail would be available.)



140                                                                                ANNEX 3.5
4.     Some of the sewers in the town are undersized and this prevents new areas, e.g., the miners'
living estate being connected to the system.
5.     Areas not served by the system are connected to cesspits, the contents of which are disposed of
at the sewage treatment works.
6.     All flows arriving at the central sewage treatment works are pumped up into the inlet. The works
provides preliminary, primary, secondary and tertiary treatment. Treatment units include coarse screens,
grit chambers, four settlement tanks, three aerated percolating filters, five humus tanks and an aerated
lagoon. Sludge is disposed of to six drying beds, used in rotation. The final use of the sludge was not
identified.
7.     At the time of the site visit only two of the three screens, three of the primary tanks, one of the
filters and four of the humus tanks were operable. In addition, the floating aerators in the tertiary lagoon
did not function.
8.     The works BOD consent was given as 10 mg/l (average), but presently can only achieve 20 mg/I.
9.     In addition to the central treatment facility, there is also a small undersized treatment works, sized
for 700 m3/d, which serves an outlying area. The works, which was not visited, was stated to be in poor
condition. The actual treatment capacity needed is 1200 m3/d.
Identification of Need
10.    There is a need to renovate the existing treatment units at the sewage treatment works to provide,
in effect, additional treatment capacity. This would either:
(a)    allow the existing flows arriving at the works to be treated to a higher standard, as
required by the discharge consent, or
(b)    allow additional flows to be passed to the treatment works while maintaining the present
performance level.
11.    The second approach would allow some unsewered areas to be connected to the system or would
allow the outlying area treatment works to be abandoned and the flow transferred to the central works.
Relaxation of the existing discharge consent would be a prerequisite.
12.    For the purpose of this report, objective (a) will be assumed as the basis for the project.
Options Considered
13.   The treatment units in need of urgent renovation include:
(a)    inlet screens (replacement of one screen),
(b)    renovation of one primary settlement tank, and
(c)    renovation of percolating aerated filters.



ANNEX 3.5                                                                               141
14.   Work would form the first phase of long-term project to increase the capacity of the treatment
capability by 9000 m3/d, to 27,000 m3/d.
15.   Renovation would permit the performance of the existing facilities to be optimized before work
can proceed on the design and construction of any new capital works. The approach would allow the
capacity of any extensions to be sized correctly and their construction costs to be minimized.
16.    No other technically appropriate options have been identified, other than not undertake a project.
Selection of Preferred Solution
17.   The preferred scheme will involve the renovation of existing sewage treatment facilities, to serve
as a self-contained first phase in increasing the treatment capacity at the works. The aim of the subproject
is to achieve compliance with the legal discharge standard and to improve the receiving water quality.
I. Environmental Analysis of Preferred Scheme
Baseline Situation
18.   The town, which has a population of 56,000, is partly served by a sewerage system. Wastewater
discharges by gravity to a central treatment plant which has a capacity of 18,000 cu.m. per day. The
sewerage system and the treatment plant, which are operated by the vodokanal, generally treat only
domestic wastewater. Industrial wastewater flow is of no significance.
19.   Some of the existing sewers are overloaded and, in consequence, new areas of housing cannot
be connected to the system. Those properties in areas that are not served by sewers have cesspits and the
municipality provides an emptying service to take cesspit contents by road tanker to the wastewater
treatment plant.
20.   The central wastewater treatment plant provides mechanical and biological treatment by aerated
percolating filters. Sludge is air dried on drying beds. At present many of the treatment units are not
able to be used. For example, one of the screens, one of the primary settlement tanks and one of the
humus tanks, are not in operating condition. In addition, the floating aerators in the tertiary lagoon
cannot be used due to mechanical failure
21.    Another small wastewater treatment plant with a capacity of 700 cu.m. per day serves an outlying
area. This works is in poor structural condition and is also overloaded. The capacity required to provide
an acceptable level of treatment is 1,200 cu.m. per day.
Regulatory and Institutional Considerations
22.   The treatment works presently fail to comply with its consent of 10 mg/I BOD and as a
consequence, the vodokanal is liable to be fined for non-compliance. One of the contributing causes is
undoubtedly the loss of capacity because treatment units are out of service and are in need of renovation.
Failure to meet with the discharge consent means that up to two times the acceptable pollution load is
entering the receiving waters.



142                                                                                      ANNEX 3.5
23.    The lack of treatment capacity at the works also prevents unsewered areas being connected to the
central sewerage system.
Environmental Impact of Proposals
24.    The renovation of the existing treatment facilities will enable the efficiency of the works to be
improved, allowing the works to treat the existing flow to a higher standard. The environmental benefits
of the project would be:
(a)    anticipated compliance with the discharge consent;
(b)    reduced pollution to the receiving waters linked to improved water quality;
(c)    avoidance of penalties for non-compliance, allowing the monies saved to be spent on
more worthwhile activities, e.g. enhanced maintenance works; and
(d)    reduced production of secondary humus sludge.
25.    No negative impacts are envisaged.
Mitigation and Enhancement Measures
26.    The impact directly associated with the renovation of existing facilities which take place on the
sewage treatment works site should not cause any environmental problems and no mitigation measures
are considered necessary.
27.    A relaxation of the consent could be pursued in anticipation of the improvements.
Capital and Operating Costs
28.    The estimated capital costs of the scheme are tabulated below:
IMPROVEMENT                                COST US$
.........................................................................................................................................
One replacement screen                          50,000
Renovation of one primary                       70,000
settlement tank
Renovation of two aerated                      175,000
percolating filters
Other miscellaneous improvements                50,000
.........................................................................................................................................
TOTAL                                          345,000
29.    An approximate amount of US$40,000 (12% of the capital cost) is to be assigned for design and
supervision. It is assumed that the capital and design work would be carried out in Year One, and the
plant would be operational by Year 3.



ANNEX 3.5                                                                                       143
30.    As the project is based upon reintroducing existing facilities, the increase in operating cost would
be expected to be low, although adequate provision for maintenance should be allowed for. An increase
of US$15,000 per year for increased electricity and maintenance, over existing costs, should be included
in the operations budget.
Present Value Analysis
31.    Present values of the flows of costs are provided for the following two cases:
(a)    "Do-Nothing" (without a project), and
(b)    Renovation of the sewage treatment works.
32.    They are based over a 20-year period and assume a discount rate of 15%.
SCHEME                                             PRESENT VALUE US$
...................................................................................................................................................................................................
Do-Nothing (without a project)                             477,000
Renovation of the sewage treatment works                   404,000
33.    The analysis for the "Do-Nothing" option assumes that there will be a 5%  yearly increase in
additional operational and maintenance costs, and in penalties for non-compliance for twenty years, at
which time the rehabilitation would be carried out at a cost of $345,000.
34.     The additional cost per person of doing nothing over twenty years would be in the order of
US$7.20.
35.    The benefits that would arise from the project if implemented would be:
(a)    improved water quality in the receiving waters;
(b)    improvement in the efficiency of all treatment stages;
(c)    the improvement in the quality of the Donetsk sewage discharged to the receiving waters,
sufficient to comply with the final effluent quality standards and to avoid the payment of
penalties;
(d)    reduction in the volume of secondary humus sludge produced;
(e)    potential for the sizing of any future extensions to be reduced from existing proposals;
and
(f)    savings on penalties for non-compliance with the discharge standard .
Program for Implementation
36.    A provisional program for implementation is given below.



144                                                                                  ANNEX 3.5
ACTIVITY                                  PERIOD
.................................................................................................................................................................
Design                                    2 months
Contract Preparation and Tender           3 months
Installation                              6 months
Sustainability
37.    The project is aimed at improving the performance of existing treatment facilities already operated
by the vodokanal and, as such, should be readily sustainable. 7he Municipality will however be required
to demonstrate that adequate allowance for the maintenance of the equipment is made in future budget
provisions. 7he provision of adequate spare parts, or easy access to them in Russia, will be required.
38.    Some training in maintenance techniques for the new equipment will be needed.
H. Institutional and Economic Appraisal
Institutional Arrangements
39.    Implementation of the project would be undertaken as an improvement to the treatment facilities
already operated at the sewage treatment works. Based on observations and meetings during the site visit,
it is considered that the vodokanal has in place the necessary arrangements for management,
administration and operation of the facilities. Some additional training in budgetary control and
maintenance planning would however be advised.
Loan Beneficiary
40.    It is understood that the sewerage assets are owned by the Municipality. Confirmation in writing
will be required.
Affordability
41.    The annual cost of loan repayment based upon the estimated capital cost of the subproject and
calculated on an interest rate of 7.5 % and a repayment period of 17 years with a five-year grace period,
is in the order of US$53,000.
42.    The source of revenue income for meeting the annual costs is understood to be the Oblast
Authority. Confirmation will be required.



ANNEX 3.5                                                                        145
Table 3.6.1 Capital and Maintenance Costs
of Renovating Donetsk Sewage Treatment Facilities
compared with Doing Nothing
Year                 Cost of Subproject         Cost of Doing Nothing
1                       385,000                      54,200
2                          0                         56,910
3                        15,000                      59,756
4                        15,000                      62,743
5                        15,000                      65,880
6                        15,000                      69,174
7                        15,000                      72,633
8                        15,000                      76,265
9                        15,000                      80,078
10                       15,000                      84,082
11                       15,000                      88,286
12                       15,000                      92,700
13                       15,000                      97,335
14                       15,000                      102,202
15                       15,000                      107,312
16                       15,000                      112,678
17                       15,000                      118,312
18                       15,000                      124,227
19                       15,000                      130,439
20                        15,000                     512,961
Present Value using             404,287                     477,656
15% Discount
m:\king\annex3.5



ANNEX 3.6
BUDGET AND EXPENDITtURE MANAGEMENT COMPONENT:
Consultant Terms of Reference and Hardware Specirications
Public Finance Management Consulting Services
1.    The consulting services, as suggested here, is based on discussions with the public officials of
the oblast of Novosibirsk.
2.    The consulting services will be categorized as follows:
-     Budget management methods
-      Expenditure programming
-      Public finance training (overseas or in-country)
-      Long-term borrowing options and debt management
3.    The assistance can be provided simultaneously using one expatriate consultant and four local
consultants over a one-year period. Specialized expertise can be coordinated using the Bank staff or
USAID assistance for Public Finance Training, underwriting issues related to long-term borrowing, etc.
Automated Budget Management System                                                     v
4.    The oblast of Novosibirsk has specifically requested a review of the budget management system
and recommendations for its improvement. One major purpose of the assignment will be to develop a
computerized Model Budgeting System between the oblast and raion government. This should facilitate
broader reforms of oblast fiscal and social expenditure policies.
5.    Intra-oblast fiscal relationships are currently a function of negotiated budgeting. The raion and
oblast officials negotiate the budgets, primarily due to the manner in which the budgets are presented.
The existing format does not lend itself to be a "stand-alone" transparent document. Sufficient detail is
not requested, neither is it feasible to prepare the detail manually, without errors. This creates the
appearance of many gray areas in the budget which are not clearly justified and are, therefore, subject
to arbitrary cuts by the oblast.
6.    On the other hand, the raions spend money allocated for targeted programs by reallocating funds
without requesting approval from the oblast on a timely basis. The timeliness of requesting approvals
can be greatly reduced by an automated process.
7.    Other reforms are needed in expenditure policies themselves. These require an analysis of options
for reducing--preferably eliminating--subsidies of all types, and placing greater reliance on user charges
and/or privatization of service provision, etc. For expenditures that remain a budgetary responsibility,
there need to be clear rules as to which level of government carries responsibility. Budget decisions
should greatly reduce and preferably eliminate the use of traditional expenditure norms, and should find
other ways to ensure that the implications of investment for future recurrent expenditures are considered
before investments are approved.



147                                                                              ANNEX 3.6
8.    On the revenue side, it is necessary to analyze and present options for ways to increase local
revenues, for example, land taxation, property taxes.  More transparent transfer mechanisms to
redistribute revenues to poorer raions, which would also provide a greater incentive to better budgetary
management at the raion level, need to be developed. Mechanisms are required to protect the poorest
raions against a collapse of services if revenues collapse. An appropriate borrowing policy needs to be
established.
9.    It is recommended that the Project Bureau hire four local staff who are experienced in public
finance and information systems practices. The terms of reference for these individuals will be provided.
It is also recommended that an expatriate consultant experienced in municipal management and public
finance management be assigned to provide guidance for this effort.
10.   Budget Preparation:
-      Revenue database by source of revenues to be developed for revenue forecasting
-      Expenditure classifications
-      Consolidation of extra-budget funds into the general budget
-      Preparation of a consolidated budget with clearly segregated "fund" budgets, such as
general, special revenue, capital, enterprise, etc.
-      Budget prepared by the sources and uses method by classifying the various "Funds" in
order to clearly depict the inter-governmental transfers
-      Legislated budget preparation time-table and relations with State Council (Duma)
-      Capital budget preparation, setting priorities, cost estimating, cost-benefit analysis
(impact analysis)
-      Multi-year capital planning (very important in the context of the project since the
project is a multi-year project)
11.   Budget Management & Reporting:
-      Review expenditure management, spending approval process in the raions, cities and oblast
-      Approval process for transfers of allocations from budget to budget or line-item to line-item
-      Revenue collection, administration function, (tax bills, receivable aging, delinquents
collection function, etc.)
-      Commitment (encumbrance) accounting
-      Monthly report format, adopted budget - modified budget - actual - variance (with
explanations), and balance
-      Revenue report with collections, delinquencies, tax base changes, etc.
'-     Encumbrance (obligations) report
-      Account payable report
12.       Continuous Budget Review:
Policy analysis to include accumulation of demographic, economic and financial data of the
region and independently assess the efficiency/adequacy of the budget
Continuous "cost-of-service" analysis and report generation with the use of a computerized
model



ANNEX 3.6                                                                                  148
13.       Public Finance Training. A training work shop for one week, for government budgeting
and financial reporting is recommended.  The course should be structured with practitioners and
professors. Theory must be the first segment of the course followed with case studies developed and im-
parted by practitioners.
14.       Attendance:
[ Finance officials from municipalities/rations
Finance officials from oblast                                   3
Public/business council                                         3
TOTAL                                                           12
15.       Course Work.  The course work should be structured to stress the linkages between
expenditure decisions and revenue generation. The course should address how local governments can
become more financially self sufficient and emphasize the cost recovery from service users. Attention
should be focused on determining which municipal services should carry user charges and how to set
tariffs.
16.       The course must also provide a set of analytical techniques for helping public officials get
control of their own financial situations. These techniques must include:
budget preparation and budget management (including legislation)
8      revenue analysis and forecasting
8      expenditure analysis and forecasting
*      cost control and cost of service analysis
*      fiscal impact analysis on household and businesses
17.       It is recommended that these courses be provided in Novosibirsk and that two instructors be
invited to participate, one a theoretician and one a practitioner.
Oblast Finance System Hardware Specifications
18.       Mission. The oblast finance system considered is to prepare an oblast budget based upon the
following information:
*      territories' financial activities information for the previous years
*      statistical data presented as the performance measures for the previous years
*      territories' development tasks
19.       Architecture. The system should consist of a series of modules that provide such functions
as the following:
*      oblast budget preparation
*      annual budget report
*      revenues estimation according to the sources and territories
*      actual revenues according to the territories and sources
*      actual expenditures



149                                                                             ANNEX 3.6
*     revenues/expenditures accounting of the non-budget funds
*     oblast budget loans granting and repayment
*     administrative personnel costs (salaries)
*     budget execution analysis for a certain period of the fiscal year
*     personnel data maintenance
*     oblast finance department cost
*     reference/normative statements information (statistical / performance indicators)
20.       Security. The security system should meet the below mentioned requirements:
*     Payment document coding.
*     Electronic signature of the documents being transferred to higher officials. The original
documents are approved by the electronic signatures when coming through the open channel
of communications utilizing the algorithm RSA (ISO 8731) standard.
*     Password access to enter the system.
21.       Systems telecommunication capacity. The system should provide several functions:
*     direct call re-dial mode on non-synchronized channels based upon own communication
protocol.
e     mail mode utilization of the highly reliable telecommunication network SPRINT.
8     utilization of the NetWare Access Service, etc.
22.       The system should have the following specific features:
3     possibility of working in the local computer network
8     several variants of working the telecommunication environment
automatic re-dial mode
prepare and fill in forms and standard documents
-     capability to access the external procedures without exiting the system
security features
password control to execute the functions
*     guided export/import of payment documents for a connection with automated accounting
system
*     adjustability to the hardware configuration
*     reference application with the purpose of speeding document processing and preventing the
mistakes (edit processes)
*     broad range of (applications) accessories, help, calculator, calendar, etc.
*     Oblast finance system should meet the needs of the Finance and Tax Policy Department as
well as the territories finance departments
23.       Hardware and Software:
*     Local network NetWare Novell for 50 users
*     Telecommunications network with the territories 50 users
*     Telecommunication network with the banks in which the oblast/territories' budget
accounts and the budgeted enterprises' accounts are maintained



ANNEX 3.6                                                                                 156
*      Telecommunication network with the tax inspection service
*      Telecommunication network with the Federation Ministry of Finance
*      Telecommunication network using SPRINT with the oblast/territories' administrations
*      Distributed network linked with the local computer center
24.       Implementation Criteria. Technical assistance should be on a pilot basis for two cities and
two raions to be linked to the oblast finance management system. In selecting the cities and raions, it
is suggested that the largest city and the largest rural raion be selected. The criteria for largest should
be the following:
*      size of budget
*      population
*      number of city raions
*      number of municipal departments
*      volume of transactions
*      any other special conditions
25.       The other two govenments should be the smallest city(town) and smallest rural raion. This
will provide a flexibility in designing the budget management system.
26.       It is anticipated that one expatriate, four local staff, and three short-term expatriates be
considered to complete the system. The three short-term specialists should be experts in:
(a)    Municipal (local) tax policy and procedures
(b)    Expenditure management, policy and management
(c)    Information systems for public organizations
27.       Budget:
Category                   Description                     Quantity           Amount
Personnel     Expatriate long-term                               I          $  240,000
Expatriate short-term                              3              150,000
Local experts                                      4              96,000
Sub-total                                                 $  486,000
Hardware      Computers (10 per city/raion)                   50 units          350,000
Software development
Sub-total                                                 S  150,000
Training      On-site (incuded in expatriate short-term costs)                    0
Foreign study                                  15 persons         150,000
TOTAL                                                     $ 1,136,000
m:\king\annex3 .6



ANNEX 3.7
PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
I. GENERAL PROJECT OBJECTIVES
INPUTS                          OUTPUTS                             OUTCOMES
Objectives: (1) Reduce the present deterioration of social infrastructure by:
a) financing the rehabilitation    # of new schools that use building  Better quality of construction and
and limited replacement of high  systems other than prefabricated  materials
priority facilities for providing   concrete panels
health care, education, and
water supply and sanitation   # of schools where space is reorganized   On-line data base and its linkage with
according to education specifications  specialist hospitals
developed in the model school
component
# of hospitals and water supply assets    Better water quality
with completed upgradation and
rehabilitation
(2) Improve the efficiency of managing public resources by:
a) ensuring that selection of    Beneficiaries interviewed during Phase I  Appropriate facilities are chosen to
subprojects is based on sound    of the project to reassess selection  benefit from the project.
criteria                     criteria, in order to make modifications
for future subproject selection.
b) raising design standards and  Training programs conducted on design   Structurally stable facilities making
improving the incentives to  standards. Development of more        optimum use of space.
obaerve them                 efficient on-site superivsion.
c) improving the quality and    Participation of school and hospital  Long-term sustainability of the
sustainability of construction by  boards, and vodokanal staff during  rehabilitated facilities.
improved site supervision, and   discussions with and selection of
by encouraging beneficiaries to  contractors, and later during
take a more active role as   construction. Project Bureaus (PB)
clients during the design and  would ensure their participation. Their
construction process         participation would be evaluated by an
independent agency on completion of
the first set of subprojects.
d) introducing competitive    Workshops would be held periodically    Transparent procedures and cost-
procurement practices        by PB for contractors.                effective system.



152                                                                                    ANNEX 3.7
INPUTS                          OUTPUTS                             OUTCOMES
e) introducing improved       Consulting services provided to identify   Streamlined budget and expenditure
methods of expenditure        ways to increase local revenues,     management.
programming and budgetary     enhance budget formulation techniques,
management by public          devise means of controlling and
authorities                   monitoring expenditure and revenues,
and review social expenditure policy.
(3) Promote private sector development through:
a) encouraging the break-up
and commercialization of
existing design institutes and
promoting competitive
tendering by engineering and
architectural firms
b) providing training in      Trained personnel.
procurement processes for
engineers, architects,
construction firms and public
bid evaluation committees
c) providing an environment    Pilot health financing reform scheme
that can facilitate the      established.
emergence of private providers
of medical care
(4) Contribute to the Government's policy of decentralization by:
a) promoting broad           Regular meetings of the Advisory Board  Sustainable project with broad
participation, including non-    to vet and make recommendations on  ownership.
governmental participation, in   subproject selections. On-site
project decision-making       supervision by school and hospital
authorities.
(5) Monitor the effectiveness of these new practices, and disseminate the results, so
that these can be used in similar activities, elsewhere in the Russian Federation
a) Monitoring and evaluation    Monitoring functions established in the   The second set of subprojects selected
functions set-up.            PB and the PIU to track the project, and  according to recommendations made
an evaluation function performed by an   by the monitoring and evaluation
independent agency to assess the     bodies. Similar practices followed
effectiveness of the new practices.  elsewhere.



ANNEX 3.7                                                                                      153
H. SECTORAL PROJECT OBJECTIVES
WFUTS                            OUTPUTS                          OUTCOMES
A. Education Performance Indicators
Objective: (1) Rehabilitaon of schools
# of schools selected through     # of students affected in         Better quality of construction and
participation by raion authorities,    rehabilitated schools        materials
school principals and
representatives of teachers and   # of new schools that use building
parents.                          systems other than prefabricated
concrete panels
# of schools where space is
reorganized according to education
specifications developed in the
model school component
Objective: (2) Strengthen all aspects of school facilities plannng and operations by establishing processes
for developing educaional specifications and physical design features, and establishing a
demonsfaltion facility management system in Novosibirslk municipality
# of workshops held in physical   Total # of trainees and quality of    Better facility maintenance
design features and formulation of   workshops                      No overcrowding of schools
education specifications
Introduction of new appraisal     New appraisal methodology         Application of appraisal
methodology                       functioning                       methodologies to all schools in the
oblast
Pilot demonstration facility MIS set  Functioning of the pilot      Continuation of the pilot in the rest
up in Novosibirsk municipality                                      of Novosibirsk and replication
# of schools with improved        within Russia
maintenance procedures and
facilities and strengthened
management organization



154                                                                                    ANNEX 3.7
INPUTS                          OUTPUTS                          OUTCOMES
Objective: (3) Contibute to development of private sector finns that are involved in
schoolfacility construction and upgrading
Training in all aspects of       # of contractor for schools who bid   Greater improvement in the
procurement                      for other internationally financed  economic prospects of contractors
construction jobs                who participate in school
Close supervision by international                                 rehabilitation, than in comparable
design firms                                                       firms that do not participate
Improvements in quality of work by
these private firms
B. Health Perfornance Indicators
1. Infristructure Development
Objective: Rehabilitate and upgrade selected general hospitals in Novosibirsk and Rostov oblasts, in order
to ensure an improved physical infrastructure designed to support basic medical technology,
equipment and patient conditions, access to equipment essential for proper and efficient
diagnosis and treatment, amelioration of patient accommodation, and mitigation of
environmental hazards
* Specification of equipment     * # of hospitals with completed     On-line data base and its linkage
needs, equipment provided and    upgradation and rehabilitation    with specialist hospitals on:
timing                           * Timeliness and accuracy of/       (a) patient records (when and
* Specific engineering plans to  implementation of systems for:    where patient will be given
mitigate environmental hazards   (a) procurement, including        appointment with health service
including medical waste, water and   commodity procurement scheduling,  provider or whether patient can be
sewage, radiation, storage and   requisition, bidding and ordering,    hospitalized);
handling of pharmaceuticals, indoor  and random sampling for buidling  (b) warehouse stock levels;
air quality, fire hazards and    material, designs and drugs;        (c) orders, account receivable,
disposal of building materials and    (b) distribution from the center to   inventories and clients; and
recuperated old machinery        provinces/cities to municipalities;  (d) progress of lab exams
(c) storage and materials handling,
including warehousing and
inventory;
(d) logistics information systems
incldg. stock pricing, ordering
status, inventory control demand
analysis, supplier performance and
distribution verification.
* Civil works completed vs.
timetable
* Better waste management



ANNEX 3.7                                                                                       155
rUTs                             OUTPUTS                           OUTCOMES
2. Service Delivery
Objective: Beuer patientfllow within and acrossfacities so that the average length of stay of patient is
shortened and the need to refer patients to higher-cost oblast hospitals would be reduced.
* # hospitals facilities by type  e Outpatient Consultation          % change from baseline data of:
upgraded and equipped                 (change fromm baseline data)    * average days of hospitals stay by
* Baseline data on patients           # of patients by areas of     type and severity of ailment
collected                         consultations (general/cardiac, etc.)   * ambulatory consultation
Hospital Activity Indicators          Reduction in mean waiting time  * # of hospital discharges
* Bed capacity                    * In-patient Consultation          * media consts/hospital service
* Cumulative in-patient days         # of patients by areas of       provided
during past 6 months              consultation                       * # people attending rehabilitated
- Admissions during past 6 months    % reduction in hospital beds    polyclinics and hospitals vis-a-vis
*  Diagnostic Services: Imaging   other non-rehabilitated services
# of imaging and electro-medical  * # of trauma cases and
tests                             cardiovascular cases
% of imaging and electro-      * % of those admitted properly
medical tests to admission        treated
images per person, by type of    * Operating theater
image                               # of specific procedures
distribution of tests (vis-a-vis  Re-admissions per procedure per
baseline)                         specified period (weeks/months as
levels of use of consumable    of commencement of procedure)
material                            Mortality by procedure per
turnaround time of tests       specified period (weeks/months as
quality control (false positive  of commencement of procedure)
and false negative)
quality assurance (conditions of
storage, films lost, etc.)
* Laboratory
# of laboratory test
Per imaging
Proficiency control
Reliability of tests
* % of supervision visits relative
to norm and provisions of MSPP
* Reduction in staff, by type
* Satisfaction levels (Scale 1-7)
Staff satisfaction, by type of
staff
Patient satisfaction with doctors
and other medical staff
Patient satisfaction with
services offered
Hospital cleanliness rating



156                                                                                     ANNEX 3.7
INPUTS                           OUTPUTS                          OUTCOMES
3. Institudonal Development
Objective: Train Russian personnl in operatng and naintainng the iinproved struure
* Specification of training needs  *  # of personnel trained        *  Effective and functioning
* Development of guidelines for   *  trainee attendance and         hospitals
maintaining rehabilitated facilities    completion rates            *  Well-developed referral system
4. Financial
Objectie: Establish beter finnial mechanims to support defunctoning of at least the
rehabilitated facilities
B Budget raions on the basis of   * On line database on:            * Effective financial mechanisms
capitation with an intra-regional    Financial reports by cost center   for hospital management
equalization mechanism            health statistics                 * Effective cost recovery
* Work out prospective payment       Resource usage and service
mechanisms such as diagnostic    levels
related groupings                 * % increase in those paying for
* Design payment schemes by       services
beneficiaries such as user charges,
etc.
* Develop investment facility with
territorial health insurance funds
C. Water Supply and Sanitation
Objective: Bring assets back to a satisfactory operating kvel. In water supply, rehabilation of water
mains to reduce leakage levels; refurbishment of chlorination installations to provide better
security in drinking water disinfection and the renewal of electrical and mechanical pmping
machinery that has outlived its useful operating life.
Resource                          # of assets rehabilitated         Sufficiency of supply for domestic
Complete subproject appraisals    < in number of incidents          and industrial needs
Prepare tender documents          > quantity of water supply, with
including:                        24 hour availability to meet
engineering designs,          demand
specifications, drawings, bill of
quantities and conditions of
contract



ANNEX 3.7                                                                                       157
INPUTS                           OUTPUTS
OUTCOMES
Construction of civil works
Provide training in specific areas  > efficiency of existing plant   Better water quality
(e.g. training)                    < use of electricity and chemicals    < in operating costs
* Installation of mechanical and  such as chlorine                   < risk of contamination from
electrical equipment              Improved raw water quality         ground water
* Introduction of institutional   < leakage from pipes, reducing     Less demand on resource
improvements                      amount to be treated
Treatment and Distribution
Supervision of construction and
installation
Institutional review of water and
sewerage utilities
Objective: In wastewater, the work requires rehabilitation of existng sewerage networks;
the provision of new cesspit tanker vehices to improve cesspit emptying and the renewal
of electrical and mechanical plant at key pumping stations
CoUection
Complete subproject appraisal     Lower infiltration into sewers     Reduction in quantity of sewerage
Prepare tender documents          < leakage from septic tanks       to be treated and disposed of
* Purchase of goods and           * < # of blockages in sewers       Reduced maintenance costs
construction of civil works       * < use of electricity at pumping
. Supervision of construction     stations
* Institutional review of water and    < # of sewer collapses
sewerage utilities                * < # of incidents
* Training provided in specific
areas (e.g. safety)               Improved efficiency of existing   Improvements in quality of
plant                             discharge to receiving waters, with
Treatment                         Improved compliance with           potential for environmental and
discharge consents                public health improvement
Objective: Consultancy services and training to develop the water companies into efficient
and profitable public utilites.
* Training mannuals designed      * #of water companies developed   * Profitable water companies
* Experts contracted              * # of trainees
* Selection process of water
companies
* Selection of trainees
m:\king\annex3 .7



ANNEX 4.1                                                                                                            153
COMMUNITY SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ANNEX 4.1
ID   Tak Name                                                                 Duration        Start         Finish
I    Loan Processing                                                              13.4w         4130196       7131196
2        Board Approval                                                              ld         4/30/98       4/30/96
3        Signing of the Loan                                                         ld          5/6/96        5/6/96
4        Project Launch Workshop                                                     3w          8/4/96       6124/96
6        Loan Effectiveness                                                           ld        7/31/96       7/31/96
6
7    Selection of Consultants and staff for CPIU and PBs                            16w          411196       7/19/96
8    Consultant mobilization                                                         4w         7/22/96       8116/96
9
10   Prequallflcatlon for works                                                     23w          5/16/96      10/22196
11       General Procurement Notice published                                        2w          5/15J96       5/28J96
12       Prequalification documents prepared                                         4w          5/29/96       6/25/96
13       IBRD reviws prequalification documents                                      2w          6/26/96        7/9/96
14       Prequalificatlon documents issued                                           1w         7/10/96       7/16196
15       Qualifications prepared and submitted                                       8w         7/17/96       9/10/96
16       Qualifications evaluated                                                    3w         9/11/96        10/1/96
17       IBRD reviews                                                                2w          10/2/96      10/15/96
18       Applicants notified                                                         1w        10/16/96       10/22/96
19
20   Education Component                                                           242w           118196      8/25/00
21       Construction Program                                                      242w           1/8/96      8/25/00
22           1. Bidding for Pilot Schools (#90, #170)                               28w           1/8/96      7/19/96
23           Construction and fumishing                                             57w         7/22/96       8/22/97
24           2. Design and Bidding for Schools in Rostov and Novosibirsk oblasts    40w           8/5/96        5/9/97
25           Construction and fumishing                                             67w         5112/97        8/21/98
26           3. Design and Bidding for Schools with Extensions in Rostov            66w          213/97         5/8/98
27           Construction and Fumishing                                             92w          5/11/98       2/11/00
28           4. DesIgn and Bldding for new schools                                  76w           1/6/97       6119/98
29           Construction and furnishing                                           114w         6/22/98        8/25100
30       ProJect Management Training and Assistance                                 67w          8/5/9e       11114197
31           Selection of consultants                                               16w          8/5196       11/22/96
32           Consultant mobilization                                                 4w        11/25/96       12/20/96
33           Review Inventory of schools and spechications                          26w         12/23/96       6/20/97
Page 1



159                                                                                                          ANNEX 4.1
COMMUNITY SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ANNEX 4.1
ID   Task Name                                                                Duration        Start         Finish
34           Assist in outlining facilities plan for decade                         12w         6/23/97        9112/97
35           Assist in the preparation of designs and tender docs                    4w           1/6/97       1/31/97
36           Provide guidance on selection of un-identified subprojects              6w          10/6/97      11/14/97
37       Management Information System Development and Implementation              174w           6/6/96        913199
38           Selection of consultants                                               16w           5/6/96       8/23/96
39           Consultant mobilization                                                 4w         8126/96        9120196
40           Task 1 & 2                                                             24w          9/23/96        3/7/97
41           Task 3 (study tour)                                                     3w          3/10/97       3/28/97
42           Tasks 4,5, and 6                                                       24w          3/31/97       9112/97
43           Get agreement on proposed system                                        3w          9115/97       10/3/97
44           Task 7 - implementation system-wide                                    100w         1016/97        9/3/99
46
46   Health Component                                                              223w           2/1/96       5110/00
47       Construction Program                                                      223w           211/96       5/10/00
48           1. Design and Bidding for Polyclinic No. 1 (Rostov) and Cherepanovo    70w           2/1/96        6/4/97
49           Construction and delivery of equipment                                 88w           615/97       2/10199
50           2. Design and Bidding for Rostov and Novosibirsk facilities            70w           811/96       12/3/97
51           Construction and delivery of equipment                                 88w          12V4/97       8/11/99
62           3. Design and Bidding for Hospitals (Iskitim,Chulim and Shakhty)       70w           5/1197        9/2/98
53           Construction and delivery of equipment                                 88w           9/3/98       5/10/00
54       Training - Study tours (25 people for 3 months)                            42w          8/5/96        5/23/97
55           Designers and Engineers                                                12w           8/5/96      10/25196
S5           Physicians                                                             12w           3/3/97       5123/97
67           Laboratory Technicians                                                 12w           313197       5/23/97
58           Imaging Technicians                                                    12w          3/3/97        5/23/97
69           Maintenance engineers and technicians                                  12w           3/3/97       5/23/97
60           Administrators and management staff                                    12w           3/3/97       5/23/97
61       Assistance In Health Financing                                             48w         7/31/96         7/1197
62           Selection of consultants                                               16w         7/31/96       11/19/96
63           Consultant mobilization                                                 4w         11/20/96      12/17/96
64           Compensation system                                                    24w         12/18/96        613/97
66           Revolving Investment Fund                                              16w          3112/97        711/97
66           Macro Resource Allocation                                               8w        11/20/96        1/14/97
Page 2



ANNEX 4.1                                                                                                         1.0
COMMUNITY SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ANNEX 4.1
ID   Task Name                                                              Duration       Start         Finish
67           Financial Management                                                 16w        11/20/96       3/11/97
68           Basic Health Finance                                                 12w        11/20/96       2/11/97
70   ConstrucUon program - Water Component                                       180w          2/U696       2/26U99
71       Rostov (1,16,28,29); Novosibirsk(8,14,28,40)                             Sow          2/598        8/1U/97
72           Design and Bidding                                                   38w          2/5/96      10/5/96
73           Construction and equipment                                           42w        10128/96       8/15/97
74       Rostov (6,7,14,31); Novosbibsk (2,18,23,29)                              s0w          912196       3/13/91
75           Design and Bidding                                                   38w          9/2/96       5/23/97
76           Construction and equipment                                           42w         5/26/97       3/13/98
n7       Rostov (11,12,13,24,32.37,44,48,62)                                      78w         11/4V96        Si1/9
78           Design and Bidding                                                   38w         11/4/96      7/25/97
79           Construction and equipment                                           40w         7/28/97       5/1/98
80       Novoslbirsk (3,6,7,17,19,24,37)                                          78w         114/96        S11/98
81           Design and Bidding                                                   38w         11/4/96      7/25/97
32           Construction and equipment                                           40w         7/28/97       5/1/98
83       Rostov (3,10,18,19,20,22,25,36,40,41,46,49,53,64)                        78w          9/1/97      2/26199
U4           Design and Bidding                                                   38w          9/1/97      5/22/98
a8           Construction and equipment                                           40w         5/25/98      2/26/99
B6       Novosibirsk (4,5,12,13,15,20,21,22,25,30,33,35,36,41)                    78w          9/1197      2126199
87           Deslgn and Bidding                                                   38w          9/1/97      5/22/98
Be           Construction and equipment                                           40w         5/25/98      2/26/99
so       Inditudonal Restructurlng Study                                         68w         11118/96       3/6S8
90           Selcdlon of Consulant                                                16w        11/18/96       3/7/97
91           Mobilization of consultant                                            4w         3/10/97       4/4/97
92           Carry out study                                                      48w          4/7/97       3/6/98
93           Training                                                             19w          814/97     12112/97
94       Training Program                                                         60w          8/S/96      9/26197
U            Selection of Consultant                                              16w          8/5/96     11/22/96
96           Mobilization of consubant                                             4w        11/25/96     12/20/96
97           Training In Design                                                   18w        12/23/96      4111197
96           Training In Operational Management                                    4w          217/97       3/6/97
99           TrainIng In Construction                                              4w          6/2/97      6/27/97
Page 3



161                                                                                                        ANNEX 4.1
COMMUNITY SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ANNEX 4.1
ID   Task Name                                                              Duraton        Start         Finish
100          Study tours                                                           4w          9/1197       9/26/97
101
102  Expenditure Management Component                                             75w          912/98        2/6198
103      SelectIon of oonsultants                                                 low          9/96        12/20/96
104      Consutant mobilization                                                    4w        12/23/96       1(17197
105      Provide assistance to Improve budgetary management                       52w         1/20/97       1/16/98
106      Training and study tour                                                   6w          2/3/97       3/14/97
107      Provide completion report                                                  1w         2/2/98        2/6/98
108
109   Monitoring and Evaluation component                                        328w          5/1/96       8/13/02
110      Selection of consultants                                                 16w          5/1/96       8/20/96
111      Consultant mobiilzation                                                   4w         8/21/96       9/17/96
112      Project evaluation activitIes                                           300w         9/18/96       6/18/02
113      Prepare summary evaluation report                                         8w         6/19/02       8/13/02
114
115  Institutional Strengthening Program - Environmental (grant-financed)        120w         9/30/96       1/15/99
116      Selection of consultants                                                 16w         9/30/96       1/17/97
117      Consultant rnobilkzation                                                  4w         1/20/97       2/14/97
118      Carry out training workshops and studies                                1 00w        2/17/97       1/1 599
119      Study tours                                                              30w         1/20/97       8/15/97
120
121   Selecdon of new subproJecsb                                                 sow         1113/97      10/16/98
122      Projed Bureau provides guidance and requests proposals from Departments   2w         11/3/97      11/14/97
123      Department submit proposals                                               4w          3/2/98       3/27/98
124      Project Bureau reviews and pre-aeecK subproJects                         16w         3/3W98        7/17/98
125      Projed Bureau submits It to IBRD and Advisory Board for comment           3w         7/20/98        8/7/98
126      Meeting of Advisory Board                                                 1w         8/10/98       8/14/98
127      Mid-term Review                                                           2w         10/5/98      10/16/98
128
129  Construction Program: Un4dentied subprojects                                184w          111/99       7111102
130      Projec Bureau hires experts to carry out appraisals                       4w          1/1/99       1/28/99
131      Appralsal of subprojects                                                 20w         1/29/99       6/17/99
132      Design and bidding for subprojects                                       70w         6/18/99      10/19/00
Page 4



ANNEX 4.1                                                                                                           182
COMMUNITY SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ANNEX 4.1
ID   Tuk Name                                                                DuraUon         Start        Finish
133       Construction and equipping                                                90w        10/20/00       7/11/02
134
135   Replication of Project In other oblasts                                      140w          9/1/97       5UU/00
136       Projed Bureau submits Operational Manual to CPIU                           ld          9/1/97        9/1/97
137       CPIU submits Project Manual for review to IBRD                             ld          9/1/98        9/1/98
138      IBRD approves Projed Manual for use during Mid-term review                  Id         10/1/98       10/1/98
139       Preparation of second project                                             70w          1/4199         510)
140           Selection of consultants                                              16w          1/4/99       4/23/99
141           Mobilization of consultants                                            4w         4/26/99       5/21/99
142          Identification, preparation and appraisal of project                   50w         5/24/99        5/5/00
143
144   Prepare Implementation Completion Report (ICR)                                 6w          5/1/02      6/11/02
145   Discuss ICR                                                                    1w          9/2/02        9/6/02
146
147   Closing date: December 31, 2002                                                li        1231/02      12/31/02
Page 5



ANNEX 4.2
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
=
Mission Dates        Character of Mission                 Mission Staffing               SWS
FY1996
4th Qtr          Project Launch               Task Manager                                3
Accounting/auditing Specialist              2
Education Specialist                        2
Health Specialist                           2
Water/Sanitation Specialist                 2
Environmental Specialist                    2
Operations Officer                          2
TOTAL   - FY1996                           15
FY1997              Subs. Loan Review                                                        7
1st Qtr           1st Supervision Mission      Task Manager                                3
(after effectiveness)        Proc/Disbursement Officer                   2
Financial Management Specialist             2
Operations Officer                          2
3rd Qtr          2nd Supervision Mission      Task Manager                                3
Proc/Disbursement Specialist                2
Education Specialist                        2
Health Specialist                           2
Water/Sanitation Specialist                 2
Operations Officer                          2
TOTAL - FY1997                             29
FY1998              Subs. Loan Review                                                        7
1st Qtr           3rd Supervision Mission     Task Manager                                 3
Proc/Disbursement Specialist                2
Accounting/auditing Specialist              2
Environmental Specialist                    2
Operations Officer                          2
4th Qtr          4th Supervision Mission      Task Manager                                3
and Mid-term Review          Proc/Disbursement Specialist                2
Accounting/auditing Specialist              2
Education Specialist                        2
Health Specialist                           2
Water/Sanitation Specialist                 2
Environmental Specialist                    2
Operations Officer                          2
TOTAL - FY1998                             35



164                                                                                   ANNEX 4.2
Mission Dates        Character of Mission                 Mission Staffing               SWS
FY1999
2nd Qtr          5th Supervision Mission      Task Manager                                 3
Education Specialist                        2
Environmental Specialsit                    2
Health Specialist                           2
Water/Sanitation Specialist                 2
Environmental Specialist                    2
Operations Officer                          2
4th Qtr          6th Supervision Mission      Task Manager                                 3
Proc/Disbursement Specialist                2
Financial Management Specialist             2
Operations Officer                          2
TOTAL - FY1999                             24
FY2000              Subs. Loan Review                                                        7
2nd Qtr          7th Supervision Mission      Task Manager                                3
Education Specialist                        2
Health Specialist                           2
Water/Sanitation Specialist                 2
Operations Officer                          2
4th Qtr          8th Supervision Mission      Task Manager                                3
Proc/Disbursement Specialist                2
Financial Management Specialist             2
Operations Officer                          2
TOTAL - FY2000                             27
FY2001
2nd Qtr          9th Supervision Mission      Task Manager                                3
Education Specialist                        2
Health Specialist                           2
Water/Sanitation Specialist                 2
Operations Officer                          2
4th Qtr          10th Supervision Mission     Task Manager                                3
Proc/Disbursement Specialist                2
Financial Management Specialist             2
Operations Officer                          2
TOTAL - FY2001                             20



ANNEX 4.2                                                                                      115
Mission Dates         Character of Mission                Mission Staffing                SWS
FY2002
2nd Qtr           11th Supervision Mission     Task Manager                                 3
Education Specialist                         2
Health Specialist                           2
Water/Sanitation Specialist                 2
Operations Officer                          2
4th Qtr          ICR Mission                   Task Manager                                 3
(preparation of PCR)         Proc/Disbursement Specialist                 2
Education Specialist                        2
Health Specialist                           2
Water/Sanitation Specialist                 2
Environmental Specialist                    2
Operations Officer                          2
TOTAL - FY2002                              26
FY2003
Ist Qtr          Discussion of ICR (PCR)      Task Manager                                 3
GRAND TOTAL                                179
m: \king\annex4. 5



ANNEX 5.1
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Table 1                                                               :
Expenditure Accounts by Rostov and Novosibirsk Oblasts and Moscow                                   x
Totals including Contingencies
(US $ '000)                                                             _
Expenditure Categories                   Rostov            Novosibirsk         Moscow              Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                        66,340.9            65,288.2             69.0          131,698.1
B. Supplies and Equipment                             32,905.6            34,830.8             89.6           67,826.1
C. Foreign Consulting Services                         4,288.8             5,025.8          1,914.8           11,229.4
D. Local consulting services                           6,022.4             6,394.2          3,758.5           16,175.0
E. Training
Foreign                                             1,812.7            2,045.4             147.0           4,005.1
Local                                                737.3               926.3             52.5             1,716.0
F. Operating costs (health component)                 14,140.2            16,104.2                            30,244.4
G. Incremental Operating Costs                          624.0               624.0             754.0
Total Investrnent Costs
II. Govt in-kind (NBF)                                   11,896.0            11,346.0                            23,242.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS (WBF & NBF)                      138,767.9           142,584.8          6,785.4          288,138.1
Foreign Exchange                                      40,171.6            44,635.2          1,995.6           86,802.4
Figures include taxes.
m



167                                                                               ANNEX 5.1
Table 2
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs
(US$ '000)
ROSTOV OBLAST
Project
Education   Health      Water       Exp. Mgt.   Bureau       TOTAL
WBF
Civil Works                        33,546      15,604       10,607                       40     59,797
Supplies and Equipment              3,605     12,732.9      13,491         900          96   30,824.9
Health Sector Consumables                     12,642.1                                         12,642.1
Consulting services - International   190       1,499         780          492         927       3,888
Consulting Services - Local                     619.9        1,385         252      3,544.2    5,801.1
Training - International             300        959.3         43.2         135          188     1,625.5
Training - Local                     125          390         92.1          45          50       702.1
Incremental Operating Costs                                                            624         624
(project administration)
TOTAL - WBF                        37,766    44,447.2    26,398.3        1,824      5,469.2  115,904.7
Physical Contingencies            3,261.8      2,360.9     1,391.8        76.2        204.9    7,295.6
Price Contingencies                 475.8    .2,486.7        592.1        56.9         60.2    3,671.7
TOTAL - WBF                      41,503.6    49,294.8    28,382.2       1,957.1     5,734.3    126,872
NBF
Gov't in-kind                       2,700       4,846        4,350                              11,896
TOTAL - WBF & NBF                44,203.6    54,140.8    32,732.2       1,957.1     5,734.3    138,768
Figures include taxes.



ANNEX 5.1                                                                             18
Table 3
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs
(US$ '000)
NOVOSIBIRSK OBLAST
Project
Education    Health      Water      Exp. Mgt.  Bureau       TOTAL
WBF
Civil Works                       29,241      19,297       10,295                     40       58,873
Supplies and Equipment             4,669     14,704.8      12,066        900          101    32,440.8
Health Sector Consumables                    14,398.8                                        14,398.8
Consulting services - International  674        1,691        780         492          927       4,564
Consulting Services - Local        168.4       877.4        1,254        252      3,606.6     6,158.4
Training - International           320.5      1,151.1       43.2         135          188     1,837.8
Training - Local                     245         450        92.1          45          50        882.1
Incremental Operating Costs                                                          624         624
(project administration)
TOTAL                           35,317.9    52,570.1    24,530.3        1,824     5,536.6   119,778.9
Pbysical Contingencies           2,761.3     2,935.4      1,300.5       76.2        208.3     7,281.7
Price Contingencies                447.3     3,025.4       588.5        56.9         60.2     4,178.3
TOTAL - WBF                     38,526.5    58,530.9    26,419.3      1,957.1     5,805.1   131,238.9
NBF
Gov't in-kind                      2,700       4,846       3,800                               11,346
TOTAL- WBF & NBF                41,226.5    63,376.9    30,219.3      1,957.1     5,805.1   142,584.9
Figures include taxes.



169                                                                                   ANNEX 5.1
Table 4
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs
(US$ '000)
MOSCOW
Central Project Inplementation Unit
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(C   F l U
WBF
Civil Works                                                60
Supplies and Equipment                                     86
Consulting services - International                       1,710.0
Consulting Services - Local                              3,650.8
Training - International                                   133
Training - Local                                           50
Incremental Operating Costs                                754
(project administration)
TOTAL- WBF                                               6,444.4
Physical Contingencies                                    189.3
Price Contingencies                                       151.6
TOTAL- WBF                                               6,785.3
Figures include taxes.



m
RUSSIA
COMMUNITY SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Components Project Cost Summary
%    % Total
(Local '000)                      (US$ '000)            Foreign   Base
Local     Foreign     Total      Local      Foreign     Total   Exchange Costs
1. Education - Rostov                  36,667.0    3,799.0    40,466.0    36,667.0    3,799.0    40,466.0     9      15
2. Education - Novosibirsk             33,787.9    4,230.0    38,017.9    33,787.9    4,230.0    38,017.9    11      14
3. Halth - Rostov                      28,519.7   20,773.4    49,293.2    28,519.7   20,773.4    49,293.2    42      19
4. Health - Novosibirsk                32,850.6   24,565.5    57,416.1    32,850.6   24,565.5    57,416.1    43      22
5. Water and Sanitaion - Rostov        23,662.6    7,085.7    30,748.3    23,662.6    7,085.7    30,748.3    23      12
6. Water and Sanitabon - Novosibirsk   21,717.1    6,613.2    28,330.3    21,717.1    6,613.2    28,330.3    23      11
7. Expenditure Management - Rostov       597.0    1,227.0     1,824.0      597.0    1,227.0     1,824.0      67       1
8. Expenditure Management - Novosibirsk  597.0    1,227.0     1,824.0      597.0    1,227.0     1,824.0      67       1
9. Proect Impementation Unit - Moscow   4,664.4    1,780.0    6,444.4     4,664.4    1,780.0    6,444.4      28       2
10. Project Bureau - Rostov             4,428.2    1,041.0    5,469.2     4,428.2    1,041.0    5,469.2      19      2
11. Project Bureau - Novosibirsk        4,495.6    1,041.0    5,536.6     4,495.6    1,041.0    5,536.6      19      2
Total BASEUNE COSTS                      191,987.2   73,382.8   265,370.0   191,987.2   73,382.8   265,370.0   28    100
Physical Contingencies                  9,348.5    5,418.1    14,766.5    9,348.5    5,418.1    14,766.5     37      6
Price Contingencies                          -    8,001.6     8,001.6          -    8,001.6     8,001.6     100       3
Total PROJECT COSTS                     201,335.6   86,802.4   288,138.1   201,335.6   86,802.4   288,138.1    30    109
ANNEX 5.1
TABLE 5



171                                                                                            ANNEX 5.1
Table 6
Summary of Project Cost By Expenditure Category
(in USS million)          Foreign       % of
Costs as %    Base
Expenditure Category              Local      Foreign      Total      of total      Costs
1. Civil Works:                                 97.6       21.13        118.73         18          49
2. Goods:
(a) Equipment, Vehicles and Supplies-         38.66       24.70       63.36         39           26
(b) Health Sector Consumables-                12.91       14.13       27.04         52           11
Sub-total-Goods:                              51.57       38.83        90.4         43           37
3. Consulting Services:
(a) International-                            0.05        10.11        10.16        99            4
(b) Local-                                   15.61                     15.61                      7
Sub-total Consulting Services:                15.66       10.11       25.77         39           11
4. Training:
(a) International-                            0.28         3.32        3.60         92           1.5
(b) Local-                                    1.63                     1.63                      0.7
Sub-total Training:                           1.91        3.32         5.23         63          2.2
5. Operating Expenses                            2.0                      2.0                      0.8
TOTAL BASE COST (WBF) 1/                       163.74       73.39       241.13        30         100
Physical Contingencies                        9.35         5.42       14.77        37            6
Price Contingencies                                        8.00        8.00        100           3
Sub-total (WBF) Contingencies                    9.35       13.42       22.77         59           9
TOTAL (WBF) 2/                                 178.09       86.81       264.so        33
TOTAL (NBF)                                     23.24                   23_24
TOTAL PROJECT COST (WBF+NBF)                   201.33       86.81       282.14        30
1/ Base cost date-March 1996.
2/ Includes duties and taxes of US$40.69 million equivalent.



U
pm
RUSSIA
COMMAUNITY SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Proe  Component by Year - Tols Including Contingencies
(USS 000)
Totals Including ContIngenciet
1997      1998       1m         2000       2001       2002      2003        Total
1. Education - Rostov                    570.2    2,325.9   11,286.4   10,580.6    9,107.4    8,780.6    1,552.5    44,203.6
2. Education - Novosbirsk                778.5    5,182.1   11,640.6    7,552.6    6,172.9    7,972.5    1,927.5    41,226.5
3. Health - Rostov                      1,357.7    1,671.9    8,126.1   17,156.4   12,415.4   10,413.3    3,000.0    54,140.8
4. Healh - Novosibirsk                  1,613.7    2,663.1    8,340.2   16,383.1   19,568.8   11,808.1    3,000.0    63,377.0
5. Water and Sanittion - Rostov         1,552.5    6,540.4    8,869.5    7,678.5    2,841.4    3,750.0    1,500.0    32,732.2
6. Watr and Sanitation - Novosbirsk     1,263.8    5,911.1    9,491.2    3,991.3    4,312.0    3,750.0    1,500.0    30,219.3
7. Exenditure Management - Rostov        405.7    1,398.5      109.2      43.7          -          -          -     1,957.0
8. Expenditure Management - Novosibirsk  405.7    1,398.5      109.2      43.7          -          -          -     1,957.0
9. Project Implementation Unit - Moscow  1,192.2    1,021.4    947.4     643.1    1,468.3    1,181.2      331.8     6,785.3
10. Project Bureau - Rostov             1,249.0    1,079.8     988.5     753.5      734.6      627.0      301.8     5,734.3
11. Project Bureau - Novosibirsk        1,264.4    1,089.9     998.6     763.6      744.7      637.1      306.8     5,805.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                      11,653.4   30,282.6   60,906.6   65,590.0   57,365.5   48,919.6   13,420.2   288,138.1
ANNEX 5.1
TABLE 7



RUSSIA
COMMUNITY SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencis
(USS ')
Totals Including ContUngencb
1997      1998       199l       2000      2001       2002       2003       Total
1. Invesment Costs
A. Chiworks                              2,119.5   14,345.0   43,341.2   35,063.5   31,261.9   26,033.9    2,775.0   154,940.1
B. Suppies and Equqpment                  983.9    5,882.9   11,144.4   27,252.6    7,747.4    5,110.0    9,704.9    67,826.1
C. Consultant Servkes
1. Local Consultant Services           3,041.8    4,327.4    2,153.3    1,934.6    2,169.2    1,762.4   786.3    16,175.0
2. Foreign Consultant Services         3,984.2    4,147.5    1,412.6    672.5      600.5      412.0         -    11,229.3
Subtotal Consultant Serices              7,026.0    8,474.9    3,565.8    2,607.1    2,769.7    2,174.4   786.3    27,404.3
D. Training
Foreign Training                        863.2      802.1    1,881.4     241.3      161.7       55.5         -     4,005.2
Local Training                          352.8      469.6     665.7      117.6       89.3       21.0         -     1,715.9
Subtotal Training                        1,216.0    1,271.7    2,547.1    358.9      250.9       76.5         -     5,721.1
E. Healh sector consumabls                    -          -         -          -   15,027.6   15,216.8         -    30,244.4
F. Project Administration - Operating expense  308.0  308.0    308.0      308.0      308.0      308.0     154.0     2,002.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                       11,653.4   30,282.6   60,906.6   65,590.0   57,365.5   48,919.6   13,420.2   288,138.1
X
ANNEX 5.1
TABLE 8



RUSSIA
COMMUNITY SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Components by Financlers
(US$ '000)
The Govemrnment     Gov't in-kind   Gov't -dutiesltaxes       IBRD                Total
Amount    %       Amount    %        Amount       %      Amount       %      Amount      %    For. Exch.
1. Education - Rostov                  3,245.9    7.3    2,700.0    6.1      5,026.0    11.4    33,231.6   75.2    44,203.6   15.3    4,757.4
2. Education - Novosibirsk             2,793.8    6.8    2,700.0    6.5      4,837.0    11.7    30,895.7   74.9    41,226.5   14.3    5,142.7
3. Heath - Rostov                      7,511.8   13.9    4,846.2    9.0      8,709.5    16.1    33,073.2   61.1    54,140.8   18.8   24,611.5
4. Health - Novosibirsk                8,671.5   13.7    4,846.2    7.6    10,770.0    17.0    39,089.2   61.7    63,377.0   22.0   29,240.4
5. Water and Sanitation - Rostov       1,001.7    3.1    4,350.0   13.3      4,382.0    13.4    22,998.5   70.3    32,732.2    11.4    8,304.3
6. Water and Sanitation - Novosibirsk    977.9    3.2    3,800.0   12.6      3,940.0    13.0    21,501.5   71.2    30,219.3   10.5    7,753.6
7. Expenditure Management- Rostov           -       -          -       -       300.4    15.3      1,656.6   84.7     1,957.0    0.7    1,345.2
8. Expenditure Management - Novosibirsk     -       -          -      -        300.4    15.3      1,656.6   84.7     1,957.0    0.7    1,345.2
9. Project Implementation Unit - Moscow     -       -          -       -       773.6    11.4      6,011.7   88.6     6,785.3    2.4    1,995.6
10. Project Bureau - Rostov                     -              -      -       827.0    14.4      4,907.3   85.6      5,734.3    2.0    1,153.2
11. Project Bureau - Novosibirsk            -       -          -      -       827.0    14.2      4,978.0   85.8      5,805.0    2.0    1,153.2
Total Disbursement                       24,202.7    8.4   23,242.4    8.1    40,692.9    14.1   200,000.0   69.4   288,138.1   100.0   86,802.4
ANNEX 5.1
TABLE 9



RUSSIA
COMMUNITY SOCiAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Expenditure Accounts by FInancIers
(USS ')
The Govemment      Govt In-kind    Gov't -dutes/taxes        IBRD               Total
Amount    %       Amount    %       Amount       %      Amount      %      Amount       %    For. Exch.
1. Investnent Costs
A. Civ works                            11,335.8    7.3   23,242.4   15.0    18,179.0    11.7   102,182.9   65.9   154,940.1    53.8   26,314.6
B. Supplies and Equipment                   0.0      -                 -    12,098.0    17.8    55,728.1   82.2    67,826.1    23.5   28,566.6
C. Consultant Sorvices
1. Local Consulant Servicos                 -      -          -      -      3,565.9    22.0    12,609.1   78.0    16,175.0    5.6         -
2. Foreign Consutant Services                                                    -       -    11,229.3  100.0    11,229.3    3.9   11,174.7
Subtotal Consultant Services                  -                               3,565.9    13.0    23,838.4   87.0    27,404.3    9.5   11,174.7
D. Training
Foreign Training                            -      -          -      -           -       -      4,005.2  100.0    4,005.2    1.4    3,712.3
Local Training                              -      -          -      -           --             1,715.9  100.0     1,715.9    0.6
Subtotal Training                             -      -          -      -           -       -      5,721.1   100.0    5,721.1    2.0    3,712.3
E. Health sedor consumabes              12,866.9   42.5         -      -      6,850.0    22.6    10,527.5   34.8    30,244.4   10.5   17,034.3
F. Project Administration - Operating expense  -     -          -      -           -       -      2,002.0  100.0    2,002.0    0.7          -
Total Disbursement                        24,202.7    8.4   23,242.4    8.1    40,692.9    14.1   200,000.0   69.4   288,138.1   100.0   86,802.4
ANNEX 6.1
TAMLE 10



I X
m
RUSSIA
COMMUNITY SOCiAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Local/ForeignlTaxes by Financiers
(USS '000)
The Government      Govt in-kind    Govt -dutideltaxes        IBRD                Total
Amount    %       Amount    %        Amount       %      Amount       %      Amount      %
1. Foreign                   6,655.7    7.7    2,440.4    2.8            -       -    77,706.3   89.5    86,802.4   30.1
It. Local (Excl. Taxes)      17,547.0    8.7   20,802.0    10.3    40,692.9    20.2   122,293.7   60.7   201,335.6   69.9
Ill. Taxes                         -      -          -       -           -       -           -       -          -       -
Total Project                  24,202.7    8.4   23,242.4    8.1    40,692.9    14.1   200,000.0   69.4   288,138.1   100.0
T
TWDLEI11



RUSSIA
COMMUNITY SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Dmbumemonts by Soetm ad Government Cash Flow
(USS 000)
Financing AvaIlable                  Cosbt to be
Gov't      Gov't                           FInanced  * Govemment
InJdnd   -dutesfaxe     IBRD                 Project             CumulatIve
Amount    Amount       Amount      Total      Costa    Cash Flow  Cash Flow
1              -            -          -          -     5,826.7   -5,826.7    -5,826.7
2              -         643.2    5,103.0    5,746.2    5,826.7      -80.5   -5,907.2
3              -        643.2    5,103.0    5,746.2   15,141.3    -9,395.1   -15,302.3
4         1,225.0      2,361.2    11,075.6   14,661.8   15,141.3    -479.5   -15,781.8
5         1,225.0      2,361.2    11,075.6   14,661.8   30,453.3   -15,791.5   -31,573.3
6         1,180.0      4,958.0   22,625.4   28,763.3   30,453.3    -1,690.0   -33,263.2
7         1,180.0      4,958.0   22,625.4   28,763.3   32,795.0    -4,031.7   -37,294.9
8         2,242.4      6,144.6   23,148.0   31,535.0   32,795.0    -1,260.0   -38,554.9
9         2,242.4      6,144.6   23,148.0   31,535.0   28,682.7    2,852.2   -35,702.7
10        4,185.4      3,787.2    16,477.6   24,450.2   28,682.7    4,232.5   -39,935.2
11        4,185.4      3,787.2    16,477.6   24,450.2   24,459.8     -9.6   -39,944.8
12        2,600.9      2,348.2    15,271.9   20,221.0   24,459.8    4,238.9   -44,183.7
13        2,600.9      2,348.2    15,271.9   20,221.0    6,710.1    13,510.8   -30,672.8
14          187.5        104.1    6,298.5    6,590.1    6,710.1     -120.0  -30,792.8
15          187.5        104.1    6,298.5    6,590.1         -     6,590.1   -24,202.7
Total       23,242.4    40,692.9  200,000.0   263,935.4  288,138.1   -24,202.7   -24,202.7
ANNEX 5.1
TABLE 12



r D
RUSSIA
COMMUNITY SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Disbursoment Accounts by Financiers
(USS '000)
The Govemrnment     Gov't In-kind   Gov't -dutiLesitaxes      IBRD               Total
Amount    %       Amount    %        Amount       %      Amount      %       Amount      %    For. Exch.
A. Civil Works                           11,335.8   10.0                                     -   102,182.9   90.0   113,518.6   39.4   23,874.1
B. Supplies and Equipment                    0.0      -          -       -          -        -    55,728.1   100.0    55,728.1    19.3   28,566.6
C. Health sector consumables            12,866.9   55.0          -       -          -              10,527.5   45.0    23,394.4   .8.1   17,034.3
D. Consultant services
1. Local Consultant Services                 -                 -       -          -              12,609.1   100.0    12,609.1    4.4
2. Foreign Consultant Services               -      -          -       -           -       -    11,229.3  100.0    11,229.3    3.9   11,174.7
Subtotal Consultant services                   -      -          -       -           -       -    23,838.4  100.0    23,838.4    8.3   11,174.7
E. Training
Foreign Training                             -      -          -       -           -       -     4,887.2  100.0      4,887.2    1.7    3,712.3
Local Training                                      -          -       -          -        -       833.9  100.0       833.9    0.3           -
Subtotal Training                              -      -          -       -           -       -      5,721.1   100.0    5,721.1    2.0    3,712.3
F. Prject Administration - Operating expense   -      -          -       -           -       -     2,002.0  100.0      2,002.0    0.7
G. Taxes/Duties                                -      -          -       -    40,692.9   100.0           -       -    40,692.9   14.1
H. Govt in-kind                              0.0      -   23,242.4  100.0            -       .           -      -    23,242.4    8.1    2,440.4
Total                                    24,202.7    8.4   23,242.4    8.1    40,692.9    14.1   200,000.0   69.4   288,138.1   100.0   86,802.4
_
ANNEX 5.1
TABLE 13



ANNEX 5.2
FLOW OF FUNDS
FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
RUSSIA COMMUNITY SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT                                                                              x
I Mnity of Nadinalities and
I   Regional Policy Prcjet
I  Implemnation Unit (CPIU)
l.AI
World                      1                           RussianBak
Bank                                                  S _al A    t
I Novosibirsk Oblast
Project Bureau                                                          Proj   Bureau
:         |  ~~Branh Bank :                                                               Branch Bank| 
I                                                                         I1111_,
Contractor Bank                                                                      F1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ccun
| Conb       Banlc  ||    Conr Bank   || Contractor Bank                                                         Co3tractor Bank   |
Account  Account                         Acoowmt                         Account
Feukds lbwr                                                         Accountinh  Infonnation Flow:
I Funds flow to Special Accoumt at the MINNAT.                      L.A  Withdrawal Application to World Bank Disbursement Department
2 Funds are advanced to Region's Project Bureau's bank account      2.A  Financial Statement and Invoices to MINNAT.                                 _
3 Funds are paid to Contractor's account for work done.             3.A  Contractor invoices Region's project bureau. Project Bureau approves payment   c
rxm:gVWidfiow.ppt



ANNEX 5.3
DETAILED PROCUREMENT PLAN AND SCHEDULE OF IDENDIFID PROCREMENT PACKAGES
(Physical and Price Contingencies Incuded)u
Mlor Actiwiu Schebdue             U
m
Categwr Of            Packge                                                                                 Estiuatd          Proc.        Ise  of       Start Datd          w
Proc.r..int              No.                                 Natre of Package                                Cot (SXOOO)      Method         Docs.           Beg.
Cii Weorks                                         HEALTH COMPONENT                                                                                            _
Rastoy Obbst)
I       Polyclinic # I Novoaibirsk                                                     2,223.1       ICB           I/l/97         6/5/97
2       Central RMion Hospital Mardtovsk                                               3,2403         ICB         6(25/97         12/4/917
3       Cental Raion Hospital Novocherkauak                                            3,2403        ICB          6/25/97         12/4/97
4       Polyclinic Corntinotvk                                                         2,243.2       ICB          6t25/97         12/4/97
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION COMPONENT
5       1J   - Aksai -Rehabilitation of water mains                                      370.1        ICB         6/10/96        10/28/96
Pipes                                                              700.0
#15 - Rostov - Pipe cleaning nd lining on the water distribution ystem         1,488.5
#29 - Cialtyr - Refurbishamet of first stage water pumping #Ation                 690
_ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _2,627.6A_ _ _
6       #6  - Novocherkasak - Rehabiktation of water mins                                323.4       NCB           12/97          5/26/97
Pipes                                                     500.0
#7  - Novocherkauak - Systern controls for water distribution                    51.8
#14 - Rostov - Instan valves in water distribution network                      218.5
A31 - Chaltyr - Renew water distribution mniins                                  16.5
Pipes                                                            350.0
Pipe__                                                         1,630.2
7       #32 - Konstantinovsk - Refiafbishment of water intake pumnping station            57.5       NCB           3/4/97         7/28/97
#37 - Jegorlyk - Refurbishment of water punping sation and chlorination plant    51.8
#52 - Taganrog - Rebabiritation of water tretmnent plant on River Mius          258.8
368.1
8       #3 - Aksai - Conpletion of central wastewater pumping station                    402.5       NCB           113/98         5/25/9S
#20 - Rostov - Renovation of wastewater punping stations                        322.0
25 - Azov - Renovation of tertiary filters at wastewater treatment plant         161.0
9       #10 - Novocherkasak - Renovation of 3 wastewater pumping stations                 92.0       NCB           1/3/98         5/25/98
#36 - Konrantinovsk - Renovation of wastewater pumping sations and               115.0
pumping mains
#40 - legorlyk - Renovation of wastewater pumping sation                         23.0                                                       _
$41 - Jegorlyk - Replacemert of I km. wastewater pumping nuin                    38.0                                                      Ca
Pipes                                                             85.7
#49 - Donetak - Refurbishment of wastewater treatment plant                      172.5
526.2



ANNEX 5.3 -- Page 2 of 13
Major A ativiie Schesule
Category of         Package                                                                          Estmated        Po.          lw  of       Sat Dael
Procur.emt             No.                              Nture of Package                             Cost (SX000)    Meto          Does.          Belin
Derivery
10      18 - Rostov - Provision of balancing/overflow chamber on sewerage system  920.0      NCB          1/319S        5/25/98
#46 - Orlovski - Rehabilitation of ewerage network and pumping stations     59.7
'9".7   _____
EDUCATION COMPONENT
11      School #90 (Pilot) - Rostov                                                807.9      NCB         4/11/96        7/22/96
12     School n3 - Bataisk                                                         799.7       NCB         1/9/97        5/12/97
13      School f1 - Akai                                                         1,469.2       NCB         1/9/97        5/12/9740
14      School 121 - Shakhty                                                     1,399.5      NCB          1/9/97        S/12/97
15     Schools - Rostov:  #65                                                     243.4       NCB          1/9/97        5/1297
#7                                                     1,529.8
S7__ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   1,773.2
16     School - Rostov:  #103                                                      191.2      NCB          1/9197        5/12/97
035                                                    1,101.0
#110                                                     162.3
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   1,454.5   _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
17     School #109 - Routov                                                      1,738A       NCB          1/9/97        5/12/91
18      School #5 - Rostov (reconstuction and extension)                         2,224.1      ICB          1/3191        5/11/91
19     School 134 - Rostov (reconsuction and extension)                          2,357.7      ICB          1/3/9S        5/11/91
20      School #2 - Novocherkssk (recontuction and extension)                    15".9         NCB         1/3/98        5/11/91
21      School 014 - Novocherkauk (reconstruction end extension)                 1,80.2        NCB         1/3/9S        5/11/91
22      Vororhilovakais (Rostov) - new school                                    7,124.9      ICB         2/14/98        6(22/98
23      Project Bureau (office renovation)                                          46.0       NCB         6/1/96         8/1/96
Civi Works                            ICB                                                                     25,281.6
(Ro,s Ovubast)                        NCB                                                                      17,188.2
TOTAL                                                                   42,469.8
___ _ _ __n =
m
PI
CA



ANNEX 5.3 --- Page 3 of 13
Major Activiti  Schedl 
_____  ~~~~Dato)                                 K
rm
Categor  of              Package                                                                                           Efm                Pro*           Isse of         Start Datel
Procuem t                   No.                                     Nature of Packlge                                     Cost (SX000)        Method           Docs.            Begin
Deiver' y
Civil Works                                              HEALTH COlMPONENT
(Novosili&sk Oblas)
Nv r bI  Polyclinic I I                                                                          2,25.1          ICB             1/1/97           6/1597
2        Hospital Cherepenovo                                                                     3,212.A         ICB           6/25/97           12/4/97
3        Polyclnic J30                                                                            2,245.1         ICB           6125/97           12/4/97
4        Hospital #1                                                                              3,240.9         ICB           6125/97           12/4/97
5        Hospital (Iskitim)                                                                       3,273.1         ICB           3/25/98           9/3/98
EDUCATION COMPONENT
6        School J170 (Pilot)                                                                        692.5        NCB            4/11/96           7/22/96
7        Chernorechenshia School (laitim)                                                           811.3        NCB             1/9/97           5/12/97
Boarding School J7 (Berdak)                                                               359.3
___________ __________ __________       __________1,170.  _A__                                                              _
S        School J103 - Kargat                                                                       707.0         NCB            1/9/97           5/12/97
Boarding School (Barabinsk)                                                               620.0
_ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _1,327.0   _ _ __        _  _   _  _
9        Boarding Schools:   Moahkovo                                                               927.2         NCB            1/9/97           5/12/97
Kolivan                                                              562.1
Toguchin                                                             394.0
10       School #1 (Ordynak)                                                                        569.2         NCB             1/9/97          5/12/97
Boarding School (Suzun)                                                                   672.2
11       Schools - Novouibirk:           #13                                                        956.1         NCB             1/9/97          5/12/97
#12                                                       463.6
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _1,4 9.7 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __1  _ _419_ __7
12       Schools - Novosibirk:           Aaonsuticc School                                          678.0         NCB             1/9/97          5/12/97
#139                                                      394.0
#152                                                      707.0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _1,779 .0   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
13       Schools - Novosibirsk:          #138                                                       370.9         NCB             119/97          5/12/97
#71                                                       579.5 
#161                                                      793.9
_ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _   1,744.3



ANNEX 5.3-Page 4 of 13
I  -* __  _ __    _
I             )ho                   a
C_qsiy of            Packae                                                                           j      aci   J    'roc.                        Sbtt Dit
proc|En  _              No.                                Nabre Of Packe                                Ced (IXIW1)      Mehed  |    Dc.               Be
14      School t144 - Novotibirek                                                     556.3        NCB          119/97         5/12/97
Boarding School t181                                                          707.0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _1,26 .3   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
IS      KLibyshev Boarding School                                                    3,558.7       ICB         2/14/91S        6       t22
Chumakovskaie School                                                        3,558.7
7,117A4   ______
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION COHPONENT
16      P8 - Masljanino - Rehabilitation of water distribution system                 379.0        NCB         6/10t96        10/28/96
Pipes                                                        100.0
t40 - Novosibirsk - Instrunentation and control for water distribution system  103.5
17      02  - Ordynak - New water pumping station                                     310.5        NCB          I12t97        526/97
013 - Toguchin - New water service renrvoir                                   632;5
943.,0_                                 _ __  _ _
IS      t23 - Tatarnk - Rehabilitation of water distribution system                   453.8        NCB          I1N97          5/26/97
Pipes                                                           700.0
J29 - Kuibyshev - New service resevoir                                        724.5
19      06  - Msaljnino - Improve river abstrction                                    258.8        NCB          3/4/97         7/2M/97
#7  - Maaljanino - Improve postable water treatment                            57.5
t19 - Toguchin - New water pumping sation                                     172.5
438.8
20      04  - Ordynak - Extend ewerge sytem                                            441.0       NCB          1/3/98         5/25/91
015 - Bolotnoe - New reception chamber for ceupit liquors                     126.5
#20 - Toguchin - Rehabilitate ceaspits                                        207.0
t22 - Toguchin - Construct discharge reception point for cesapit tankers      126.5
21      125 - Tatarsk - Rehabilitation of sewage pumping sutions                        46.0       NCB          1/3/98         5/25/91
#30 - Kuiby.hev - Rehabilitation of ewage pumping sations                     149.5
035 - Barabinak - Rehabilitate pumping saion at wastewater treatwnt plant      17.3
#36 - Barabinak - Rehabilitate sewerge nstwork                                472.4                                                      Z
Pipes                                                         700.0
22      Project Bureau (office renovation)                                              46.0       NCB          6/1191         U11/96            I
Civi werbk                              ICB                                                                         21,334.0
(Novsibisk OMest)                       NCB                                                                         19,459
TOTAL                                                                      40,97_3



ANNEX 5.3-Page S of 13
Major AcOijyji Sdseha3s
Cateory of            Packqe                                                                                 Eatia            Prot.          e  of       Sltas Dat         X
Prcurmet                NO.                                 Natre of Package                                Cost (SKIN)      Medkod         Decs.           Be              in
Goods (Rostov oblst)                              HEALTH COMPONEN 
I      Medical Equipment                                                              7,877.1       ICB           5/1191         12/1/9S
2       5 Conputen, Printers and Software(Heth l Finncing)                               71.9       NCR           9/l/96          1/1/97
3       Ambulancs for Hospitals                                                         139.7        ICB          2Vl/99         S/1/99
4       Health Sector Consunables                                                    10,940.2        ICB         12/15/99        6/15/00
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION COMPONENT
5       f15 -   Rostov - Pipe cleaning and lining on the water distribution system      121.4        ICB         6/10/96        1012S196
f29 -   ChAltyr - Refurbishment of first stge water pumping station             273.0
401.4A_ _ _ _ _
6       #7  -    Novocherkahsk - System controls for water distribution                 201.6        ICB          1/2I97         5126197
#14 -    Rostov - Install valvea in water distribution network                  866.2
1,067.1
7       f32 -    Konstantinovsk - Refurbishment of water intake pumping station         231.0        ICB          3/4/97         7/2S197
#37-    Jegorlyk - Refurbishment of water punmping sation and chlorination      199.5
plant
#52 -    Taganrog - Rehabilitation of water treatment plant on River Mius       236.3
666.8                                  _  _    _  _
8       #11 -    Rostov - Mixers for sedimentation tanks at water treatment works       199.5        ICB          3/4/97         7n28/97
#12 -    Rostov - Improvements to uand filters at water treatment works         533.8
#13 -    Rostov - InsUllation of chemical dosing plant at water treatment       147.0
works
#24 -    Azov - Provision of chemical dosing plant at water treatment works     323.9
#44 -    Orlovski - Renewal of water chlorination insallation                   130.7
#48 -    Donetsk - Provision of control sysem for water treatment plant         101.0
______________________________________  1,442.9
9       #19 -    Rostov - Provision of sludge dewatering equipment at wastewater       1,201.2       ICB          1/3/91         5/25/9S
treatment plant
#53 -    Taganrog - Reconatruction of aeration plant at wastewater treatment    275.4
plant
#54 -    Taganrog - Renewal of pumps at Eastern wastewater pumping dation      17851
________________________________________________________1,655.1
10      #3  -    Aksi - Compistion of Central wastewater pumping station                330.1        ICB           1/3/98        512519S
f20 -    Rostov - Renovation of wastewater pumping  ations                     1,176.0
f25 -    Azov - Renovation of tertiary filters at wastewater treatment plant   1,85



ANNEX 5.3 - Page 6 of 13
Major Adiin Shedu
Catqtu of             Prck.ge                                                                                Etimated        rProc.        ise of        Strt DeW
Procurmet               No.                                 Natu  of Paage                                  Co  (sxoo)        M od           Dos.           Begi
11      540 -    Jegorlyk - Renovation of wastowator pumpnsg station                      94.5       ICB           1/3/98         5/25/98
510 -    Novocherkaak - Renovation of 3 waglewater punping sations              336.0
n36 -    Konantinovak - Renovation of wuatwater pumping stations and            283.5
pumping mains
/49 -    Donetak - Refurbishment of wastewater treatment plant                  157.5
8715
12      t22 -    Rostov - Provision of sewer cleaning equipment                          259.0       [CB           113/9S         5/25/93
#46 -    Orlovaki - Rehabilitstion of ewerg e ndwork And pumping stations       420.0
128 -    Azov - Provision of sewer cleaning equipment                           251.5
30.5
EDUCATION COMPONENT
13      Furniture for Schools                                                          1,2600         ICB          2/1/98         7/1/98
14      Laboratory Equipment for Schools                                                 315.0       ICB           2V/98          7/1/98
15      Cotnputen for Schools                                                            3S3.4       ICB          2/1/98          7/1198
16      Compute, Printers Network, Software for Expenditure Managerent                  663.7        ICB          8115196         1/15/97
Comvonent
17      Office Equipment for Exenditure Management Component                              S2.5        NS          8/15196         1/15/97
18      Project Bureau - Office Equipment                                                 61.9        NS          5/15/96         7/15/96
19      Cars - Project Bureau                                                             15.8       ICB          5/15/96         1015/96
Goods (Rostov Oblat)                     ICB                                                                          30,454.2
NCB                                                                              71.9
NS                                                                              144.4
TOTAL                                                                        30,640.S
m
_ 
PI



ANNEX 5.3 - Page 7 of 13
Major Activifis Schede
m
Cegory of             Paae                                                                                                              1sile Pof Scart Dat/           X
Proc "ur ft             No.                                Nature of Package                             Cost (SX000)    Methd           Does.         B3 v             F
Goods                           I       Computers, Pritea, Network, Software for Expendire Management                 663.7       ICB          8/15/96        1/15/97
(Novsoosk Oblot)                        Componeat
2       Office Equipment for Expendiue Magement Component                              52.5        NS         S/15/96         1/15/97
3       Project Bureau - Office Equipment                                              62.0        NS         5/15/96        7/15/96
4       Project Bureau - Cars                                                          21.0       ICB         5/15/96        10/15/96
EDUCATION COMPONENT
5       Furniture for Schools                                                         97.5        ICB          2/1/9S         7/1/98
6       Lab Equipment for Schools                                                     315.0       ICE          2/l/98         7/1/98
7      Computers for Schools                                                          175.6       NCB          2/1/98         7/1/9S
8      MIS - Equipmenot (Education componeot)                                       1,349.7       ICB          1/l/97         5/1/97
HEALTH COMPONENT
9       Medical Equipment                                                           9,S45.7       ICB          5/1/98         12/1/98
10      5 Computers, Printers (Health Financing)                                       71.9       NCB          9/1196         1/1/97
11      Ambulances (4)                                                                187.4       ICB          2/l/99         8/1/99
12      Health Sector Consunables                                                  12,454.2       ICB         12/15/99        6/15/00
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION COMPONENT
13      028 -    Kuibyshev - Refurbish water insallation chlorination                 123.6       ICB          6/10/96       10Q2/96
#40 -    Novosibirsk - Insrumentation and control for water distribution      530.0
system
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _653.6
14      Ceuspit Emptying Vehicles:           I 5 (Ordynak)                            110.3        NS          1/3/98         5/25/98
#13 (Masljanino)                         178.5
#14 (Bolotnoe)                           178.5
021 (roguchin)                           168.0
________________ 1                __   _  _  _   _  _  _   _  _  _  __   _   _  _  _   _  _  _      _            635.3 



ANNEX 5.3-- Page 8 of 13
Major Acivti  Schele
| C  _  of               r                                                                         ,tO.                                  lae of        stu  DeW
Procurmeat              No.                                Natre of Package                               Cost (x00)       Method         Docs.         Dveq
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _         _ _ _ _ _                    _ _ _ _ _          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IDelivery
15      n3 -    Ordynsk - Insull chlorination estem                                    213.2        ICB          3/4/97         71/97
J6 -    Masejanino - Improve river abstraction                                 236.3
#7 -    Masijanino - Improve potable water treament                            105.1
t17 -    Toguchin - Chlonnrtion intallation for water supplies                 158.2
J19 -    Toguchin - New water pumping sation                                   157.5
A37 -    Novosibiruk - Rafurbishment of chloriration instaliation              426.5
_ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _1,2 96.8
16      J24 -    Tatarsk - E&M renewals at borehole pumping stations                  1,795.5       ICB          3/4/97         7/28/97
17      033 -    Kuibyshev - Wastewater laboratory                                     207.7       NCB           1J3/9S         5/25/91
#35 -    Barabinak - Rehabilitate pumping sation at wastewater treatment
plan                                                        59.9
267.6
IS      t12 -    Mal1janino - Repacament creen at wastewater pumping station            68.3        ICB          1/3/9S         5/25/91
t41 -    Novosibirsk - Sludge dewatering plant                               2209 1
I                                                                              2,277A
19      125 -    Tatruk - Rehabilitation of  wage pumping stations                     168.0        ICB          1/3M1          5/25/91
10o -    Kuibyshev - Rehabilitation of wwage pumping tions                     220.5
1U4 -    Novouibirsk - Sewer cleaning equipment                                343.4
026 -    Tatarsk - Sewer cleaning equipment                                     50.7
_________________  ______                                                                 ~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~782.6 _ _ _ _
Goods                                   ICB                                                                          32,340.1
(Novodrdk ObbWst)                       NS                                                                             749.8
NCR                                                                            515.1
TOTAL                                                                       33,605.0
Otier                           I       Project Bureu, Rostov - Operating Expenses                                     624.0        Other
2       Project Bureau, Novosibirk - Operating Expes                                   624.0       Other                                           >
3       CPIU, Moscow - Opeating Expenses                                               754.0       Other                                           X
Other                                   TOTAL                                                                         2,002.0
Ca,



ANNEX 5.3 -- Page 9 of 13
Major Activ i Sched ul
_ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _  _  _              (D~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ates) 
Catory of            Pk                                                                                 E[imaed          Prc.        le Of        Sbrt DW52
Preaerleint             No.                               Natre of Package                             Cost ISXDOO)    Mothod         Does.          BeD i           S
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _             _ _ _ _  _ _     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dehvery  e
Civi Works                      1      Office Equipment for CPIU                                                     46.8        NS         4/15/96        6/15/96
Goods d Servic
(Morcow - CPMU)
2      Office Renovation                                                             69.0       NCB          5/1/96         7/1/96
3      Cars                                                                          IS.8       ICB          7/1/96         9/1/96
4      Foreign Consulting Services                                                 1,34.8    Short LUt       4/15/96       7/15/96
5      Local Consulting Servicem                                                   2,2613     Short Ust      4/15/96       7/15/96
6      Study Tours                                                                  1463         DC         10/15/96       1215/96
7      Local Traning                                                                 52.6        DC         10/15/96       12/15/96
U      Prepastion/Follow-up Project Foreign Corrns                                  573.9    Short List      2/1O01        5/22/01
Local ConWultans                                 750.0
Civil Works
Gooed ad Sese                         TOTAL                                                                       5,257.7
Ila -cnu



ANNEX S.3-Page 10 of 13
MaOr Aidyiu SebsO
Cateusq of           Package                                                                            Kidhmat         Proc.        INNE of      Start Date
Procarmt               No.                               Natre of Puage                                Cost ($SU)    Mehod            D .            Bell
C-mtin Sevca  md                                IEALTH COMPONENT
Training (astw Obkst)
I      Detailed design and prepartion of bidding documents (hospitals and chnics)  1,353.0    Short List     3/1/96        6/15/96
2      Health care financing studies (local and foreign consultants)                287.9    Short Lst       7/12/96       10/18/96
3      Engineering supervision for 5 health facilities                              251.1    Short List     3/15/97        6/15/97
4      Training instructors                                                         225.5     Short list     8/30/96       11/15/96
5      Study tours for 150 health care providern                                   1,397A0       DC         9/15/96        11/15196
6      Training (loc)                                                                94.5        DC         9/15/96        11/15/96
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION COMONENT
7      Workshops on design an contract preparation                                   11.0        DC          12/1/96        V//97
8      Workshops and study tours on opeational management                            37.6        DC        2V15/97         4/15/97
9      Workshops on construction techniques                                           6.0        DC          5/15/97       7/15/97
10      Workshops and  udy tours on institutional trengthening                       89.9        DC          6/1/97         8/1/97
11      Design of water, wastewater and sewage facilities (local)                  1,077.3    Short List     6/15/96        9/15/96
12      Supervision of construction works (itntional)                               411.5    Short List      5/15/97        8/15/97
13      Study on Institutional Restructuring                                         146.0    Short List    12/18/96        4/4/97
14      Training Intructors: Design, operational manalement, construction and        314.5    Short List     8/5/96        12/20/96
insitutional strnhening                                             I 
'a'
d



ANNEX 5.3 - Page 11 of 13
Mkj.r Atdvim Schse              3
.                                       . __ _ _ _ __      _    _    __      _    ____               ._       _       I__                                            m
Cajagoy of            Packg                                                                                  Etmaed           Proc.         lame of       Sukrt Dw          x
PrAo rmet               No.                                  Natu  Of Palcge                                Con ($100)        Med            Docs.           Be&
EDUCATION COMPONENr
15      Study tours and training for teacher and school administrators                   461.3        DC           4/1/97          6/1/97
16      Project rngenmnt training instructor                                             221.0     Short List     10/15/96        2/15/97
EXPENDITURE MANAGENEINT COMPONENT
17      Expenditure management assidance (foreign consulting services)                   537.0     Short List     10t2/96         1/17/97
18      Local consulting services                                                        211.7     Short List     10/2/96         1/17/97
19      Trsining and study tours                                                         191.7        DC           123/96         2/3/97
PROJECT BUREAU
20      Technical assistance to Projet Bureau                                          1,022.5      Short List     4/15/96        7/15/96
21      Local consulting services                                                      2,S76.2      Short List     4/15/96         7/15/96
22      Study Tours and Training                                                         261.0        DC          10/15/96        12/15/96
Costing Senices  d                       TOTAL                                                                         11,485.2
Trana_g tRostov Oblat)



ANNEX 5.3 - Page 12 of 13
Major Activit  Sekffieh
Categs or Of         pacIng                                                                             Estinaw         Pr.          kiie Of      Start Data
Prinm                  No.                               Natre of P wkae                               Cos ($100)      Mesod          Doa.           B
Come_iag Sevimc    d                            HEALTH COMONENT
Trin.  (Novelr
TOhra      vs)                 I       Detailed design nd preapration of bidding documents (hospitals and clinicr)  1,706.6    Short List   3/1/96         6/15/96
2       Health care finuncing studies (local and foreign consultants)               287.9    Short List     7/1296        10/18/96
3       Engineering supervision for 6 health facilities                             306.3    Short List     3/15/97        6/15/97
4       Training insructors                                                         225.5    Short Lia      S/30/96        11/15/96
5      Study tours for 180 health care providert                                  1,664.1        DC         9/15/96        11/15/96
6      Training (local)                                                              94.5        DC         9/15196        11/15/96
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION COMPONENT
7       Workshops on design nd contret preparation                                   11.0        DC          12/1/96        2/1/97
8      Workshops and tudy tours on opertional maagement                              37.6        DC        2V15/97         4/15/97
9      Workbhops on con*uction techniques                                             6.0        DC         5/15/97        7/15/97
10      Workshops and study tours on institutional strengthening                     89.9        DC          6/1/97         8/1/97
11      Design of water, wastewater and sewage facilities (local)                   975.4      Short list    6/15/96        9/15/96
12      Supervision of construction works (international)                           411.5     Short List     5/15/97        8/15/97
13      Study on institutional rstmcturing                                           146.0    Short List    12/18/96        4/4/97
14      Training instructors: design, operational management, construction and      314.5    Short List      8/5/96        I2/20/96
institutional trengthening
52
U



ANNEX  5.3         Page 13 of 13
Major AtiivYim SchMee
|   C_vgor of         Package  IAtmat PI.                                                                                              Isse of       StaI t Date/ 
Procurenmt              No.                                Natre of Pakage                               Cost (SX000)    Method          Dc.            Begiu 
EDUCATION COMPONENT
15      Study tours and training of education ofticials                               459.6        DC          4/l/97         6/1/97
16      Project maagemnt training insructor                                           221.0    Short L st     10/15/96        2115/97
17      Training and study tours (IS progrm)                                          156.4        DC          2/1/97         4/1/97
18      Foreign consulting service (MIS program)                                      527.7    Short List     6/11/96         9/17/97
19      Local Consulting Services (MIS progrm)                                        141.1    Short List      6/11/96        9/17/97
_EDPENDMTURE MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
20      Expenditure managemnot technical asistnce (foreign consulting services)       537.0    Short List      10/2/96        1/17/97
21      Local consulting services                                                     211.7    Short List      lo/96          1/17/97
22      Training nd study tours                                                       191.7        DC          12/3/96         2/3/97
PROJECT BUREAU
23      Technical asistance to Project Bureau (several contracts)                    1,022.5    Short List     4/15/96        7/15/96
24      Local conslting services                                                     2,941.7    Short Lis      4/15/96        7115196
25      Study Tour and Training                                                       261.0        DC          10/15/96       12/15/96
Ce_ong Ser,-k    d                      TOTAL                                                                       12,9482
Trmiag (Novoslhirsk
m:Ukngvannax .3



ANNEX 5.4
TECHICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING - TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. EDUCATION COMPONENT
I.    Project Management Training for Schools Facilities Managers and Planners
1.    Consultants to assist in on-the-job training of Education Department staff in identification and
preparation of subprojects.
2.    Minimum Requirements:
Consultant 1 should be an education facilities planner. He/she should have at least 5 years of
experience in using demographic projections in the design of school cathcment areas. The consultant
should have substantial experience in establishing and implementing programs for the maintenance,
rehabilitation, consolidation and construction of new schools. In addition, the consultant should have a
solid grasp of the major elements that contribute to the capital and recurrent costs of school facilities and
of the means employed to improve the cost effectiveness of expenditures. The consultant would probably
be currently employed by a very large school district or authority.
Consultant 2 should be an education architect, with a substantial experience (10 years) in the
design of schools and the management of school construction programs. The areas in which expertise
is required are the processes for the formulation of education specifications, school design and all aspects
of procurement, including the handing over of new schools.
3.    Scope. Working with about 40 government staff from Rostov and Novosibirsk oblasts to identify
and prepare a total of US$15 million in school facilities subprojects.
4.    Description. This project element follows up on four days of classroom training in school
facilities planning provided by Bank staff during the preparation of the education component of the project
in June 1995. Training will involve the practical application of methodologies for facilities planning,
investment decision making, school design and project management.
(a)    Review inventory of schools in each oblast with respect to their physical condition,
existing and projected enrollments, design of catchment areas. Refine the costs of
operating schools, including the costs of energy.
(b)    Provide assistance in outlining a school facilities plan for the next decade. Determine
which schools should be rehabilitated, school closings and consolidations, new schools
as replacements for existing facilities and new schools for areas that are not adequately
served. Provide guidance in the initial selection of projects to be financed under the
Community Social Infrastructure Project. Examination of environmental issues and
securing of environmental clearances.
(c)    Review education specifications for all schools with parents, teachers, school directors,



194                                                                            ANNEX 5A
school administrators, oblast departments of education and community officials. The
specifications are to be modified according to each school's special circumstances.
(d)    The formulation of conceptual designs and the specification of design features, including
mechanical systems, energy conservation.
(e)    Formulation of design tender documents.
(f)    Formulation of construction tender documents.
(g)    Evaluation of bids and the awarding of contracts.
(h)    Quality assurance.
(i)    Routine preventive maintenance.
4.    7Iming: 1996-200 1.
5.     Approximately one to two visits to both Rostov and Novosibirsk oblasts in 1996 and 1997 for
a total of 30 staffweeks in each oblast. Total: 60 staffweeks.



ANNEX 5.4                                                                                       195
Project Management and Training: International Technical Assistance; 1996-1997.
Area                          Terms of Reference                        SW          Year
(a) Review inventory of schools in each oblast with         6          1996
respect to their physical condition, existing and projected
enrollments, design of catchment areas. Refine the costs
of operating schools, including the costs of energy.
(b) Provide assistance in outlining a school facilities plan  6        1996
for the next decade. Determine which schools should be
rehabilitated, school closings and consolidations, new
schools as replacements for existing facilities and new
schools for areas that are not adequately served. Provide
guidance in the initial selection of projects to be financed
under the CSIP. Examination of environmental issues
and securing of environmental clearances.
(c) Review education specifications for all schools with    6           1996
parents, teachers, school directors, school administrators,
oblast departments of education and community officials.
The specifications are to be modified according to each
school's special circumstances.
(d) The formulation of conceptual designs and the           6          1996
specification of design features, including mechanical
systems, energy conservation.
(e) Formulation of design tender documents.                 1          1997
(f) Formulation of construction tender documents.           1          1997
(g) Evaluation of bids and the awarding of contracts.       1          1997
(h) Quality assurance.                                      2          1997
(i) Routine preventive maintenance.                         1          1997



196                                                                             ANNEX 5.4
II.    Education Facilities Management and Supporting Management Information System;
Novosibirsk Municipality
1.    Ninety staffweeks of consulting services to examine and make recommendations on the
management of school facilities in Novosibirsk and then to implement a supporting management
information system.
2.     Scope: Facilities management and supporting management and management information system
for 200 schools in 10 districts in Novosibirsk municipality.
3.    Description:  The program  consists of 7 tasks, including two initial studies, study tours,
consultants for the design of a pilot, the implementation of the pilot, development of a plan for the
implementation of the program system-wide and, finally, the actual implementation of the plan system-
wide.
Task   1      Management system study. Approximately 12 staffweeks of work by two management
information system specialists to review the organization, staffing and functions of
facilities management in Novosibirsk municipality.
2      Management information systems study. Approximately 12 staffweeks of work to review
the technology needs for the facilities management system and to make recommendations
for the implementation of an agreed program.
3      Study tour. About six staffweeks of consulting services are needed to organize tours for
4-6 school administrators to observe the organization and management of school facilities
in large school districts.
4      Design of a pilot information system. About 12 staffweeks of consulting services to
identify data needs and develop a plan for the transition to a new system.
5      Pilot Implementation. The establishment of a data base and the installation of equipment
in the city administration and, perhaps, two raions.
6      Development of a plan for the replication of the pilot system-wide. Following the
evaluation of the pilot, a plan will be developed to replicate the pilot system-wide. About
12 staffweeks.
7      About 20 staffweeks to begin the implementation of a system-wide program.
4.     7Tming: 1996 and 1997.
A total of 78 staffweeks is required for these tasks.



ANNEX 5.4                                                                                  197
Education Facilities Management and Supporting Management Informnation System;
Novosibirsk Municipality; Technical Assistance Requiremnents
Area                        Terms of Reference                      SW          Year
Task  1          Management system study.                                 12         1996
Approximately 12 staffweeks of work by 2 management
information system specialists to review the organization,
staffing and functions of facilities management in
Novosibirsk municipality.
2        Management information systems study.                    12          1996
Approximately 12 staffweeks of work to review the
technology needs for the facilities management system
and to make recommendations for the implementation of
an agreed program.
3       Study tour.                                               6          1996
About 6 staffweeks of consulting services are needed to
organize tours for 4-6 school administrators to observe
the organization and management of school facilities in
large school districts.
4       Design of a pilot information system.                     12         1996
About 12 staffweeks of consulting services to identify data
needs and develop a plan for the transition to a new
system.
5                                                                 8          1997
Pilot Implementation.
The establishment of a data base and the installation of
equipment in the city administration and, perhaps, two
raions.
6                                                                 4          1997
Development of a Plan for the replication of the pilot
system-wide.
FoUlowing the evaluation of the pilot, a plan will be
developed to replicate the pilot system-wide.
7                                                                20          1997
About 20 staffweeks to begin the implementation of a
system-wide program.



198                                                                              ANNEX 5.
B. HEALTH COMPONENT
1. Rehabilitation of medical facilities: Design and Implementation
Design
1.    Local (Russian) design firms would be selected independently according to normal World Bank
procedures, to prepare designs and contract documents for eleven medical facilities--Polyclinics and
General Hospitals. To ensure that this work takes full advantage of international experience, in each
oblast an international firm with substantial experience in the design and implementation of similar work
would provide training and guidance to these firms, would monitor progress, and would provide advice
as needed to the authorities and design firms at each stage of the work through to the supervision of
construction. The authorities, in consultation with the international firm would approve all designs at
each stage.
2.     The firm should be prepared to supply expertise in the following specialisations:
-      architecture (A);
-      civil engineering (CE);
-      electromechanical engineering, including expertise with heating, air-conditioning
sanitation and electrical systems (EM)
-      medical (M);
Work Program
1.    Background work--intial surveys, reviewing existing (computerized) construction layouts etc. (40
person-weeks. Time required: 1.5 months. Will include: A, M, CE.)
2.    Preparation of preliminary designs and layouts for each project including preliminary
electromechanical designs and equipment. (20 person-weeks. Time required: 2.5 months. Will include:
A, D, CE, EM.)
3.     Preparation of final layouts, including layout and specification of equipment, and securing
approval from the local medical authorities and the local building authorities. (86 person-weeks. Time
required: 1.5 months. Will include: A, D, CE, EM. )
4.     Revision of designs and preparation of detailed architectural designs. (70 person-weeks. Time
required: 1.5 months. Will include: A, CE, EM.)
5.     Preparation of designs for the construction elements of the structure, and detailed designs of the
electromechanical facilities in each structure; (110 person weeks. Time required: 1.5 months. Will
include: A, CE, EM.)
6.     Preparation of section details, and designs of carpentry, aluminum, acoustic ceilings, etc, and
preparation of tender documents and specifications. (130 person-weeks. Time required: 1.5 months. Will
include: A, CE, EM.)



ANNEX 5.4                                                                               199
7.     Coordination of designs between various designers and cmpletion of designs. (130 person-weeks.
Time required: 1.5 months. Will include: A, CE, EM.)
8.     Preparation of bills of quantity, tendering of legal documents, tendering of technical
specifications, and document approval. (40 person-weeks. Time required: 1.0 month. Will include: A,
CE, EM.)
9.     Totals: 626 person-weeks. (Time required: 12.5 months.)
Construction
10.    Supervisor on site for each of the stages. (78 person weeks (Time required: 1.5 yrs).
2. Health Finance
11.    A firm would be selected to provide experts to assist each oblast Administration and Territorial
Compulsory Health Insurance Fund (TCHIF) with the following activities. (Estimated time is in man-
months--I is international consultant, L is local consultant.)
12.    Establishment of a revolving investment fund under the TCHIF. (I = 1, L= 1.5)
(a)    development of oblast development plan and establishment of investment priorities;
in-tandem with health priorities (based on cost-effectiveness and cost-benefit
considerations);
(b)    development of criteria and guidelines for identification of investments requiring approval
of local and federal authorities;
(c)    development of guidelines for investments qualifying for subsidies;
(d)    design and development a system for soliciting/receiving requests for investments/projects
from providers and approving loans;
(e)    design and development of financial and accounting systems for borrowing, disbursement,
and collection of moneys;
13.   Compensation systems ( 1=3, L=6)
(a)    health system analysis: identification of medical care units - insurers, providers, and
clients - and functional and financial relationships among them;
(b)    identification of potential reimbursement arrangements between any two units;
(c)    identification of possible patient copayment arrangements;
(d)    choice of optimal compensation system;
(e)    design of system development; and,
(f)    system development and implementation.



200                                                                                ANNEX 5A
14.    Macro resource-allocation systems (1 = 1, L=2.5)
(a)    design and development of a health management information system for the identification
of health priorities, pertinent demographic and socio-economic data, and use and supply
of services;
(b)    development of a local capitation system for allocation of resources to raions and
insurers; and,
(c)    establishment of the guidelines and procedures for contribution to the local health budget
of different levels of Government;
15.    Macro Financial management systems (1= 1.5, L=6)
(a)    design and establishment of financing and accounting systems with the oblast health
administration, and the health administrations of the raions where there are
project facilities;
(b)    design and establishment of financing and accounting  system with the TCHIF, and
branches of the TCHIF and insurers operating in the raions where there are project
facilities.
16.    Finance and management systems in project facilities (1=1.5, L=6.)
(a)    design and development of a management information system in each facility with an
orientation toward cost-centers within facilities;
(b)    design of an accounting system with an identical orientation and which is consistent with
the prevailing compensation/reimbursement mechanisms for services provided by
facilities.
3. Training
I.     Designers and Engineers
Area                     Terms of Reference                      SW             Year
Training    Continue to develop guidelines for Designers and   Rostov: 175         1996
Engineers that includes functional relationships  Novosibirsk: 210     1996
between units as well as the specifications of structural
needs and consultant guidelines, possibly including
study tours
I1.    Descripion: The process is already under way as part of project preparation and appraisal to
develop engineering guidelines for the units to be financed under the project. These would include:



ANNEX 5.4                                                                               201
(a)    guidelines concerning general layout of units in the general hospital in Cherepanovo,
Novosibirsk and Polyclinic No. I in the city of Rostov;
(b)    functional relationships among units; minimal size of units;
(c)    specifications of architectural, construction, and electro-mechanical needs such as heating,
electricity, air conditioning, and general characteristics of units; and
(d)    guidelines for consultants.
In addition to the training in the use of the guidelines, the Russian designers and engineers may have
study tours that should enable them to appreciate the concepts with which they will be dealing.
II.    Imaging Technicians
Area                    Terms of Reference                      SW            Year
Training    Imaging Technicians will have basic training in  Rostov: 175         1997
anatomy, physiology, pharmacology, radiation, genetics,   Novosibirsk: 210  1997
radiation hazards, and more extensive training in
radiography, sonography, mammography, imaging
equipment, development equipment and patient
preparation: emphasizing; medicine quality, screening,
automation, and computerization.
Description: Imaging Technicians need to be trained in the following aspects:
(a)    basics in Anatomy, Physiology, Pathology and Pharmacology;
(b)    basics in Radiation, Genetics and radiation hazards;
(c)    Radiography;
(d)    Sonography;
(e)    Mammography;
(f)    Imaging Equipment and techniques;
(g)    Development equipment and techniques; and
(h)    patient preparation;
Training would emphasize the following:
(a)    Quality Assurance in laboratory medicine;
(b)    Screening procedures of analyses;
(c)    Automation and robotics in the laboratory; and
(d)    Computerization and the computerized laboratory.



202                                                                              ANNEX 5.4
III.   Laboratory Technicians
Area                    Terms of Reference                      SW            Year
Training    Laboratory Technicians train in:                 Rostov: 175         1997
biochemistry, hematology, microbiology,          Novosibirsk: 210    1997
endrocrinology and therapeutic drug monitoring
Description: Laboratory Technicians need to be trained in the following aspects:
(a)    Biochemistry (Electrophoresis, HPLC, TLC);
(b)    Hematology (complete blood counts by microscopy and mainly by automatic equipment,
automatic coagulation techniques, HB electrophoresis);
(c)    Microbiology (inclusive serology novel and automatic screening of samples and
identification of micro-organisms);
(d)    Endrocrinology; and
(e)    Therapeutic drug monitoring.
IV.   Maintenance Engineers and Technicians
Area                    Terms of Reference                      SW            Year
Training    Maintenance Engineers and Technicians will develop  Rostov: 175      1997
operational, maintenance, and preparation skills  Novosibirsk: 210   1997
1.    Description: The skills involved here are for electricians, electro-mechanical technicians, and
water and sanitation technicians. The program would include the following major aspects:
(a)    knowledge of structures, equipment and materials;
(b)    reading of technical charts;
(c)    knowledge of operation and maintenance of specific systems;
(d)    preparation of routine maintenance programs;
(e)    development and usage of logs and forms;
(f)    development of periodical routines;
(g)    maintenance of safety standards; and
(h)    use of computers in maintenance.



ANNEX 5.4                                                                                    203
V.    Clerks
Area                     Terms of Reference                        SW             Year
Training    Lower/mid-level Clerks will acquire management,     Rostov: 175          1997
organizational and documentation skills            Novosibirsk: 210     1997
1.     Description: Training in this area is intended for lower and middle-level Clerks who will help
operate the different laboratory and imaging units. These personnel should acquire knowledge in:
(a)    organization and management of particular services;
(b)    management of patients;
(c)    international codes of various tests/exams;
(d)    maintenance of records;
(e)    office computerization; and
(f)    recording and informing of results.
VI.   Physicians
Area                     Terms of Reference                        SW             Year
Training    Physicians will train under supervision and will acquire   Rostov: 300   1997
new capabilities in emergency medicine. Specialists will  Novosibirsk: 360  1997
sub-specialize with emphasis on:
quality assurance, screening procedures, automation
and computerization.
Description: This training program for physicians would be in the following specialties:
(a)    Internal Medicine;
(b)    Surgery;
(c)    Intensive care Medicine;
(d)    Cardiology;
(e)    Laboratory Medicine; and
(f)    Radiology;
2.     The following is a detailed description of required training:
(a)    Physicians will go through a crack immersion course (3-4 days) to acquaint themselves
with the concepts of emergency medicine as manifested in the proposal of the World



204                                                                               ANNEX 5A
Bank. The concept relies heavily on laboratories and imaging. During the course,
emphasis on proper management of patients will be reviewed in accordance with the
proper use of these technologies.
(b)    Physicians will be divided according to specialties and will spend 2 weeks on location,
namely: Emergency Room, Intensive Cardiac Care Unit, Respiratory and Surgical Care
Units.
(c)    Trainees will joint residents in each location and function under supervision of a Senior
Physician or Chief Resident. Trainees will acquire:
(i)    Diagnostic capabilities present in each location such as Laboratory Radiology,
Electrocardiography;
(ii)   Invasive and non-invasive techniques such as insertion of arterial and central
lines, and cardiac pacemaker;
(iii)   Pulmonary cardiac resuscitation; and
(iv)   Therapeutic decisions and admission policies.
(d)    Physicians with specialties in laboratory and radiology will spend time in each sub-
specialty and emphasis will be directed to the following:
(i)    Quality assurance;
(ii)   Screening procedures;
(iii)   Automation and robotics; and
(iv)   Computerization and management in the environment saturated with computers.
In the laboratories, trainees will rotate in:
(i)    Biochemistry (will include electrophoresis, HPLC, TLC);
(ii)    Hematology (will include Complete Blood Counts by Microscopy and mainly by
automatic  equipment,  Automatic  Coagulation  Techniques,  and  Hb
electrophoresis);
(iii)   Microbiology (includes serology and automatic screening of samples and
identification of micro-organisms;
(iv)   Endocrinology; and
(v)    Therapeutic Drug Monitoring.
In Radiology, trainees will rotate in:
(i)    Radiology;
(ii)    Mammography;
(iii)   Ultrasound; and
(iv)   Computerized Tomography.



ANNEX 5.4                                                                                205
SUMMARY OF TRAINING (STUDY TOURS):
Rostov                Novosibirsk
Study Tours:
Physicians                                   25 staff/12 weeks        30 staff/12 weeks
Designers/Engineers                           25 staff/7 weeks         30 staff/7 weeks
Laboratory Technicians                        25 staff/7 weeks         30 staff/7 weeks
Imaging Technicians                           25 staff/7 weeks         30 staff/7 weeks
Maintenance Engineers and Technicians         25 staff/7 weeks         30 staff/7 weeks
Administration and Management                 25 staff/7 weeks         30 staff/7 weeks
Learning Materials                            25 staff/7 weeks         30 staff/7 weeks
Sub-Total Study Tours (weeks)                   1,175 weeks             1,410 weeks



206                                                                             ANNEX 5A
C. WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION COMPONENT
I.    Workshops for the Design of Water and Sewerage Systems
1.    Consultants for Training Workshops (2 in each oblast during year 1).
2.     Objective: To assist established local civil engineering design enterprises and institutes to become
familiar with the design of water supply and wastewater collection (sewerage) networks to
western civil engineering standards.
3.    Inputs: Two consultants (one water supply specialist; one sewerage specialist) for one week each
in each oblast to conduct training workshops for approximately 15 to 25 engineers in each oblast.
4.     Output: Experienced local civil engineering designers from design enterprises and institutes in
each oblast trained in western design practice pertaining to the design and construction of water
distribution networks and wastewater collection systems. Trained designers will then be enabled
to train other design engineers in the enterprises and institutes.
I.    Workshops on Water and Sewerage Operational Management
5.    Consultants for Training Workshops (2 in each oblast during year 1).
6.    Objective: To provide training at management and middle management level in the vodokanals
and municipalities in:
(a)   the demand management of water (leakage strategies and control; waste water control
strategies - bylaws, pressure zoning, etc.);
(b)    sewerage surveys; maintenance and renewal;
(c)    operational organization and manpower resources.
7.    Input: Two consultants (one operational water supply specialist and one operational sewerage
specialist) for one week each in each oblast to provide training workshops to approximately 20-30
managers and middle management staff from vodokanals and municipal water/sewerage
enterprises in each oblast.
8.    Output: Managers and middle managers responsible for water supply and sewerage operations
in each oblast able to plan and commence their own initiatives for improving operational
performance by raising levels of service and starting to reduce costs including reductions in
manpower. Trained operational managers will be enabled to pass on training to lower levels of
management in the operational water/sewerage departments.



ANNEX 5.4                                                                               207
m.   Workshops on Technical Drafting and Construction Techniques
9.     Consultants for Training Workshops (2 in each oblast during year 1).
10.    Objectives: To raise the standard of civil engineering construction for water and sewerage
projects by providing training to design engineers and construction supervisors. The training is
to include:
(a)   the preparation and drafting of specifications;
(b)    construction planning, programming and scheduling; and
(c)   the construction of structural buried pipelines for water and sewage.
11.   Input:  Two consultants (one specialist in specification drafting and construction project
programming: one specialist in concrete and pipeline construction) for one week each in each
oblast to provide training workshops to design engineers responsible for preparing specifications;
construction supervisors (resident engineers); contractors, site managers and site engineering
staff. Approximately 30-40 participants in each workshop.
12.    Output:  Better standards of civil engineering construction with a particular emphasis on
improvement in the quality of reinforced concrete structures and the lying of pipelines for water
distribution and sewerage networks. The maintenance investment requirements in future years
applicable to the new construction should be substantially less than the requirements for present
construction and new works should have a considerably longer operating lifelessly.
IV.   Study Tours on Operational Management and Institutional Strengthening of Water and
Sewerage Institutions
13.   Out of the country study tours in year 1 for up to 6 managers from vodokanals, oblasts and
municipalities of each oblast to study operational water and wastewater management in a western
country.
14.    Objectives: To provide an insight to water/wastewater management and administrators to assist
the undertakings in carrying out a review and subsequent reorganization of the present
institutional structures.
15.   Input: A combined study tour for both oblasts of approximately 2 weeks duration to look at the
practices in western water and wastewater management with particular emphasis on:
(a)    organizational structure;
(b)    manpower management;
(c)    asset management planning and renewal;
(d)    financial management; cost control and budgeting;
(e)    cost recovery for the service provided;
(f)    corporatization and regulatory control of the undertaking; and
(g)    standards of service; water quality and control of environmental pollution



208                                                                              ANNEX 5.4
16.    Output: Practical assistance to the administration and management in the oblasts, vodokanals and
municipalities in the planning of the institutional reorganization of the water supply and
wastewater services to provide a better organized and more cost effective service in the future.
V.    Design of Water and Sewage Facilities
17.    Contractor:   International  civil engineering  consultant organization  specializing  in
water/wastewater project design.
18.    Objectives:  To assist in the detailed design and preparation of specifications and bidding
documents for water and wastewater subprojects and to provide the transfer of western technology
through joint venture with local counterpart design institutes or enterprises.
19.   Input: The international consultant will provide long-term assistance in the detail design of
subprojects. The technical assistance will be undertaken in years I and 2 and will be focused on
the following areas of subproject design:
(a)    Network analysis and computer modelling of existing water distribution and
sewerage networks;
(b)    Planning and programming for water main/sewerage renewal nd rehabilitation;
(c)    Design of improvements to water treatment plant and wastewater treatment plant;
(d)    Design of replacement electrical and mechanical installations at water supply and
wastewater pumping stations; and
(e)    Design of replacement installations for chemical disinfection of drinking water
supplies
The consultant will provide training and transfer of technology through the secondment of local staff to
the consultant's design offices for periods between 3 and 6 months.
20.    Output: Subproject detail designs including specifications and bidding documents prepared
according to World Bank standards to meet local requirements.
Local staff trained on the job and able to pass on training to other staff in the design offices of the design
institutes and enterprises. This will facilitate subproject preparation for future project works required to
meet standards suitable for international shopping.
VI.   Supervision of Construction Works (Water and Sewage)
21.    Contractor: International civil engineering consultant organization specializing in the design and
construction of water and wastewater projects.
22.    Objectives: To effect improvement in the construction management of subprojects, both from the
client and the contractors side. To bring about an appreciation of the need for improvement in
the quality of construction; the planning of construction to meet contract delivery dates; the
contractual role of the client's supervisors in checking on construction and the quality of materials
and workmanship.



ANNEX 5.4                                                                                 209
23.   Input: The international consultant will provide long-term assistance in the supervision of
subproject construction contractors and the associated construction works including:
(a)    testing of materials;
(b)    checking of workmanship;
(c)    monitoring progress according to contractual construction programs;
(d)    measurements for agreeing and making interim contractual payments according
to work done;
(e)    tests on completion; and
(f)    commissioning of works and hand over to client.
For the purposes of training and transfer of technology, the consultant will be required to enter into joint
venture with local counterpart design institutes or enterprises to provide local staff to assist in-site
supervisory duties.
24.    Output: Improvements on behalf of the employing client in the quality of construction handed
over; completion according to agreed contractual dates and the availability of trained staff whoa
re enabled to pass on training to other staff both in the contractors organization and the design
institutes or enterprises.
VII.   Study on Institutional Restructuring
25.    Contractor: International consulting organization or out-of-country operational undertaking with
specialists in institutional organization and planning in water and wastewater collection and
treatment.
26.    Objectives: Through a study and report, to provide expert advice and guidance to the vodokanal
and municipal authorities in the cities of Rostov and Novosibirsk on the future status and
organization of the vodokanals as corporate bodies to undertake the provision of water and
wastewater services in the municipalities. The study will focus particularly on the need to:
(a)    raise levels of service;
(b)    provide a management and operating structure that is cost effective and efficient;
(c)    control and reduce operating costs - particularly energy consumption costs;
(d)    provide for regulatory control of the operations of the vodokanal;
(e)    provide for cost recovery to sustain the future operations and financial
requirements of the vodokanals leading eventually to operational autonomy; and
(f)    improve the aquatic environment.
27.   Inputs: The consultant or out-of-country operational undertaking to provide specialists for a 6-
month study to investigate and advise on organizational structure; operational management;
strategic planning for water supply and wastewater management; finance, budgeting and cost
control; administration; personnel structures and manpower profiles; options for cost recovery.
The inputs are to be provided during years I and 2.



210                                                                              ANNEX 5.4
28.    Outputs: The study will produce a report with recommendations on options that are available to
the municipal authorities of Rostov and Novosibirsk for the reorganization of the water and
wastewater utilities to meet the study objectives. The report of the study will be required to set
out, in particular, the options for:
(a)    cost recovery to sustain the future operating organization as an autonomous body;
(b)    regulatory requirements for controlling the use of assets; minimum acceptable
levels of service and approved charging policies; and
(c)    periodic review of the performance of the water/wastewater undertaking to meet
regulatory requirements.
VIII. Training in Design and Operational Management of Water and Sewage Assets
29.    Contractor: International consulting organization or out-of-country operational undertaking with
specialists in asset management planning in water treatment and distribution and wastewater collection
and treatment.
30.    Objectives:  To provide training in the concept of asset management planning for the
water/wastewater utilities in the municipalities of Rostov and Novosibirsk so that future capital
expenditures and operating costs can be planned to meet the demand for services and to provide
levels of service according to the finance available form user charges.
31.   Input: The consultant or out-of-country operational undertaking to provide specialists for 12
months training in each oblast in years I and 2. The training to include study tours to western
countries for up to 6 management/middle management staff from each of the vodokanals and
municipalities of Rostov and Novosibirsk. The training and study tours will focus on the
following aspects of asset management planning:
(a)    a  water  supply/wastewater  treatment  strategy  for  the  municipal
undertaking/vodokanal;
(b)    estimating future demands for water supply and wastewater collection and
treatment services;
(c)    making an evaluation of existing installations and resources;
(d)    classifying the requirements for future new works; and
(e)    preparing an asset management plan in the form of a review document suitable
for annual reassessment.
32.    Output: Management and middle management staff trained in asset management planning as a
means of determining future capital investment plans and programs. At the completion of the
training asset management plans in the form of review documents will be available to provide the
basis for all future capital investment proposals.



ANNEX 5.4                                                                           211
D. EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
I.    Budget/Finance Management Long-Tern Adviser
[ Expenditure Management LTA; 10 months (1996), 3 months (1997)]
[ Budget Management/Analysis STA: 3 months (1997)1
1.    Minimum Requirements
-     Must have a minimum of 10 years experience in the municipal/state government finance
field;
-     Must have knowledge of preparation, control and execution of government budgets;
-     Must have worked in a computerized finance environment;
-     Must have knowledge of budget legislation and have prepared and passed necessary
budget legislation in other sub-national governments;
-     Must have worked in a policy position for a minimum of 4 years, in order to have
experience in preparing and adopting budgets through local councils;
-     Must have international experience, a minimum of one year prior experience in Russia
or the former Soviet republics;
-     Must be a professional with membership to professional government finance
organizations;
-     Must be aware of tax policies, expenditure allocation and management, policy analysis,
new policy development and implementation; and
-     Previous experience as a finance director (not city or county manager) or budget director
of a state or county government.
2.    Scope of work
The LTA will be required to prepare a more detailed scope of work for each of the sub-components of
the expenditure management program. This is to include, but not be limited to, financial analysis, policy
analysis, developing financial controls, developing fiscal control policies, drafting and adopting legislation
for fiscal control.
The main area of work will be in expenditure management and proposing proper fiscal control policies.
The LTA will be required to work with the local representative bodies and the executive branches to
develop and adopt legislation for fiscal control.
3.    The areas of work to focus will be:
a)    Expenditure approval processes and procedures;
b)    Expenditure approval limits (expenditures amounts that require legislative approval and
expenditures that require executive approval);
c)    Expenditure approval categories (expenditures categories that require legislative approval
and expenditures that require executive approval);
d)    Develop budget preparation methods, budget forecasting methods, budget management



212                                                                              ANNEX 5.4
methods;
e)     Manage the creation of a Revenue Base, by creating a computerized database of taxable
property;
f)     Manage the creation of a computerized financial management system, the system must
be able to:
(i)    record the budget and actual financial data and provide variance reports;
(ii)   record the revenues and expenditures and transfers;
(iii)   ability to prepare a consolidated budget;
(iv)   be a single entry-multiple processing system; and
(v)    ability to record commitments for commitment accounting.
g)     Prepare and adopt financial control legislation and effectively implement the adopted
legislation; and
h)     Assist in reorganization to include an Office of Management and Budget (OMB).
H.    Municipal (sub-national) Tax Policy and Procedures Short-Tern Advisor
[ STA 3 months (1997)]
1.    Minimum requirements
-      Must have a minimum of 10 years experience in the municipal/state government tax
assessment;
-      Must be knowledgeable of tax collection activities, including delinquent tax collections,
maintaining suspense records, maintaining the levy register, collection mechanisms (lock
box, bank, counter, etc.);
-     Must be knowledgeable of effect of taxes on budgets;
-     Must have worked in a computerized tax asseSsment and collection environment;
-      Must have knowledge of tax legislation and have prepared and passed necessary tax
legislation in sub-national governments;
-     Must have worked as a Tax Assessor for a minimum of 4 years, in order to have
experience in calculating the Grand List, and adopting tax rates; and
-     Must be a professional with membership to professional government tax assessors
association.
2.     Scope of work
The STA will be required to provide assistance in identifying and recommending sub-national taxes. The
STA should be knowledgeable on regressive and progressive taxes, methods of taxation, tax abatement
policies and procedures, linkages between taxation and the city's debt policy, etc.
The main area of work will be in creating a computerized tax base with the ability to categorize taxes to
do rapid analysis and "what-if' scenarios, make changes in the tax base with "certificate of changes",
etc., to assess the revenue impact during budget preparation. The STA should evaluate the links between



ANNEX 5.4                                                                              213
Building Department, Business Registration Department, and the tax department for proper fiscal and
administration control. The STA will be required to work with the local representative bodies and the
executive branches to develop and adopt legislation for sub-national taxation.
The areas of work to focus on will be:
(a)    Existing tax base analysis by federal tax base, oblast tax base and local tax base;
(b)    Advise on tax assessment methods, income method, historical value method, market value
method, etc.;
(c)    Advise on creating a tax register and maintaining a tax register;
(d)    Create a computerized state-of-the-art tax assessment and collection system with links to
the relevant operational and financial agencies of the cities;
(e)    Advise on a periodic revaluation process of the tax base, advise on the process of
revaluation, creation of a board of revaluation and tax appeals, prepare legislation for a
revaluation process; and
(f)    Coordinate a training workshop on sub-national taxation, the training workshop should
contain international sub-national taxation methodologies and policies.
MII.   Computer Information Systems Short-Term Adviser
[ STA 3 months (1997)1
1.    Minimum requirements
-     Must have a minimum  of 7 years experience in the municipal/state government
information systems department;
-     Must have held a position of systems manager or deputy systems manager for a minimum
of three years;
-     Must have assisted in computerizing a finance department and its sub-departments, such
as purchasing department, tax departments, treasury department, etc.;
-      Must have knowledge of drafting and successfully implementing information systems
policies and procedures in a sub-national government;
-      Must have worked closely with policy setters for a minimum of 2 years, in order to have
experience in designing efficient and practical computer finance information systems;
-      Must have international experience, a minimum of one year prior experience in Russia
or the former Soviet republics;
-     Must be a professional with membership  to professional computer managers
organizations; and
-     Must have experience in computer systems that are used for taxation, budget and
financial management, revenue forecasting and policy analysis.
2.    Scope of work
The STA will be required to provide assistance in selecting the appropriate hardware for the oblast
finance department and the municipal finance departments. The STA should also assist in selecting
appropriate software for the financial management and tax base development functions. The STA should



214                                                                             ANNEX 5A
be knowledgeable of the communications systems in Russia to efficiently plan for local area networks
(LANs) and wide area networks (WANs). The STA should be a specialist in selecting appropriate
distributed databases software, assist in creating user database systems and assist in developing
maintenance procedures for these systems.
The main area of work will be in creating a computerized budget and financial management software
system and a tax accounting system. The appropriate environment software and the platform for
application software must be selected with the cooperation of local personnel. The STA must be able to
form user committees and facilitate development from within the departments so as to create a sense of
ownership among the users.
The areas of work to focus will be:
(a)    Preparing computer hardware specifications for competitive bidding documents;
(b)    Preparing computer software specifications for application software (budget/financial
management and tax accounting/revenue forecasting);
(c)    Locating local international programming talent;
(d)    Assist in forming a joint venture with international software houses if required;
(e)    Develop information systems department policies and procedures to ensure uninterrupted
operation; and
(f)    Coordinate a training workshop between users and information systems professionals to
bridge an understanding of capabilities and limitations.



EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT COST SHEET
PER OBLASI
Quantities                            Unit              Base Cods (000 USS)
-IBRD Fiscal Years-             Total       Cost            -IBRD Fiscal Years-             Total
Unit      1997  11998          199   12000 D30USS)    1997    1998   1999 12000
m
A. Foreigx
Technical Asistance
Expenditure Management Advisor     man-months    10.0       3.0         -       -         13.0        20.0    200.0        60.0     -       -        260.0
Budget Management/Analysis Advisor   man-months    -        3.0         -       -          3.0         -         -         60.0     -                 60.0
Tax Policy Advisor                                 -        3.0         -       -          3.0         -         -         60.0     -       -         60.0
Municipal Computer Sydms Advisor                   3.0       -          -       -         3.0          -        60.0         -      -       -         60.0
Technical Assistace Travel          IRIT           5.0       2.0        -       -          7.0         4.0      20.0        8.0     -       -         28.0
2.0       4.0        -       -          6.0         4.0       8.0       16.0     -                 24.0
Sub-total Technical Assistance                                                                                 288.0      204.0     -       -        492.0
Training
Travel-Airfae                      perons          -        15.0        -       -         15.0         3.0       -         45.0     -       -         45.0
Travel - Subsistence & Hotel       peorns          -        15.0        -.      -         15.0         4.0       -         60.0     -       -         60.0
Study Tour / Workshop Facilities   persons         -        15.0        -       -         15.0         5.0       -         75.0     -       -         75.0
Sub-total Thzig                                                                                                  -        180.0     -       -        180.0
B. Locl
Technical Assistance
Local Experus                      man-months              40.0        40.0   16.0       96.0          1.5       -         60.0   60.0   24.0        144.0
Sub-total Technical Asistmwce                                                                                    -         60.0   60.0   24.0        144.0
Eauipment
Computers & Printers               number         50.0       -          -       -          -           7.0    350.0          -      -       -        350.0
Network Equipment/Modems, etc.     number         50.0       -          -       -          -           2.0     100.0                -       -        100.0
Other Office Equipment             number         50.0       -          -       -          -           1.0      50.0                -       -         50.0
Budget/Finance Software Development  lumpaum                                                                   112.5       37.5     -       -        150.0
Sub-total Equipment                                                                                            612.5       37.5             -        650.0
Grad Total Per Oblast                                                                                                                     1,466.0
Total Cost for 2 Oblasta                                                                                                                  2,932.0



216                                                                                ANNEX 5.4
E. MONITORING
I.     Local Consultants in Novosibirsk and Rostov Oblasts (2)
1 .    Objective: To assist the Project Bureaus in the two oblasts in the day-to-day monitoring of the
project.
2.     Duranon: 6 months in FY96 and FY2003 and full time between 1997-2002.
3.     Outcome: An adequately monitored project whose findings would feed into the evaluation of the
project and enhance its effective replication.
II.    Evaluation: Terms of Reference for Local Consultants
4.     Consultants/research institutions for data collection in Rostov and Novosibirsk oblasts on the
stakeholders including the borrower, beneficiaries of the project such as users of education and
health services, and others with vested interests such as non-governmental organizations (NGOs),
private sector firms, etc.
5.     Objective: To gather information about stakeholders in order to evaluate the impact of the
project. Questions asked would include: Who are the stakeholders? What social and cultural
factors affect their ability to participate in the operations? Are project objectives consistent with
their needs, interests and capacities? What is the impact of the project on team? Were they
consulted on the project? The above data will give a baseline picture of the nature and type of
stakeholders and issues to be overcome by the project. The data could be collected through a mix
of methodological tools:  sample surveys, participatory field work, and workshops.  The
consultants would also conduct comprehensive surveys of the stakeholders to assess the validity
of the objectives of the project, the expectations of the stakeholders with regard to the project,
and how far the project has achieved the objectives and met the expectations. Through this
exercise, several alternative ways of designing Phase II of the project could be discovered.
There are essentially two types of stakeholders in the project: policymakers and implementors
such as the mayor, deputy governors, financial officers in the oblast, raion and city governments;
and project specific stakeholders such as government officials in charge of health, education and
water supply, and stakeholders in specific subprojects.
The stakeholders in the first category would be asked questions such as: How were decisions for
subprojects made? Is there evidence that the sectoral mix of subprojects was very different from
what might have prevailed if there had been no constraints? Is there evidence that similar
projects in the future should offer a wider menu to communities?  Are there any continuing
constraints to wider community participation in project design? Is there an inherent bias in
selection procedures towards urban areas? What was their evaluation of the preparation period
(too long/short, use of grants and portfolio loan, involvement of administration) and financial
management?



ANNEX 5.4                                                                                    217
6.     Stakeholders of the second category could be asked component specific questions outlined below:
Education Component:
(a)    Goal: (i) rehabilitate old schools; (ii) strengthen all aspects of school facilities planning through
training; (iii) establish a demonstration facilities management information system in Novosibirsk
municipality; and (iv) establish processes for developing education specifications and physical
design features for both new schools and schools to be rehabilitated.
(b)    Collection of baseline data: The users of the facilities could be asked questions regarding
frequency of use, facilities used, commonly occurring problems, and satisfaction levels.
(c)    Project Implementation: The following questions could be addressed: Was the selection criteria,
training component, skill upgradation adequate and effective?  What is the best way of
transferring expertise to local personnel?   Examine the nature and effectiveness of the
participatory process followed.  Is there an urban bias?  What is the level of stakeholder
satisfaction with the institutional process followed in selecting and approving the subprojects?
What is the opinion of the school administration on the priorities chosen: rehabilitation of old
facilities as compared to construction of new ones.
The consultants would work closely with the Moscow-based consultant and the foreign advisor.
They would present an evaluation report at the end of the second year to the CPIU.
Duration: 12 months.
Outcome: A participatory evaluation exercise that successfully interprets and incorporates the
needs and issues faced by stakeholders into project design.
Health component:
(a)    Goal: To improve quality, efficiency and equity of medical care in Russia. Specifically, the
project seeks to improve access to modern care technology in selected facilities.
(b)    Objectives: To rehabilitate and upgrade selected medical facilities in the oblasts of Novosibirsk
and Rostov; to improve methodology and institutional capacity in Russia for further similar
efforts in the country as a whole.
(c)    Collection of baseline data on users of selected hospitals and polyclinics: The impact on the
users of the newly introduced facilities under the project would be assessed. The users of the
facilities could be asked questions regarding frequency of use, facilities used, commonly
occurring problems, satisfaction levels regarding performance of hospital/polyclinic staff.
(d)    Project Implementation: Discussions with representatives from selected hospitals and polyclinics



218                                                                               ANNEX 5.4
including hospital administrators, hospital staff, patients, private companies and NGOs working
on health could discuss the major objectives could be facilitated on the following questions: What
kind of a communication policy/initiative would be appropriate? How effective has the training
component been and what are the shortcomings and successes? Are they satisfied with the work
of the advisory committee?
Water supply and Sanitation:
(a)    Goal: To bring existing assets back to a satisfactory operating level.
(b)    Objectives: (i) In water supply, the water mains will be rehabilitated to reduce leakage levels;
chlorination installations will be refurbished to provide better security in drinking water
disinfection and the renewal of electrical and mechanical pumping machinery; (ii) In wastewater
the work includes the rehabilitation of existing sewerage networks; the provision of new cesspit
tanker vehicles to improve cesspit emptying and the renewal of electrical and mechanical plant
at key pumping stations; (iii) consultancy services and training to develop the water companies
into efficient and profitable public utilities.
(c)    Collection of baseline data on water users: The users of the facilities could be asked questions
regarding frequency of use, facilities used, commonly occurring problems, and satisfaction levels.
(d)    Project Implementalion: In the water supply and sanitation sector, the following questions could
be addressed: Has the cost recovery system in the water and sanitation sector worked? Has the
water supply and sanitation improved? What has been the impact of the training component?
What is the effect of the increased utility prices on people's incomes and the willingness and
ability to pay? Assess user satisfaction with project (by monitoring complaints received by
oblast).
III.   Evaluation: Terms of Reference for Local Consultant
(a)    Moscow-based local consultant/research institute for evaluation
Objective: Coordinate, with the assistance of the foreign advisor, the efforts o the evaluation
research undertaken in the two oblasts. The consultant will work closely with the CPIU and the
foreign advisor.
Duration: 57 months.
Outcome: Develop several findings and recommendations relevant both to the project and for
application to future projects in the three sectors.



ANNEX 5.4                                                                               219
IV.   Evaluation: Termis of Reference for Foreign Consultant
(a)    Objective: Foreign advisor would provide technical expertise to local consultants in Moscow and
in the two oblasts in designing and conducting the evaluation exercise outlined above.
Duration: 13 months.
Outcome: A set of relevant and applicable recommendations for successful project progress and
replication.
V.    Evaluation: Terms of Reference for Participatory Evaluation Workshop for Stakeholders
(a)    Workshop with the stakeholders could be held at the end of the first year.
Objectives:
-      Identify the most important successes in the project
-      List the most important things that made the success possible
-      Identify major problems or constraints experienced in the project
-      Identify major reasons for the problems and constraints
-      Classify problems in terms of:
-      those for which there is now sufficient information to act
-      those about which more information is needed
-      those we cannot solve
-      formulate evaluation objectives for problems where additional information is needed.
Duration: 3 days.
Outcome: A learning exercise that will support successful project replication.



220                                                                               ANNEX 5.4
F. CENTRAL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT (CPIU)
Terms of Reference for Main Positions
1.     Director
The Director should be a senior professional in the field of management, economics, accounting,
or business administration and should be respected in his/her professional field. It is anticipated that
he/she would be a Russian national and it is highly desirable that he/she would have a good command
of both spoken and written English language. As with all staff of the CPIU, he/she would be employed
as a consultant, and preference would be given to dynamic professionals with experience in international
business practices. Since it is essential that the relations between the CPIU and the Project Bureaus (PBs)
be one of partnership among organizations of equal status, he/she should have a collegial and diplomatic
approach to resolving issues.
The Director would report to MINNAT. He/she would manage a staff of 5 to 6 professionals.
His/her first task would be to complete the establishment of the CPIU as an independent legal entity.
The Director would be responsible for the following main CPIU activities: (a) oversight of all
financial aspects of the project, ensuring that administrative tasks for procurement and disbursement are
undertaken in a timely fashion; (b) responsibility for signing and/or delegating the signing of withdrawal
applications and ensuring that the Senior Disbursement Officer manages the project's Special Account in
accordance with World Bank guidelines; (c) monitoring and evaluation of project implementation,
including the preparation of regular project implementation reports to the Federal Government and to the
World Bank; (d) organizing the mid-term progress review as well as the execution of special evaluation
studies; (e) providing guidance to PBs on specialized technical assistance and training in various aspects
of project preparation, implementation and management, and arranging study-tours and training in special
project areas; (f) coordination of inter-ministerial activities (regular progress reports to the Interministerial
Committee, and recommendations for revised national standards and policies); (g) representing MINNAT
and the Russian Federation on the Advisory Boards in -each oblast; and (h) replication of the project
elsewhere in Russia, including identification of oblasts, promotion of project objectives, organization of
seminars, advice on establishing local project preparation units and use of the Project Manual.
The Director would be in constant liaison with oblast PBs and Administrations. A key
responsibility would be to ensure that implementation of the project keeps pace with the agreed timetable.
As necessary, he/she would organize meetings with PB directors and other staff to discuss implementation
issues. He/she would also be responsible for disseminating information about the project in Russia, with
a view to attracting and evaluating applications from other oblasts whose needs are consistent with project
objectives.
The Director would be assisted by a foreign advisor familiar with World Bank procedures and
project administration for a minimum period of 12 months. This is detailed below (see TOR for Foreign
Technical Assistance).



ANNEX 5.4                                                                               221
2.     Senior Disbursement Officer
A Senior Disbursement Officer would be responsible for managing the Special Account, and
topping up branch Project Accounts in each oblast. He/she should have about 10 years of practical
experience in both Russian and international accounting practices, and would attend training courses to
improve his/her knowledge of World Bank reporting/accounting procedures. He/she should have working
knowledge of the English language and should have experience of working in a cooperative team situation
and of supervising the work of 1 to 2 assistants. Principal activities would include:
-      set-up and maintenance of computerized accounts, in a manner acceptable to the World
Bank;
-      supervision of the Special Account and ensuring timely transfers into oblast Project
Accounts, and that both Russian Federation and World Bank guidelines are followed with
respect to payments from the Special Account;
-      preparing withdrawal applications for the CPIU Director's signature and authorization of
payments to contracts from the Special Account;
-      ensuring that payments to contractors and providers of services are made in a timely
fashion;
-      preparing regular financial summary reports for the CPIU director and the World Bank;
and,
-      administering the financial affairs of the CPIU, including payments of salaries, operating
expenses, and other invoices.
3.     Senior Project Preparation/Procurement Expert
This expert (who may be either Russian or foreign) would monitor project implementation in all
sectors at the local level. He/she would be required to travel frequently to the oblasts and give technical
advice on a wide range of construction and procurement issues. He/she should be an architect or
engineer with at least 10 years of practical experience in both design and construction, and should have
worked previously with at least one major foreign construction project in Russia. He/she would ensure
that bidding documents and procedures are consistent with World Bank guidelines. He/she will monitor
the rate of progress and quality control at construction sites and verify completion certificates along with
the PBs Senior Engineer. He/she should promote wherever possible the adoption of improved standards
of construction, preparation of cost estimates, final designs and bidding documents. He/she would need
to be thoroughly familiar with Bank procurement guidelines.
4.    Technical Assistance/Training Organizer
This specialist would coordinate the introduction of specialized technical assistance and training
to the oblasts. He/she would coordinate closely with the oblast PBs on their needs and would have a
good working knowledge of aid and grant programs, as well as establishing a roster of Russian and
international experts/firms with experience in various aspects of education, health, water and sanitation
and general construction activities. He/she would work closely with the ministries related to the CSIP



222                                                                                 ANNEX 5.4
and arrange for PB staff to attend training sessions within Russia and abroad. He/she should have a
working knowledge of the English language and be familiar with the logistics of arranging travel
schedules, venues for seminars and contracting for consultants.
5.     Offce Manager
He/she would report directly to the CPIU Director and would be responsible for hiring and
managing support staff, such as interpreters, translators, secretaries, driver(s), etc. This person should
be either a senior level interpreter with basic secretarial skills, or a senior secretary with reasonably fluent
English. His/her responsibilities would include: (a) interviewing candidates, advising the Director on
salary structures, and regular payment of salaries in coordination with the Senior Accountant; (b)
assignment 3f secretarial, interpreting and other tasks, in coordination with senior professionals; (c)
procurement of office equipment and other materials in daily use, and arranging for maintenance of
equipment, as necessary; (d) management of all aspects of registration, taxation, permits, rental payments,
and other requirements for operating the CPIU as a legal entity.
6.     Foreign Technical Advisor
The CPIU would be supported by a Senior Advisor familiar with all aspects of project preparation
and implementation for a complex construction project. He/she should have 5 to 10 years experience of
World Bank or other foreign investment programs, 10 to 20 years of practical professional work as an
architect, civil engineer, urban planner, or city administrator, including a good working knowledge of
international construction and design standards. A familiarity with health, education, water and sanitation
and infrastructure facilities and policies would be an advantage. He/she should have basic skills in
spoken and written Russian. He/she should have experience of work in Russia and/or Eastern Europe
with senior government officials in policy-making roles, and be capable of identifying and articulating
potential future policy changes at the national level as a result of the CSIP pilot experience.
The advisor's role would be to assist the Director in setting up the CPIU, hiring higher level
staff, purchasing office equipmenL and establishing systems and channels of communication with PBs, the
World Bank and other ministries. He/she would advise the Director and senior CPIU staff on aspects
of monitoring and reporting on progress in the oblasts. He/she would also be available to advise the
oblasts in the early stages of project implementation, on such matters as hiring staff and procuring local
and foreign advisors. He/she would also accompany the CPIU Director in visits to potential future
participating oblasts, assist in establishing new local project preparation units, advise the relevant
Ministries and local officials on the scope, potentials and responsibilities of preparing projects for possible
future investment.



ANNEX 5.4                                                                               223
G. LOCAL PROJECT BUREAUS
1.    Director
The Director should be a senior professional in the field of engineering, economics, accounting,
or business administration. He/she should be respected in his/her professional field, and influential within
the oblast administration, experienced in managing complex projects and administering a staff of 10-20
persons. It is anticipated that he/she would be a Russian national, and it is highly desirable that he/she
would have a good command of both spoken and written English language. As with all staff of the Project
Bureau, he would be employed as a consultant, and preference would be given to dynamic professionals
with experience of international business practices.
The Director would report to the oblast Governor or his First Deputy. He/she would work
closely with an international consultant for at least the first year of the Project Bureau's operation. The
Director would be responsible for three main areas of the Project Bureau's activities:
(a)    Project Implementation including oversight of all procurement and disbursement aspects
of the project, the administration of competitive contracts for civil works, equipment and
consulting, as well as ensuring adequate supervision of the construction program with the
aid of both international and Russian technical experts;
(b)    Training and Technical Assistance programs for various aspects of project preparation,
implementation, management; and,
(c)    Preparation of the unidentified portion of the proiect (identification, evaluation, and
design);
The Director would be responsible for managing a contract with a foreign consulting firm that
would provide experts in important areas of implementation for a minimum period of 18 months. These
are detailed below (see terms of reference for Foreign Technical Assistance).
The Director would be in constant liaison with oblast Departmental Heads in the three principal
sectors (Health, Education and Water Supply/Sanitation). He/she would also be responsible for
disseminating information about the CSIP program to municipalities and raions throughout the oblast,
with a view to attracting and evaluating applications from a broad geographic spectrum of communities
whose needs are consistent with project objectives. A key responsibility would be to ensure that a
program of locally-sponsored sub-projects which comprise the 'government in-kind contribution' to the
project keeps pace with the program of World Bank-financed subprojects.
2.    Local Senior Civil Engineer
The local Senior Civil Engineer would be a counterpart to the Civil Engineer to be provided
under the Foreign Technical Assistance. He/she should be a well-respected member of his/her
professional community, with 10 years of practical experience in design and supervision of civil works
construction projects. He/she should have a working knowledge of the English language. He/she should



224                                                                                ANNEX 5.4
be particularly well-qualified to handle issues arising with the water/sanitation component, but should be
broad enough to advise on engineering questions in the other components, especially in health. He/she
should have experience of managing a small team of junior engineers, and of working in a cooperative
team situation. He/she would initially report to the foreign civil engineer, and would eventually assume
greater responsibility, so that at the end of the foreign expert's assignment the work would continue
uninterrupted. He/she would be responsible for a small team of site supervisors for all subprojects
(particularly water and sanitation subprojects) under implementation around the oblast.
3.     Local Senior Architect
This position would be a counterpart to the Foreign Architect to be provided under the Foreign
Technical Assistance. He/she should be a well-respected member of his professional community, with
10 years practical experience in the design and supervision of schools and/or health facilities. He should
have a working knowledge of the English language. He/she would work primarily in the education
component, but would also assist with the health component. He/she should have experience of managing
a small team of junior architects, and of working in a cooperative team situation. He/she would report
directly to the foreign architect, and would eventually assume greater responsibility so that at the end of
the foreign expert's assignment the work would continue uninterrupted. He/she would oversee a small
team of site supervisors, dividing this responsibility with the local civil engineer.
4.     Local Senior Project Preparation / Procurement Expert
This expert would report directly to the Project Bureau Director and should be an architect or
engineer with appropriate experience of both design and construction, preferably with respect to health
facilities, and would initially report to the foreign architect and foreign civil engineer. He/she would
coordinate the process of disseminating information about the project, attracting subproject proposals from
raions and municipalities, liaison with oblast line departments, appraising subprojects and presenting them
to the local Advisory Board, hiring and overseeing design institutes and other specialists, as necessary,
who would prepare cost-estimates, final designs and bidding documents. He/she would need to be
thoroughly familiar with Bank procurement guidelines, and would be given intensive training in this area.
As part of his/her regular duties, he/she would ensure that bidding documents and procedures are
consistent with World Bank guidelines; he/she would participate in the evaluation of bids and the selection
of contractors as well as the preparation of contracts.
5.     Local Senior Disbursement Specialist
This local expert would report directly to the Project Bureau Director. He/she should be an
accountant with a minimum of five years of practical experience, preferably in the field of design or
construction.  This expert would need to be thoroughly familiar with World Bank disbursement
guidelines, and would be given intensive training in this area. He/she would be responsible for the
bookkeeper and other junior finance staff as necessary. His/her primary responsibilities would include:
(a)    set-up and management of the Project Bureau finances and ensuring a clear distinction



ANNEX 5.4                                                                                    225
between loan moneys and grant moneys (if any);
(b)    set-up and management of the Project Account in a local bank, in close cooperation with
the CPIU;
(c)    set-up and management of the Project Bureau account for local contributions for
sub-project financing, in close cooperation with the oblast Finance Department;
(d)    preparing withdrawal applications for the PB Director's signature and authorization of
payments to contracts from the Project Account and other local account(s);
(e)    ensuring that payments to contractors and providers of services are made in a timely
fashion; and,
(f)    preparation of financial reports and arranging for audits as required by the World Bank
and the CPIU.
6.     Office Manager
He/she would report directly to the Project Bureau Director, and would be responsible for hiring
and managing all support staff, such as interpreters, translators, secretaries, driver(s), etc. This person
should be either a senior level interpreter with basic secretarial skills, or a senior secretary with
reasonably fluent English. His/her responsibilities would include:
(a)    interviewing candidates, advising the Project Bureau Director on salary structures, and
regular payment of salaries in coordination with the Senior Disbursement Officer;
(b)    assignment of secretarial, interpreting and other tasks, in coordination with senior
professionals;
(c)    procurement of office equipment and other materials in daily use, and arranging for
maintenance of equipment as necessary; and
(d)    management of all aspects of registration, taxation, permits, rental payments, and other
requirements for operating the Project Bureau as a legal entity.
7.     Foreign Technical Assistance
The Project Bureau in each oblast would obtain the services of a foreign firm to provide technical
assistance in the following areas:
-      architectural design;
-      civil engineering design;
-      civil works procurement;
-      construction site supervision; and
-      contract management.
(Note: An additional expert would be required to advise in the area of health facility design and the
procurement of health equipment. Because of the specialized nature of this field, an expert would be
contracted by the CPIU, and would work part-time with the PB in each oblast.)



225                                                                                 ANNEX 5.4
The foreign consulting firm would provide the services of two full-time experts, an architect and
an engineer, who between them would cover main areas of technical assistance listed above, for all three
components. These experts would be resident in each oblast for a minimum of 18 months, during which
time they would train local counterpart experts in World Bank guidelines, and accepted international
practices. The foreign consulting firm would be capable of providing additional part-time specialists as
necessary, for example in the areas of:
-      school design;
-      sanitary engineering; and
-      electro-mechnical engineering, including heating, ventilation and air-condtioning.
The foreign firm, through its resident staff, would be responsible for:
(a)    preparation of initial quarterly progress reports to the CPIU and to the World Bank. This
function would be gradually turned over to local staff during the first 12 months;
(b)    administering procurement through NCB and ICB procedures for designers, construction
firms and suppliers, involving public officials in aspects of bid-opening, contract-signing,
etc.;
(c)    supervising the work of design institutes and other specialists in the selection, design and
the costing of the unidentified subprojects;
(d)    assisting in negotiation and management of contracts;
(e)    supervising and training the local senior counterpart architect, civil engineer and
procurement specialist, and gradually turning over responsibility to them after 12 months;
and,
(f)    coordination with the CPIU for the services of specialists in health design and equipment
procurement.
m:\king\annexS.4



ANNEX 6.1
ENVIRONMENTAL INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROGRAM
I.    The project environmental institutional strengthening program will be closely coordinated with
both the Black Sea Environmental Program (BSEP) and the forthcoming Water Sector Project. The
objective of the identified program is to support the project process of subprojects screening, evaluation,
selection, implementation, and management by strengthening institutional capacities in subprojects
environment-related activities.  This will be achieved primarily through technical training and
complementary studies. The following activities are limited to those which will be undertaken during
project implementation only and hence, do not include those which were launched during project
preparation. Some of the training activities took place during project preparation partially financed by
the Black Sea Environmental Program (BSEP). Support from this source is expected to continue and
grant financing is being sought.
Environmental Strengthening: Studies and Training
2.    The following is a preliminary list of identified studies, which will benefit specific communities
or agencies.
(i)    Evaluation of the environmental impact of the Toguchin Cesspits (Novosibirsk oblast)
system.
(ii)   Standards Review and Monitoring Program:
*     Novosibirsk Wastewater Discharge Standards Monitoring System
-      Rostov Wastewater Discharge Standards Monitoring System
(iii)   Management study and audit of vodokanal s with emphasis on management structure and
technical capacity in the areas of water quality and wastewater management
3.    The following is a list of proposed training programs, which will benefit decision-makers,
institutes, environmental and sanitary committees, utility companies (vodokanals), and design institutes.
These will either be held in both oblasts, or in a central location with invitees from both oblasts.
(i)    Workshops on environmental assessment (principles, policies, procedures, methodologies
and practices)
(ii)    Workshops on environmental audits (principles, methodologies and practices)
(iii)   Workshops on medical waste management
(iv)   Workshops on water quality management
(v)    Workshops on wastewater management
(vi)   Study tour on medical waste management and technologies
(vii)  Study tour on wastewater treatment management and technologies



ANNEX 7.1
SELECTED LIST OF DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT ILE
Preparation Reports
1.    Preparation mission report, December 1994.
2.    Pre-appraisal mission report, March 1995.
3.    Appraisal mission report, July 1995.
4.    Post-appraisal mission report, October 1995.
General Project Documents
5.    Japanese Grant Agreements: rF-025243: November 2, 1994 and TF-029234: July 24, 1995.
6.    Project Preparation Facility application and agreement.
7.    Detailed Cost Estimates, November 1995.
8.    Detailed implementation schedules: Education, Health, and Water and Sanitation components.
9.    Project Operational Manual, June 1995.
10.   Organizational charts of Novosibirsk and Rostov administrations, August 1995.
Education Component Reports
11.   Detailed surveys and cost estimates of identified schools, March 1995.
12.   Data on school closings, maintenance, rehabilitations, student enrollment, investments, etc.
13.   Education in Russian Federation, Goskomstat, Moscow: 1995.
14.   School Building: How it should be? Scientific-Methodical Enterprise Publication,
Moscow: 1992.
15.   David Davies: Methodology for cost-effectiveness analysis of school facilities projects,
November 1995.
16.   Mission report: Facilities Management Information component, June 30, 1995.
17.   David Davies: Mission report: Education facilities seminar in Rostov and Novosibirsk, June
1995.
18.   Maria Gracheva: School Licencing Procedures, January 1995.
19.   Education facilities seminar documents, June 1995.
20.   Russia: Education in Transition, World Bank, September 1995.
Health component reports
21.   Dov Chernichovsky: Working paper: Project concept and identification, April 1995.
22.   Russia: Reform of the Health System, World Bank: October 1994.
23.   Chernichovsky, D. & Potapchik E.: Needed Financial Mechanisms for Implementation of the
Russian health insurance and health sector reform, February 1995.
Water Supply and Sanitation reports
24.   Halcrow & Partners Ltd: mission reports, 1995.



229                                                                          ANNEX 7.1
Other reports
25.   Population Prognosis until 2005, Center for Economic Prognosis, Moscow: 1994.
26.   Migration data and Population projections in Rostov and Novosibirsk oblast, June 1995.
(Life Expectancy at different age groups, 1992-1993, 1. Zhitnikov & S. Soboleva).
27.   Demographic Yearbook of the Russian Federation, Goskomstat, Moscow: 1994.
28.   Hugues Castaing: Survey of Construction enterprises in Rostov and Novosibirsk oblast,
January 1995.
29.   Capital Construction in the Russian Federation, Goskomstat, Moscow: 1992.
30.   Enterprises and organizations in Don, Business Catalogue, Rostov-on-Don: 1993.
31.   Mahesh Reddy: Social Sector Expenditures Report for Rostov, Novosibirsk oblasts and city of
Vladivostok, October 15, 1995.
32.   Defining a New Investment Policy in Russia, World Bank Report No. 13438-RU, August
1994.
33.   Fiscal Management in the Russian Federation, World Bank Report No. 14862-RU, November
1995.
m:\king\annex7.1






IBRD 2726-
- .rED S-TES OF AM.ERICA   B
RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                                                   ' "
,0, h S .,                                                                                                 COMMUNITY SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT                                                                          S..
o5S^w-eorrrng$                                                                                                     0 *      PROJECTCmES                                                                           A
- of                                         o71-                        |                                                          PROJECT OBLASTS                                                                                               --
5n.    *' -E                                          fS    NATIONAL CAPITAL
 ,gd '4 _,,,                                              RIVERS                                                                                       /
*2;'UN RD~  2 -_ "-' '' ECONOMIC REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                     SI al'.
4. KINCZOM         <.             N,, _, J a n  5 AI                                                                               OBLAST, KRAI, OR REPUBUC BOUNDARIES
AUTONOMOUS OBLAST, OKRUG, OR REPUBUC BOUNDARIES'                               ':.,,on       7'
,--A                    -                                                               - ' -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
--a            :IA           ~      - -.                                                                ,*lnolodlng roobIos of Adfloryo Alton, Koroohoi'Ch-AL--- ond K- A Aokov             ,r Kh.,,
NORWAY                          .                                                                                                                                                        I         C
V~~~~~~~~~~ 3l
,4'00N     ,   ;L     '          SWEDEN             -         x. .t  -, ,                                                                                                                    - ,T                                                -'
GERv^ANY'  22> ,/               5,      .,. -,,_ .Th    . .-                                                                                                               h--                                    .                                 ' ,-'-    8.    V
Ca--2  FINt AND ,i '&y  .h  -t<  _/                                       S  /
14'g                                                                                                                                                                                4 . !ci  nAd    *           ./f
BRLARUS                                                                                                                                                 - j
;irva                            X 'S,  ,. - .tA3~U   '   / UDEI4T X  _      Zr)O   4Lio   OC    SooKItOMErERS   />f  2  M O  N G  O  L | A3  87)  5
6A'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
1arhnir I            Nogrk                   12  Jtynk 2   uoCENZO                                         0Aye                      OAtohz                       SCuoh5    0horso                                 1Ao                       0AislBro                 0Au
2   oiigrd 9Pko   31onv  3Vcdmr      2  Sloo736hshe                                        1Klyky-4  Krr5  Ceyb S                                                       2Grlylo                   1   uyl880uok
N  .~~~~~~~~A'    'Co.                         Am                                                                                                                                                             Al~~~~ AZA   ST      1    (.
3                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A-.S                              -Csug1    ouo 24Yrsol2    urk3    oeinKolgTnc   0Mri  l5    olPryo  3Kmrr  2   ho8    ocok
0 2        0300   300 400  LES                                                                                                 6 62
Al   -21                                                                                 O 2  A(00    690 800 KEIIOMETERS                                                                                                                                 ' SORF
I. NORTH            II NORTHWEST                   III CENTRAL                   IV CENTRAL                V NORTH CAUCASUS          VI VOLGA                         "COO~3  VYARA         ',.-I uRAL             IT WESTERN S.BERIA        X EASTERN SIBERIA        TI FAR EAST
I AFkIO,tgRIJSJ    8 No-god                  12 Rryoosk   22 Tolo                 CHERNOZYOM              30 Adygoy                 40 Ast,okh-o                 48 Ch-oSlt                53 Ro,hk .o..o...      61 Alloy                  70 Ag-6Sky B,uryot      80 Aroo
2 Koli-ingrd       9 PAko                    13. I"oonoo    23 vlodioui,        25 Belgord                31 CEockon                41  KolIoykiyo'              49. Kan                    54 Chollyobns$k       63. Goro.y Alloy          71 Roryol                RI ch,,korko
3 Ko-lo             0. St.Petmsborg          14 K.log.   24 Yoroslon            26 Kurik                  32 Dogesro                    Kftolog Tongoh           SO Moniy El                55 Ko--P'eFmyok       63 Komorovo               72 ClIllo                82 Kom-hoAo
4 Ko-               II St pe.lorsb,g City    15 Kostrotn                        27 Lipotik                33. 10gus6                42 Po..o                     51 Mordooion               56 Klurgon            64 Kho-ty'Mon-            73 EoonLysky             82 KItobo3o.sL
S M-orosk                                     16 Moscow                         2B To-6-o                 24 Ko6ordinRo1kor         43. Sonror                   52 Niof,ni No-gorod        57 0r-nkog            65 No-os6its              74  SkAEl,               84 Koryok
6 NeSAtF                                      17 Moscow City                    29 V.oro,ook              35 K..hyC*k               44 Sorotoo                                              SE  For               66 O-rk                   75 Khko-s                85 Mogodon
7 Vologdo                                     ISB. Oryol                                                  36 Krosnodor              45 Totorston                                            59 Ud..rt             67. Tontk                 76 Krosnoyorsk           86 Fr--rkIy
19 Ryooo.                                                   37 North OwnIon           46 Tsolsy,, lVolg.grodl                                 60 Y.toklre-brg       68 Tyoie,,                77 Toy,,,ynslo           87 Skh.)oli
20 S-1oloni                                                 38 Ros-o                   47 Ulyonovik                                                                 69 YornoloNo-or           78 Tyvo                  88 Sokh,o (70LI)
21 Too                                                      39 Slro-rpol                                                                                                                      79. Utt'Ordyn,tk.y       89 Ye-nysk-o
All '






IBRD 27263
)  tM                         The bounder,-,. colors, denaocr,,ons and any orh r manrmahan
B E L G  O  R O  D                                                                                        .- - 1hoo  on rh nap dl n-tply, on the pars of The World 13n-
j  >   .   7                                  r  \, Z                        ydor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gsap.r ay audgn,ngnh e lfegal^arss, {oany srersaroy or any
VORONEZH                                                              TSAR ITS YN
To Voroezh           /<                       \         (VOLGOGRAD)
I. e         .          rr            ' Vesvhwwio
MA16
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e,_1' V W 'og''.d
t     Me v                      (        Mo'z                         ,
Does l//rTo Volgograr
_ ^ ~~~Komnensk- %rM  
J                                                                                                            -j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
To IPoltoJ,
L.
,,Y<Spr[Aokc"                                                                      Veselov5koyc      R.mo    TO  V-
o  10 20 30 40 50 Kdometers                                                    re
0    10  20   30   40   50Miles                                                                                           KA-MYKYA
_____________s                           m   og__________________                                                   !-.       TANGCH
K R A STN O                                     D                             A             R A VR OPOL
BEWAus  t
A                        /                                                  RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ii_    t_ R,IAg7FED>LR~N QCOMMUNITY SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
,rr^rwr  xef l          i          ED    i     N--.ROSTOV
f   2 i '  * PROJECT CITIES                MAIN ROADS
PROJECT OBLAST                  -- SECONDARY ROADS
.- '>          N          r       -.  1 ,  ,   * -S. ( \   0 SELECTED CITIES  - I -  RAILROADS
f     OBLAST CAPITALS             -''    OBLAST BOUNDARIES
yASIr  ?                       sAZAsHSrA              'URBAN AREA                                           -   -   REGION BOUNDARIES
rur- - -  - -                                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
SEPTEMBER 1995






IBRD 27264
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
COMMUNITY SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
NOVOSIBIRSK
OMSK                                                       -                  T -_
/kys tovk.  T OM1S K
,  s a -                   O~~~~~~ Biaza
L e @ ,     J         /         oSevernoe                  '           \                         ' .
I                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To To-,k 
/ 0           sRPornoarevka 0
Ven  rovo   S          /uk            Onr
m N                   VOS BI NOVOSIBIRSK ,     :/8oIotn 
uibysev          
.torske
T~~~~~orai                                                                          KolyoOMshekav .8<'(  
Lake ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~tk
Chany  ,       -       -
Ahistozernaul
To Rubtsovslc                                          ALTAYirul J/l
KAZAKHSTAN                                               Ory                                      Msliano 20  40  60  BOKilomelers  A  L T
\           ~~0  2!0    40        60     B0 Miles                                       r  cei c  lS<
KochNEosibr kt;    -!
*  PROJECT CITIES                       SoL^L                                            Cherep n
PROJECT OBLAST                                                          L T A  Y
O SELECTED CITIES
0    OBLAST CAPITALS                             URA3                         I R ArN F4EDERATION
URBAN AREA
MAIN ROADS                                          .                                    -
- -   - SECONDARY ROADS
-.--.-.IZ RAILROADS                               ,                          '          -    -
- '  '  ~ OBLAST BOUNDARIES                                                                          i,.-
-   -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
IL_                       _         ___                                  -  -                  UZBE0r1;
SEPTEMBER 1995









IMAGING
Report No:       14977 RU
Type: SAR



