Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 28329
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-29234 SCL-40090 PPFB-P2750)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$143.5 MILLION
TO THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FOR A
Community Social Infrastructure Project
March 23, 2004



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 03/23/2004)
Currency Unit = Russian Ruble
1.00 RUR = US$ 0.035
US$ 1 = RUR 28.48
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Vice President:  Shigeo Katsu
Country Director   Julian Schweitzer
Sector Manager    Hermann von Gersdorff
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Andrei Markov



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Community Social Infrastructure Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              13
6. Sustainability                                                                  15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 19
9. Partner Comments                                                                21
10. Additional Information                                                         28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               37
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              41



I



Project ID: P035761                                  Project Name: Community Social Infrastructure Project
Team Leader: Andrei R. Markov                        TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                   Report Date: March 23, 2004
1. Project Data
Name: Community Social Infrastructure Project   L/C/TFNumber: TF-29234; SCL-40090;
PPFB-P2750
Country/Department: RUSSIAN FEDERATION                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
Region
Sector/subsector: Health (36%); General education sector (32%); General water,
sanitation and flood protection sector (22%); Sub-national
government administration (7%); Central government
administration (3%)
Theme: Access to urban services for the poor (P); Education for all (P);
Health system performance (P); Water resource management (P);
Municipal governance and institution building (S)
KEY DATES                                                Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 04/27/1994                         Effective: 11/25/1996        01/31/1997
Appraisal: 06/08/1995                           MTR: 12/31/1998          08/30/1999
Approval: 04/30/1996                         Closing: 12/31/2002         09/30/2003
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVT. OF RUSSIA/MIN. OF NATIONALITIES & FEDERAL AFFAIRS
Other Partners:
STAFF                   Current                              At Appraisal
Vice President:         Shigeo Katsu                         Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:       Julian F. Schweitzer                 Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:         Hermana A. Von Gersdorff             Robert Liebenthal
Team Leader at ICR:     Andrei R. Markov                     Timothy King
ICR Primary Author:     Andrei R. Markov; Elliott
Hurwitz; Alexander V.
Danilenko
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome:    S
Sustainability:  L
Institutional Development Impact:  SU
Bank Performance:   S
Borrower Performance:   S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: U                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Russian Federation Community Social Infrastructure Project (CSIP) was intended to be a replicable
demonstration project designed to address the decline and degradation of social infrastructure, while at the
same time promoting reforms in management of public expenditures at a sub-national level. The project
supported decentralization of Federal responsibilities in social and fiscal spheres, and was the first
multi-sectoral project in the Russian Federation managed and implemented at the regional level-in the two
demonstration oblasts, Rostov and Novosibirsk.
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) identified the following specific objectives:
(a) Reduce the present deterioration of social infrastructure by financing the rehabilitation and limited
replacement of high priority facilities for providing health care, education, water supply and
sanitation;
(b) Improve the efficiency of managing public resources by:
(i)  ensuring that the selection of subprojects is based on sound criteria;
(ii) raising facility design standards and improving the incentives to observe them;
(iii) improving the quality and sustainability of construction by improved site supervision, and by
encouraging beneficiaries to take a more active role as clients during the design and the
construction process;
(iv) introducing competitive procurement practices;
(v) introducing improved methods of expenditure programming and budgetary management by
public authorities; and
(vi) strengthening environmental management practices through a program of studies and training
linked to the health and water supply and sanitation components;
(c) Promote private sector development through:
(i)  encouraging the break-up and commercialization of existing design institutes into independent
engineering and architectural firms;
(ii) providing training in procurement processes for engineers, architects, local construction firms,
and public bid evaluation committees; and
(iii) providing an environment that can facilitate the emergence of private providers of medical care.
(d) Contribute to the Government's policy of decentralization by promoting broad
participation, including nongovernmental participation, in project decision-making; and
(e) Monitor the effectiveness of new practices, and disseminate the results, to promote their
use in similar activities elsewhere in the Russian Federation.
These objectives were to be realized through financing small-scale investments in selected sub-projects in
education, health, and water supply and sanitation infrastructure, introduction of new mechanisms for
appraising and implementing such subprojects, and providing TA for financial management in
municipalities.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The core project objectives were not formally changed except the objective to promote the private sector,
which was dropped in the amended loan agreement. However, during implementation it was determined that
some sectoral sub-projects could not be pursued effectively because they depended on changes in national
-2 -



policy. It also became clear that the complexity of the Budget and Expenditure Management Component
was larger than expected at project preparation. This understanding coincided with new policies on the
intrabudgetary relationship between federal and regional levels of the Government, and the creation in 1999
of the Treasury System for budget expenditures in all regions. The experience and materials of this
component developed by the project became the foundation for two World Bank projects that are now
under implementation (Russian Federation Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Project, approved
12/22/1999, US$30 million; and World Bank Russian Federation: Fiscal Federalism And Regional Fiscal
Reform Project , approved 01/12/2002, US$120 million).
As an another example of downsizing, the SAR envisioned substantial institutional development of health
systems in both regions, and also expected loan repayment for the health component by health providers.
These expectations were overly optimistic, which became clear soon after effectiveness and they were
dropped at an early stage of the project. As another example, the project expected to corporatize water
utilities, which was clearly impossible in 1996 and actually occurred just recently on exceptional basis in
both regions. An institutional study for the water sector reform options in two regions was not acceptable
to authorities in both regions and was dropped after being replaced by more relevant TA on energy
efficiency and conservation in the water sector. Implementation of International Accounting Standards in
the water sector faced very strong resistance from local tax authorities. Although the training was
conducted and some documents produced for this work, implementation was postponed until the
appropriate regulations were developed at the Federal level.
3.3 Original Components:
The original project of US$288 million (including US$200 million of loan funds) consisted of five
components: three sectoral components (education, health and water supply and sanitation), budget and
financial management, and monitoring and evaluation. Approximately US$50 million of the loan was not
specified in detail during preparation and was intended to be identified during implementation.
1. Education (Original budget US$64.1 million; actual US$38.9) In Novosibirsk oblast, the component was
expected to rehabilitate 20 schools, and assist in improved planning, management and operations of schools
in the Novosibirsk municipality (MIS program). In Rostov oblast, 16 schools were to be rehabilitated under
this component, and four additions were to be constructed. One school in each oblast was selected as a pilot
subproject to provide experience in design and procurement procedures. In both oblasts, the project assisted
also Departrnents of Education in all aspects of facilities project management, including identification,
preparation and implementation of the prospective education subprojects. Energy efficiency improvements
were to be important elements of the component in Novosibirsk oblast.
2. Health (Original budget US$72.1 million; actual US$54.1 million)
The project intended to finance rehabilitation and upgrading of selected city and rayon hospitals and
polyclinics. Two sites, one in Rostov and one in Novosibirsk, were chosen as pilots prior to full project
implementation. They received substantial TA to enable their designers to utilize lessons of international
experience; in tum, these facilities developed lessons for design of the remaining project facilities, and also
established building standards and provided training that would enable Russian specialists to design
remaining facilities themselves under normal project supervision. Using these new design approaches, the
project rehabilitated nine hospitals and one polyclinic.
3. Water and Sanitation (Original Budget US$44.5 million; actual US$34.8 million)
This component was targeted mainly on rehabilitation, refurbishment and renewal of the existing
infrastructure, including rehabilitation of water mains to reduce leakage, refurbishment of chlorination
installations to provide better security in drinking water disinfection, and renewal of electrical and
- 3-



mechanical pumping machinery. In wastewater, the work included rehabilitation of existing sewerage
networks, provision of new cesspit tanker vehicles, and renewal of electrical and mechanical plant at key
pumping stations. Individual subprojects were to be limited in size and scope, with a ceiling of about
US$2.0 million each. Consultancy services and training would be provided in all design, construction,
operation, and institutional and financial management of water and wastewater services.
4. Budget and Expenditure Management. (Original budget US$3.3 million, actual US$3.6 million).
Technical assistance was provided with respect to: (a) Local revenues: Identify local taxes which have
significant potential for additional revenue and formulate financing and cost recovery strategies for public
services for which charges are to be levied, build capacity for efficient use of borrowed funds and for
managing lending from outside of the region; (b) Budget forrmulation: Develop budgetary forecasting
models which enable oblast to test probable effects on revenues and expenditures of alternative economic
assumptions and policy strategies; consolidate budgets to encompass all financial transactions at the
sub-national level; improve procedures for drawing up annual budgets; develop medium-term financial
programming system; (c) Expenditure management/budgetary control: Devise improved means of
controlling and monitoring expenditure against budget allocations/targets, including regular financial
management reports, supported by formal financial regulations. Implement controls on restricted account
for expenditures such as utilities and seasonal expenditures. Review self-governance legislation to possibly
change expenditure authority based on expenditure items and sub-national government; and, (d) Review
social expenditure policy to identify areas of budgetary expenditure for which expenditure authority might
be decentralized, or wholly privatized, or made more efficient.
5. Monitoring and management component (Original budget US$16 million, actual US$11.0 million). This
component focused on lessons for project replication, and assistance in preparation of future projects. The
component was also designed to improve methodology and local capacity to invest in medical facilities
through: (a) developing an initial investment program in medical facilities in each oblast; (b) establishing
criteria for setting investment priorities in medical care; (c) developing a financial mechanism for
investment in medical facilities in conjunction with oblast health insurance funds; (d) developing design
guidelines for buildings; (e) identifying and providing essential equipment; (f) training programs; and (g)
developing guidelines for facility maintenance. The analysis that was key to this component was based on
structured interviews with stakeholders, including policy makers and officials in the oblast, rayon and city
administrations.
Project Organization and Administration: As noted, Rostov and Novosibirsk Oblast administrations were
mainly responsible for project implementation. Bank loan proceeds were on-lent to the regions by the
Ministry of Finance under sub-Loan agreements. The Federal Ministry of Finance committed to repay 50
percent of the loan proceeds, with the remaining 50 percent as well as co-financing, import taxes and
duties, and ten percent of the civil works funded by the regions. Project Bureaus were established in each
oblast with responsibility for implementation of components in their respective regions. They reported
directly to the first deputy Governor of the respective Oblast. Their structure and operation procedures
were not changed during the project implementation process. The Federal Government's responsibilities
were exercised by the Ministry of Nationalities and Federal Affairs (MINNAT), through a Central Project
Implementation Unit (CPIU). In 2001, the MINNAT was disbanded and its functions related to the project
were transferred to the Ministry of Economy.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not formally revised. However, in order to accommodate implications of the 1998
financial crisis, US$45.5 million of the loan program was cancelled at the request of the Borrower,
including the parts of the project (1) intended to be identified during implementation, and (2) for
-4 -



preparation of the follow-on project. The cancellation also affected the TA component regarding
preparation of the follow-on project and TA for the water and sanitation component. As noted above, the
Budget and Expenditure Management Component was transferred into another PIU as it became an
independent World Bank project at the request of the Ministry of Finance. In July 2001, another US$6.5
million was cancelled from the Novosibirsk part of the Loan program due to inadequate local counterpart
funds.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall quality at Entry is rated as unsatisfactory, and the reasons for that are given below. On the positive
side, the project was consistent with the objectives of the 1995 CAS in developing public sector institutions
and moderating transition effects on socially vulnerable groups, maintaining social services and
infrastructure, and improving the efficiency of public expenditures. It was also consistent with government
development policy and priorities, and compliant with Bank safeguards. The technical design was
appropriate, and procurement assumptions were reasonable. Key stakeholders- including the regions and
federal ministries of health and education-participated in identification of most project components, with
some exceptions noted below. The project was one of the first generation of the Bank operations in the
Russian Federation, so substantial TA and foreign consultant work was required in preparation.
The project objectives were relevant. The project was designed to strengthen the capacity of sub-national
governments. The fiscal decentralization process that started in 1992 had put regional and local
governments in charge of social infrastructure, however, the overall economic decline and fiscal stringency
of the 1990s left critical social sector needs without essential financing for several years. Many schools,
hospitals and water utilities were initially in poor physical condition that was exacerbated by
decentralization shock: their degradation and collapse seemed imminent without a quick and targeted
intervention.
Environmental assessment of sub-projects was conducted according the local regulation in a timely fashion.
Risks and mitigation strategies were identified and assessment procedures were re-evaluated in 2002. By
today's standard, the sub-project environmental assessment lacked a monitoring plan. However, a
monitoring plan was not a requirement at the time of project design, as the entire program was intended to
rehabilitate the existing infrastructure and facilities and improve their performance, including
environmental performance.
However, the project had a number of important deficiencies:
The project was over-ambitious in terms of its goals, and overly complex. From the start of
project implementation, it was recognized that several objectives, especially sector-specific objectives,
would be difficult to achieve due to limited capacity of regional and municipal administrations. Project
complexity-the large number of sectors involved-also made implementation and project supervision
more difficult.
The success of the project institutional reform program was dependent upon changes in the Federal
legislation and policy in the health, education and water and sanitation sectors. Although Government
provided some advanced rules in these areas, there was a remaining gap between the existing practices and
the Federal policies and regulations which inhibited anticipated reforms.
The concept of how this "demonstration project" could be replicated was over-stated. The SAR
assumed that the follow-on project would be funded by the Bank in the same manner as the CSIP, without
mainstreaming implementation and funding of similar projects into the regular budgetary planning and
-5 -



budget execution process. Such an assumption could not be justified considering the size of the country (89
territorial units equivalent to oblast) and ignored development of a feasible repayment mechanism at the
regional level. The expected follow-on project was mentioned in the SAR and US$1.25 million was
allocated for this, however, these funds were cancelled by the Ministry of Finance in 1999.
Some components were not discussed in sufficient detail with Russian counterparts. And some
aspects of the project design-especially health sector financial reform and tariff regulation for the water
sector-were inconsistent with the financial legislation of the regions. This caused delays and difficulties in
achieving objectives.
The project did not conduct a formal economic analysis of sub-projects because most investments
were of an emergency nature, and consequently the economic validity of some sub-projects was
questionable. Also, many sub-projects were not part of the investment plans of the local utilities, and thus
their priority was considered questionable. For example, more than 60 percent of the water sector
investment was spent on rehabilitation of wastewater collection and treatment facilities - activities that do
not result in operational costs savings, but, on the contrary, lead to their increase.
In its initial design, the project placed too much emphasis on policy reforms but did not test if they
would be under implementation by the Federal authorities within the project time-frame. Many of expected
policy changes were delayed and this discouraged the oblasts and slowed progress on investment in
infrastructure rehabilitation.
The project over-estimated the ability of Novosibirsk (that has lower fiscal revenue generating
capacity) to contribute counterpart resources to the project (see section 5.2).
The project was not ready for implementation when approved. The project was approved on April
30, 1996 and became effective on January 1, 1997. The main delays were related to signing the sub-loan
agreements with the oblasts and setting-up the offices. The Novosibirsk Project Bureau started to operate
in November of 1996, while the Rostov Project Bureau became operational only in fall of 1997. To avoid
disbursement delays, the project had to use PPF for design and the project implementation agencies
operations. The counterpart funds and procurement "red flags" were removed in January 1998 when the
financial procedures were finally set.
It should be noted that the project reform programs were designed during the first years of euphoria in the
transition, when many difficult policy and institutional changes seemed easily achievable. Also, some of
the delays and other deficiencies noted above resulted from the relative lack of experience of the Russian
authorities - especially at the regional level - during the time when the project was being identified
(1993-95). The CSIP "blazed a trail" in providing the authorities with information and experience that
facilitated later projects.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Project outcome was satisfactory overall, with most project objectives achieved during implementation.
As described below, outstanding work by the Bank supervision team, together with solid support by oblast
administrators, overcame the handicap of poor quality at entry to achieve a satisfactory outcome.
The project stopped the degradation of social infrastructure in the two pilot regions by financing
rehabilitation of high priority facilities. The table below presents project outcomes by component and by
-6 -



the number of beneficiaries from each region. In many cases a high proportion of the oblast population
benefited from project activities as it improved facilities and services with broad coverage (such as oblast
hospitals serving entire region, or water utilities of the oblast center).
Table 1-Number of Be eficiaries, by Component
Component                Number of              Number of            % of the total
subprojects           beneficiaries       population of the
region
Education
Novosibirsk oblast           13           5,5000 of students per year      1.6
Rostov oblast                31           16,000 of students per year     3.0
Health
Novosibirsk oblast            5           2,420,000                        90
Rostov oblast                 6           4,300,000                       100
Water and
Sanitation
Novosibirsk oblast           13           2,500,000                       92.5
Rostov oblast                16           1,720,000                        40
The project resulted in the attraction of substantial amounts of additional regionalfunds into social
infi-astructure in both regions from the regional budget, and reforming regional budgetary priorities as both
oblasts realized the importance of social development programs from the project experience. Now up to 30
percent of Oblast budget funds are allocated to similar investment programs.
Reforming Regional Budgetary Priorities: Before 1997, most social investment programs were funded on
the so-called "residual financing principle", meaning they were the lowest priority for the region. The
under-investment and poor maintenance in transitional years of 1990-1996 were also result of the
decentralization of the education, health and communal services putting regional authorities in charge of
these social sectors. Many regions in Russia, including Rostov and Novosibirsk oblasts were not fully
prepared for such responsibilities that left without funding all social investment programs in both regions
for more than five years. Now both regions have medium-term social investment programs. For example, in
1998 the project funds comprised about 70 percent of the investment program in social infrastructure for
Rostov oblast. This percentage was steadily reduced to 20 percent over five years of implementation
despite the acceleration of disbursement during the last years of implementation. The 2004 Rostov oblast
budget contains about US$12 million in investment funds for social infrastructure in the oblast, which is
equal to the 1998 investment under the project. A similar trend was observed in Novosibirsk, where the
oblast continues the investment program stated under the project. For example, the 2004 investment
program for Novosibirsk oblast was prepared and designed during project implementation and the region is
funding it from own resources.
Other important achievements included:
*      The project created a transparent mechanism for government tenders for public works and
established sound criteria for the selection of socially important investment projects on the regional level.
The medium-term investment programs are announced and interested parties are being called for expression
of interest and participating in tenders by tender committees established at Oblast administrations. This
applies to all construction projects in Rostov and Novosibirsk Oblast that exceed RUR 10 million
(US$300,000).
-7-



*      The project included beneficiary participation at all stages of sub-project selection, design and
implementation. Presently, public discussions and hearings precede most important social infrastructure
projects in the two regions, whereas that did not happen before the project. The Rostov office conducted
special workshops on project effects and potential difficulties during construction and reconstruction works
for the population of the region at early stages of the project. Now it is a standard practice for the Rostov
oblast. Special meetings of parents of children for schools that are planned for reconstruction are now
conducted in both regions prior to works.
*      The project substantially raisedfacility design standards and improved incentives to apply them
in the future. For example, if a school or hospital is to be rehabilitated, the authorities require architects
and contractors to visit schools and hospitals constructed by the CSIP and emulate their design and
construction standards. All three PLUs provided training seminars for the companies that expressed interest
in the regions. For example, in 1997, the Rostov Oblast administration conducted one-day workshop for 63
construction firms, five banks and three insurance companies. Similar training was conducted for 25
construction firms in Novosibirsk. Two teams of authorities from both regions attended procurement
training in Turin in 1998. Six workshops (three in each oblast) were conducted for design companies in
1997.
Use of CSIP -type competitive procurement practices has become standardfor all investment
projects in oblasts as well as some neighboring regions. Total 249 contracts were concluded during the
project implementation of which 25 were international and 224 - national. The oblast authorities
recognized importance of the transparent nature of investment tenders and converted it into the Law in both
regions. This was also supported by relevant Federal level policies.
The project also supported private sector development, for example, by motivating a number of design and
construction firms to sever their ties to government, reorganize into private, joint-stock companies, and then
participate in the project. Table 2 presents the number of private companies involved in project
implementation and monitoring by components as well as those that received training during the project
implementation. The project also created a medium for formation and growth of private design companies,
construction firms and private contractors for the provision of goods. It provided training for hundreds of
professionals in procurement processes for all concerned groups, including Oblast authorities and tender
committees (with the support of WBI). A total 80 oblast officials attended two-week procurement seminars.
The project provided Oblast and municipal authorities with tools for broader participation,
including participation of NGOs and groups protecting public interests through a set of hearings and public
discussion of the project priorities and project outcomes.
The project results were well publicized among regional authorities in other regions. There were
several project dissemination workshops. Rostov conducted special inter-oblast workshops "On experience
and lessons of the CSIP implementation" in 2000, and "Institutional aspects of the reform in communal
water and district heating" in 2002. Novosibirsk had similar events, such as "Improvements in institutional
and investment practices of health sector" in 2002, "Healthy schools" in 2003 and "Communal reform in
small town "Berdsk example" in Novosibirsk oblast in 2002. The Moscow PIU conducted two-day
all-Russia workshops "Investment in social infrastructure: experience of the World Bank project in
regions" which attracted representatives and authorities from more than 40 Russian regions. The project
experience was also presented at a special workshop for Bank staff in Washington in January of 2000.
However, despite very positive response from two federal ministries (Health and Education) the
-8 -



dissemination impact of these activities was limited because no investment program supported the positive
lessons from CSIP .
As a "model" project, the CSIP achieved important benefits even though it was not replicated, in
the sense of the same model being implemented elsewhere. In the event, the federal component of CSIP
financed preparation of the WB Regional Fiscal Reform TA project, which has developed a more effective
scheme for transfer of federal resources to the regions. This scheme is scheduled for use in various WB
projects supporting sectoral reforms at the regional level.
Training: Training was an important element of the project activities. A total of 88 workshops and seminars
was conducted during project implementation (54 in Novosibirsk and 34 in Rostov). The table below
presents the number of professionals who were trained in various aspects of sector reform and project
implementation.
Table 2. Number of professionals and local officials who were trained during project imp ementation
1997         1998         1999        2000         2001         2002
Novosibirsk     234          187          242         N/A          149          618
Rostov          151          100          54          N/A          149          161
More than 100 officials from Novosibirsk (directors of design companies and construction firms) received
special training on market mechanisms and principles of bidding in 1997. There were several study tours,
including training on procurement principles in Turin (Italy). Other training included:
Education: All- Russian conference in Novosibirsk in spring 2003 with more than 200 participants:
"School as a center for health improvement"
Health: Novosibirsk, June of 2003. "Improvement of the medical facilities management: investment
and institutional aspects"
Water and sanitation: (1) Berdsk, March 2003. "Communal sector reform in small town: Berdsk
example" (2) Rostov, 2002 Institutional aspects of reforms in heat and water supply
Table 3. Number of private companies which received training in project implementation and
monitoring
Novosibirsk             1998        1999          2000         2001       2002/2003
Education               31           38            9            37           22
Health                   3           18            53           13           21
Water and sanitation     55          24            21           19           20
Rostov                 1998         1999         2000         2001       2002/2003
Education               55           38            84           29           10
Health                   7           35            28           10            4
Water and sanitation    22           80            36           10            3
However, several specific sectoral objectives were not achieved, such as health reforn and tariff regulation
for the municipal water sector as mentioned above, due to the regional nature of the project, and linkages of
these reforms with policy changes at the Federal level. For example, many health reform issues were part of
the project plan including demonstrations related to health insurance and even loan repayment. But they
-9-



could not be implemented by the oblasts' ministries of health because they were contradictory to the
federal legislation. Another example. The project proposed energy and cost-saving programs for budget
entities that would be supported by institutional reforms. However, schools and hospitals received itemized
budget executed by the treasury, with no authority to use the potential savings at their discretion, and
therefore did not have clear incentives for cost-savings. This question was raised several times before the
local authorities, and any institutional innovations necessary for cost-reduction programs were rejected as
being against the main principles of federal budgetary policy*. Also, expectations that the project would
be replicated across the country were not fulfilled. Project replication was originally designed so that the
follow-on project would be funded by the Bank in the same manner as the CSIP. This approach became
outdated after regional finance reform took place in 1998. Then the Federal Government made a strategic
decision not to replicate the project scheme in future and cancelled the new project preparation funds from
the loan.
*It is only in 2004 that the Govemment has undertaken efforts to introduce changes in legislation to permit greater
autonomy of public service providers in health and education and ensure incentives for cost-efficiency
4.2 Outputs by components:
Important physical outputs were produced for three sectoral components:
Table 4-Project Achievement by Sector
Sector               Subprojects: SAR plan  Subprojects: revised   Realization
Education            36 schools to be       29 schools to be       29 schools
rehabilitated          rehabilitated          rehabilitated
Health               -11 hospitals to be    -9 hospitals to be     -9 hospitals
rehabilitated          rehabilitated          rehabilitated
-3 packages of         --5 packages of        --5 packages of
medical supplies       medical supplies       medical supplies
provided               provided               provided
Water and Sanitation  61 subprojects        53 subprojects         53 subprojects
completed:             completed:             completed:
-Novosibirsk 30        --Novosibirsk 22       -Novosibirsk 22
-Rostov 31             --Rostov 31            -Rostov 31
Education. According to the SAR, CSIP was expected to rehabilitate 36 schools. Due to the project
restructuring, the number of schools was reduced to 29, including five rural schools in Rostov Oblast that
were not in the original plan. The schools were selected with support of the Oblast sanitary inspectorate.
One of the important criteria for selection was expansion of the school districts and closing of small and
completely dilapidated schools that could not be rehabilitated. All schools were in emergency status. They
underwent rehabilitation of flooring, walls and roofs, insulation and rehabilitation of doors and windows
(including installation of vinyl-covered aluminum frames that had not previously been used for schools in
the Russian Federation), rehabilitation of heating, and reinforcement of basement and foundation. The
selection was conducted through open public meetings. Water meters and thermostats were installed in all
participating schools in Rostov and 16 in Novosibirsk. Savings from these improvements varied from
seven percent in school in Aksai (Rostov oblast), to 30 percent in Toguchin (Novosibirsk oblast).
The WHO Healthy School program was implemented in 10 schools participating in the project. The
positive outcomes of this program were discussed at the National School Conference as a Health
Improvement Center in Novosibirsk in 2002 with about 100 participants from both regions and from the
Federal Ministry of Education.
- 10 -



However, as mentioned above, local budgetary disincentives reduced the impact of some of the cost
reductions achieved. This happened partially because, according to treasury rules, all committed funds not
spent during the calendar year are written-off at the end of the year. Cost items are deternined at the
beginning of the calendar year and cannot easily be shifted between expenditure categories. So if a school
or hospital reduces energy consumption during the current year, this means that it will receive less funding
for energy for the next year.
Health. According to the SAR, it was envisioned that the project would implement five hospital/polyclinic
rehabilitation sub-projects and procure three large bundles of medical supplies in Novosibirsk and six
rehabilitation subprojects in Rostov with bundles of medical supplies and equipment for all of them.
Hospitals and polyclinics for project support were selected on similar principles as schools. In addition, it
was agreed that project-supported facilities should be used as inter-district diagnostic and treatment
centers. The hospitals under the project underwent significant structural rehabilitation and were equipped
with essential medical equipment. TA designers helped to remodel hospitals and polyclinics, rationalizing
their treatment practices and irnproving their accessibility and patient comfort. After the loan restructuring
caused by the financial crisis of 1998, two rehabilitation sub-projects and one supply bundle were cancelled
in Novosibirsk and procurement of the disposable medical equipment in Rostov was downscaled.
Organizational reforns in the hospital sector were promoted in Novosibirsk through development and
implementation of a new organizational concept for a rayon (district) hospital that was tested in two rayons
of the Oblast. As a result of this demonstration, two hospitals became inter-raion medical centers. The
technical assistance consultant also developed and helped implement a new system of nursing care for the
hospitals in Novosibirsk. The results of these innovations were presented at the inter-oblast conference in
Novosibirsk. for about 80 health professionals from both regions with participation of the representatives
of the federal ministry of health and several regions . In addition, all health facilities got heat and water
meters in Rostov Oblast.
Water and sanitation. According to the SAR, the project plan envisioned 61 sub-projects in the water and
sanitation component. Objects in the most critical condition from the health and environmental viewpoint
were selected for the project, including water intakes and wastewater treatment plants. All investments can
be classified into four categories: (i) energy efficiency and energy savings through installation of high
efficiency pumps for both water and sanitation networks; (ii) reduction of water losses and improvement of
the water supply service, wastewater pipes clean-up and replacement and installation of valves on water
mains that helped to minimize effects of the water system repair and help better operate the water system;
(iii) water quality improvement and upgrading to the potable standard through rehabilitation of the water
intakes and installation of the modem chlorination equipment; and (iv) procurement of wastewater
collection mobile units and rehabilitation of wastewater treatment sludge units to improve sludge handling
and reduce risks of environmental degradation and health where deterioration of the wastewater facilities
were immediate threat for downstream communities. After the project restructuring caused by 1998 crisis,
eight of 30 subprojects were cancelled in Novosibirsk Oblast. Thirty-one subprojects remained in the
Rostov oblast, although not all of them were originally planned. In the course of the project, a TA program
for the water component was developed for the city of Berdsk (Novosibirsk Oblast). The multi-year
communal sector development plan was established and discussed with the oblast authorities and shared
with many regions. Its implementation started after the project completion. Questions and approaches
related to heat and water metering in public institutions were discussed at the national Conference on
resource conservation in Rostov in 2002 for more than 200 participants from many oblasts of Russia. The
conference proceeds were issued as a separate book that was distributed to about 500 water an sanitation
decision-makers in Russia and in CIS. The installation of the new insulation materials and contemporary



water supply systems in schools and hospitals, combined with water meters and thermostats resulted in
reduction of the cost of social infrastructure for communal services by seven percent on average.
However, the project institutional development agenda for the water and sanitation sector was
overly-ambitious and did not achieve the goals outlined in the SAR. The municipalities remained in full
control of the water utilities and the Oblast authorities did not allow reforms in tariffs or in the system of
ownership subject to federal regulation. Some work was done in implementing performance assessment
tools for the water utilities of the project. And, as a related result, the project trained personnel in water
utilities in Bank rules and provided information on Bank projects in the water sector in the Russian
Federation. Now three cities (the CSIP beneficiaries) are participants in another Bank Municipal Water and
Wastewater Project (MWWP, US$18 million loan program for Novocherkassk, Rostov and Taganrog
vodokanals), and the Rostov water utility participates in preparation of the GEF Rostov Nutrient and
Methane Reduction Grant (US$10.8 million ). The city of Novosibirsk is considering participation in
similar programs and submitted their applications to the MWWP PIU.
Budget and expenditure management component. The TA Consultant completed an analysis of the budget
and financial management at regional and municipal (local) levels of Government for both project
participating oblasts. The following documents were prepared: comparative analysis of the financial deficit
concepts, mobilization of revenues for social programs, regional budget format, financial relations between
the regional and municipal authorities, cost-efficiency of the health expenditures, analysis of the
educational expenditures, and information technologies in budget and financial management. All of these
documents were presented to Oblast authorities. However, in 1999, after introduction of the new Budget
Code and transition to the Treasury system in social sector expenditures in both oblasts, the original TA
could not be implemented without major adjustment. The prepared concepts and the documents were
transferred to the Russian Federation Ministry of Finance and were extensively used for the new World
Bank project concentrating on issues of the budget management and regional finances. (See section 3.2).
Monitoring and evaluation component. Monitoring reports were produced twice a year and presented to the
Bank and to all involved parties of the Government and within the Bank. Monitoring included surveys of
beneficiaries, public discussions of the project outcomes and participation in sector development programs.
These reports provided ground for the project decision makers and oblast authorities on the project progress
and changes in the public opinion towards project objectives and outcomes. They provided detailed reports
of project activities, including seminars, discussion summaries, interaction with the authorities of each
level, and dissemination activities. In total nine monitoring reports were produced, including the final
report.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The assessment of the net present value and rate of return was possible for the water and sanitation
component. This component had 38 subprojects with a total value of US$40.3 million (about 25 percent of
the total disbursed under the loan). Sixteen million dollars (or 40 percent) was spent on water supply,
treatment and distribution, and US$24.3 (or 60 percent) million was spent on wastewater collection,
pumping and wastewater sludge handling.
An economic assessment was mandatory for all investment elements of the water and sanitation program,
and all sub-projects prepared and conducted such assessments. The validity of these assessment was tested
via ex post economic analysis of several most representative sub-projects. The IRR of the water
component sub-projects rangedfrom S percent for socially important ones to 21 percent for cost-saving
and energy efficiency sub-projects. The IRR below 12 percent for several subprojects reflects the fact that
many social benefits of the investment in better quality of water services are difficult to quantify. The IRR
- 12 -



was highest for the investment in pipes efficiency and new valves (21 percent), and into energy efficiency
and new pumping equipment (13 percent). The details of the economic analysis are presented in Annex 3.
The IRR of the educational and health components was not assessed because the system of cost and
economic indicators for these sectors did not permit such an analysis, since they are collected and processed
for entire region, and not for a specific facility.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable as the financial rate of return and tariff regulation for the social infrastructure are
established by the Federal legislation.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact was substantial. The project:
1.     Established transparent and sustainable mechanisms for public procurement of works and goods.
Public open tenders became a standard practice in both regions based on training and materials
provided by the project;
2.     Established transparent mechanisms for public tendering that helped many private sector
companies to grow in a more competitive environment;
3.     Ensured transformation of many former governmentally-owned construction firms and design
enterprises into viable privately owned companies;
4.     Developed and implemented an inter-raion hospital system for several rayons in both oblasts that
allowed the authorities to close several inefficient facilities;
5.     Established a system of public participation in decision processes in determining priorities in social
sector development;
6.     Enhanced the use of advanced standards and practices in design and construction for the health and
education infrastructure.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Starting in 1997, the international financial environment became increasingly volatile, which posed
economic challenges to the Federal Government. The international financial crisis triggered the financial
and economic crisis in Russia in 1998 when the Government defaulted on its obligations, The national
currency was devalued to the US dollar by three times and the banking sector collapsed. The financial
meltdown resulted in the cancellation of US$45.5 million of the loan funding on October 15, 1999.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
After the project became effective some policies were introduced and actions taken by the Federal
Government that affected project implementation and also excluded the possibilities of direct replication of
the project. First, and foremost, it was agreed that the federal support to regional social development would
be provided to the regions on a formula basis and within regular budgetary process, thus the initial concept
of CSIP lost its potential place in the budget system. Second, the Ministry of Nationalities and Federal
Affairs (MINNAT) - the Federal Agency, responsible for managing the project - was relieved of its role as
the agency responsible for regional finances and balancing of regional differences. These functions were
concentrated in the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Economic Development and Trade; while
MINNAT was left with advisory functions and policies on special regional matters (North, indigenous
peoples etc) . Eventually MINNAT was disbanded in 2001.
The Federal ministries of Health, Education, as well as the Federal Committee on Construction (Gosstroi)
-13 -



were slow to learn about the project and its products, although all information was available.
After the 1998 default, and in order to protect Bank projects from interaction with unreliable banks, the
Ministry of Finance established rigid procedures and designated only eight banks as eligible to issue the bid
securities necessary for the ICB project contractors; however many of them had no branches in
participating regions. However, at the same time, it allowed any foreign bank guarantee. That pushed many
potential participants out of tenders and created better conditions for potential foreign contractors who
could obtain such guarantee in any bank of their host country.
Many good proposals from the regions and from TA consultants were not implemented due to the rigidity
and lack of reform of the Federal regulation, inexperience with consulting services, and lack of incentives
to initiate innovation by local authorities unless supported by the Federal authorities.
The project overestimated the borrowing capacity of Novosibirsk oblast, as its economy was mainly based
on defense industry, and to a some extent on agriculture. Novosibirsk's weak fiscal situation (it receives net
transfers from the federal level) resulted in its failure to mobilize in a timely manner the required 10 percent
counterpart funds (30 percent for some categories such as civil works). This made cancellation of the
project loan funds imminent. The oblast experienced several payment defaults to the federal budget
(partially because of strict repayment scheme of the loan with additional surcharge of 2.5%, reduced grace
period and accelerated payback scheme), and as a consequence the attitude of the Federal Ministry of
Finance became very negative to the entire project. Also, a new government in Novosibirsk, taking office
in early 2001, was initially distrustful of the project which was seen as the creation of the previous
administration. The project got bad publicity during the election campaign and was able to overcome it only
slowly during 2001. This resulted in freezing of project operations in the region for about nine months, and
later in cancellation of an additional US$6.5 million for the region from the loan proceeds.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
MI1NNAT provided full support to the project and helped it to start implementation, and established
efficient Central PIU. The Central PIU was properly staffed and equipped and provided strong institutional
memory while there were changes in the functions and composition of the Implementing Ministry.
Implementing agency was realistic in assessing initial gaps in its implementation capacities and effectively
used international consultants and general management consultants for managing processes and procedures,
as well as for skill transfer.
The Oblast administrations were very responsive to the project needs and maintained strong interest in the
project at the beginning. This ownership was maintained through entire project period in Rostov Oblast, but
was affected by the election cycle in Novosibirsk Oblast. Changes in Oblast Administration and weak fiscal
capacity complicated project implementation in Novosibirsk: it delayed several times its repayments
(starting in 2000), and provision of co-financing was very irregular (which was the reason for the US$6.5
million cancellation). (The last co-financing payment was made on December 31, 2003, three months after
project closure). Both oblasts appointed high level officials to manage project implementation in the oblasts
and established effective PIUs staffed with well trained and experienced professionals. In both Oblasts local
municipalities, administrators of health, education and communal services were fully involved in selection
of project sites, in discussion and approval of the design, contract award and in supervision of the contract
implementation.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Competitive procurement reduced the costs of the civil works originally planned by the SAR for every
sub-project and allowed the complete rehabilitation and re-equipment of hospitals and schools, where the
- 14 -



SAR expected only minor works. The overall difference between the expected cost of subprojects and that
which resulted from competitive bidding was equal to US$19.75 million. Three-fold devaluation of the
national currency in 1998 increased competitiveness of the local industries and construction companies
making their services less expensive. That also contributed to the project savings.
The 1998 financial crisis in the Russian Federation resulted in cancellation of US$45.5 million of the loan
funds in 1999. The financial difficulties in Novosibirsk oblast resulted in an additional cancellation of
US$6.5 million. The Loan closing date was extended from the original date of 12/31/2002 to 09/30/2003
to complete the investment program due to the fact that construction works could be completed only during
the warm season in both regions and also because of some delays in procurement of medical equipment for
Novosibirsk Oblast. After the above cancellations are taken into account, 100 percent of the remaining
project funds were utilized by the revised closing date.
Table 5-Overall Loan Financing, in millions of US$
Novosibirsk         Rostov         Central PIU     Overall Project
SAR Plan
Loan          97               96                7               200
Revised
Total         70.9             65.6              7               143.5
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project outcomes, institutional and behavioral benefits is likely for the two project
oblasts. The transparent procurement practices, modem construction standards and public participation in
the decision process have become standard practice in both regions. The project fnancial flow into the
socially important infrastructure has been followed by the Oblasts' own investment projects into these
sectors (See section 4.1).
The project stopped degradation of socially important infrastructure, and reconstructed key objects of
social infrastructure that were virtually decrepit. Continuing strong local ownership and changed local
budgetary priorities have acted to increase funding for social infrastructure. The utilization of better
quality materials and standards-both in work done under the project as well as in follow-on work done in
the pilot oblasts using these new standards-has reduced operations and maintenance costs for these
facilities (compared to facilities that were constructed earlier). The installation of the new insulation
materials and contemporary water supply systems in schools and hospitals, combined with water meters
and thermostats resulted in reduction of the communal services cost for the social infrastructure by seven
percent on average. Water and wastewater infrastructure has lower energy consumption after installation
of modem pumps and demand flow-adjustable valves. These savings provide a powerfil incentive to Oblast
authorities to make wider use of the techniques pioneered in the CSIP, and both Oblasts are now in the
process of expanding these programs to other infrastructure investments in the social sector.
Some environmental issues proposed by SAP related to the international waters (pollution of the Azov and
Black Seas) were addressed separately and led to the GEF/World Bank project for the Rostov water utility.
CSIP also motivated the water utilities of Novocherkassk, Rostov and Taganrog to participate in the World
Bank Municipal Water and Wastewater Project. The expected amount of funds to be invested into the
water sector by these two projects is almost US$30 million. These projects will help to ensure that the
-15 -



enhanced water supply, sanitation, and environmental benefits produced by the project will endure.
Other CSIP benefits that are likely to be sustained include:
*      Better selection of subprojects for public investments: both regions have established regional
steering committees that consider technical justification, rationale and eventually select among the proposed
projects for the investment programs. These projects are discussed with the population and discussions are
publicized in local media.
*      Most of the design companies in both regions are privatized. Private design and construction firms
from Novosibirsk and Rostov regions, that gained experience under CSIP, are progressing steadily and now
are active players in the Russian construction market. A number of construction finrs that were winner of
contracts under CSIP, find themselves strong enough to be involved in international construction contracts
and recently stated their intention to participate in civil works tenders outside Russia (e.g. in Bosnia and
Herzegovina and Albania).
*      Novosibirsk oblast continues to implement sub-projects that were designed during project
implementation but were cancelled from the Loan program. The region started implementation of the
communal sector reform initiative piloted in the city of Berdsk based on the reform design developed under
the project.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Transition to regular operations at the regional level is complete. Extensive dissemination efforts-e.g.,
seminars, publications-were also undertaken. The PIUs have been closed, and the practices, procedures,
and lessons have been absorbed into the relevant oblast ministries and local authorities for health, education
and communal services. Lessons from implementation of investment project in social infrastructure has
been accepted and largely mainstreamed in the Rostov and Novosibirsk regions, but dissemination of these
practices has not been supported by the federal investment financial flows for fiscal affordability reasons.
With support of the federal component of the CSIP the Federal Government has developed a mechanism in
federal fiscal support of economic development that is emphasizing the policy and institutional development
changes at the regional level and is based on incentive-based grant scheme included into the regular
budgetary process.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
As described earlier, quality at entry was unsatisfactory. While objectives were relevant and highly
appropriate in focusing on strengthening the capacity of regional governments, the design had important
flaws. The project was overly-complex and its reform program did not take into account the lack of
necessary legal and regulatory framework for proposed reforms, capacity in regional governments and the
need, in many cases, for change at the Federal level. An insufficient understanding of the regional
character of the project also resulted in delays in project effectiveness and timely start as the regional
authorities needed time for the establishing and staffing of PIUs, opening the special account, etc.
7.2 Supervision:
Given the slow start and problematic project design, the supervision team was faced with a significant
challenge. Project Task Managers responded by intense supervision efforts focused on:
Simplification of objectives once it became clear that the project as designed was too complex. The
- 16 -



scope of the project was reduced from comprehensive sectoral and institutional reforms to achievable
specific targets in each sector. For example, as noted earlier, adoption of International Accounting
Standards in the water sector were discarded because of the difficulty associated with such change.
* Strong and successful efforts to establish close working relationships with regional and local officials
at all levels.
* Emphasizing development of local capacity in planning infrastructure rehabilitation and provision.
* Ready availability of sector and other specialists to work intensively on their respective components
These efforts were on the whole successful at overcoming the handicap faced by the CSIP. The results
produced have been discussed above, and it was by the persistent effort of the project team that these were
achieved. An especially difficult aspect of supervision was the chronic shortage of funds in Novosibirsk.
Project managers dealt with that issue by:
* Simplifying the project by focusing on the provision of infrastructure first, and only later on
addressing related policy issues, in order to gain credibility with oblast administrations and the general
public.
* Helping with rescheduling of the oblasts' repayment obligations to the federal government.
* Intensive policy dialogue with Novosibirsk regional government and explaining the project rationale
and its practical benefit.
Until August of 2001, Bank action as a whole, however, was inadequate in resolving the counterpart funds
issue in the fiscally weak Novosibirsk oblast. As noted earlier, in the event, Novosibirsk oblast eventually
met all obligations for previous debts, however, US$6.5 million of the funds intended for investment in
Novosibirsk was canceled, and the work program scaled down accordingly.
The CSIP was designated as a "Project at Risk" from June 2000 to June 2001. As such, it was subject to a
QAG Quality of Supervision of Risky Projects (QSR) assessment carried out in October 2001. The
supervision effort was rated by the panel as satisfactory overall on allfour quality dimensions:
*      Focus on development impact
*      Supervision of Fiduciary Aspects
*      Adequacy of Supervision Inputs and Processes
*      Realism of Project Performance Ratings
The panel particularly praised the efforts to simplify the project, build local capacity, and form effective
relationships with regional and local leaders. However, the panel was critical of the Bank overall,
concerning the chronic lack of funds in Novosibirsk, and considered that this should have been addressed as
a country issue, not a project issue, since it arose from fiscal structure of the federal government.
7.3 Overall Bankperfonnance:
Based on the above, overall Bank performance is assessed as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower was very active and helpful in preparation. It helped to establish sound criteria for the
selection of regions, develop investment plans, and assess the scope of needs. The local authorities advised
the Bank team on the problems with social sectors in oblasts. They provided technical, institutional,
- 17-



administrative and financial support to the project. At the same time they did not properly estimate the
challenges of the reform program on regional level. It should be noted that the reform programs were
designed during the first years of euphoria in the transition, and many difficult institutional changes seemed
easily achievable at the time.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Federal level Government policies were not helpful to project implementation. Macro level conditions
(financial meltdown of 1998) affected project implementation both financially and administratively through
the need to move project special accounts, and introduce constraints on bid security procedures. As a result
of the crisis, the Ministry of Finance requested cancellation of the total US$52 million of the Loan amount.
The sector policies for federal support to social infrastructure development and regional finance were also
changed soon after project effectiveness (see sec 5.2). The Federal Government transferred decision making
on regional finances from MINNAT to the Ministry of Finance and more systematic fiscal relationships
with the regions were introduced. This put the CSIP subsidiary loan agreements to the two oblasts into the
"exceptional" position of providing unreasonable (from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance and
new rules of relationships with the regions) privileges to the oblasts and not corresponding to federal
regional fiscal policy. Under these circumstances Ministry of Finance took a decision not to replicate CSIP
model in identical projects, but instead to use the federal component of CSIP for design of an optimized
scheme of federal support to the regions. CSIP financed preparation of the WB Regional Fiscal Reform TA
project, that has developed a more effective scheme for transfer of federal resources to the regions of the
RF and this will be used in various WB projects supporting sectoral reforms at the regional level.
MINNAT gradually lost importance in regional policy and was finally disbanded in 2002. The federal
sectoral ministries were active participants at the early stages of the project, but lost interest in the project
when secondary education, regional health facilities and communal services were transferred to be the sole
responsibility of the oblast level government.
After the 1998 crisis, the Ministry of Finance issued new guidelines that made only eight specific Russian
banks or reputable foreign banks (without clarification of this definition) eligible for issuing bid securities
for ICBs. This created unjustifiable preferences to foreign companies and unusual difficulties for local,
especially small companies that expressed their interest or even won the tender.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
MINNAT was supportive to the project. It helped in establishing transparent indicators for selection of
regions for the project, and together with the Bank team developed sound criteria for sub-project selection,
helped in conimunication with the sector ministries, and established sound working relations on the federal
and regional levels. As noted earlier, the Government was changing the structure of the implementing
agency, but all of these changes were absorbed at the Federal level by the Central PIU and they did not
substantially affect project progress. The Central PIU was staffed with professional and committed
personnel that ensured adequate project implementation during the whole project period. Transition of
implementing agency responsibilities to the Ministry of Economy occurred at a late stage of project
implementation when all major decisions on the project had been made, and this shift did not affect
implementation.
The regional authorities consistently provided strong support for the project (with some interruptions in
Novosibirsk oblast caused by elections of new administrations). They ensured that technically,
institutionally, administratively and financially the project would have all the necessary resources. Both
oblasts appointed the first deputy governors as direct contact for the overall project implementation. Oblast
- 18 -



authorities were very active in resolving problems on local level, organizing training events and
dissemination of the project experience. Regional sectoral ministries (health, education, finance and
communal services) and their chairpersons were in charge of the implementation of specific components. In
practice, every sub-project had a designated high-level oblast official who was helping in successful
implementation of sub-projects and helped to resolve difficult issues related to it. Local PIUs were
appropriately staffed and provided with premises and necessary equipment.
In order to start the project as quickly as possible, many bureaucratic procedures were by-passed. In
Rostov oblast, for example, in order to speed up the process the regional administration took a decision to
finance construction design from its own resources (vs. from the project funds as it was planned under the
SAR); and also introduced streamlined procedures for regional budget co-financing through local PIU.
The local authorities supported privatization of the construction firms and design companies, assisted in
obtaining all necessary documents, and in expediting licensing process. Oblast authorities organized public
hearings on project selection, beneficiaries were directly involved in sub-project design (medical and school
equipment, hospital design etc) and supervision of sub-project implementation. Authorities participated in
all sub-project commissioning ceremonies and helped in preparation of the project completion reports.
Regional authorities respected the outcomes of the bidding process. Regional and municipal authorities
were fully engaged in the design of technical assistance and capacity building programs, and supported
their outcomes distribution at all levels.
Misprocurement based on unacceptable procurement procedures was declared regarding the award of a
US$6.1 million contract for completion of an underground wastewater collector in Rostov to a firm that
was already involved in construction but was found technically unqualified under the Bank's ICB
procedure. Instead of re-inviting competitive bids by ICB as per para 2.59 of the Bank Procurement
Guidelines, Rostov Oblast awarded the contract to the consortium to be financed from the regional budget
without Bank's prior review and without any competition. Despite this, the contract was allowed to stand.
(See more details in Section 10).
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Poor macro environment, weak engagement of federal sectoral agencies in project implementation, delays in
provision of counterpart funds in Novosibirsk and misprocurement would suggest a marginally satisfactory
rating. However, based on strong ownership of the project in the regions and in the federal implementing
agencies, good overall management and achievement of the development objectives despite project
unsatisfactory design, additional follow up in the form of two successful regional fiscal reform projects,
borrower performance can be rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Local ownership enhanced effectiveness: Oblast and municipal (local) authorities were left with
post-1991 responsibilities for social infrastructure, often with limited or nonexistent resources for its
maintenance and development. Once it became clear that the project would in reality provide them with
support for development of social infrastructure, local ownership became quite evident and oblasts showed
strong interest of participation in the project and contributing in any possible way. This included finding the
best solutions for technical and organizational issues, as well as allocation of additional budgetary
resources from municipal and regional budgets for complementary infrastructure development needs. Local
ownership enhanced the impact the project achieved in changing local budgetary priorities to increase
funding for social infrastructure.
- 19 -



A multi-sectoral project can introduce substantial complexities: The number of sectors included in the
CSIP made it more difficult to supervise, problematical in terms of support both by the Bank (involved in
several sectors, but owned by none) and the Federal government, and less reliable as a vehicle to effect
policy change. The multi-sectoral nature of the project also provoked competition for resources between
social ministries in the regions, reduced synergy from possible concentration on an integrated reform
agenda in one sector, made the project unnecessarily complex and eventually reduced its institutional
impact. So for an investment project that aims both at infrastructure development and significant
institutional change, there is a strong advantage in limiting the scope of the intervention to one sector.
Improved architecture, design, and materials can yield significant benefits: The improved levels of
architecture, design and materials brought by the project yielded benefits in terms of lower maintenance
costs, better functionality, and a demonstration effect in terns of non-Bank financed work funded by the
oblasts. This dimension also brought an important behavioral change by developing an understanding of
additional value of good quality products - both in quality of output, durability, and eventual savings.
These changes in mentality are particularly important under conditions of post-Soviet economy.
Dissemination of ideas, not backed by investment, has limited effect: The CSIP achieved significant
benefits in the pilot regions, and made substantial efforts to disseminate the lessons from these efforts, but
achieved little-except in neighboring oblasts. Many individuals who had contact with the project believe
that for other regions to adopt new techniques, a financial investment from extemal sources is necessary.
The size of the investment can be smaller in comparison with CSIP, and under improved overall macro
conditions, the share of repayment from the regions can be increased.
Regional projects need to be consistent with the Government reform program. Initial design of the
project institutional reforrn agenda has to be more detailed in assessing the current framework and be
realistic in forecasting the direction of expected changes, taking into account also political economy
considerations. Federal sectoral ministries need to be more involved to the project work. In a pilot project
for the follow-on need to be made in close coordination with the sector ministries.
Stability of the project governing and executing agencies is crucial for project success. CSIP went
through several reorganizations of the federal implementing agency (Ministry of Nationalities) and two
changes of administrations in Novosibirsk oblast. Luckily, stability of executing agencies (Central and
regional PIUs) ensured continuity and eventual satisfactory implementation of the project. The lesson,
therefore, is that under fluid conditions of govemrnent changes (like the recent reorganization of the GOR
undertaken in March of 2004), project implementation arrangements should be broad enough and introduce
additional leverage to protect projects against this type of uncertainty. In legal terms, it is advisable to refer
to specific agency and/or its potential legal successor.
Project arrangements, such as on-lending provisions and executing agencies, need to be in place prior
to implementation. CSIP was one of the earlier projects the Russian portfolio and implementation
difficulties were underestimated in the project design. This aspect of project implementation in Russia is
much better understood now both by the Bank and by the Govermment counterparts and appropriate actions
have been agreed through CPPR process, guidelines for project preparation and regular practice of project
preparation review.
- 20 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
MHII[lCTEPCTlSO
3K(C UOMU4qECKOro PA3BHTWI              PyxoBoAKTcaia Ipoex-ra noAAepCws
Hi TOPrOBJIH                    perKoNainqHo# coLtxa;1L0#o
Pt 1CCRtAC1COR (bEAEPAUH               FtHtpacTpysIyp-
1Ha IH3EOIIOMPA.1TH$N POCCHtI4)     Be.yMpcT y cne.swtrFy araa
nEEPBblMI c4oHxHanMAC              LH  x nporpamM XenapTameHTa
3,-^MECTHTEJlb MU4HUCTPA              emawcoaaLlirx nporpaMtM BceMHpHoro
y                 . .  .1  1 25993     6awuz
T.,q 2O.03-53. PKC25i-69-t.
.i , J  27  di;V1 S  .* U-fi Xtl4s      A. P. MapxoEy
iLa  N_ ..  _ _   . _ __ _
r                              -I
06 om 0 3awepweUwim rtlcwra vm rrpJ
pa'901 Aflh*IR COb cOLHNOA M"+P> TPYKW
YnamaembIir AHI1peiC PoMaHoBsn,
B oTBeT Ha Baute nu wi,o oT 11 4 eBpaiu 2004 roAa Kaca-remTho Otimta 0
3as -ptMeHHH flpoeiac noaaepxs(C  per'aomanHoF counantAHoR HH4pacrpyrrypbl,
?MU :wONHom.p3B3KHTwq PoccuH manlpaai1eT Bam oueHKy pc3ynwTaTOB  lpocwa
noj Aep)KKK4 pemOHaJjLHOIt COURnISHOiA MPaCTpyICTypi. HaAeeMcA, T-ro ouActa
pC3 1J1LTaTOB  npOCCTR CO  CrOpOOHIl MHH3XOlioMpa2BI(THX  POCCNH  OKax-rt
COp tftCTBae B 3aBep H    pa60om  HtAJ OTheTOM O 3aCptuettMH flpOeKTa.
nIp. IJ1O)KCH HC: uia I I ,. n 1 na.                              .-
A. B. WIaPOHo8
209 t 39
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j                                     . .
~~~~~~~o9t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                       . J.t.   -
Letter from Mr. Sharonov, first deputy minister
RF Ministry of Economic Development and Trade
to Mr Andrei Markov, TTL
-21 -



February 28, 2004
Translation
Mr. Andrei Markov
Team Leader
Russia Community Social Infrastructure Project
Senior Human Development Specialist
Human Development Unit
World Bank
Re: Russia- Community Social Infrastructure Project
Implementation Completion Report
Dear Mr. Markov:
In response to your letter dated February 11, 2004 regarding the completion report for Community Social
Infrastructure Project, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade (MEDT) of Russian Federation is
sending you an assessment of the project results. We hope that MEDT's assessment of project results
will be helpful for your work on project completion report.
Sincerely,
A.V. Sharonov
First Deputy Minister
Ministry of Economic Development and Trade
-22 -



Project Evaluation by RF Ministry of Economic Development and Trade
Introduction
The loan attracted to achieve objectives of preserving the social infrastructure of the Rostov and
Novosibirsk oblasts of the Russian Federation besides preserving a substantial number of socially
important facilities made it possible to modernize them, to implement new higher standards in civil works,
to provide facilities with modern equipment, to improve the quality of services. The project outcomes are
sustainable. The project urged the regional and local authorities, as well as economy entities to make
additional investment in social infrastructure development. The quality of civil works significantly
improved, modem materials were used in construction. Experience, methods and documents of competitive
bidding prepared and conducted under the project in line with the requirements of the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) are now used on a regular basis for public procurement in both
oblasts.
The project facilitated preservation and development of local private construction and design companies.
Due to the project, local firms acquired a valuable experience of preparing and submitting bids for the
design, construction and supply contracts. In both oblasts, strong construction companies emerged capable
of winning in international biddings.
Due to training provided under the project, a large number of local personnel from health and education
institutions, housing utilities, financial management staff studied intemational experience and already had
an opportunity to use it in practice. Project experience was disseminated among other regions of the
Russian Federation through a number of interregional conferences covering issues of separate components
and the project as whole. Conference participants and interested ministries received specially prepared
publications presenting study findings and institutional recommendations developed during the project to
improve component management at the regional level. Timely refocusing of institutional elements of the
project components from the federal to the regional level allowed preparing a number of important
recommendations aimed at improvement of management at the level of education and health institutions,
housing utilities and local authorities.
In both oblasts, a large amount of work was done to explain the project goals and objectives, to
demonstrate its outcomes. To this end, publications for press were prepared on a regular basis, local TV
channels covered the work of the IBRD project missions, commissioning of almost all facilities. During the
first year, pursuant to the Loan Agreement oblast administrations established steering committees (with
participation of public organizations) that functioned throughout the entire period of the project. These
commnittees listened to the issues related to the project implementation.
Useful materials were obtained as a result of consultants work under the Expenditure Management
Component. They were used both by the oblast financial departments and in preparing new IBRD projects:
Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Project and Regional Finance Management Reform Project.
The RF Ministry of Economic Development and Trade evaluates the Community Social Infrastructure
Project as highly satisfactory.
Project Rationale
During the recent years, chronic inadequate financing of social sector enterprises and institutions lead to a
drastic deterioration of the physical state of social infrastructure practically in all regions of Russia. In
-23 -



many instances depreciation of fixed assets in social sector reached 60 - 70%, and that of medical
equipment in health institutions - about 80 - 90%. An objective of satisfying the public needs in social
services provided in accordance with the quality standards matching the modem trends of social sector
development was not less urgent. Local, and primarily municipal, authorities faced these problems without
adequate finance or sustainable budget revenues at their disposal due to low business activities in the basic
economy sectors and current tax mechanism.
The idea of the Community Social if rastructure project emerged in 1994 during discussions held by the
World Bank and the RF Government on the issues of govemance decentralization, support of social sector
services and resolving problems associated with divestiture of enterprise social infrastructure facilities and
placing them under the local authorities jurisdiction. Loan Agreement No. 4009-RU granting the [BRD
loan towards implementation of the Community Social Infrastructure Project was signed on August 27,
1996, by the RF Government and the IBRD and approved by RF Government Resolution No. 1392 of
November 23, 1996. The project closing date as established by the Loan Agreement was December 31,
2002. The project closing date was extended till September 30, 2003.
Project Goals and Objectives
The project was prepared as a demonstration project to be replicated in other regions of the Russian
Federation. The Novosibirsk oblast and the Rostov oblast were selected for participation by the Russian
party and IBRD out of the list of 22 regions made up in accordance with the selection criteria developed by
the IBRD. These oblasts are typical and in a certain sense "average" regions of the Russian Federation in
terms of social and economic development indicators. In 1996, by expert opinion they were neighbors on
the rating list of federal budget dependency and were close to the end group on the donor regions list.
However, these regions have significant variations of natural climate conditions.
Evaluation of Project Implementation
Education Component
The project provided assistance to rehabilitation of 29 schools and boarding schools, including 13 in the
Novosibirsk oblast and 16 in the Rostov oblast. Major part of these facilities was outside the oblast
administrative centers: 9 in the Novosibirsk and 9 in the Rostov oblast. Education environment improved
for 5.5 thousand students in the Novosibirsk oblast (1.6 % of the total number) and 16.1 thousand students
in the Rostov oblast (3 %). Civil works quality on these sites was much higher than standards customary
for the oblasts. Schools were provided with new equipment, including computer classes. Besides, in the
Rostov oblast water and heat meters were installed in all schools under the project.
In 2000 - 2003, the project additionally included and implemented the WHO Health Promotion School
program aimed at providing conditions for comprehensive development of a physically, mentally and
intellectually sound student. This program allows bringing together the existing separate methods and
approaches to resolving this objective. Training was provided in 10 schools selected in each oblast and
qualification tests held for trainers to disseminate the methods of this program. Recommendations for
implementation of this program in other schools were prepared for the oblasts. Plans were developed for
phased coverage of all schools in both oblasts beyond the project. The Rostov oblast has already 110 of
such schools. A national conference "School as a Health Promotion Center" was held under the project in
Novosibirsk. Component implementation outcomes were highly evaluated by the RF Ministry of Education.
Health Component
-24 -



The component provided assistance in achievement of 11 objectives related to rehabilitation of hospitals
and polyclinics, procurement of medical equipment. Given the potential capacity of rehabilitated facilities
and procured equipment to provide services to clients, one may talk about a direct or indirect improvement
of health services as a result of the project for 89.5 % of the Novosibirsk oblast population and for 100 %
of population in the Rostov oblast.
Under the project a Management Concept was developed for the Central Rayon Hospital in the Novosibirsk
oblast that was take in to account in rehabilitation of two rayon hospitals: in Cherepanovo and Chulym. As
a result these hospitals started to function as inter-rayon health centers with substantially broader and
stronger outpatient functions. In collaboration with consultants a system of nursing care was developed (in
the Novosibirsk oblast hospitals); a drugs record book form was developed; principles of organizational
structure and management were developed for a city polyclinic on the basis of polyclinic No. 1
(Rostov-on-Don). Transition to the new structure was effected through provision of the polyclinic with new
diagnostic equipment, electronic filing system, personnel training in new technologies. The interregional
summing up conference "Improving Health Institution Management: Investment and Institutional Aspects"
was held in Novosibirsk to disseminate the experience. The component implementation outcomes presented
at the conference were highly evaluated by the RF Ministry of Health.
Water and Sanitation Component
The project provided assistance to implementation of 22 subprojects in the Novosibirsk oblast and 31
subprojects in the Rostov oblast. The Novosibirsk oblast implemented 16 civil works subprojects and 6
supply and installation subprojects. The Rostov oblast implemented 24 civil works subprojects and 7
supply and installation subprojects (equipment and meters). The outcome of these subprojects was an
improved quality of living for 92.5 % of the Novosibirsk oblast population and 40 % of the Rostov oblast
population. Besides, the component provided assistance to the Rostov oblast in installation of heat and
water meters in the health and education institutions, in installation of variable-frequency electric drives in
large pumping stations under the energy efficiency program.
Russian consultants developed a program for the housing and utilities sector reform in a small city using
the case of Berdsk (Novosibirsk oblast). Besides, in the Novosibirsk oblast specialists prepared and
submitted to the oblast administration: mechanism for use of budget savings generated by heat and water
metering, completed design and prepared specifications for installation of water and heat meters (on 212
sites of budget sector institutions), which were submitted to the housing and utilities department of the
oblast administration.
In the Rostov oblast technical assistance was provided under the additionally included energy efficiency
subcomponent in development of sustainable effective institutional mechanisms of using energy resources
in education and health institutions of the Rostov oblast. Recommendations were developed and submitted
to the oblast administration and oblast ministries for amendment of regulatory framework, organization of
energy efficiency activities, accounting, allocating and financing of utility services expenditures,
recommendations related to meter maintenance, a mechanism was proposed for improving energy resources
use.
Vodokanal Performance Indicators Seminar was held in 2001 with participation of water and sewerage
utility representatives. Respective documents were handed out to the seminar participants. These
documents help measure the volumetric, operational and socio-economic indicators (27 performance
indicators) that are currently broadly used in every day operations. The component outcomes were reported
- 25 -



to the participants of the interregional conference "Institutional Issues of Heat and Water Supply Systems
Reform" that was held in Rostov-on-Don.
Expenditure Management Component
With assistance provided by GTZ Company (Germany) financial management issues were studied in both
oblasts. The following documents were prepared: 1) deficit / surplus concept; 2) revenue mobilization; 3)
budget format; 4) financial relations between the oblast and municipality; 5) health expenditures efficiency
review; 6) education expenditures efficiency review and 7) budget information technologies. These
documents were presented to the oblast administrations and to the RF Ministry of Finance. In addition, a
report was prepared for the Rostov oblast Ministry of Education: "Review of Budget Expenditures on
Financing General Education Institutions in the Rostov Oblast". The component provided assistance to
procurement of equipment and software and to setting up a computer network in financial units of three
rayons, as well as in the Ministry of Finance of the Rostov oblast.
The loan financed completion of preparation of the World Bank Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance
Project and the Financial and Economic Status Study of the Rostov oblast.
Main Problems of Project Implementation
Incessant reorganization of the Ministry of Nationalities and Regional Policy that eventually lead to its
liquidation and transfer of the project to the RF Ministry of Economic Development and Trade complicated
continuity of the project management and prevented the project from becoming a demonstration exercise.
The 1998 default and subsequent requirement of the RF Ministry of Finance to restructure the loan
suspended the project implementation for almost a year. This was used as a rationale for the project
extension for nine months. The RF Ministry of Finance being not happy with the on-lending conditions
managed to take away the status of a pilot project in 1999. Cancellation of the pilot status affected the
project experience dissemination effectiveness.
Project management at the regional level also lacked stability. Project managers changed in both oblasts
because of the changes in the oblast administrations after governor elections. The project Task Manager in
the IBRD also was replaced three times, however the overall continuity was secured there.
Project implementation required strict financial discipline. However, the Novosibirsk oblast failed many
times to follow terms and conditions of the Sub-Loan Agreement related to debt service and repayment to
the RF Ministry of Finance and of the Loan Agreement related to allocation of co-financing funds. This
caused temporary suspension of the project implementation in the oblast and further cancellation of on-lent
proceeds. As a result a number of sites were excluded from the project. Efficiency evaluation of the loan
proceeds used for rehabilitation of social infrastructure facilities was difficult because of absence of true
information about similar projects financed through the local budgets. The common problem of both
oblasts was non-involvement of rayon and municipal administrations in project co-financing, which caused
certain "dependant's" attitudes.
The project was prepared by international consultants who overestimated its capacity to influence the social
infrastructure management reform at the federal level. In the process of the project implementation some
recommended approaches to subproject selection were revised. It is important to note that the loan
disbursement plan developed by the IBRD consultants during the project preparation did not take into
account the lengthy stage of design and bidding documents preparation. At this stage disbursement is
insignificant, which distorts the picture of actual project progress: a large scope of work is done but it is
-26 -



incomparable with civil works and equipment procurement in terms of expenditures.
Local specialists and authorities were not adequately critical or responsible in reviewing the IBRD
consultants' proposals regarding selection of subprojects and identification of feasible objectives at the
stage of the project preparation. This is explained by lack of experience in collaboration with the Bank and
credit to possible tangible outcomes.
Lessons Learned and Proposals
Participation of executive authorities of all levels in the process of project preparation and
implementation. The key point is an active involvement of all-level executive authorities as early as at the
stage of project preparation. This would secure an optimal use of the loan proceeds, proper identification of
objectives and scope of work. The project demonstrated sustainability of the outcomes, their high social
effect. The project initiated additional investments in social infrastructure development from the regional
and local budgets, as well as from economic entities.
Preparation to loan disbursement takes a long time. In preparing the disbursement schedule it is
important to understand that the initial stage (preparation of terms of reference, designs, obtaining their
approvals, competitive biddings, etc.) require not less time than civil works.
Institutional and investment subprojects are to be implemented in parallel. Investment outcomes should
precede preparation of institutional recommendations or at least go in parallel. In particular, rehabilitation
of social facilities should without fail be accompanied by improvement of facility management mechanisms.
Consultant services are an essential element of a project. Skilful use of consultant services secures
implementation of both institutional and investment components, reduces costs and allows making prompt
decisions aimed at successful achievement of the project goals and objectives.
Regional nature of a project is to be clearly defined. In case of a regional project its institutional
developments and recommendations should be focused primarily on the local and regional level rather than
on the federal level.
Flexible approaches to project implementation. project design developed during preparation is not cut in
stone. It may be amended, improved depending on additional objectives and new information that may
occur in the process of implementation.
Advantages of a comprehensive approach to project objectives achievement. The comprehensive nature
of a project though it makes its management more complex, has a number of advantages: it teaches more
effective ways of allocating the loan proceeds between the components; exposes a broad number of
managers, local designers, builders, equipment suppliers to the IBRD loan practices.
Competitive bidding and fmancial control system found good ground in Russia. The financial control
system functioning under the project ensures targeted use of borrowed funds, strict financial discipline and
fulfillment of obligations by the sub-borrowers. An important outcome of the project (that has already been
spread) is experience of using competitive bidding mechanism for budget spending.
Project implementation units played an important role in the project success. Project management
-27-



arrangements showed its sustainability and adequate efficiency. Practice showed that the more rights under
the project are delegated by the oblast administration to the PIU the more efficiently are resolved the issues
of contract execution and payments. Availability of the Central PIU that controls, coordinates and
summarizes operations of the oblast PIU, provides methodological and logistic assistance to them, is an
important prerequisite of the regional projects success.
Private sector support. The project helped to preserve and strengthen local design and construction
companies, created new jobs.
Community participation. An important conclusion made upon the project implementation review in the
Novosibirsk oblast is that a project needs continuous public support. At the very early stages of preparation
of similar projects, public should be provided with explanations and comprehensive infornation about the
project goals and objectives, mechanisms, realistic deadlines and implementation costs. This work should
particularly be carefully and competently carried out with those who directly influence the project
implementation, and primarily - with the corps of deputies.
(f) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Misprocurement: Misprocurement was declared on December 18, 2001 due to the award of a US$6.1
million contract for construction of the underground wastewater collector in Rostov based on unacceptable
procurement procedure to the consortium led by a firm that was found technically unqualified as per the bid
submitted under the Bank's ICB procedure. In the first ICB process did not result in any responsive bids,
instead of re-inviting competitive bids by ICB as per para 2.59 of the Bank Procurement Guidelines,
Rostov Oblast awarded the contract to the consortium that has been involved in execution of the first stage
of civil works in question without the Bank's prior review and without any competition under Oblast
financial arrangements. Even though the Oblast was the source of funding and assumed all financial
responsibility for this subproject, this did not change the applicability of the Bank procurement guidelines.
In a view of the above, the Bank concluded that the contract for this sub-project was not awarded in
accordance with the agreed procurement procedures under the Loan Agreement, and consequently declared
misprocurement of this contract.
However, it was taken into account, that there was no time left for the CSIP completion and that such
cancellation of the Loan amount would have had serious negative impact on achievement of the Project
development objectives. As an exception and without setting any precedent, the Bank took a decision not to
the cancel loan amount at that stage. This was based on an understanding that in the future there will be
strict compliance with procurement procedures as per Bank Guidance and the Loan Agreement. The
remaining uncommitted funds were limited to the items fully identified and confirmed as fully meeting the
project objectives. The Borrower accepted this assessment.
-28 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                ActualLatest Estimate
Objective 1- Physical Facility Rehabiitation  Novosibirsk 13               Novosibirsk 13
Rostov - 16                          Rostov 16
(a) number of rehabilitated educabon facilibies
making optimum use of space with better
quality constructon materials
Objectvel, (b) number of rehabilitated  Novosibirsk: 5                     Novosibirsk: 5
hospitals and polyclinics making optimum  Rostov: 6                        Rostov: 6
use of space with benter quality constructon
materials
Objectve 1, (c) number of water supply and  Novosibirsk: 22                Novosibirsk: 22
sanitabon facilties rehabilitated    Rostov: 31                            Rostov: 31
Objective 2- Improved Public Resource
Management
(a) adequate subproject selecton criteria in
use in the educabon, health and water supply
and sanitabon sectors (ongoing)
Objectve 2, (b) improved appraisal, design  Novosibirsk: 39                Novosibirsk: 39
and implementation methods/standards in  Rostov: 59                        Rostov: 59
use in the education, health and water supply
and sanitabon sectors (ongoing)
Objective 2, (c) compeitive procurement
system in operation (ongoing)
Objective 2, (d) number of staff trained in  30
modem budgeting and expenditure
management system
Objectve 2, (e) improved financial
mechanisms for hospital management.
including effective cost-recovery in operation
(ongoing)
Objective 2, (f) installation of heat and water Novosibirsk: 250 facilities covered  Novosibirsk: 250 facilities covered
meters in schools and health facilities  Rostov: 180                       Rostov: 180
Objectve 3 - Private Sector Development  40 in each oblast                 40 in each oblast
(a) number of architectural and engineering
firms engaged in competitive tendering
(b) number of professionals trained in  100 for both oblasts               100 for both oblasts
procurement and bid evaluation
Objectve 4 - Beneficiary Participabon  twice a year                        twice a year
(a) number of Advisory Board meetings (at
least twice a year)
(b) number of conferences/meetngs held to  1 for both oblasts (federal level)  1 for both oblasts (federal level)
disseminate project essons
Output Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                   Projected In last PSR                ActuaULatest Estimate
This format is for new projects prepared
using Logframe format.
N/A to the CSIP
End of project
-29 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Component                     US$ million  US$ million
Education Rostov                                  40.47          30.78            76
Educaion Novosibirsk                              38.02          20.59            54
Health Rostov                                     49.30          28.47            58
Health Novosibirsk                                57.42          36.22            63
Water and Sanitation Rostov                       30.75          28.19            92
Water and Sanitation Novosibirsk                  28.33          17.06            60
Expenditure Management Rostov                       1.82          1.06            58
Expenditure Management Novosibirsk                  1.82          0.52            28
Expenditure management CPIU-Moscow                 0.00           2.67
Project Bureau Rostov                              5.47           4.27            78
Project Bureau Novosibirsk                         5.54           3.37            61
Project Central PIU                                6.44           3.36            52
Total Baseline Cost                              265.38         176.56
Physical Contingencies                           14.77
Price Contingencies                               8.00
Total Project Costs           288.15        176.56
Total Financing Required           288.15         176.56
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category     ICB       Procurement Method          N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                    73.10        58.60        0.00         23.24       154.94
(56.20)      (45.98)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (102.18)
2. Goods                    96.47         0.70        1.20         0.00        98.37
(64.95)      (0.60)       (1.00)       (0.00)      (66.55)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00        26.33        0.00        26.33
(0.00)       (0.00)      (22.77)       (0.00)      (22.77)
4. Training                  0.00         0.00        5.00         0.00         5.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (5.00)      (0.00)       (5.00)
5. Recurrent Incremental    0.00          0.00        2.00         0.00         2.00
Operating Expenses         (0.00)        (0.00)      (2.00)        (0.00)      (2.00)
6. PPF Refinancing          0.00          0.25        1.25         0.00         1.50
(0.00)       (0.25)       (1.25)       (0.00)      (1.50)
Total                    169.57        59.55       35.78        23.24       288.14
(121.15)     (46.83)      (32.02)       (0.00)     (200.00)
- 30 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB            NCB          Other         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                       43.42          66.06          0.00          0.00         109.48
(30.53)        (44.70)       (14.50)        (0.00)       (89.73)
2. Goods                        29.64         10.22          1.39          0.00         41.25
(27.08)        (5.07)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (32.15)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00          15.21         0.00          15.21
(0.00)         (0.00)       (16.71)        (0.00)       (16.71)
4. Training                     0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.63)        (0.00)        (0.63)
5. Recurrent Incremental        0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
Operating Expenses             (0.00)         (0.00)        (1.50)        (0.00)        (1.50)
6. PPF Refinancing              0.00           0.00          0.00          10.61         10.61
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.28)        (0.00)        (0.28)
Total                        73.06         76.28          16.60         10.61        176.56
(57.61)        (49.77)       (33.62)        (0.00)      (141.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in USS million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate  [
Bank      Govt.     CoF.      Bank      Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Education Rostov         33.24     10.96              22.94      7.84              69.0   71.5
Educaion Novosibirsk     30.90     10.33               15.66     4.93              50.7   47.7
Health Rostov            33.07     21.07               21.74     6.72              65.7    31.9
Health Novosibirsk       39.09     24.29               30.55     5.67              78.2   23.3
Water and Sanitation     22.99     9.74                21.03     7.16              91.5    73.5
Rostov
Water and Sanitation     21.50     8.72                13.47     3.60              62.7   41.3
Novosibirsk
Expenditure Management   1.66      0.30                0.90      0.16              54.2    53.3
Rostov
Expenditure Management   1.66      0.30                0.44      0.08              26.5   26.7
Novosibirsk
Expenditure management   0.00      0.00                2.57      0.11               0.0    0.0
CPIU-Moscow
Project Bureau Rostov    4.90      0.80                3.99      0.29              81.4    36.3
Project Bureau           4.98      0.80                3.99      0.10              80.1    12.5
Novosibirsk
Project Central PIU      6.01      0.77                2.96      0.40              49.3    51.9
-31 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Costs and Benefits
This annex presents the economic assessment for the water and sanitation component of the project. The
investments selected for this subprogram were of high priority, well defined by the utilities, and justified by
the municipalities.
The decision process for the subproject selection was conducted on the Oblast level and the main
consideration was the economic costs of the operation on Oblast level, or in other words for the population
and economy of the entire region, and not just for specific utility. The other consideration was the urgency
of the investment from the public health and environmental view. The third consideration was the cost
reduction and efficiency improvement for the participating utilities. The benefit for the population from
such investment subprojects was expected to be tariff reduction, as the tariffs ought to cover the utility
operation costs.
The utilities-beneficiaries of the project were not formal parties of the loan program, and co-financing was
conducted from the oblast budget. Although subproject selection was carried out with active participation
of the utility, the utilities were not obliged to repay the loan. After the subproject commissioning, all
investments were transferred under the utility management without any financial obligations from the utility
side. This investment and financing scheme for the water projects reflected the administrative and
institutional status of the water services of the Russian Federation at the time of the project preparation.
The procedures for investment financing were not modified in the project implementation stage.
The water and sanitation program had 38 subprojects in the total value of US$40.3 million (or about 25
percent of the total disbursed under the loan). Sixteen million dollars (or 40 percent) were spent on water
supply, treatment and distribution, and US$24.3 (or 60 percent) million were spent on wastewater
collection, pumping and wastewater sludge handling. All investments can be classified into four categories:
(i) energy efficiency and energy savings through installation of the high efficiency pumps for both water
and sanitation networks; (ii) reduction of water losses and improvement of the water supply service,
wastewater pipes clean-up and replacement and installation of valves on water mains that helped to
minimize effects of the water system repair and help better operate the water system; (iii) water quality
improvement and upgrading to the potable standard through rehabilitation of the water intakes and
installation of the modem chlorination equipment; and (iv) procurement of wastewater collection mobile
units and rehabilitation of wastewater treatment sludge units to improve sludge handling and reduce risks
of environmental degradation and health where deterioration of the wastewater facilities were immediate
threat for downstream communities.
On average, the investment per capita was about US$10 on for the urban population in both regions. The
range varied from US$9 for the cities of Rostov and Novosibirsk to about US$150 for the town of
Konstantinovsk (Rostov Oblast), where comprehensive rehabilitation of the water intake and wastewater
pumping systems took place.
Energy savings in water and wastewater services compounded 41 percent, pumping efficiency improvement
were about 30 percent, water quality improvement subprojects were 11 percent, and wastewater treatment
plant sludge collection and utilization covered remaining 17 percent of the investment funds accordingly.
Details and analysis of the sub-project can be found in the project files. A sample of the investment
represents subprojects.
-32-



(i)    Energy efficiency and energy savings
The objective of these investments was the operational improvement of the water utilities by replacing
pumping units, drainage pumps and valves, installation of capacity adjusted valves and installation of water
meters.
Wastewater pumping stations rehabilitation Barabinsk, Novosibirsk oblast (US$193,000). The project
replaced wastewater pumps to increase efficiency from 50 percent to 70 percent and allowed a reduction
energy consumption by 334,000 kWh per year. The pumps were replaced in 2002-2003. The savings for
the water utility were calculated in constant electricity prices for 2001 (US$0.05/kWh).
Year                                                2002      2003     2004     2005-2013
Investment in renovation of pumping stations (US$)  93,000   100,000
Reduction in energy consumption (kWh/yr)                     333,714  667,429   667,429
Savings (US$/yr)                                             16,686    33,371   33,371
Net savings (US$/yr)                               (93,000)  (83,314)  33,371   33,371
NPV (US$. 10%) for 10 years period                  US$$
_______________________________________ 16,065 _______________
IRR                                                  12%
(i)    Pipes efficiency improvement and reduction of water losses
Rehabilitation of network and water supply and wastewater pumps in Chaltyr', Rostov oblast
($688,500). Poor water supply in the Southeast part of the Chaltyr settlement was a well known problem
for years. Corrosion of pipes due to low level of ground waters destroyed distribution pipes very quickly. In
order to pump water to customers, the Chaltyr' utility tried to compensate water leakages with high
pressure in the system.
The project helped to replace the existing steel pipes with plastic ones. In 1999, a project contractor
replaced four kilometers of water mains with plastic pipes that reduced leaks and allowed to reduce
pressure in the system. In combination these efforts allowed to reduce capacity of the pumping station and
pressure in the system. Electricity consumption fallen from 44,000 kWh per month to 21,000 kWh per
month. The level of pipe bursts reduced from 400-450 a year to 250-280 a year. (Full cost of the average
repair work in Chaltyr' is RUR 3000, or US$$100). The savings for the water utility were calculated in
constant electricity prices for 2001 (US$0.05/kWh). The investment allowed to increase collection rate
from the population from 50 percent to 95 percent.
The net financial benefit flow for the investment for the Chaltyr' consists of savings on energy and repair
works and additional revenue from the improved collection. The economic benefits include improved both
public health conditions in the city and customer satisfaction, reflected with higher collection rate.
-33 -



Year                                 1998        1999          2000      2001-2009
Investment                                         344,250
344,250   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Number of breaks                          450         280           28           250
Reduction in breaks                         0          170          17           200
Savings in repair works (US#/yr)            -       17,000        17,00(      20,000
Energy consumption (kWh/yr)                        390,000       321,00(      252000
528,000
Savings from power (US$/yr)                 -        6,900        10,35t       13,800
Net savings (US$)                    (344,250)   (320,350)        27,35(       33,800
Water billed (US$/yr)                              140,160       140,16       140,160
140,160            _
Collection rate                          0.50         0.85          0.90        0.93
Cash collected (US$/yr)                70,080      119,136       126,144      130,349
Improved collection (US$/yr)                -       49,056        56,064      60,269
Net flow of benefits (US$/yr)        (344,250)    (271,294)       83,414       94,069
NPV                              US$$(57,259)
IRR                                       8%
Water pumping station rehabilitation with construction of clean water reservoirs and chlorinating
unit in Toguchin, Novosibirsk Oblast. (US$462,200). The subproject addressed needed improvements in
the water treatment facility serving community of 30,000. The city did not have water storage reservoirs.
Water polluted with iron was pumped directly into the system and also did not meet bacteriological
standard. The CSIP funds allowed construction of water storage reservoirs that served two objectives: to
improve the water quality by chlorination, and to have water reservoirs that maintained pressure in the
system and, at the same time, guaranteed the water supply in case of the electrical outages, when the water
pumps are disconnected.
The benefits for the population include: (i) 24-hour water supply to entire population of the city (not
accounted); (ii) improvement of water quality (not accounted); (iii) closure of inefficient pumps (pumps
became unnecessary after the construction of the water reservoirs, it saved about 20 percent of the
electricity consumption); and (iv) reduction in water losses by 15 percent due to proper accounting of
production and pumping into the system. The relatively low financial rate of return for this investment is
compensated for by the great public benefits from uninterrupted water supply and improved water quality.
Year                                    2002         2003      2004     2005-2013
Investment                                231,100    231,100
Reduction in energy consumption                      438,000  438,000       438,000
(kWh/yr)
Reduction in water losses (cu.m/yr.)                 328,500  328,500       328,500
Savings from power (US$/yr)                           21,900   21,900        21,900
Savings from water economy (US$/yr)                   32,850   32,850        32,850
Net savings                             (231,100)   (176,350)  54,750        54,750
NPV                                    $ (77,806) 1     _
ERR                                          5%    _
- 34 -



Installation of 144 water valves on wide diameter in the city of Rostov (US$875,000)
The subproject allowed to split the city into a manageable districts for water bursts repair. Before 2001, the
city had only four main valves. If a large accident happened, up to half of the city would be without water
until the repair works completed. It was very painful experience for the city residents, especially in the
older part of the city. Large water shut-downs occurred 5-10 times a year covering at least 25 of the
network. The hydraulic hammer occurred after each water system closure destroyed distribution system
with higher speed. Polluted ground waters were sucked into the water system polluting potable water.
The investment offered an efficient solution for this problem. It bought the following savings: (i) reduction
of the accident rate by 20 percent or around 1600 accidents a year. (The repair of each accident directly
costs to Rostov vodokanal up to US$$100); (ii) reduction in repair time by 50 percent, or saving 6500
work-days a year (Each workday costs about US$$7 a day, considering the average salary of US$$200 a
month); (iii) reduction of water losses (not accounted); (iv) improvement of the water service and water
quality (not accounted).
Year                                       2001         2002         2003      2004-2013
Investment                                  437,685      437,685
Number of breaks                               8,000       8,000        6,400       6,400
Reduction in breaks                             800          800        1,600       1,600
Savings in repair works (US$/yr)             80,000       80,000      160,000     160,000
Savings in repair time (working days/yr)                               6,500        6,500
Savings in repair time (US$/yr)                                       130,000     216,667
Net savings                                (357,685)    (357,685)     290,000     166,500
NPV                                     US$$ 317,52 
IRR                                             21% r                       :
(iii)  Water aualitv improvement
Chlorination units at the water treatment facilities of the Rostov Vodokanal, Azov Vodokanal and in
Orlovskii settlement in Rostov Oblast (US$804,500)
The subprojects were identified as a priority for the water utilities that participated in the project as they
created favorable conditions for project implementation. They helped to achieve water quality standard at
the main water treatment plants in Rostov and in Azov and helped to modernize chlorination equipment in
Orlovskii. The total number of beneficiaries exceeds 500,000. Before the project, the potable water
chlorination was handled manually, without automatic control of the water flow and chlorine concentration.
The produced water did not meet the potable water standard. After the project implementation, it became
possible to maintain necessary level of the chlorine concentration, just enough to maintain its
bacteriological properties without "over-chlorination" of the potable water ( It accelerates corrosion of
pipes and makes water of poor potable quality). It is clear that health benefits associated with the
improvement of the quality of water are positive and justifiable. Similar works were done in Kuibyshev
(Novosibirsk Oblast), water intake in Kamenolomni and Chaltyr' (Rostov Oblast), where project helped to
improve the water quality to a standard.
(iv)   Wastewater collection treatment and sludge handling
The project supplied mobile equipment for wastewater collection from small private housing. This
-35 -



machines helped to restore regular work of such units in many vodokanals in both oblasts. The benefits
include improved sanitary conditions for the poorest districts of the towns, helped to address uncontrolled
cesspools and latrines and transfer collected wastewater to the wastewater treatment plants.
Sludge drying treatment equipment operations in two largest cities (Rostov and Novosibirsk) reduced
danger of polluting the Don and Ob', both of great importance for the Russian Federation and the World.
The uncontrolled sludge drying pits were always under the threat of flooding and thus polluting water
downstream. The installation of dry sludge equipment helped to reduce sludge volumes (e.g. moisture
content in dried sludge was reduced from 99 percent to 80 percent in Rostov) . These works allowed the
clean-up of dangerous spills of sludge and moving them to a safe place on WWTP territory.
Wastewater treatment facility in Taganrog: reconstruction of the biological treatment unit and
rehabilitation of three wastewater pumping stations (US$3,288,000).
The project was designed as a response on the extremely poor sanitary conditions on the beaches of the city
of Taganrog (population of 288,000)- well known summer resort. Wastewaters were discharged without
biological treatment into the Taganrog Bay of the Azov Sea polluting water and creating terrible sanitary
conditions at the beaches. The city experienced epidemics of all kind of water bome diseases, including
typhoid and hepatitis A (1996-1998). It resulted in extreme costs for treatment and substantially reduced
city attraction as a summer resort.
The city admninistration requested funds for the construction of an additional infection diseases ward for the
city hospital. At the same time, the TA consultant proposed to redirect financing of the health infrastructure
to the Taganrog WWTP and replacement of the pumps at the main pumping station. The investment works
continued in 2000-2001.
The economic and social benefits of this investment is hard to overestimate. There are no infectious
diseases outbreaks in the city for two years. There is no need for the expansion of the hospital facilities in
the city. Environmental pollution decreased substantially. City got increase of visitors in 2003 summer.
-36 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
() Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
06/28/1994                 10    Task Manager (1); Architect (1),
Municipal Engineer (1); Contract
Management Expert (1);
Operations Assistant (1); Health
Specialist (1); Environmental
Specialist (1); Labor Market and
Training Specialist (1);
Municipal Finance Specialist (1);
Economist (1)
October -                  13    Task Manager (1); Health
November 1994                    Specialist (6); Education
Specialist (3); Water and
Sanitation Specialist (3)
January 1995                2    Task Manager (1); Expenditure
Management Expert (1)
February-March              6    Electrical Engineer (1); Health
1995                            Economist (2); Health Expert (2);
Civil Engineer (1)
April 1995                  7    Electrical Engineer (1); Health
Economist (2); Health Expert (2);
Civil Engineer (1); Project
Coordinator (1)
May 1995                    4    Education Specialist (4);
Environmental Specialist (1)
June 1995                   2    Experts on Water and Sanitation
(2)
Appraisal/Negotiation
6/25/1995                  10    Task Manager (1);
Expenditure Management
Expert (1); Project
Coordinator (1); Monitoring
and Evaluation Specialist
(1); Health Experts (3);
Architect (1); Health
Economist (1);
Administrative Assistant (1)
Supervision
07/16/1996                  3   ADVISOR (1); TASK                  S             S
MANAGER (1);
IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1)
12/17/1996                  2   TASK MANAGER (1);                  S             S
PROJECT OFFICER (RM) (1)
05/01/1997                   7  TASK MANAGER (1);                  S             S
- 37 -



IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);
DISBURSEMENT (RM) (1);
TRAINING SPEC. (RM) (1);
PROJECT OFFICER (RM) (1);
PROCUREMENT SPE.(RM) (1);
PROCUR.SPEC. (ARCHIT.) (1)
07/11/1997                5  TASK MANAGER (1);              S            S
PROJECT OFFICER (RM) (1);
DISBURSM.ANALYST (RM)
(1); PROCUREMENT (RM) (1);
PROCUREMENT/CW (RM) (1)
12/12/1997                4  TASK LEADER (1);               S            S
IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);
PROCUREMENT (RM) (1);
PROJECT OFFICER(RM) (1)
12/12/1998                1  MISSION LEADER (1)             U            S
05/30/1999                1  MISSION LEADER, IMPLEM         U            S
(1)
03/08/2001                1  TASK LEADER (1)                U            S
10/19/2001                4  COORDINATOR (1); TASK          S            S
TEAM LEADER (1);
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
(1); SPECIALIST (1)
06/07/2002                4  TTL (1); PROJECT               S            S
COORDINATOR (1);
PROCUREMENT SPESIALIST
(1); DISBURCEMENT
ANALYST (1)
06/07/2002                2  TEAM LEADER (1); PROJECT       S            S
COORDINATOR (1)
ICR
02/22/2004                    TEAM LEADER (1); ICR           S           S
CONSULTANTS (2)
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle               Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks           US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation    not available                   387
Appraisal/Negotiation         not available                   101
Supervision                          460                      682
ICR                                    6                       10
Total                         not available                 1,180
- 38 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Ratin
LI Macro policies            O H  OSU*M      O N   O NA
Li Sector Policies           O H  OSU*M      0 N   O NA
Cl Physical                  O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
L Financial                  O H  * SU O M   O N   O NA
Li Institutional Development  O H  * SU 0 M  O N   0 NA
5i Environmental             O H  OSU*M      O N   0 NA
Social
? Poverty Reduction    O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
Li Gender             O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
i Other (Please specify)  O H  OSUOM   0 N  * NA
Li Private sector development  0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Li Public sector management  0 H  O SUO M    0 N   0 NA
L Other (Please specify)     O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
- 39 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                      Rating
B Lending                               OHS OS       O U    OHU
t Supervision                           OHS OS       O U    O HU
N Overall                               OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                   Ratinrz
Preparation                            OHS OS       OU     O HU
F Government implementation performance  O HS O S    0 u    0 HU
F Implementation agencyperformance      O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
Z Overall                               OHS OS       Ou     O HU
-40 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Community Social Infrastructure Project. Staff Appraisal Report. Report No. 14977-RU. April 2, 1996.
Project Status Reports, Back to Office Reports, Aide-Memoires.
Community Social Infrastructure Project Progress Reports
Central PIU monitoring reports, PIU Project Completion Report
-41 -



I
I
i
i
i



