Page  1
September 10, 1999
Mr. M. Kasianov 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Ilyinka Street 9 112008, 
Moscow 
Russian Federation
Re:
Loan Agreement No. 4009-RU (Community Social Infrastructure 
Project)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement 
Dear Mr. Kasianov:
We refer to the Loan Agreement (Community Social Infrastructure Project), 
between the Russian Federation (the Borrower) and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated August 26, 1996 and amended on October 
28, 1996 and December 19, 1997, to your letter dated July 6, 1999 requesting that the 
Loan Agreement be amended to provide for partial cancellation of the Loan amount, and 
to the letter from Mr. O.Viugin, the First Deputy Minister of Finance dated September 
9, 1999 requesting further modifications to the Loan Agreement.  Your request to 
cancel the amount of US$43.5 million from the Loan was acknowledged in my letter of 
July 14, 1999 (Annex 2), and the revised Schedule 1 “Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the 
Loan”  was sent to you on July 16, 1999 (Annex 3).  In the revised Schedule 1, please 
note the corrected amounts under Categories (2)(a) and (2)(b).
Based on the discussions between Bank officials and the representatives of the 
Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Federal Affairs and Nationalities and in 
response to the above-referenced letter from Mr. O.Viugin, the Bank agrees to the 
amendments to the Loan Agreement set forth in  Annex 1 to this letter and hereby 
attaches to this Amendment Letter a revised Schedule 3 “Amortization Schedule”.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing, dating and 
returning to us the attached copy of this letter. This amendment will become effective 
as of the date hereof upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Amendment Letter 
countersigned by you.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Michael Carter 
Director 
Russian Federation Country Unit 
Europe and Central Asia Region
CONFIRMED: 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By /s/ M. Kasianov
       Authorized Representative
Date:  October 8, 1999
ANNEX
Amendments to the Loan Agreement 4009-RU
Page  2
1.
In Section 3.01, paragraph (c) is amended to read as follows:
“(c)
The Borrower shall relend out of the proceeds of the Loan: (i) the 
amounts 
allocated from time to time under Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (3) 
(a), (4) (a) and (6)(a) 
to Rostov Region; and (ii) the amounts allocated from time 
to time under Categories (1) (b), 
(2) (b), (3) (b), (4) (b) and (6) (b) to 
Novosibirsk Region under Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
to be entered into between the 
Borrower and each of Rostov Region and Novosibirsk Region 
under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, without limitation, the 
terms 
and conditions specified in Part I of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.”
2.
In Section 4.04, paragraph (a) is deleted.
3.
 In Schedule 1, paragraph 3 is amended to read as follows:
“3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
any payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (a) and 
(b), (2) (a), 
(b) and (e), (3) (a), (b) and (c) and (4) (a), (b) and (c) under 
the Project prior to the 
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $15,000,000, may be made in 
respect of Categories (1) (a) and (b), (2) (a), 
(b) and (e), (3) (a), (b) and (c) 
and (4) (a), (b) and (c) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that 
date but after October 1, 1995; and
(b)
any payments made for expenditures under Categories (1)(a) and 
(b), (2) (a)  and (b), (3) (a) and (b), (4) (a) and (b), and (6) (a) and (b) to a 
Region unless the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the 
Region has become effective.”
4.
(a)
In Schedule 2, the first paragraph is amended to read as follows:
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) reduce the deterioration in selected 
health, education and water supply and sanitation facilities in Rostov and Novosibirsk 
Regions; (ii) improve the efficiency in managing public resources in Rostov and 
Novosibirsk Regions; (iii) foster private sector development in Rostov and Novosibirsk 
Regions; and (iv) monitor the effectiveness of new financial, procurement, and 
participatory practices in the education, health and water supply and sanitation 
sectors and disseminate the results in order to promote the use of these practices in 
similar activities in the territory of the Borrower. 
(b)
Part A.2 is deleted and Part A.1 is renumbered as Part A.
(c)
Part B.2 is deleted and Part B.1 is renumbered as Part B.
(d)
Paragraph 1(iii) under Part B (as renumbered) is deleted.
(e)
Part C is amended to read as follows:
“CPIU and Monitoring and Evaluation
Support to the CPIU through the provision of consultants’ services, 
training and 
goods and provision of consultants’ services to monitor and 
evaluate the Project, to prepare  the Project Manual, to assist in the dissemination of 
the Project’s results in other regions 
and to assist in the preparation of the 
Regional Finance Technical Assistance Project”.
5.
The amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 in the Loan Agreement is 
amended to read as set forth in the Attachment to this Annex.
6.
Schedule 4 is amended as follows:
(a)
In Section I, Part B, paragraph 3 is amended to read as follows:
Page  3
“3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of Part C of this 
Schedule 4, 
items or groups of items for works for the installation of specific water 
supply equipment 
in Rostov Region, involving installation techniques or equipment 
estimated to cost more than 
the equivalent of $1,000,000 per contract shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.”
(b)
In Section I, Part C, paragraph 3 is amended to read as follows:
“3.
International Shopping
Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or 
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000 
equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines”.
(c)
In Section I, Part C, paragraph 4 is amended to read as follows:
“4.
National Shopping
Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
less than 
$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $3,900,000,  may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.”
(d)
In Section I, Part C, paragraph 5 is amended to read as follows:
“5.
Contracts for cesspit emptying vehicles up to an aggregate amount 
not to 
exceed the equivalent of $1,200,000 may be awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.”
7.
In Schedule 6, paragraph 1 (a) is amended to read as follows:
“(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) 
and (6) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement”.
8.
Schedule 7 is amended as follows:
(a)
In Part I, Section D, paragraph 5 is amended to read as follows:
“5.
Each Region shall, by December 31, 1999, carry out a mid-term 
review, in 
consultation with the Bank, for evaluating the overall progress in 
the implementation of its  respective Part of the Project and adopting such measures as 
may be necessary to resolve any 
issues in respect thereof.”
(b)
Part II is amended to read as follows:
“Part II:
Principal Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.
No expenditures for goods, works or services required for a 
Sub-project shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless 
the Sub-loan for such 
Sub-project shall have been approved by the Bank and 
such expenditures shall have been made 
not earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the 
date on which the Bank shall have received 
the application and information required 
under paragraph 2 of Part II of this Schedule in 
respect of such Sub-loan.
2.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan for Sub-projects under Parts A 
and B of the  Project to the Bank for approval, each Region shall furnish to the Bank 
the proposed terms 
and conditions of any on-lending by the Region.
(b)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraph (a) 
of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or before July 
1, 2000.
3.
The Region shall obtain, by written contract with the Sub-borrower 
Page  4
or by other 
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the 
Bank and the 
Region, including, in the case of any Sub-loan the right to:
(a)
require the beneficiary to carry out and operate the Sub-Project 
with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial and managerial 
standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed out 
of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and 
services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Sub-Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if 
the Bank 
shall so request, such goods, works, plants and construction 
included in the Sub-Project, 
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents;
(d)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Region shall 
reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations 
and financial condition of 
the beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived 
from the Sub-Project; and
(e)
suspend or terminate the right of the beneficiary to the use of 
the proceeds  of the Loan upon failure by such beneficiary to perform its obligations 
under its contract 
with the Region.”
ATTACHMENT
Schedule 3
Amortization Schedule
(to be provided by Mr. Andrew Mackie)
