Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4009 RU
Loan Agreement
(Community Social Infrastructure Project)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 27, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4009 RU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 27, 1996, between the RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
Page  2
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Advisory Board” means the board referred to in paragraph 1(b) of Part I 
D of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
(b)
“CPIU” means the Central Project Implementation Unit to be established by 
the Borrower in Moscow pursuant to Section 6.01(b) of this Agreement;
(c)
“MINNAT” means the Ministry of Nationalities and Federal Affairs of the 
Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto;
(d)
“Novosibirsk Region” means Novosibirsk Region, a subject of the Russian 
Federation, and includes any successor or successors thereto;
(e)
“Novosibirsk Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and Novosibirsk Region referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Novosibirsk Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement;
(f)
“Project Account” means each of the accounts referred to in paragraph 1 
(c) of Part I D of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
(g)
“Project Bureau” means each of the Project bureaus to be established in 
each of Rostov Region and Novosibirsk Region referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of Part I 
D of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
(h)
“Project Manual” means the project manual to be submitted to the Bank by 
the Borrower and referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement 
establishing criteria for the selection, appraisal and implementation of Sub-projects;
(i)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
November 20, 1995 and April 5, 1996 between the Borrower and the Bank;
(j)
“Project Sector” means each of the: (i) education; (ii) health and (iii) 
water supply and sanitation sectors to be financed under the Project;
(k)
“Region” means each of Novosibirsk Region and Rostov Region (as 
hereinafter defined);
(l)
“Rostov Region” means Rostov Region, a subject of the Russian Federation, 
and includes any successor or successors thereto;
(m)
“Rostov Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and Rostov Region referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time , and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Rostov Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(o)
“Sub-borrower” means a sub-region, municipality, vodokanal (as 
hereinafter defined) or other entity to which Rostov Region or Novosibirsk Region 
proposes to make or has made a Sub-Loan;
(p)
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Region to a 
Sub-borrower for a Sub-project (as hereinafter defined) on the terms and conditions 
set out in Part II of Schedule 7 to this Agreement out of the equivalent of the 
proceeds of the Loan relent to the Region under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (as 
hereinafter defined);
(q)
“Sub-project” means a specific project in any Project Sector under Part A 
or Part B of the Project to be carried out by a Sub-borrower utilizing the proceeds of  
a Sub-loan in accordance with the procedures and criteria referred to in Part II of 
Schedule 7 to this Agreement; 
Page  3
(r)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means the Rostov Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
and the Novosibirsk Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the term “Subsidiary Loan” means 
each loan provided thereunder; and
(s)
“Vodokanal” means a public corporation responsible for water supply and 
sanitation utilities in Rostov Region or Novosibirsk Region.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred million dollars ($200,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Sched\1fule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself  the amount required to 
repay the princi\1fpal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and out\1f
standing as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
Page  4
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) 
months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on 
the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said 
period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to 
the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable April 15 and 
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall 
carry out Part C of the Project, and (ii) shall cause each of Rostov Region and 
Novosibirsk Region to carry out Parts A and B, respectively, of the Project with due 
diligence and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for such Parts of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Part C of 
the Project and cause each of Rostov Region and Novosibirsk Region to carry out Parts 
A and B, respectively, of the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation 
Schedule referred to in paragraph 2 of Part I B of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend out of the proceeds of the Loan: (i) the 
amounts allocated from time to time under Categories (1) (a) and (c), (2) (a) and (c), 
(3) (a), (4) (a), (5)(a) and (6)(a) to Rostov Region; and (ii) the amounts allocated 
from time to time under Categories (1) (b) and (d), (2) (b) and (d), (3) (b), (4) (b), 
(5) (b) and (6) (b) to Novosibirsk Region under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be 
entered into between the Borrower and each of Rostov Region and Novosibirsk Region 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, without limitation, 
the terms and conditions specified in Part I of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall:
Page  5
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on a continuous basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank on or about June 1, 1998, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank by September 1, 1998, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of  this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by such 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain and ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures are retained until 
at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last 
Page  6
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that Novosibirsk Region and Rostov 
Region shall, within one year of the date of effectiveness of this Loan Agreement, 
establish an investment mechanism acceptable to the Bank for financing pilot 
Sub-projects in the health sector.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause each Region to ensure that:
(a)
the aggregate amount of Loan proceeds utilized for Sub-projects in any 
one Project Sector shall constitute not more than 40% nor less than 25% of the 
aggregate amount allocated to Categories (1), (2) (a), (b), (c) and (d) and (8) (a) 
and (b) in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement; and
(b)
not more than 50% of the aggregate amount utilized for Sub-projects in 
any one Project Sector shall be in respect of Sub-projects located in the capital city 
of the Region.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Rostov Region or Novosibirsk Region shall have failed to perform any of 
its obligations under the Rostov Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Novosibirsk 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, respectively; and
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Rostov Region or Novosibirsk Region will be able to perform its obligations under 
the Rostov Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Novosibirsk Subsidiary Loan Agreement, 
respectively.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified: the event specified in paragraph (a) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty 
(60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
at least one Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed and become 
effective in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
the CPIU has been established with separate juridical status to 
coordinate Project related activities among other federal agencies, ministries and 
regions, and a director and key personnel of the CPIU have been appointed with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
Page  7
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank: that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred 
to in Section 6.01 (a) has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the 
Region, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Region in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or the Deputy Minister of Finance of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Ul Ilyinka 9
103097 Moscow
Russian Federation
Telex:
112008
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64l45 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By /s/ Yuli Vorontsov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
Page  8
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Loan
Allocated (Expressed
% of Expenditures
Category
in Dollar Equivalent)
  to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
75%
(a) Part A 1 of the      37,630,000
Project
(b) Part B 1 of the      37,060,000
Project
(c) Part A 2 of the      12,630,000
Project
(d) Part B 2 of the      12,630,000
Project
(e) Part C of the            50,000
Project
(2)
Goods
100% of foreign
(a) Part A 1 of the 
     18,690,000
expenditures
Project
100% of local
(b) Part B 1 of the 
     19,650,000
expenditures
Project
(ex-factory
(c) Part A 2 of the       5,800,000
cost) and 75%
Project
of local
(d) Part B 2 of the 
      5,800,000
expenditures
Project
for other items
(e) Part C of the 
         60,000
procured 
Project
locally
(3)
Consultants’ services 
100% of foreign
(a) Part A 1 of the 
      8,350,000
expenditures
Project
65% of local
(b) Part B 1 of the 
      9,230,000
expenditures
Project
(c) Part C of the  
      4,620,000
Project
(4)
Training
100%
(a) Part A 1 of the 
      2,230,000
Project
(b) Part B 1 of the 
      2,600,000
Project
(c) Part C of the 
        170,000
Project
(5)
Health Sector Consumables
100% of foreign 
(a) Part A 1 of the 
      5,150,000
expenditures
Project
75% of local
 
(b) Part B 1 of the 
      5,850,000
expenditures
Project
(6)
Incremental Operating Costs
100%
Page  9
(a) Part A 1 of the 
        620,000
Project
(b) Part B 1 of the 
        620,000
Project
(c) Part C of the 
        760,000
Project
(7)
Refunding of Project
      1,500,000
Amount due 
Preparation Advance
pursuant
to Section 2.02 
(c) of this 
Agreement  
(8)
Unallocated
(a) Part A1 of the 
      4,000,000
Project
(b) Part B1 of the 
      4,050,000
Project
(c) Part C of the 
        250,000
Project
     __________
TOTAL
    200,000,000
    ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “health sector consumables” means incremental costs of 
consumable health supplies required for the operation of the equipment provided under 
the Project; and
(d)
the term “incremental operating costs” means incremental operating costs 
(other than health sector consumables), utilities and maintenance; office 
accommodation and equipment, accessories, maintenance and consumable supplies; 
advertising, printing, communications and transportation costs.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
any payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (a) and (b), (2) 
(a), (b) and (e), (3) (a), (b) and (c) and (4) (a), (b) and (c) under the Project 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding the equivalent of $15,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) 
(a) and (b), (2) (a), (b) and (e), (3) (a), (b) and (c) and (4) (a), (b) and (c) on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after October 1, 1995;
(b)
any payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (c) and (d) and 
(2) (c) and (d) under the Project prior to the date of this Agreement;
(c)
any payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (a), (b), (c) and 
(d), (2) (a), (b), (c) and (d), (3) (a) and (b), (4) (a) and (b), (5) (a) and (b), (6) 
(a) and (b) and (8) (a) and (b) to a Region unless the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
between the Borrower and the Region has become effective; and
Page  10
(d)
any payments made for expenditures under Categories (1)(c) and (d) and 
(2)(c) and (d) under the Project unless the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have 
been approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 
ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the application 
and information required under paragraph 2 of Part II of Schedule 7 to this Agreement 
in respect of such Sub-loan.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and services under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) reduce the deterioration of health, 
education and water supply and sanitation facilities in Rostov and Novosibirsk 
Regions; (ii) improve the efficiency in managing public resources in Rostov and 
Novosibirsk Regions; (iii) foster private sector development in Rostov and Novosibirsk 
Regions; (iv) promote participation, including non-governmental participation, in 
decision-making in the education, health and water supply and sanitation sectors in 
Rostov and Novosibirsk Regions; and (v) monitor the effectiveness of new financial, 
procurement, and participatory practices in the education, health and water supply and 
sanitation sectors and disseminate the results in order to promote the use of these 
practices in similar activities in the territory of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
PART A:
ROSTOV REGION
Part A 1
Provision of goods and services and carrying out of works for Sub-projects 
through Sub-loans, which have been identified by the Borrower as at the date of this 
Agreement and have been approved by the Bank, comprising:
1.
Education
(i)
Rehabilitation of school facilities and provision of equipment to schools 
in Rostov Region providing general education, the expansion of capacity in schools in 
Rostov Region and the construction of new schools in Rostov Region; and 
(ii)
provision of training and consultants’ services to improve project 
management in school facilities, including the identification, preparation and 
implementation of Sub-projects.
2.
Health
(i)
Provision of goods and carrying out of works for the rehabilitation and 
upgrading of the core functions of selected municipal and emergency hospitals and 
polyclinics in Rostov Region; 
(ii)
provision of consultants’ services to assist in developing new financial 
mechanisms in Rostov Region on a pilot basis in order to improve the process of 
selecting and financing medical investments; and 
(iii)
provision of training to selected health sector specialists in Rostov 
Region and consultants’ services for the design and supervision of project facilities.
3.
Water Supply and Sanitation
(i)
Provision of goods and carrying out of works for the rehabilitation, 
refurbishment and renewal of the existing water supply and sanitation infrastructure 
in Rostov Region and for construction of new water supply and sanitation 
Page  11
infrastructure in Rostov Region; 
(ii)
provision of consultants’ services and training in all aspects of design, 
construction, operation and institutional and financial management of water supply and 
sanitation services; and
(iii)
provision of consultants’ services to appraise the management and 
operation of the structure and activities of the water supply and sanitation sectors.
4.
Budget and Expenditure Management
Provision of consultants’ services, training and goods to assist regional and 
sub-regional governments in improving budgetary management and expenditure and to 
reform financial and managerial practices.
5.
Project Bureau
Support to the Project Bureau in Rostov through the provision of consultants’ 
services, training and goods.
Part A 2
Provision of goods and carrying out of works for Sub-projects through Sub-loans 
within the education, health and water supply and sanitation sectors in Rostov Region.
PART B:
NOVOSIBIRSK REGION
Part B 1
Provision of goods and services and carrying out of works for Sub-projects 
through Sub-loans, which have been identified by the Borrower as at the date of this 
Agreement and have been approved by the Bank, comprising:
1.
Education
(i)
Rehabilitation of school facilities and provision of equipment to the 
schools in the Novosibirsk Region providing general education and the construction of 
new schools in Novosibirsk Region;
(ii)
provision of training and consultants’ services to improve project 
management in school facilities, including the identification, preparation and 
implementation of Sub-projects; and
(iii)
provision of equipment, training and consultants’ services to develop a 
management information system (MIS Program) for school facilities to improve the 
planning, management and operation of school facilities in the Novosibirsk 
municipality.
2.
Health
(i)
Provision of goods and carrying out of works for the rehabilitation and 
upgrading of the core functions of selected municipal and emergency hospitals and 
polyclinics in Novosibirsk Region; 
(ii)
provision of consultants’ services to assist in developing new financial 
mechanisms on a pilot basis in order to improve the process of selecting and financing 
medical investment; and  
(iii)
provision of training to selected health sector specialists in 
Novosibirsk Region and consultants’ services for the design and supervision of project 
facilities.
3.
Water Supply and Sanitation
(i)
Provision of goods and carrying out of works for the rehabilitation, 
refurbishment and renewal of the existing water supply and sanitation infrastructure 
in Novosibirsk Region and for construction of new water supply and sanitation 
Page  12
infrastructure in Novosibirsk Region; 
(ii)
provision of consultants’ services and training in all aspects of design, 
construction, operation and institutional and financial management of water supply and 
sanitation services to establish financial mechanisms to achieve cost-recovery from 
the major vodokanals; and
(iii)
provision of consultants’ services to appraise the management and 
operation of the structure and activities of the water supply and sanitation sectors.
4.
Budget and Expenditure Management
Provision of training, consultants’ services and goods to assist regional and 
sub-regional governments in improving budgetary management and expenditure and to 
reform financial and managerial practices.
5.
Project Bureau
Support to the Project Bureau in Novosibirsk through the provision of 
consultants’ services, training and goods.
Part B 2
Provision of goods and carrying out of works for Sub-projects through Sub-loans 
within the education, health and water supply and sanitation sectors in Novosibirsk 
Region.
Part C
CPIU and Monitoring and Evaluation
Support to the CPIU through the provision of consultants’ services, training and 
goods and provision of consultants’ services to monitor and evaluate the Project, to 
prepare the Project Manual and to assist in the replication of the Project in other 
regions. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                             Payment of Principal  
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 2001
through October 15, 2012
      8,335,000
On April 15, 2013
      8,295,000
Page  13
____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of Part C of this Schedule 4, 
items or groups of items for works for the installation of chlorination systems in 
Novosibirsk Region and for installation of specific water supply equipment in Rostov 
Region, involving installation techniques or equipment estimated to cost more than the 
equivalent of $1,000,000 per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
National Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in paragraph 3 of Part B of this Schedule 4, items or groups 
of items for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or less per contract 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $58,000,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Items or groups of items for goods (other than vehicles) estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
National Shopping
3.
Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than 
$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Page  14
Guidelines.
4.
Contracts for cesspit emptying vehicles up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
the equivalent of $800,000 may be awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Direct Contracting
5.
Contracts for specialized medical equipment which are of a proprietary nature 
not to exceed the equivalent of $500,000 in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or  more; (ii) each contract awarded on the basis of Part A of this 
Schedule; and (iii) each of the first two contracts awarded on the basis of Parts C1 
and C3 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the "Consultant Guidelines"). Such contracts shall be based on the standard form 
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications 
thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract 
documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank 
shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall establish and maintain the CPIU in Moscow with separate 
juridical status with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and shall ensure 
Page  15
that the CPIU is adequately staffed by key personnel with qualifications, terms of 
reference and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
The Borrower, through MINNAT, shall establish and maintain an inter-ministerial 
working group with representatives from the Ministries of Education, Health, 
Construction, Finance, Economy and Environment and from each Region, chaired by a 
representative from MINNAT and attended by the director of the CPIU, to oversee the 
overall implementation of the Project.
3. 
The Borrower shall, prior to September 1, 1998, and in consultation with the 
Project Bureau in each Region, prepare and submit the Project Manual to the Bank for 
its approval.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) 
and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $20,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
Page  16
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: 
(i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 
2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: 
(A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or 
(B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the  General Conditions.
Page  17
SCHEDULE 7 
Terms and Conditions of On-lending
Part I:
Principal Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreements
The following principal terms and conditions shall apply for purposes of the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements entered into pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Agreement:
Section A:
Terms
1.
The principal amount of each Sub-loan to a Region shall be denominated and be 
the equivalent in Dollars (determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the value of the 
currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid on account of goods or services financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
2. 
The Region shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Sub-Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a floating rate up to the equivalent of 250 
basis points above the interest rate determined in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
3.
The amount of the Sub-Loan shall be repaid by the Region over a term of twelve 
(12) years, inclusive of a grace period of three (3) years.
Section B:
Obligation to Carry Out Project Activities
1.
The Region shall declare its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out, with the 
Borrower’s assistance, the activities related to the Region as described in Part A or 
Part B of the Project, as the case may be, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for its Part of the Project.
2.
The Region shall carry out its respective Part of the Project in accordance with 
a Project Implementation Schedule agreed with the Bank.
3.
The Region shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Region shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
4.
(a)
The Region shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to the progress of its respective Part of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
The Region shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its respective Part of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the 
Region of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section C:
Financial Covenants
1.
(a)
The Region shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of its respective Part of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Region responsible for carrying out its respective Part 
of the Project.
(b)
The Region shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
Page  18
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts 
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the 
Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
Section D:
Implementation Conditions
1.
The Borrower shall cause each Region to:
(a)
establish, as a condition to effectiveness of its Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and maintain, a Project Bureau in the capital city of the Region with 
separate juridical status, and shall ensure that the Project Bureau is at all times 
staffed by key personnel with qualifications, terms of reference and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
establish, as a condition to effectiveness of its Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and maintain an Advisory Board chaired by the First Deputy Governor of the 
Region, with board members selected from representatives of the local community, 
including, but without limitation, trade unions, local government beneficiary groups 
and non-governmental organizations, and with ex-officio members from MINNAT, CPIU, and 
the Project Bureau, to meet and review the implementation of the Project Sub-Projects 
on a semi-annual basis until June 1, 1998; and
(c)
within one month of the date of effectiveness of the relevant Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, open two project bank accounts in a commercial bank: (i) in local 
currency; and (ii) in dollars or any other freely exchangeable currency and, until 
completion of the Project, maintain such accounts.
2.
Each Region shall, at periodic intervals agreed with the Borrower and the Bank, 
deposit into its Project Account held in local currency, such amounts in local 
currency as shall be agreed  under a payment schedule agreed annually with the 
Borrower and the Bank.
3.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each Region shall select and appraise 
sub-projects to be included in its respective Part of the Project in accordance with 
criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank.
4.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Region shall make Sub-loans under 
the Project in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in Part II of this Schedule 7.
5.
Each Region shall, by December 31, 1998, carry out a mid-term review, in 
consultation with the Bank, for evaluating the overall progress in the implementation 
of its respective Part of the Project and adopting such measures as may be necessary 
to resolve any issues in respect thereof.
6.
Each Region shall, by April 1, 1998, submit to the CPIU, a draft operational 
manual setting out criteria and procedures for selecting and appraising Sub-projects 
including the criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank under paragraph 3 of this 
Part I D of  Schedule 7.
Part II:
Principal Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.
No expenditures for goods, works or services required for a Sub-project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the Sub-loan for such 
Sub-project shall have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been 
made not earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have 
Page  19
received the application and information required under paragraph 2 of Part II of this 
Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan.
2.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan to the Bank for approval, each Region shall 
furnish to the Bank an application, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
together with: (i) an appraisal of the Sub-Project, including a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan; (ii) the 
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization 
of the Sub-loan or of repayment of the amount of the Loan to be used for the Sub-Loan; 
(iii) with respect to a Sub-borrower in the water sector, financial projections, 
acceptable to the Bank,  showing that the projected revenues of the Sub-borrower 
(including budgetary subsidies) shall cover its costs of operation and maintenance and 
showing, to the extent permitted under the laws of the Borrower, a plan for the 
progressive reduction in budgetary subsidies, leading to the projected elimination of 
such subsidies in 2005; and (iv) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably 
request.
(b)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or before July 
1, 2000.
3.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Region shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Sub-borrower or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to 
protect the interests of the Bank and the Region, including, in the case of any 
Sub-loan the right to:
(a)
require the beneficiary to carry out and operate the Sub-Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and 
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively 
in the carrying out of the Sub-Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods, works, plants and construction included in the 
Sub-Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Region shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-Project; 
and
(e)
suspend or terminate the right of the beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such beneficiary to perform its obligations under 
its contract with the Region.
