CREDIT NUMBER 2080 DJI
Development Credit Agreement
(Manpower and Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1990


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2080 DJI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   FZVAtCMAA_/\     S, 1990, between
the REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI (the Borro4r) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project, described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) by an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) (the UNDP
Agreement), the UNDP is to make a grant (the UNDP Grant) to the
Borrower in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to $429,000
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in the UNDP Grant Agreement;
(C) by an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the European Development Fund (EDF) (the EDF Grant Agreement),
the EDF is to make a grant (the EDF Grant) to the Borrower in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to $400,000 to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the
EDF Grant Agreement, and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the following modifications (the General
Conditions), constitute an integr,l part of this Agreement:
(a) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and


﻿-2 -
(b) in Section 11,01 after the word "telex", the language
", telefacsimile" is added.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Ministry" means the Borrower's Ministry responsible for
national education;
(b) "Directorate" means the 2ir2tion G6nfrale of National
Education within the Ministry;
(c) "Research Center" means the Ce.tre d. recherche,
d' information Lt d   prduation d llducati2n na.i.nalf, the
National Educational Research Center of the Borrower; and
(d) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to four million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 4,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Djibouti francs a special account in a
financial institution and on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1995,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15,
commencing April 15, 2000 and ending October 15, 2029. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
October 15, 2009 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.


﻿.4
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objecti-res of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, economic, administrative and educational practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project


﻿in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1990,
staff the Secretariat of its National Council for Training and
Employment with at least two additional staff members holding at
least junior college diplomas.
Section 3.04. During the carrying out of the Project, the
Borrower shall ensure that at least 90% of primary school teachers
be recruited at the level of assistant teacher (instituteur
adoint).
Section 3.05. The schools to be constructed under Part B of
the Project shall be constructed only on sites and pursuant to
designs satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. In connection with the establishment of the
Research Center included in Part C of the Project, the Borrower
shall exchange views with the Association by May 31 of each year
on the proposed work program of the Research Center.
Section 3.07. Following the completion of each study included
in the Project, the Borrower and the Association shall exchange
views on the results thereof and on their follow-up;
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be
necessary to:
(a) replace, by March 31, 1991, pre-salaries for teacher
trainees with indemnities at least one third less than such pre-
salaries;
(b) cancel any new fellowships abroad for general secondary
education beyond December 31, 1990;
(c) reduce by 60% the number of grants in support of
secondary education to be given after January 31, 1991, while
retaining criteria for eligibility for such grants designed
especially to increase female enrollment in secondary education;
and


﻿6-
(d) complete and make effective by January 31, 1991 new
criteria for awarding fellowships for higher education and
especially for providing incentives for the higher education of
females, while freezing the related budget.
Section 3,09. Among the information to be furnished by the
Borrower to the Association pursuant to Section 9,01 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower shall furnish by June 30 and
December 31 in each year during the carrying out of the Project
semiannual reports on the status of the Project and the
expenditures related thereto.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account audited for each fiscal year in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿-7-
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, toqgether with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. By November 15 in each year, the Borrower shall
exchange views with the Association on the Borrower's proposed
investment and recurrent expenditure budgets for the education
sector for the coming fiscal year.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that:
(a) subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the


﻿financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms thereof, or
(ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof,
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Sectibn shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and
(ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) (ii) of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of
such Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) any conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
UNDP and EDF Grant Agreements have been fulfilled, other than any
related to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(b) the Research Center has been legally established, its
National Director appointed, and its operating budget for the
first year authorized;
(c) two commissions of educators have been established to
review the curricula for primary and for lower secondary education
and to adapt them to current socio-cultural and economic
conditions; and


﻿-9-
(d) the statute for primary education inspectors has become
effective.
Section 6.02. The date 60 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and National Economy
Djibouti
B. P. 13
Republic of Djibouti
Cable address:                Telex:
Ministry of Finance        994-5871 DJ
and National Economy
Fax:
(253) 35-5049
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS,                   440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
Fax:
(202) 477-6391
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia;
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
By     /5           e
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
A c       Regional Vice President
A 7                  Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
finap' ed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Credit       % of
allocated (expressed   Expenditures
Category          in SDR equivalent)   to be financed
(1) Civil works           2,120,000         85%
(2) Furnishings,                            100% of foreign
equipment,                             expenditures
vehicles,                              85% of local
textbooks:                             expenditures for
ex-factory prices
(a) Part A              25,000         and 70% of ex-
of the                            penditures or
Project                           other items pur-
chased domesti-
(b) all other          565,000         cally
Parts of
the Project
(3) Consultants'                            100% of foreign
and experts'                           expenditures for
services:                              persons not resident
in Djibouti and
(a) Part A             120,000         70% of local
of the                            expenditures
Project                           for services of
other persons
(b) all other          565,000
Parts of
the Project


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the Credit       % of
allocated (expressed    Expenditures
Category          in SDR eQuivalent)   to be financed
(4) Training                  70,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(5) Operating costs:                        40%
(a) Part A               30,000
of the
Project
(b) all other            80,000
Parts ex-
cept Part B
(6) Studies, prepa-           55,000        100%
ration of future
investment projects
(7) Unallocated              970,000
TOTAL                 4,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments for
expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement, or (b)
Part A of the Project until two additional employees with at least
Junior College diplomas have been hired by the National Employment
Service and the National Council for Training and Employment has
been legally established and is operating.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project ara to improve the coordination
of vocational training with the labor market, increase access to
primary education, improve the quality of primary and first-cycle
secondary education, increase the administrative capabilities of
the Ministry, while achieving better allocation of resources and
reducing costs in the sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Coordination of Vocational Training
1.   National Service for Employment (NSE)
(a) the development of a data base on national employment;
(b) the carrying out of studies to redefine the role of the
Vocational Training Center of the Ministry of Labor and Welfare;
(c) restructuring the Directorate of Training and Employment
within such Ministry;
(d) -training abroad of four of the NSE staff in labor
statistics and administration; and
(e) the procurement for use in the above of equipment and
furnishings.
2.   National Council for Training and Employment (NCTE)
(a) Establishment of the Council to be responsible for
assuring proper linkages between vocational training and labor
market, to propose adjustments in such training and to review
investments therefor;
(b) training of the staff in analysis of employment and
qualification and training; and
(c) the procurement for use. in the above of equipment and
materials.


﻿- 14 -
Part B:   Primary School Construction
Construction, equipment and furnishing of three primary
schools in the suburbs of Djibouti City providing 36 classrooms
and of one school at Ali Sabieh with nine classrooms for double-
shift operation with a capacity of about 4,500 pupils.
Part C:   Quality of Education
1.   National Center for Educational Research, Information and
Production (CRIPEN)
(a) Establishment of CRIPEN to provide the pedagogical
support and leadership required to improve the quality of
education and to adapt it to socio-cultural conditions;
(b) construction, equipment and furnishing of facilities for
the center and the extension of the existing printshop;
(c) adaptation of curricula for primary and first-cycle
secondary education and for primary teacher training, development
of related teaching guides for primary education and evaluation of
students' achievements;
(d) training abroad of four CRIPEN educators in measurement
and evaluation, in methodology of teaching French and in the
development of teaching materials; training of about 60 primary
school directors in strategies for school effectiveness; and
(e) procurement of textbooks for mathematics and sciences
and French and Arabic dictionaries for the last two years of
primary education.
2.   Inspectorates
(a) Construction, equipment and furnishing of two regional
primary education Inspectorates at Tadjourah and at Dikhil and
procurement of all-terrain vehicles for use by the inspectors.
(b) Training of two primary education inspectors.


﻿- 15 -
Part D:   Educational Management
1.   Establishment of a Service for Educational Planning (SEP)
through restructuring of the School Organization Office.
2.   Carrying out by the SEP of:
(a) a program of collection and analysis of statistical
data, especially concerning the unsatisfied demand in primary and
higher education;
(b) preliminary study of costs and financing in the sector
and, subsequently, a follow-up study thereof;
(c) school mapping for primary and secondary education;
(d) a tracer study, conducted in collaboration with the
Research Center, of vocational training graduates;
(e) an organizational and management study of the Ministry;
(f) annual reviews of the investment program for the
educational sector, including proposals for the next annual
program tranche and its budgetary implications; and
(g) studies and preparatory activities necessary for future
investments in the sector.
3.   Training abroad of five Ministry of education staff in
budgeting, general administration and personnel, planning and
school mapping.
4.   The procurement for use by the SEP and of the existing
Project Implementation Unit of equipment, furnishing and vehicles.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1994.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C of this Schedule, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   For the purposes of inviting bids, contracts for goods and
for works shall be grouped to the extent practicable into bid
packages large enough to attract the optimum competition.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Djibouti may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 below, all contracts
for civil works, and contracts for vehicles, equipment,
furnishings or textbooks estimated after grouping under paragraph
A.2 above to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, may be procured on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance
with paragraph 3.3 of the Guidelines. The provisions of paragraphs
2.16 and 2.45 of the 'uidelines shall apply to such procurement.
2.   The total values of contracts for (a) civil works and
(b) vehicles, equipment, furnishings and textbooks procured under
paragraph 1 above shall not, without the prior approval of the
Association, exceed, respectively, amounts equivalent to $4.0
million and $100,000.
3.   Vehicles, equipment, furnishings and textbooks estimated
after grouping to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three


﻿17-
guppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
paragraph 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Vert-. :  Review by-the Association of Procuremet Deciions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more and each contract of
vehicles, equipment, furnishings or textbooks estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract,
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ such consultants and experts, whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, as shall be agreed
between the Association and the Borrower. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.   National Council for Training and Employment
By September 30, 1990, assignment of two qualified and
experienced staff to the Secretariat.
B.   Research Center (CRIPEN)
1.   By December 31, 1990, assignment of two educators;
2.   by December 31, 1991, assignment of three more
educators; and
3.   completion:
(a) by June 30, 1991, the adaptation of the primary
school curriculum;
(b) by December 31, 1991, the revisions of the
curriculum for teacher training; and
(c) ,by June 30, 1992 the adaptation of the first-cycle
secondary school curriculum.
C.   Educational Planning Service
1.   By December 31, 1991, assignment of a qualified staff
member;
2.   completion:
(a) by June 30, 1991, of the organizational study of
the Ministry;
(b) by June 30, 1991, of the preliminary study on costs
and financing in the educational sector;
(c) by June 30, 1992, of the study of school mapping at
primary and secondary levels;
(d) by June 30, 1993, of the tracer study of vocational
training graduates; and


﻿19 -
(e) by December 31, 1993, the follow-up study on costs
and financing in the educational sector.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)  (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿*21
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwtthdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such


﻿- 22 -
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to para-
graphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation
in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


