Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15924
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(CR. 1695-SL)
July 29, 1996
Africa Technical Human Development II
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Leone (Le)
US$1 = Le6 (at time of appraisal in April 1986)
US$1 = Le900 (at time of evaluation in July 1996)
MEASURES
Im        = 1.09 yd
Im2      = 10.76 sq ft
1 km2     = 0.38 sq mi
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
DRF          Drug Revolving Fund
HPP          Health and Population Project
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          Intemational Development Association
IEC          Information, Education, Communication
IMF          Intemational Monetary Fund
MoH          Ministry of Health
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
NPC          National Population Commission
NPCS         National Population Commission Secretariat
PHC          Primary Health Care
PMISU        Planning, Management Information, and Statistics Unit
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
TA           Technical Assistance
UNFPA        United Nations Population Fund
Fiscal Year
July I to June 30, until June 30, 1995
January I to December 31, since July 1, 1995



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(CR. 1695-SL)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY                               .............................................................i
PART L.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1. Project Objectives .................................................I
2. Achievement of Project Objectives ................................................. 3
3. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ........5
4. Project Sustainability .................................................7
5. Bank Performance ................................................8
6. Borrower Performance ................................................9
7. Assessment of Outcome .................................................9
8. Future Operation .................................................9
9. Key Lessons Learned ................................................                   10
PART IL  STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table I: Summary of Assessments .11
Table 2: Related Bank Credits .12
Table 3: Project Timetable .12
Table 4:   Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual    13
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .13
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .13
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project                                                   14
Table 8A: Project Costs ...........................................                       15
Table 8B: Project Financing ........................................... 15
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ...........................................  15
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ...........................................           16
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .... ............ 22
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................................... 22
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ...........................................            23
Appendices:  A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
C. Borrower's Comments on ICR
D. Map of Sierra Leone
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otheruise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



I
I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(CR. 1695-SL)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Health and
Population Project in Sierra Leone, for which Credit 1695-SL in the amount of SDR 4.6
million was approved on May 13, 1986, and made effective on September 19, 1986.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1995, compared with the original closing
date of June 30, 1990. It was suspended between May 1987 and April 1992. The Credit
was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on June 6, 1996. No cofinancing
was provided for the project.
The ICR was prepared by Angelika Pradel (Task Manager) and Anne-Sophie Ville
(Staff Assistant), AFTH2, of the Africa Region and reviewed by Ok Pannenborg,
Technical Manager, AFTH2, David Berk, Technical Specialist, AFTH2, and Mamadou
Dia, Country Director, Sierra Leone. The borrower provided comments which are
included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun one month before the Bank's ICR mission in
May 1996. It is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Borrower and the Bank and other
relevant material in the project file. The borrower, and in particular, the Project Manager
Dr. Clifford Kamara, contributed to the preparation of the ICR by submitting his own
evaluation report.






i
SIERRA LEONE
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(CR. 1695-SL)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Health and Population Project (HPP) was the first full-fledged IDA-supported
project in the health sector of Sierra Leone. However, an earlier Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 970-SL) had already provided the Ministry of Health with two person-
years of consulting services for the assessment of health sector needs and health planning.
The resulting recommendations were utilized in the design of the HPP.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    The three major project objectives were to assist the Government in (i) effecting
health policy reforms in the areas of health sector organization, decentralization, cost
containment and recovery, manpower, and budgeting and accounting, and in capacity
building for the Ministry of Health (MoH), including the creation of a central Planning,
Management Information and Statistics Unit, improvements in financial management, and
the strengthening of primary health care coordination; in (ii) strengthening primary
health care (PHC) and family planning by upgrading existing health facilities,
improving drug supply and distribution, strengthening staff training, developing a nutrition
policy and strengthening health, nutrition and family planning education; and in (iii)
developing a population policy and programs aimed at increasing the demand for
family planning through capacity building of the National Population Commission
Secretariat, the strengthening of NGO activities in inforrnation, education and
communication, and the integration of population into formal education curricula.
3.    At negotiations, Government had given assurances that it would provide foreign
currency for the procurement of drugs. This provision was necessary for the achievement
of the project's drug-related objectives, but could not be made during implementation for
lack of foreign currency. A fulfilled condition of effectiveness was for the MoH to
establish a Planning, Management and Information Unit in order to promote the objective
of MoH's capacity building. The project's cost containment objective was to be achieved
by the reduction of the MoH's daily wage workforce, as stipulated in a legal covenant that
was fully met.
4.    The objectives were clearly formulated and based on an accurate analysis of the
country's health, population and health sector situation. In general, the objectives were
realistic, except for the cost recovery objectives. Objectives and design were relevant to
the country and sector, and consistent with the country's Second National Development
Plan and health policy. Clear targets were only set for the project's financial objectives
and civil works component. There were no performance indicators for the achievement of
the other objectives. The project was demanding insofar as it called for intersectoral
cooperation, and complex because it addressed a multitude of issues with many sub-
components.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
5.    The project's objectives were partially achieved. On the positive side, health
policy reforms were initiated and are being carried out, a cost recovery system was
established, the MoH's planning and PHC coordination capacities were strengthened to a
substantial degree, basic health and family planning services were partially improved, and a
population policy was formulated. On the negative side, the health administration has not
yet been decentralized, the cost recovery rate is minimal, only a minority of health care
facilities at the primary level is functional and little was achieved in terms of increasing the
demand for family planning. The achievements made, however, are only partially
attributable to the HPP whose capacity to pursue its own objectives was impeded by a
number of factors. Thus, many objectives were achieved, but some without or with only
minimal contribution from the HPP. Those achievements made by the HPP are
sustainable.
6.    The most important impeding factor was the project's suspension shortly after
effectiveness for a period of five years, because the country's debt servicing problems led
to a freeze of all IDA-supported projects in Sierra Leone. During suspension, many
objectives were achieved by the Government of Sierra Leone and with the support of
other donors. After project resumption, the project was substantially modified to delete
obsolete activities. However, the restructuring which was agreed between the Borrower
and IDA also deleted most of the activities related to the project's population objective,
although no justification was provided for this decision. Remaining components were
impeded by a ravaging rebel war and changed government priorities after a coup d'etat.
7.    IDA performance was highly satisfactory at the identification and preparation
assistance stages, satisfactory at appraisal, and deficient in supervision. Identification and
preparation correctly focused on the overriding concerns of high fertility and mortality
levels and of low sector efficiency. Appraisal was still of an acceptable quality but its risk
analysis was deficient. The risk of suspension was not considered even though the country
was already in arrears at the time of appraisal. Supervision did not adequately deal with
the blows dealt to the project by its suspension. The substantial restructuring of the
project after resumption was not fully legitimate because IDA did not provide justification
for the deletion of some components which were still relevant. Borrower performance
was highly satisfactory at preparation and deficient during implementation. In spite of a
very committed project management, project activities were not adequately coordinated,
the population sector, although part and parcel of the project, was given no voice in
management decisions and counterpart financing was often delayed. Compliance with
legal covenants was satisfactory.
8.    Overall, project outcome is deficient. Suspended for five years only months after
effectiveness, confronted with a rebel war and a changed government shortly after
resumption, this project never had a chance to develop its potential. These circumstances
prevented the project from significantly contributing to the achievement of its objectives,
which have largely been met, but with support from other donors and projects. Intensified
supervision efforts could possibly have rescued some of the project's relevance, but
instead supervision was largely deficient.



iii
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
9.    The following lessons, which are relevant for projects in the health sector and in
Sierra Leone, as well as for projects threatened or faced with suspension, can be learned
from the Health and Population Project:
* A project that aims at the institutional development of two different Government
entities, but gives only one of them access to project funds, runs the risk of seeing the
other entity crowded out. In such a case, it might be more effective to either have two
separate projects or to provide both Government entities with a special account and
access to the credit. This problem may be of particular relevance for the population
sector which remains a highly sensitive area of assistance.
* Cost recovery programs and drug revolving funds are unlikely to yield a 100%
recovery of costs. They are difficult to operate and vulnerable to abuse. Full-fledged
management systems and measures to reduce the risks need to be designed and set up
before and not after their establishment.
* When a country faces a worsening financial situation and is already in arrears,
appraisal needs to thoroughly deal with this issue in the risk analysis. In such a
situation it may be unrealistic to assume that Govenmment can allocate foreign currency
to the project, for example. Under such circumstances, the benefits of project
approval need to be weighed against the risk of a later suspension. The fact that a
project has built-in mechanisms to reduce the financial burden for the Government, in
itself, is not a guarantee against suspension.
- If projects are approved even though a country is threatened by subsequent IDA
suspensions, adequate precautions need to be taken to reduce the possible damage for
all parties involved. It should be ensured that suppliers are advised to request letters
of credit so that they are not faced with non-payment in case of suspension.
* If suspension is unavoidable, supervision efforts need to be intensified to exert damage
control and to effectively manage the occurred crisis. This requires close cooperation
among relevant departments within the Bank and with other donors.
* If restructuring of a project is deemed necessary after an extended suspension period,
the Board or the Regional Vice-President should review and clear such restructuring.
The substantial modifications that may be necessary after a long suspension period can
result in changes of project objectives which require intensive consultations and
support to individual task managers.






I
SIERRA LEONE
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(CR 1695-SL)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.1   The three major objectives of the Health and Population Project (HPP) were to
assist the Government in (i) effecting health policy reforms and in capacity building for the
Ministry of Health (MoH); in (ii) strengthening primary health care and family planning;
and in (iii) developing a population policy and programs aimed at increasing the demand
for family planning. The four project components were clearly linked to these objectives
and consisted of: (a) health policy reforms in the areas of health sector organization,
decentralization, cost containment and cost recovery, manpower, and budgeting and
accounting; (b) institutional development of the MoH, including the creation of a central
Planning, Management Information and Statistics Unit, improvements in financial
management, and the strengthening of primary health care coordination; (c) the
strengthening of basic health and family planning services by extending primary health care
to three districts, upgrading existing health facilities, improving drug supply and
distribution, strengthening staff training, developing a nutrition policy and strengthening
health, nutrition and family planning education; and (d) population policy and program
development through capacity building of the National Population Commission
Secretariat, the strengthening of NGO activities in information, education and
communication (IEC), and the integration of population into formal education curricula.
1.2   The objectives were clearly formulated and based on an accurate analysis of the
country's population and health sector situation which is characterized by excessively high
infant, child and maternal mortality rates, high population growth and low health service
efficiency. Objectives and design were relevant to the country and sector, and consistent
with the country's Second National Development Plan and health policy which called for a
population policy, action to reduce population growth and the expansion of health services
to reach rural residents and the urban poor. In general, the objectives were realistic except
for the cost recovery objective. The project's objective of a 100% recovery rate was too
optimistic in light of the country's very high inflation rates and the rapid depreciation of its
currency. In addition, pilot projects in Sierra Leone had demonstrated that the cost
recovery rate on drugs only amounted to 40-700/o. Project design was generally
appropriate but too complex with a multitude of sub-components and in the context of
limited management capacity of the Government.
1.3   The HPP had been accorded high priority in IDA's core country program,
identified under the public expenditure review. IDA's strategy for the health sector in
Sierra Leone was to support the institutional development of the two principal sector
agencies - the Ministry of Health and the National Population Commission (NPC) - with
this first project in order to lay the groundwork for a successor project which was to focus
more directly on the provision of services.



2
1.4   Clear targets were only set for the project's financial objectives and civil works
component. There were no performance indicators for the achievement of the other
objectives. The project was demanding insofar as it called for intersectoral cooperation,
involving the MoH, the NPC, the Institute of Education and a number of NGOs, and
complex because it addressed a multitude of issues with many sub-components. Project
appraisal correctly recognized the risk of implementation delays due to the fact that this
was the first IDA-supported operation in the country's health sector. Risks related to the
drug revolving fund were not identified although experience in other countries had
demonstrated the vulnerability of such funds.
1.5   The project was very risky, primarily not because of the identified risk of staff's
lack of familiarity with IDA regulations, but because of the country's severe debt-servicing
problems. At the time of Board approval, all disbursements to Sierra Leone were
suspended, and the country had overdue obligations to the International Monetary Fund
(IMF), but did not act on IMF recommended policy steps. IDA, therefore, limited its
lending to a minimum until the Government would initiate reform measures under a
structural adjustment program. The HPP was approved on an exceptional basis because
with its cost containment and recovery elements it was designed to improve health sector
performance without increasing recurrent expenditure and, thus, without putting further
burden on the country's precarious financial situation. The risk for IDA was considered
acceptable due to the low financial commitment of only 4.6 million SDR. However, the
risks for the country were not considered. When the country failed to service its debts to
the Bank Group, IDA suspended it only eight months after effectiveness, together with all
other IDA-supported projects in the country. The suspension period lasted for five years,
and during the first few suspension years, the country's health sector development was
negatively influenced as IDA's involvement kept other donors away from activities
earmarked for the HPP. Donor hesitation ceased after a while as both the Government
and IDA sought alternative funding for project activities, but by that time the three
districts selected for HPP support had already suffered development losses compared to
other districts that had been supported by other donors.
1.6   When the project was resumed in April 1992, IDA responded flexibly to changes
in borrower circumstances. Many of the project's original objectives had been achieved
during the suspension period by the Government of Sierra Leone and with the support of
other donors. For example, primary health care (PHC) had been expanded not only to the
three earmarked districts but to the entire country, cost recovery had been instituted, and a
population policy had been formulated and approved. Some project sub-components had,
therefore, become obsolete and funds were re-allocated. At the same time, the country
suffered from a rebel war since 1991 which negatively affected the pursuit of project
activities outside the capital Freetown and the Western Area. When rebel activities
reached a climax in late 1994, such activities had to be deleted. Shortly after project
resumption, a coup d'etat led to the establishment of a military government with a
subsequent, and temporary, change in priorities away from primary and towards tertiary
health care. Therefore, and in the context of a severe deterioration of tertiary services, the
Government sought HPP assistance for hospital upgrading. Unable to grant such a
deviation from the project's primary health care philosophy, IDA and the Borrower



3
nevertheless reached a compromise by agreeing to construct four PHC clinics in Freetown
to alleviate the burden on the tertiary level.
1.7   The modifications mentioned so far were well explained in supervision reports and
fully justified under the changed circumstances. No justification was provided for the
defacto abandonment of the project's population objectives after project resumption.
Although the objective of formulating a population policy had been achieved during the
suspension period, the rationale for supporting the institutional development of the
National Population Commission Secretariat (NPCS), which continued to be extremely
weak, and for generating demand for family planning was in no way diminished. The
project gave only negligible support to its population objective and, in this way, was too
responsive to the MoH's unwillingness to allocate funds to entities outside the ministry.
2.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.1   Overall, the project's objectives have been partially achieved. The achievements
which have been made, however, are only partially attributable to the HPP whose capacity
to pursue its own objectives has been impeded by the five-year suspension and a number
of other factors. Thus, many objectives have been achieved, but some without or with
only minimal contribution from the HPP. When assessing the outcome of the project, it is,
therefore, important to distinguish between the achievement of objectives, formulated for
the project, and the achievements of the project per se. Whereas the former is
satisfactory, the performance of the HPP has deficiencies. The attached table 1 only
reflects the performance of the HPP as such because the project cannot claim credit for
successes brought about by other actors.
2.2   The first objective of effecting health policy reforms and strengthening MoH
capacities was substantially met, but with only partial involvement of the HPP. In the area
of reforms, remarkable progress has been made with the approval of a National Health
Policy and a National Health Action Plan in 1993 and 1994. The MoH was reorganized,
vertical programs were integrated into one Directorate for Primary Health Care, a staff
plan was developed, and the budgeting and accounting system improved. These
achievements were accomplished after HPP's resumption but with funds from other
projects and from a Japanese grant exclusively financing technical assistance for the
preparation of a new IDA health project. The contribution the HPP made to these policy
reforms was that it had identified their necessity. Neither the HPP nor other Government
and donor efforts achieved the objective of decentralization which was seriously impeded
by the rebel war.
2.3   The biggest achievement in the area of reforms to which the HPP contributed
consisted of cost containment brought about by a reduction of the daily wage workforce
by 4,000 workers (about 50%) between 1991 and 1996. This resulted in average annual
savings of $530,000 or a total saving of $2.6 million until 1996. This exceeds the HPP
objective of saving $400,000 annually through cost containment. This success was largely
brought about by the need to meet the requirements of a structural adjustment credit. The
HPP's objective of generating $800,000 annually through a cost recovery program was
neither achieved by the HPP nor by other projects. Cost recovery, including a drug
revolving fund (DRF), can only be described as a failure. The initial recovery rates on the



4
drug revolving fund amounted to 70% after the nation-wide expansion of cost recovery in
1987. By 1989, this rate had already dropped to 44%. From 1992, the war dealt the final
blow to the system. Since then, the average annual recovery from user fees and the DRF
amounts to some $70,000. This includes the retums on a total annual drug input of about
$1.5 million, and results in a drug cost recovery rate of less than 2%. The reasons for
failure include the large amount of exemptions, especially since the start of the rebel war,
high inflation rates and devaluation in the absence of foreign currency provisions,
extremely low user fees, ineffective management systems, inadequate financial control at
all levels and abuse of the system. Attempts to introduce better controls have only been
made since the recruitment of a financial management consultant in 1993, but were
unsuccessful so far. A national policy on cost recovery has not been developed.
2.4   The capacitv building objectives were significantly met. The MOH's planning and
monitoring capacity was substantially strengthened through the establishment of the
Planning, Management Information, and Statistics Unit (PMISU), which had been a
condition of project effectiveness. The HPP contributed little to the actual build-up of the
unit because of its suspension, but successfully encouraged other donors to support the
PMISU. After resumption, the HPP strengthened the unit through the provision of
equipment and short-term training. PHC coordination was strengthened through the
reorganization of the MoH which led to the integration of vertical PHC-related programs
and the elaboration of a National Operational Handbook which supported the nation-wide
expansion of PHC, achieved during suspension. The HPP contributed partially to this
success through its pre-suspension support to the elaboration of the handbook, long-term
overseas training for District Medical Officers, and the provision of equipment. Financial
management capacities were strengthened somewhat by the HPP through consultancies,
but the project's efforts in training accountants in the MoH were ineffective. MoH's
physical capacity building received substantial support through the project's extensive
procurement of vehicles and equipment.
2.5   The second objective of strengthening primary health care and family planning
services was partially achieved by the HPP. PHC had already been expanded to the entire
country during the suspension period, so that project activities under this objective were
no longer restricted to three districts. Due to the rebel war, however, such activities had
to be limited to safe areas so that the upgrading of health facilities in the provinces had to
be cut down. The actual civil works consisted of the upgrading of 17 Peripheral Health
Units (as compared to a target of 45 units), 3 district hospitals, 2 training schools, I
Central Medical Store, and the construction of 4 PHC clinics in Freetown. Medical and
other equipment has been procured for these facilities. Drug supply has improved
tremendously compared to pre-project times when there were practically no drugs
available in the public sector. Availability is estimated at 70% of needs but in a much
smaller system with less than 200% of primary health facilities operational. The HPP can
claim part of this success with a drug procurement amounting to $1.5 million. However,
due to the non-functioning of the drug revolving fund, these allocations turned out to be
recurrent costs and not investment costs as had been intended. 88% of HPP drug supplies
since April 1995 has been distributed to hospitals, reflecting the practical colHapse of the
rural health system due to the rebel war. The objective of establishing International



5
Competitive Bidding (ICB) for non-project related drug procurement was not achieved
and had been unrealistic already during the design phase because the MoH had not
received foreign currency from the Ministry of Finance since the early 1980's and, thus,
was in no position to undertake ICB. Therefore, the MoH continues to procure most
drugs on the local market for prices that are up to 3000/o above world market prices. A
standard essential drug list has been elaborated with the support of the project and is used
throughout the system. Drug logistics and storage were somewhat improved through the
renovation of a storage warehouse and through training.
2.6   Staff training has been strengthened through the upgrading of two training schools,
the revision of training curricula to introduce a community health content, and the training
of 90 Maternal/Child Health Aides. In-service PHC training is being provided but a
comprehensive training program has not been developed. Staff problems have been
reviewed and a staff plan elaborated but not with the support of the HPP. Health,
nutrition and family planning education has been neglected during most of the project's
lifetime. A nutrition policy was not developed and mass media health education has only
recently started. Although the PHC system has been strengthened, the services as such are
hardly operational at this time, with most of the PHUs closed and large portions of the
population displaced to towns, due to the rebel war.
2.7 The third objective of developing a population policy and programs to increase the
demand for family planning has been partially achieved, but the project's contribution was
negligible. During suspension, a population policy and a population action plan were
developed with the support of UNFPA. The planned HPP support for IEC activities of
NGOs and to the integration of population into formal education curricula was eliminated
from the project's workplan after suspension with IDA's agreement. An explanation or
justification for this decision was not provided. The capacity building support to the
National Population Commission Secretariat was negligible and consisted of some
equipment. The project disbursed only around 10% of the originally planned allocation to
population objectives.
3.   IMLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFECTING THE PROJCr
3.1   The project had a rapid start after effectiveness due to thorough preparation and an
enthusiastic project staff. This enthusiasm was soon destroyed as only eight months after
effectiveness, the project was suspended for five years, necessititing a first extension of
the closing date. During suspension, MoH staff demonstrated their continued
commitment to the project by seeking alternative funding which resulted in the
achievement of many project objectives, an effort in which they were supported by IDA to
the extent possible under a situation of suspension. After resumption, the project faced a
slow start-up due to the unfamiliarity of new project staff with IDA regulations and the
lack of an institutional memory of the project's initial implementation year. This delayed
all project activities, so that a second extension of the closing date, until December 1995,
was agreed. Upon resumption, the project was substantially restructured. Almost all
technical assistance (TA) was taken out, in part because such assistance was not necessary
anymore as related objectives had already been achieved during suspension, but in part
also because the MoH was reluctant to allocate funds to TA. The deleted activities were



6
undertaken under the preparation of the new IDA-supported health project and with
financing from a trust fund that could only be used for TA. Allocations for civil works
had to be substantially increased in spite of a reduction in physical outputs because of the
hefty price rise for building materials during the suspension period. All activities planned
for the development of a nutrition policy and for strengthening health and family planning
education were deleted with IDA's consent, however, a justification was not provided for
this decision. Some activities in this area were only carried out in the final project year.
Allocations for the third major project objective related to population strengthening were
reduced from $460,000 to $85,000, with the only explanation that a population policy had
in the meantime been elaborated. The amount earmarked for its development, however,
had only amounted to $90,000, so that there is also a lack of justification for this decision.
Actual spending on this objective only amounted to around $40,000, and even this meager
allocation met with the resistance of the MoH to spend funds on the NPCS. In spite of
these substantial changes which implied a material deviation from the original project
objectives, the DCA was not amended.
3.2  In spite of the project's many difficulties, a 100% disbursement rate was
accomplished. This and the fact that the project was capable at all, under the prevailing
circumstances, to achieve or to contribute to some of its objectives, was made possible by
the dedicated efforts of project management, a factor subject to implementing agency's
control. Another positive factor was the leverage IDA had before resumption on insisting
that the legal covenant calling for a reduction in the daily wage workforce was complied
with and even exceeded.
3.3   The negative factors that hindered the project from substantially contributing to
the achievement of most of its objectives were the following: Factors Not Subject to
Government Control. The rebel war which started in 1991 led to a severe breakdown
of health care services. Project activities were delayed because of the threat of rebel
attacks, and after rebel activities substantially increased in late 1994, civil works activities
outside the Western Area had to be deleted from the workplan. With 40% of the
population displaced in camps in and around towns, rural health care collapsed, and any
strengthening of rural primary health care achieved by the project through the upgrading
of health facilities can only have an impact once peace will have become a reality. The
coup d'dat shortly after project resumption and the take-over by a new - military -
government involved a re-direction of priorities. A temporary loss of commitment to
primary health care and an unwillingness to spend project funds on external technical
assistance or outside the MoH had a significant influence on the re-design of the project
after resumption. This led, among other things, to a neglect of the project's population
objectives. Poor supervision with a frequent change of IDA task managers, and long
intervals between supervision missions limited the effectiveness of the project. The quality
of supervision was deficient before, during and after suspension. The extraordinary
circumstances of the project would have warranted close teamwork between operations,
disbursement and legal departments. Instead, it seems that task managers were largely left
alone in dealing with a situation for which guidelines were perceived as incomplete. Slow
performance of some contractors and consultants delayed project components.



7
3.4   Factors Subject to Government Control. The five-year suspension period was
a result of the Government's failure to service its debts to the Bank Group. Suspension
started only a few months after project effectiveness and rendered some objectives
obsolete after project resumption. Important activities were delayed for five years like the
hiring of a financial management consultant which had been the crucial input for designing
a management system for the cost recovery program. This resulted in the absence of a
management system for many years and contributed to the failure of the cost recovery
program. Gaps in meeting financial commitments led to implementation delays
because Government contributions were often not made on time. The objective of
introducing ICB procurement for drugs could not be achieved, in part, because foreign
currency was not provided to the project.
3.5   Factor Subject to Implementing Agency's Control. The limited management
capacity in the health sector contributed to long delays in project implementation and an
inadequate functioning of the cost recovery program. The former was impeded by
insufficient coordination between project staff as well as their limited time due to a
multitude of other work obligations. Financial management tools for the cost recovery
program had finally been developed with the support of the project but these were
ineffective due to the lack of staff training and due to too many loopholes in the system.
3.6   Factors Subject to Both Implementing Agency's and IDA's Control. The
preparation of a new Bank-supported project in the health sector shortly after the
HPP's resumption in 1992 seems to have led to a loss of interest on part of both the MoH
and IDA in the HPP. Many original project objectives have been achieved during the
HPP's lifetime but in the context of preparing the new project, with funds specificafly
earmarked for the achievement of these objectives. Deficiencies in project design
impeded the achievement of objectives with regard to drug procurement, where unrealistic
assumptions were made about the capacity and the willingness of the Ministry of Finance
to provide foreign exchange for the ICB procurement of drugs. The cost recovery
program would have benefited if design had not left the elaboration of a management
system to technical assistance planned after project effectiveness.
4.    PROJECT SUSTAIABLrY
4.1   For those objectives the project could not achieve or to whose achievement it did
not contribute, the question of sustainability is immaterial. The achievements the project
was able to produce are largely sustainable. The physical investments in civil works and
equipment can probably be maintained for a reasonable time because sufficient funding will
be provided by a follow-on project in the health sector. The HPP also started to taclde the
issue of preventive maintenance by integrating it as a module into curricula for health staff
The achievements in the area of staff training are likely to be sustained because of the high
retention rates experienced by the project. The standard essential drug list that had been
developed in the first months of the project has now been used for several years, and it is
likely that this practice will continue. The success in the area of cost containment is
unlikely to be revased, as the recently elected new Government intends to keep tight
budgetary controL so that a re-hiring of daily wage workers is unlikely. The partial
contribution the project made to the institutional development of the MoH also appears



8
sustainable as the changes were confirmed in the new organizational structure of the
ministry. The increased drug supply is not sustainable and will soon be used up because
the DRF is not functioning.
5.    BANK PERFORMANCE
5.1   IDA performance was highly satisfactory at the identification and preparation
assistance stages, satisfactory at appraisal, and deficient in supervision. Identification
correctly focused on the overriding concerns of high fertility levels, very high levels of
infant, child and maternal mortality, the accelerated population growth and low sector
efficiency. Given that the project was to be the first IDA involvement in the country's
health sector, it was appropriate to concentrate this operation on institutional development
to make way for later, service-oriented interventions. Preparation assistance, extended
with a PPF, was thorough and facilitated the establishment of task forces of both the MoH
and the NPC who genuinely prepared the project. Appraisal was still of acceptable quality
with an analytically clean project design, clear and generally realistic objectives, and
correct linkages to components. However, general project design was too complex, the
design of the cost recovery component was deficient, the risk analysis incomplete, hardly
any performance and implementation indicators were given, and unrealistic assumptions
were made about Government's capacity to fulfill its financial commitments in an already
existing arrears situation. Thus, the decision to approve this project at all, and at a time
when all credits to Sierra Leone were already temporarily suspended, is questionable.
Only eight months after effectiveness all projects - including the HPP - were again
suspended, this time for five years.
5.2   At project inception, supervision paid insufficient attention to the high-risk
environment of the project by not advising the Borrower to caution its suppliers to request
letters of credit. Upon suspension, suppliers who had pre-financed the delivery of their
goods did not receive payments from the project for five years and, as a result, were
threatened with bankruptcy. Appeals for payments made by such suppliers were handled
in a bureaucratic manner which was in no way appropriate. Suspension and the resulting
vacuum of donor assistance in crucial areas would have warranted intensified supervision,
team work and crisis management. Instead, supervision seems to have concentrated on
administrative issues, and task managers were largely left without institutional support and
guidance on how to deal with this unusual situation. Task managers' efforts in
encouraging other donors to fill the gaps of assistance were curtailed by reduced resource
allocations for supervision. Such gaps were in many cases only filled after several years.
The restructuring of the project after resumption had gaps in justifying the deletion of
components and the near-deletion of one of three project objectives. Even though the
project was rated a problem project during most of its post-suspension time, long intervals
between supervision missions suggest that insufficient attention was paid to the project.
These intervals were due, in part, to an internal restructuring of IDA's Africa Region in
1994 and to lack of funding for mission travel. The turn-over of task managers was
excessive - on average task managers lasted for only about one year.



9
6.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
6.1   Borrower performance was highly satisfactory during preparation. An
intersectoral Project Steering Committee was set up which directed the very active work
of various preparation task forces of the MoH and the NPC, and their work resulted in a
reasonably good, albeit too complex, project design. Project management was very
committed to project implementation, however, coordination between project activities
was insufficient. Counterpart financing was often delayed and foreign currency to the
drug component not provided. The NPC Secretariat was excluded from project
management meetings, even though it was still part of the project after resumption.
Overall, implementation performance was deficient, but this was in part due to insufficient
IDA supervision which did not sufficiently orient new project staff on project objectives
nor about MoH's obligation to monitor the project. Compliance with legal covenants was
satisfactory. Some covenants were not applicable after resumption. The covenant
regarding the reduction of the daily wage work force was exceeded.
7.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
7.1   In summary, the objectives formulated for the project were achieved to a partial to
substantial degree, however, the HPP only played a minor role in bringing about these
achievements. The HPP in itself only had a partial achievement of its financial, physical
and institutional development objectives. The public sector management objective of a
reduction of the daily wage workforce was more than fully met, yet the project's
contribution to sector policy objectives was negligible. However, the achievements that
were made are largely sustainable. The project's intention to lay the institutional
groundwork for a more comprehensive successor operation was defeated by the
circumstances surrounding the project which never gave it a chance to develop its
potential. Suspended for five years shortly after inception, important components were
rendered obsolete after resumption. Remaining components were impeded by a ravaging
rebel war and changed government priorities after a coup d'etat, events that started during
the time of resumption. Short of improving the institutional framework for the new IDA-
supported health project, which was largely provided through TA-intensive preparation of
this new project, the HPP nevertheless leaves an improved physical infrastructure and
better trained staff. Given the extremely adverse circumstances, project management is to
be commended for having achieved the results it did bring about. However, more careful
supervision could have unleashed far better results. The overall outcome of the project
can only be assessed as deficient.
8.    FUTURE OPERATION
8.1   The physical and training investments made under the HPP will contribute to
facilitating the operation of the Integrated Health Sector Investment Project which was
approved in March 1996. The new project aims at assisting the Government in
implementing its health sector program, i.e. the National Health Action Plan (NHAP).
The program focuses on the provision of basic health services, decentralization, and
improvement in sector financing. As changes in the country's macro-economic and
security situation will continue to occur, the project uses a sector-wide flexible approach:
The Government annually reviews and agrees with the donors on its sector plan and



10
budget for the next fiscal year, allowing to adapt the NHAP to the country's sector-wide
situation. IDA is a last resort lender, providing financial support to those activities of the
sector's annual plan for which resources are not available.
9.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
9.1   The following lessons, which are relevant for projects in the health sector and in
Sierra Leone, as well as for projects threatened or faced with suspension, can be learned
from the Health and Population Project:
*  A project that aims at the institutional development of two different Government
entities, but gives only one of them access to project funds, runs the risk of seeing the
other entity crowded out. In such a case, it might be more effective to either have two
separate projects or to provide both Government entities with a special account and
access to the credit. This problem may be of particular relevance for the population
sector which remains a highly sensitive area of assistance.
*  Cost recovery programs and drug revolving funds are unlikely to yield a 100%
recovery of costs. They are difficult to operate and vulnerable to abuse. Fuli-fledged
management systems and measures to reduce the risks need to be designed and set up
before and not after their establishment.
*  When a country faces a worsening financial situation and is already in arrears,
appraisal needs to thoroughly deal with this issue in the risk analysis. In such a
situation it may be unrealistic to assume that Government can allocate foreign currency
to the project, for example. Under such circumstances, the benefits of project
approval need to be weighed against the risk of a later suspension. The fact that a
project has built-in mechanisms to reduce the financial burden for the Government, in
itself, is not a guarantee against suspension.
*  If projects are approved even though a country is threatened by subsequent IDA
suspensions, adequate precautions need to be taken to reduce the possible damage for
all parties involved. It should be ensured that suppliers are advised to request letters
of credit so that they are not faced with non-payment in case of suspension.
*  If suspension is unavoidable, supervision efforts need to be intensified to exert damage
control and to effectively manage the occurred crisis. This requires close cooperation
among relevant departments within the Bank and with other donors.
*  If restructuring of a project is deemed necessary after an extended suspension period,
the Board or the Regional Vice-President should review and clear such restructuring.
The substantial modifications that may be necessary after a long suspension period can
result in changes of project objectives which require intensive consultations and
support to individual task managers.



11
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TAML 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTs
A. Achievement of
Obiectives                       Substantial  Part.         Neibk         Not Anuilnkk
Macropolicies                      [                              I [  ]  [  ]  IX]
Sectorpolicies                     [  ]         I  I          [X]           [ I
Financialobjectives                             I ]   [XI     I  I            I ]
Institutional development          [  ]         [X ]          [  ]          [
Physicalobjectives                 [  ]         I X I         [  ]              ]
Poverty reduction                  [  ]         [  I          [  I          IX]
Genderissues                       [  ]         [  ]          []            [X]
Othersocialobjectives              [  ]         [  ]          [  ]          [X]
Environmentalobjectives            [  ]         [  ]          [  ]          [ X]
Publicsectormanagement             [ X ]            I ]       [  ]          [
Private sectordevelopment          [  I         [  I          |  ]          I XI
Other(specify)                     [  I         I  I          [  ]          [XI
B. Proiect Sustainability         Likelv               UUlkelv       Uncertain
[I xiII                           I  I
C. Bank Performance               Hiv satusfactorn    Satisfacton   Deficent
Identification                     [X]                 [ x i             ]
PreparationAssistance                XI ]                  I ]           I
Appraisal                          [  ]                [XI           I  I
Supervision                                             ]  [  I     [ X]
D. Borrower Performance           Hihl sasfactory    Satisfactor    Deficient
Preparation                        [ XI                I  I          I  I
Implementation                     [                   [  I          [ XI
CovenantCompliance                                     I XI          I  I
E. Assessment of Outcome          liE& satisfactory    Satisfctoyn  Defielnt
I  I                [  I          [ X]



12
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDrrS
Credit Title                      Pburpose                     Year of      Status   l
Approvall
Precawng Oeaations
Technical Assistance   To strengthen Government's, including Ministry  1979    Completed
Project (Cr. 970-SL)   of Health's, capacity in development plnning,
preparation of development projects, training,
monitoring and evaluation.
Following Operations
Integrated Health Sector  To support Government in inplementing      1996       Awaiting
Investment Project (Cr.   National Health Action Plan by improving basic      effectiveness
2827-SL)               health services, sector financing and by
promoting decentalization.
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification                               November, 1983      March, 1984
Preparation                                  December, 1983, to   April, 1984 to December,
December, 1984      1984
Appraisal                                    January, 1985       July, 1985
Negotiations                                 January, 1986       March 13, 1986
Board Presentation                           March, 1986         May 13, 1986
Signing                                                          July 24, 1986
Effectiveness                                July, 1986          September 19, 1986
Suspension                                                       May 4, 1987
Lifting of Suspension                                            April 15, 1992
Midterm review/Re-launch mission             March, 1988         October, 1992
Project Completion                           June 30, 1989       December 31, 1995
Credit Closing                               June 30, 1990       December 31, 1995



13
TABLE 4: CREDrT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIm ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL (IN USS THOUSAND)
Fiscal     FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92  FY93  FY94   FY95  FY96
Year
Appraisal
Estimate     1.30    2.65    4.15    5.30  (5.30)  (5.30)  (5.30)  (5.30)  (5.30)  (5.30)
Actual       0.96    0.99    0.99    0.99    0.99   0.99   1.95   2.79    4.47   6.50
Actual as
% of        74%    37%       24%     19%    19%    19%    37%    53%    84%   123%
Estimate
Date of final disbursement: June 6, 1996
TABLE S:   KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key indicators for project implementation were not provided.
TABLE 6:     KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Ke ndicators for project operation were not provided.



14
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study             Purpose as defined at        Status           Impact of the study
appraisal/redefined
1. Review of          To identify required policy    Completed, however,  Previously vertical programs
organization and       reforns.                  study was           were integrated at district
administration of health                         undertaken outside   level, and provincial level
care delivery system.                            the HPP and with    was eliminated. Study will
external fiuds to  also facilitate the
prepare the new    decentralization component
IDA-supported      under the new project.
health project.
2. Review of manpower   To redefine manpower     Completed, however, Manpower plan was
policies, job descriptions, policies, and to rationalize    study was largely    developed.
staff deployment, and  skills mix and staff      undertaken outside
training programs.     development.              the HPP and with
extemnal fiuds to
prepare the new
IDA-supported
health project.
3. Review of utilization   To identify ways to improve  Completed, however, ADB used the study for the
of health services and    the effectiveness and  study was           preparation of a hospital
facilities.            efficiency of health services   undertaken by the    rehabilitation project.
and facilities.           ADB.
4. Drug procurement and  To improve practices.   Not elaborated.     N/A
pricing practices of the
private sector.



15
TABLE 8A:  PROJCrCom
Appraisalsimat (USSM)        Acual (USSM)
Itern                        Local   Foreip   Total  Local   Foreign   Total
Costs   Cost             Costs   Costs
1. Sectoral Support         0.26     1.23     1.49   0.08    1.55      1.63
2.1 Upgrading Health         0.33    0.48     0.81    0.26    1.82     2.08
Facilities
2.2 DrugSupplyand            0.11    0.82     0.93    0.00    1.77      1.77
Distribution
2.3 Staff Training           0.24    0.26     0.50   0.08    0.42      0.50
2.4 Health,Nutritionand      0.10    0.26     0.36   0.00    0.19      0.19
Family Planning Education
2.5 Monitoring and Evaluation   0.00  0.12    0.12   0.00    0.26      0.26
3. Population Activities     0.22    0.18     0.40   0.00    0.04      0.04
Project Preparation Facility  0.05   0.20     0.25    0.05    0.20     0.25
Contingencies                0.26    0.60     0.86        -            -
TOTAL                        1.57    4.15     5.72    0.47    6.25      6.72
TABLE BB: PRoJzcT FINANcING
Appraisal Estimate (USSM)         Actual (USSM)
Source                        Local   Forein    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Costs    Cost               Costs    Costs
IDA                           1.20      4.10     5.30      0.25      6.25     6.50
Government of Sierra Leone    0.40      0.00     0.40      0.22      0.00     0.22
Total                         1.60      4.10      5.70     0.47      6.25     6.72
TABLE 9:  EcoNoMIc CosTs AND BE mTS
Cost-benefit analyses were not undertaken, and a net present value or an economic rate of return were
not calculated.



16
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section    Covenant Present  Original    Revised             Description of               Comments
type    status  fulfillment  fulfillment          covenant
date       date
SLHPP      2.02(b)         3        C                           Borrower shall open and maintain in Complied with.
dollars a special account in a
commercial bank.
2.03           10        C    06/30/90    12/31/95   Closing date shall be June 30, 1990, Closing date was extended
or such later date as IDA shall  twice.
establish.
3.01(c)         5        C                           Borrower shall mamntain the Project MOH established a
Steering Committee and the Project Management Committee
Implementation Committee (in form  instead, with functions and
and with functions and staffing  staffing satisfactory to
satisfactory to IDA).          IDA.
3.01(dXi)       5        C                           Borrower shall establish and    Complied with.
thereafter maintain in MOH a
Planning, Management, Information
and Statistics Unit (PMISU) (in a
form satisfactory to IDA).
3.01(dXii)      5        C    09/30/86    09/30/86   Borrower shall assign to PMISU a   A Senior Management
Senior Management Information    Infornation Officer and a
Officer, a Computer            Secretary were assigned.
Operation/System Analyst and a    With the advancement of
Secretary.                     computer technology since
project effectiveness, a
Computer
Operation/System Analyst
was no longer needed.
3.01(eXi)       5        C                           Borrower shall continue to maintain Complied with. The PHC
the PHC Coordinating Unit (in a    Coordinating Unit has
form and with functions and staffimg been expanded into a
satisfactory to IDA).          Directorate for PHC
coordination.
3.01(eXii)      5        C                           Borrower shall assign to the PHC    Complied with
(a)                                               Coordinating Unit an operation
officer, a training and evaluation
officer and a liaison officer.
3.01(eXii)      5        C                           Borrower shall assign to the    Complied with. The
(b)                                               provincial health office and district  provincial level has been
health office, respectively, an  eliminated in the
administrative officer and a medical meantime.
officer.
3.01(f)(i)      4        C                           Borrower shall open and maintain at Complied with.
a commercial bank a local advance
account to be used exclusively for
local expenditures to be made under
the Project.
3.01(f)(ii)     4        C                           Borrower shall pay into the local    Complied with.
advance account an initial amount of
LE200,000.



17
Agreement   Section    Covenant Present  Original    Revised             Description of                Comments
type    status  fulfillment  fulfillment          covenant
date       date
3.01(f)(iii)    4       CP                           Borrower shall thereafter replenish  Borrower replenished
the Local Advance Account as and   Local Advance Account in
when required to ensure that on the  the amounts needed,
first day of each calendar quarter of however, payments were
each year the Project is executed, an often delayed.
amount equal to at least the initial
amount shall be available in that
account.
3.03            4       CD   03/19/88    10/15/92   The Borrower and IDA shall in a    Due to the suspension of
joint review evaluate progress  the credit between 1987
achieved in carrying out the project and 1992, the review could
and the need for any changes in  only be undertaken in
estimates of project costs and  1992.
project scope or structuring.
3.04(a)         5       CD   Start:       Start:     Borrower shall with effect from  Due to the suspension of
07/01/86    1991      fiscal year 1986/1987 reduce the    all IDA credits in Sierra
number of DOH's daily wage     Leone, these measures
employees by at least 10% yearly so were only starting to be
Compl.:    Compl.:   that the Borrower shall effect a total implemented shortly
06/30/89    1993      reduction of at least 301/h by June   before resumption, in
30, 1989 in the number of sub-  1991. By 1993, a 30%
employees, as determined on    reduction had been
December 31, 1985.             achieved. The fmalI
reduction amounts to 50%
and was achieved in 1995.
This covenant has thereby
been exceeded.
3.04(b)         5       CD   06/30/87    1991        Borrower shall by June 30, 1987    Complied with.
and in each following year up to and
including June 30, 1989, furnish
IDA with evidence satisfactory to
IDA showing that the Borrower has
achieved the reduction in daily wage
employees.
4.01(a)         I        C                           Borrower shall maintain separate   Complied with.
records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in
respect of the project.
4.01(bXi)       I        C                           Borrower shall have the accounts   Complied with.
referred to in para. (a) of this
section including the Special
Account and the Local Advance
Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA.



18
Agreement   Section    Covenant Present  Original    Revised             Description of                Comments
type    status  fulfillment  fulfillment         covenant
date       date
4.01(bXii)      1       CD                           Borrower shaull furnish to IDA, as   All audit reports were
soon as available, but not later than  provided, however, with
six months after the end of each  delays.
such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit.
4.01(cXi)       I        C                           For all expenditures with respect to  Complied with.
which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained in accordance with
para. (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures.
4.01(cXii)      I        C                           For all expenditures with respect to  Complied with.
which withdrawal from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the
Borrwer shall retain, until at least
one year after the completion of the
audit for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal for the Credit
Account was made, all records
evidencing such expenditures.
4.01(cXiii)     1        C                           For all expenditures with respect to  Complied with.
which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of
statmets of expenditure, the
Borrower shall enable the IDA's
representatives to examine such
records.
4.01(cXiv)      1       CP                           For all expenditures with respect to  The first audit report
which withdrawals from the Credit  which complied with this
Account were made on the basis of  covenant was the report on
statements of expenditure, the  FY94. The covenant had
Boonower shall ensure that such  not been enforced before.
separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in para.
(b) of this section.
PartAl(i)      10        C    12/31/86    12/31/86   Borrower shall complete and furnish Complied with
to IDA the standard list of drugs,
contraceptives and medical supplies
and the plan for procurement,
storage, distribution and
safekeeping of drugs, vaccines and
other health related items.
Part Al(ii)    10       CD   03/31/87    04/92       Borrower shall (a) commence the   These activities could only
training of health workers on drug   be started after the
stoage, distribution and       resumption of the credit.
prescription, and (b) complete and
furnish to IDA the prescription
manual required.



19
Agreement   Section    Covenant Present  Original    Revised             Description of                Comments
type    status  fulfillment  fulfillment          covenant
date       date
Part A2(aXi)    10      CD   03/31/87                Borrower shall furnish to IDA for its The policy studies were
review and comments the results   undertaken with support
and recommendations of the policy  from other projects.
studies to be carried out under Part
A. I and 2 of the Project
Part           10       CD                           Borrower shall incorporate into a    Studies were integrated
A2(aXii)                                             long-term health investment plan   into such investment plan -
recommendations of the studies as  the National Health Action
shall be satisfactory to IDA.  Plan - within the context o
prepaing the next IDA-
supported project in the
health sector.
Part           10       CD   09/30/87                Borrower shall furnish to IDA for its Complied with, within the
A2(aXiii)                                            review and comments the final draft context of the next IDA-
of such investment plan.       supported project in the
health sector.
Part A2(b)     10       NC                           Borrower shall until the completion After project resumption,
of the project furmsh to IDA not    IDA did not request such
later than April 30, each year for    annual development plans.
IDA's review and comments a draft
of the Borrower's annual
development plan with details and
related cost implications.
Part A3(aXi)    10      NC   06/30187                Borrower shall carry out and funish The study was not
to IDA for its review and comments elaborated.
a study of the dzug procurement and
pricing practices of the private
sector in Sierra Leone.
Part           10       NC                           Borrower hall furnish to IDA    As the study was not
A3(aXii)                                             proposals for imnproving such   undertaken, there were
procurement and pricing practices.  also no proposals made.
Part A3b        2       CP                           Borrower shall maintain an escrow   An escrow account was
account in the Bank of Sierma Leone opened, however, this
to be used exclusively to purchase   account also had to include
essential drugs, vaccines and  all other drug revolving
medical supplies for distribution in  funds of the MoH, because
the six districts mentioned in Part  the Ministry of Finance
B.2 of the project.            reduced the number of
bank accounts each
Ministry was allowed to
operate.
Part A4(aXi)    10      CD   12t31/86                Borrower shall prepare and furnish  A National Population
to IDA for its review and comments Policy was adopted in
a draft national population policy    1989 during the
statement.                     suspension period with
UNFPA support.



20
AgreeTnent   Section    Covenant Present  Original    Revised            Description of                Comments
type    status  fulfillment  fillilment          covenant
date       date
Part           10       CD   12/31/87                Borrower shall carry out a review of During the suspension
A4(aXii)                                             the legal status, composition,  period of the project,
structure and fimctions of the  UNFPA started to support
National Population Commission   the National Population
and its Secretariat including  Commission and its
recommendations as to measures    Secretariat. It also finances
which the Borrower proposes to take the required review so that
to strengthen the National     IDA is no longer needed
Population Commission and      for this.
upgrade the position of the
government organizational structure.
Part A4(b)     10       CD   07131/87                Borrower shall prepare and furnish  A draft action plan exists
to IDA an action plan satisfactory to which is now being
IDA for implementing the       updated with the support
Borrower's national population  of UNFPA.
policy.
PartAS          10      NC   12/31/87                Borrower shall prepare and furnish  Not complied with.
to IDA for its review and conunents
the comprehensive plan for
community education required
under Part B.4 of the project.
Part B 1        5       CP                           Project Steering Committee (PSC)  These functions were
shall be concerned with broad policy carried out by the
matters, overall supervision of  Management Committee
project execution, review of project which met weekly. Project
performance ensuring timely    progress reports were only
financial flow of funds for the  furnished starting in April
project, mid-term evaluation of the  1995, because IDA had not
project and informing IDA of   requested such reports
progress of the project.       before.
Part B. 2(a)    5        C                           Project Implementation Committee  These functions were
(PIC) shall be responsible for the    carried out by the
coordination of project activities and Management Committee
ensuring continued collaboration    which met weekly.
among units and agencies
participatng in the project and for
the timely implementation of anmual
operation plans.
Part B 2(b)     5        C                           The Project Director shall be   The head of the PMISU
assisted by the PHC Coordinator    served as the Project
and his staff who sall also serve as Manager. This change
the Project Manager, The Project   was effected after an
Manager shall also be responsible  internal reorganization and
for project proeent,           agreed with IDA.
disbursements and other project
administrative functions.



21
Agreement    Section       Covenant  Present   Original         Revised               Description of                     Comments
type      status   fulfillment  fulfillment               covenant
date         date
Part B 3           5         C                                District Implementation Teams         Coinplied with.
(Drrs) shall be responsible for
coordinating and implementing
project activities in the project
districts. A Drr shall be headed by
the Principal Medical Officer and
shall have as members the
respective District Medical Officer,
existing health advisers and other
technical staff.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                     8.  = Indignou people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from       9.  = Mnitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                     10.  = Projet implenmataion not covered by cdegorie 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of projea fimds                11.  = Seoral or crou-actoral budetary or oher resource
4. =  Countrpart funding                                         allocation
5. =  Management aspecs of the project or executing      12.  = Sectoral or cros-aectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
agency                                                     ction
6. =  Environmental covenants                             13.  = Oher
7. =  Involuntary reettlement
Presaent Status:
C = Covenant complied with
CD =  Complied with after delay
CP =  Complied with pauially
NC = Not complied with



22
TAL 11:               COMPLIANCE WffH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS.
BORROWER COMPLIED WrfH ALL OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMS.
TABLE 12:   BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project cycle      Planneda            Revised*               Actual
Weeks      USS      Weeks     US$        Weeks       US$
To Appraisal                                                          89.6   180,000
AppriWl to Board                                                      64.4   135,100
Approval
Board Approval to                                                      2.7     6,300
Ef ctivenes                                          _
Supervison                                                           121.6   264,400
Complcimon                                                             8.0    22,500
Grand Total                                                          286.3   608,700
* Plmned and rvised work programs were not computenzed untl 1994. Therefbre, the data recorded
since 1994 could not provide a conprehensiv estimate and are not imcluded in this ICR.



23
Table 13:           Bank Resources: Missions
-     ~ -          -
Pafmnce Rating
Number                 Specialized   Implame     Develop-
Stage of       Mo"b/  of           Days in       Staff Skills    4taoo     ment                       Tyes of
Project Cycle     Yer    Peons    Field           Repreaoted     Stabtu    Objtiedves                   Problems
Tbrugh Appraisrl     11/3       3          14        HME               N/A         N/A                         N/A
04/84     5          12         HME.OP,           N/A        N/A                         N/A
FNA
01/35     2          14         HME               N/A        N/A                         N/A
Appr-il througb      06/85      6         12         HME, ECN,         N/A         N/A                         N/A
Board Approval                                       FNA. OP,
NGO
Bowrd Approval       07/86      1          12        HME               N/A         N/A                         N/A
through Effedivene
SW Mii               04/i7      3          14        BME, PPN           2           1       CLC, PMP
10/37     2          5          HME                3           3       CLC, PMP, AF
10/38     1          5         HME                 3           3       CLC, PMP, AF, PRO, TP, TA, SP, FP
05/90     3          14         HME                3           2       CLC, PMP, AF, PRO, TP, TA, SP, FP
06/92     1          14         HME                -           -
10/92     2          13        HME, RA             3           3       CLC, PMP, AF, PRO, TP
02/93     1          10        HIME                3           3       CLC, PMP, AF, PRO, TP
06/93     1          5          HME                2           2       CLC, PMP, AF, PRO, TP
11/93     3          25        HME, OP, CE         2           2       CLC, PMP, AF, PRO, TP
03/95     2          12         HME, IS            3           3       CLC, PMP, AF, PRO, TP
11/95     2          10        HME,IS              2           3       CLC, PMP, AF, PRO
Compleion            05/96      2         12         HME               N/A         N/A                         N/A
Specializations: CE= Civil Engineer; IS=lmplementation Specialist; FNA=Financial Analyst; HME= Health and Medical; RA=Reaearch Analyst;
OP=Operation Analyst; NGO=NGO Specialist; NTR= Nutrition; PPN=Population/Demography; PRO=Procurement; SOC=Sociology
Performance Ratng: I = Problem Free; 2= Moderate Problems; 3= Major Problems; 4= Particularly Problematic
Key to problems:    AF = Availabiity of funds                FP = Financial performaDCe
CLC = Complance with legal covenants     PMP = Project management performance
PRO = Procurement progres                TA = Technical Assistance
TP = TraiDiDn Progress                   SP = Studies progress
Am-Sqimi VIM6
C:\WINWORD\DOC\8ML4LERCR\1695\ICRFIN2.DOC
Jly 1, 1996 9:16 AM






APPENDICES
Appendix A: Mission Aide-Menioire
Appendix B: Borrower Contribution to the ICR
Appendix C: Borrower Coninieiits on the ICR
Appendix D: Map






APPENDIX A
AIDE-MEMOIRE






REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT (CR. 1695-SL)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
AlDE-MEMOIRE
MAY31, 1996
I.   Introduction
1.    A World Bank mission consisting of Ms. Angelika Pradel, Public Health Specialist and
Task Manager, AF5PH, and Mr. Ernst Lauridsen, Consultant and Drug Specialist, undertook an
implementation completion mission for the Health and Population Project (HPP) in Sierra Leone
from May 20 to 31, 1996. The mission would like to express its appreciation to the Honorable
Acting Minister of Health and Sanitation, Mr. Foday Sesay, the Project Manager, Dr. Clifford
Kamara, the staff of the Ministry of Health, and in particular, of the Central Medical Stores and of
the Directorate for Planning and Inforrnation for their dedicated cooperation, collegiality and
warm hospitality.
2.    The purpose of the mission was to undertake a retrospective evaluation of the project's
implementation for the elaboration of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), with
particular emphasis on the project's drug component. The mission also provided advice to the
Ministry of Health (MoH) for finalizing it own evaluation report which was presented to the
mission in its draft form. The MoH's draft evaluation report is attached to this aide-memoire
which presents the borrower's assessment of project implementation. Also attached is the
detailed report on the evaluation of the drug component.
II.   Mission's Views on Project Implementation
3.    Overview. The HPP had three major objectives. It was to assist the Government of
Sierra Leone in (i) effecting health policy reforms and in strengthening MoH's capacities for
program planning, management, coordination and monitoring; (ii) strengthening primary health
care and family planning services; and in (iii) developing a population policy and programs to
increase the demand for family planning. The project became effective in September 1986 and
closed in December 1995, after two extensions. During this time, the project had been suspended
for five years, from May 1987 to April 1992, because the country's debt payment problems had
led to a freeze of disbursements on all projects in Sierra Leone. After resumption of
disbursements, significant changes were made to the design of the project, without changing the
project objectives or amending the Development Credit Agreement. On closing the project
account, the project will have achieved a 100% disbursement ratio.
4.    Summary of Achievement of Project Objectives. Overall, the project's objectives have
been partially achieved. On the positive side, health policy reforms have been initiated and are
being carried out, a cost recovery system has been established, the MoH's planning and PHC



2
coordination capacities have been strengthened to a substantial degree, primary health care and
family planning services have partially been improved, and a population policy was formulated.
On the negative side, the health administration has not yet been decentralized, the cost recovery
rate is minimal, only a minority of health care facilities at the primary level is functional and little
has been achieved in terms of increasing the demand for family planning. The achievements which
have been made are only partially attributable to the HPP whose capacity to pursue its own
objectives has been seriously impeded by a number of factors. Thus, many objectives have been
achieved, but some without the contribution of the HPP. When assessing the outcome of the
project, it is, therefore, prudent to distinguish between the achievement of objectives, formulated
for the project, and the achievements of the project per se. Whereas the former is satisfactory, the
performance of the HPP has deficiencies.
5.    Major Factors Affecting the Project. The factors which limited the HPP's effectiveness as
well as the overall achievement of objectives are the following:
(a)   The rebel war which started in 1991 has led to a severe breakdown of health care
services and related activities. 40% of the population are displaced and only a minority of primary
health care facilities operational.
(b)   The five-year suspension period, which started only a few months after project
effectiveness, rendered some objectives obsolete after project resumption because they had been
achieved by the Government and with the support of other donors in the meantime.
(c)   The preparation of a new Bank-supported project in the health sector shortly after
the HPP's resumption in 1992 seems to have led to a loss of interest on part of both the borrower
and the Bank in the HPP. Many original project objectives have been achieved during the HPP's
lifetime but in the context of preparing the new project, with funds specifically earmarked for the
achievement of these objectives.
(d)   The coup d'etat shortly after project resumption and the take-over by a new -
military - government involved a re-direction of priorities. A temporary loss of commitment to
primary health care and an unwillingness to spend project funds on external technical assistance or
outside the MoH had a significant influence on the re-design of the project after resumption. This
led, among other things, to a neglect of the project's population objectives.
(e)   Deficiencies in project design impeded the achievement of objectives, particularly
with regard to drug procurement and cost recovery, where a lack of situation analysis led to the
setting of unrealistic targets.
(f)    Poor supervision with a frequent change of Bank task managers, incomplete
briefing of new task managers, long intervals between supervision missions and deficient
supervision reporting and follow-up limited the effectiveness of the project.
(g)   The limited management capacity in the health sector contributed to long delays in
project implementation and an inadequate functioning of the cost recovery program.



3
6.    Achievement of Individual Objectives. The first objective of effecting health policy
reforms and strengthening the MoH's capacities was substantially met, but with only partial
involvement of the HPP. In the area of reforms, remarkable progress has been made with the
approval of a National Health Policy and a National Health Action Plan in 1993 and 1994,
respectively. The MoH was reorganized, vertical programs were integrated into one Directorate
for Primary Health Care, a manpower plan was developed, and the budgeting and accounting
system improved. Almost all achievements were accomplished either during the HPP's
suspension period and with the support of other donors, or after HPP's resumption but with funds
from other projects and from a Japanese grant exclusively financing technical assistance for the
preparation of the Bank's new project and contributing to policy reforms. The only contribution
the HPP made to these policy reforms is that it had identified their necessity. Neither the HPP nor
other Government and donor efforts achieved the objective of decentralization which was
seriously impeded by the rebel war.
7.    The biggest HPP achievement in the area of reforms consisted of cost containment which
led to a reduction of the daily wage workforce by 4,000 workers between 1991 and 1996. This
resulted in average annual savings of $530,000 or a total saving of $2.6 million until 1996. This
exceeds the HPP's objective of saving $400,000 annually through cost containment. The HPP's
objective of generating $800,000 annually through a cost recovery program (CRP) was neither
achieved by the HPP nor by other projects. Cost recovery, including a drug revolving fund
(DRF), can only be described as a failure. The average annual recovery from user fees and the
DRF amounts to some $70,000. This includes the returns on a total annual drug input of about
$1.5 million dollars. The reasons for failure include the large amount of exemptions, especially
since the start of the rebel war, extremely low user fees, ineffective management systems, lack of
control and abuse of the system.
8.    The capacity building objectives were significantly met. The MOH's planning and
monitoring capacity was strengthened through the establishment of the Planning, Management
Information, and Statistics Unit, which had been a condition of project effectiveness. However,
the HPP contributed little to the actual formation of the unit because the project was suspended
only months after effectiveness. After resumption, the HPP strengthened the unit through the
provision of equipment and short-term training. Primary Health Care (PHC) coordination was
strengthened through the reorganization of the MoH which led to the integration of vertical PHC-
related programs and the elaboration of a National Operational Handbook which supported the
nation-wide expansion of PHC, achieved during project suspension. The HPP contributed
partially to this success through its pre- and post-suspension support to the elaboration of the
handbook, the funding of PHC staff in the MOH, long-term overseas training for District Medical
Officers, and the provision of equipment. Financial management capacities were strengthened by
the BPP through consultancies, but the project' efforts in training accountants in the MoH were
ineffective as this staff, who is answerable to the Accountant General and not to the MoH,
showed little interest in training. MoH's physical capacity building received substantial support
through the project's extensive procurement of vehicles and equipment.
9.    The second objective of strengthening primary health care and family planning services
was partially achieved by the HPP. Due to the rebel war, the upgrading of health facilities in the
provinces had to be cut down. The actual civil works consisted of the upgrading of 17 Peripheral
Health Units, 3 district hospitals, 2 training schools, I Central Medical Store, and the construction



4
of 4 satellite clinics in Freetown to offer PHC to the urban population which has dramatically
increased since the start of the rebel war. Medical and other equipment has been procured for
these facilities. Drug supply has been improved through HPP's substantial drug procurement.
However, the HPP's objective of establishing International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for non-
project related drug procurement was unrealistic already during the design phase because the
MoH has not received foreign currency from the Ministry of Finance since the early 1980's and,
thus, is in no position to undertake ICB. The drug revolving fund is hardly working, and a
national policy on cost recovery has not been developed. A standard essential drug list has been
elaborated with the support of the project and is used throughout the system.
10.   Staff training has been strengthened through the upgrading of two training schools, the
revision of training curricula to introduce a community health content, and the training of 90
MatemalVChild Health Aides. In-service PHC training is being provided by District Health Teams
but a comprehensive training program has not been developed. Staff problems have been
reviewed and a manpower plan elaborated but not with the support of the HPP. Health, nutrition
and family planning education has been neglected during most of the project's lifetime. A
nutrition policy was not developed and mass media health education has only recently started.
Family planning is not fully integrated into health services, but offered by different staff at annexes
to Peripheral Health Units (PHUs). Although the PHC system has been strengthened, the system
as such is hardly operational at this time, with most of the PHUs closed and large portions of the
population displaced to towns.
11.   The third objective of developing a population policy and programs to increase the
demand for family planning has been partially achieved, but the project's contribution was
minimal. During suspension a population policy and a population action plan were developed
with the support of UNFPA. The planned HPP support for IEC activities of NGOs and to the
integration of population into formal education curricula was eliminated from the project's
workplan after suspension without explanation or justification. The project disbursed less than
20% of the originally planned allocation to population objectives. This deviation from project
design would have warranted an amendment to the Development Credit Agreement because it
means that project objectives have been changed. Although the necessity for such an amendment
was highlighted in one of the supervision reports, the amendment was not carried out. Only some
minor activities were undertaken to increase the demand for family planning. Already such
minimal support was resisted by the MoH which was not inclined to disburse funds to entities
outside the ministry.
III.   Next Steps
12.   The task manager of the project will elaborate a draft Implementation Completion Report
upon return from the mission, and forward the draft to the MoH for comments. The borrower
will finalize his evaluation report and forward it to IDA by mid-June, 1996.



APPENDIX B
Borrower Contribution to the ICR






REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
MINISTRY OF HEALTH!
I NTERNAT I ONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(CR 1695 - SL)
FINAL EVALUATION REPORT
MAY. 1996



TABLE OF CONTENTS
CONTENTB                                    PAGE 
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
I.  INTRODUCTION ..................                 1
PART A    SECTORAL SUPPORT ....    .............. 1
PART B    BASIC HEALTH AND
FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES .... ...... 1
PART C    POPULATION ACTIVITIES ....   ......... 1
II.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .....    .................  4
III. ACHIEVEMENTS .........................         6
OBJECTIVE 1   SECTORAL SUPPORT ....    ......... 6
OBJECTIVE 2   BASIC HEALTH AND
FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES ..... 7
OBJECTIVE 3   POPULATION ACTIVITIES ........ 8
IV.  CONSTRAINTS .......    .......................... 9
V.  CONCLUDING REMARKS .......................... 10
ANNEX A: LIST OF HPP SUPPORTED INTERNATIONAL FELLOWSHIPS,
WORKSHOP/SEMINAR ATTENDANCES
ANNEX B: LIST OF HPP SUPPORTED LOCAL COURSES, SEMINARS,
WORKSHOPS



LIST OF AIBREVIATIONS
ADB/F     AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK/FUND
AIDS      ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME
ARI       ACUTE RESPIRATORY INFECTION
BFHI      BREAST FEEDING HEALTH INITIATIVE
DCA       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
DIT       DISTRICT IMPLEMENTATION TEAM
EPI       EXPANDED PROGRAM ON IMMUNIZATION
PP        FAMILY PLANNING
HPP       HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
ICPD      INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON POPULATION DEVELOPMENT
IDA       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
IEC       INFORMATION, EDUCATION AND COMMUNICATION
MCHA      MATERNAL AND CHILD HEALTH AIDES
NGO       NON - GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATION
NPC       NATIONAL POPULATION SECRETARIAT
ORT       ORAL REHYDRATION THERAPY
PHC       PRIMARY HEALTH CARE
PHU       PERIPHERAL HEALTH UNIT
PIC       PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMMITTEE
PMISU     PLANNING, MANAGEMENT INFORMATION AND STATISTICS
UNIT
PSC       PROJECT STEERING COMMITTEE
TBA       TRADITIONAL BIRTH ATTENDANT
UNFPA     UNITED NATIONS FUND FOR POPULATION ACTIVITIES
UNICEF    UNITED NATIONS EMERGENCY CHILDREN'S FUND
WATSAN    WATER AND SANITATION
WHO       WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION



I. INTRODUCTION
The Health and Population  roct (HPP CR 1695 - SL) is the
irst  BA -i1n ncd opegPalton In  ne ga th sectof in Sierra
teone. The pfiSJec wastaes1gnea topad rep$ some. ot te_wtgx
areas in the     l          ana  opueatio smctrs o  te
country in the *ii  - elie           gt  concepu after sc
prepratory act viLties   at  nclaedt;%e      tuc  aon o  numerous
stulies, and haa the lo lowing major oStec ives:
a.   spPgort ne,essarg adrustm ntp in tge health sector
tnraugh po icy r f,orf  ana strengt en ng of te
Minis?ry of Health ,s capacAty  f,r program planning,
managing, coori nating, ana monito ing;
b. strengthen basic health services with emphasir? on
rrimaty Hea lth Cre (P ,CJ apprQach and inclusion of
Family Planning in healtn services; and
c.   hTlp ,develop PQpulation P9licy and strengthen Family
P anning demand - generation activities.
A$ originally conceived, the project consisted of the
following parts:
PART A:   SECTORAL SUPPORT
Revision of the mnnagemenS and administration of the
Min itry o  Healtf,, inc u   ng revision or ma?powpr
deve o-.Lent an  aePoyment, imprevement   m pnn
e,s,  accoun in  anl auditi ng pr
o  coorifnhtion, espegially of PHC activii es.
PART B:   BASIC HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES
Extgngion of PHC to Moyamba  Kenem, and TonWQlili Districts,
3jcluling con*tructionlreha6ilitatlon o  meicai stores s
vlstrict hosp tals and Peripneral Healt  Units (PHUs)
Fmu        ort   a      is cts on   drugsupp4ies and 5istribution
includ ng the introaU  ion of a sot-  ecover/vlving_
Fund  support to sat raining by ext nslon/rnovatiqn or
existing  a illities at Bo Paramed cal SchoQl and currivula
@v isiog and development o$ Health, Nutrition and Family
Planning Education activitles.
PART C:   POPULATION ACTIVITIES
trenathenina the capa,ity of the National Population
(Eommision C PC), provlsion of additiQnal p roestional A d
support pta,   hicies,  iquip,ent ana qupples to te   C
seVietariat, conviuction ot trainina seqLina swrshos fo
c  mar ers an         ners, stren   h nin  tne /flectf veness
Er Nom - Vover umentcl ooraninatlons        )               or
y t e Unlversity    Sierra Leone's  nt   te of              n
Ox apgopri4te syl?eabuss Nd  eteching kits, training
progr ms ana operational ma er a s.
The Development Credit Agreemynt (ICA) for the
ip:ementation of the HPP  was   ina I       gd  between th,e  egublic
oierfa L@Q an  the International seo               nt ASSOC1 ni n
thJu         I    aIn a Tenatin  ofee  giTllion Tmial
awng  ih          Fecomleee        ate was  "  " June,     and the
cfos8Kn da e 06th une, U.
As expecteq, there were slight del acs after a rapid pried
tart- up, pasica11y explaineq hy the fact that this was th8e
flrpt Bank financed operation in the neal th sectoK, and key
Mn.stry of Health st&tf were unfamiliar with project goals and
implementation procedures.
Unfortunately, proj't imp lementati n wa8 abrutl   isruted
tg tion of an  inA su-en in of disburse nentn  tath
fu        actq or pleraLeone in ltaTnls srou p ts all  Eno
.ance  acft?  ies ,to a stanastil  e.g.  tinal paR ents couya not



2
be effqcte  for vehicles and iRotorcycles t at had.already been
ordereatna aeglYee i    the new y esta lPdheP 1anning, mangement
mat on ania mataistics uniL was lert wt  t a wQrnplan tnat
obe Imp1emented; the devepopme t by te Uni er8it  of
giarra L,ne's Instit te o Fducatron of apPropriate TylX  auses
ana teac  n   kit  coula not b  rxna ized   In  rijgipl  .very
little or no achievement   co d  e recoraed  o          perio ,
since only some ot tne Iaentiteinur neededf e.g  porent
of dugs,vehicles, ,equipment anx UP leS, sta   t inn)wr
in thefprocesg or being Prvde    I  : .s lota t.t? not  te le
me  p1  nne ar      actvit es coul  no  be      nac   by
the Ministry o  He,a1th BecaUse the necessary bu qeta
allocations ha  not been made.  Fortunately, durIng tne period of
the ban, many activitles could be impiem nted because gf
financial assistance anA siIppQrt from otner sources.  Notable
amongst these were the following:
-    the exQarsiQn of tle(Pan n     Mana emept Information
anStatistis            M     wt (  pas undertakqn primarily
with assIstance rom UNICEF, which provi ae  not cnly
vehicles, comnuters and other  q1vCipmqnt any supPlies
but also fundea tra iinionq activrtie     relevant ptatf
and funds for the conduR ti on o  numerous important
research studieM. TPe roles of the United States peace
corps and tFrencn Meical cooperation were crucial in
nhe area o  t?chnica1 a,ssi s1&ace, especial ly  or
omputing Skills and Epidemiology;
-    the District Medical Stores that were to be built in
Mvamb,a, Keneia and T nkoliA6  ere kpgructed with
flOan"cTal.assistance  rom      a    Uese
organiZa ions a so1 a3is e  wit  the provisjon of
es ential and special ze  qrugs for the nation - wide
elt?Rsign of a a     revoKving fund within the context
ak  Iniative;
-    as far as Population P  licy  nd Pr?ran Development
were.concerned, the NP  co tned tX eceive
consicera9 ie support   QM  NPA wco    n a,    ssisted
with the  evelopment ana impleementation ot the National
eamily Planning Program.
The IDA suspension was lifted in 1991  making it possible to
resume the implementation  f  rog ect activit .es.  However, Ernor
to re*tart  tne 1roAect la  t~ b  consed l4  revi e   e a se
the situation ha q  onge   uring tne h eSig a o  the Na3.  For
example  PHC activities an  prpg rams  ad been ex tended to cover
v;rtually the whole country; ne drugs cost regovery program was
.so ertional coun ry - wie   aven receive
co ns        suport  rom WHA, (NICEF and AFRIARE.  Qn the
negat,ve pi e, !le secondary and tertiary Serv ces haa
deterio ate markreqly over the yeari ma if esting in an apPlling
Stae o  mot hospital$ country - wiae, elpec alI  the teftiary
N,atlonfl RTet_rral HospftBls in the  api    cy    Fretown -
nese ragi    es we e      - epippe   ort im?f wlQhgu  bas c
rags                                         ees other ne ed me ica  s; su L  mgrale uas i w,
aR a  Iaent  were teing cnarged e  rbs  nt ruees wto    utansard,
sn     c n         A seY naab3en   rr ed out wiK  fun ing from
an Ap rian hyeieopme9tu8Knk/Fn  (D/F  arant; the, results
highlizhted these and many other defici _n tties  m    rksn l
eqmmendation  foraddr lsing thgm witin 19e contelt of an ADB
rn  gdHos ita S   ehabi itation froje   ..   nce this mroect was
St1 1 in tne pyeEarato?y phae, itwas oPinea that some or the
ONP lunds could be utilizEd to adAd s  sbme of these urgent needs
in the secondary ana tertiary facilities.
,,This  raetrevision was undert4ken jointly by relev nt
MWsstery       Ath staff anoI DA mi!sAQns.  It was A  eate  y
empasAze8 t la   nere weVe limits w   ihn which the HIF        d  e
re isea so t la :    pf:rman  acetbet    e Ba- tnspcl e 
many arguments ana p eadngs, th  HP ,oul  not adare   t e
urgent jeeds of the secondary an  terti    srvices   One of
compromise decisions taken was tne cons r cton of four satellite



3
inict in  rge own  o assis amo   other  hngs  to deconse
t   Nationa   derra  Hospiat ca               r  to ensura  tt
y yery seriou  aase i were refere  . to hem  or treatmnt, wiL
IF.           bes ng taken care r  n the   st
ocatea ilin?B                                    r    i
t gas ,aso during this period of revision that it was
re   tnat    e PrQ eigt C8isg Yate phould De  et at 31st
ucser  s94    ne  ruS              ose tIe proj ect was considered
n tie  ighor the fct Jhat events had ovartak2n the
pron  t, especial Y cause of t        ve years sus ensoo
usemerts. h        generai view, the efor   was 5hat te  roject
ahoul; be brough  to { speedy conciusfon,    reby pavina theway
ror tn,  rouYa ;   o  a pfoaect that ,could gatt        i    Re twea
currenxneeas o: : ne   al,, se,tor_.  Tne I  sl 1lty o;eteon
the.Pgo ect closing d e    aso xePt  n mnd.   In ma2ing ting
deciR 19A, what was evMaenly n t envlsaged was how time -
consuminq  roj ect re tat col  be; th:  ws especially so
b aue r?o t_o pro  ec  estart, ous tan 1n4  issues had to be
aress                              ts  or vehicles, MotorVycle* and
Qlnerauppieslomp e i1n o  n   eoation ana extenTiou or
Fentrau !iAeVai  am          Eentualy,    extension ot ne
projet  1osin       t       t      Iner, lYY5 was requestea.  This
ws ttnaile ater.di                       and conside able revisi ns
with IDA sa    thereby ens   n  a          a orabe Completion 0of
project activities.



4
II. PEJ=CT 11PLDIMDITION
All attem ts were made to enstre that the gDre - sus?gnsion
has   f the)   roiect w s implemen        acordc  w i        e
Fov aons mad  nthe  evelopment ure  tiee                 is
at no s  ar  e  roic  ma       ent un .:wabih               A
rolact St erfn       ttee (PS  yas estab ishe   o ceal with
road poJicv matters  overs e   ip ementat on  r v  w ferformance,
ssure   mey fi angi   flow an  advise the tan           ojet
rroess         0 Pro e,ct imp   nt   I,n    0         ' ;c ntat?d
?ro                ipeme   n;c ai D  t               1rrcer 'co
ro ea t  IR    n~4  Jn,                      e.eIci
Co alsordna~8a    rojec    recor; otner    bers  ncM udd te
a  Coord nator         a  to hw eolot .Manaaer), t er t:       and
O  1r   cc A       )ffier, T a nina a       ,vafuatlin  $        .    and
N~~~  L,    Ntifcer.  Fotedt*t its (iZ.gioya, ga, Kep,m ad
tckot ITA,O   str1c  Im  ement  ion TtamS         w,aoishea
tne Prc p1Me         l U ers and ip9trcAqNIcaT86f icers
ty consisted o  existing health advisers and technical staff.
After the guspeOsiQn,  the revi Aon gfclh eroAeclwls
guided by the cangea crcumstances   at  n  ua    e   owing:
-    some previously planned project activities had already
been implemented e.g  Primary Health Care pro rams and
th, Essntial Drugs wlst Recovery system ha  been
exTenaea country - wide;
-i most hospitaAs inclydin? the NatAonal Referral
Hospita 1  ha  deteriorat e  consi era ly ana were in
urgent need of repairs;
-    the ,ountry wat s ywlK Ving r"d   q eb l war"
ea4ing to dis or fZnt  nUp at  on g str  utions ana
Ijak ng many area  o  the cuntryVnte  or the
lmapi eentation of any project at ivt es;
-    at the time ,f project reyisiion an  restaft, the,re was
no pepuDy Cbiet MeOmcal O;  cer/HC Coordator in
QSt     S dvties were being co  uctea Dy the then Head
Pf           Management In ormation ana Statistics
Pn t      MPlU.
As 4 rosult of.the fore - ipentioned, post - suspension
qro ect ilementatio  wa  ia   e  out byft PrQ 1ect Management
Te.He,aea  yhe whm  e a  O'   Pr   et Director,
Ptne    ersnled tn  Heaq    the P,   I U/    eit Mgnager, the
5ro ec   ntlnciao  Cntroller, the Proaect Aclet   n
Pri ctoa Plann.na 8fice  and t   O                         About a
En        v eputyc  l                            ornato, as Wember
isince 1  wa  no,ttnought praden  tocanqe tRe post of Project
Manager at tnat stage) and tne Director of Donor RMiations.
The Proiect Manaaement Team  Ic Iyd copsideoagle support
from many IDA sa,, especi ally the        erentTaS Manage  over
the lre or      prthe ec.r  an  rvoct ie piementation won1% have
n a;  estv very d     ult ani lefticient ana at worst
mpioss b e witnout this support and supervlston.
The Proiect Director a               sited the Bank on
famil ,arization tours, whail     n    a   cme,, on reaular
superviserv mssi        These supeorv  iry   ssions p'ov doeq the
opportunitI  to moni to  all aivcts o  poIoct  1mp1emntatiop,
ensuring t at corrective action can    unaertakeh  n a timely
manner.
The rebel w   which st4rted soon after project restart
escalate4 graduaf Y durinq  ilementat on, adverse1y atIecting
many proje   acMv ties,'. g..
-    Phase I Civil Works activities were delayed and
completion dates had to be extended;



5
Some of the training activities fVnded bY tMh
lad      to    ,a r c    .the trainlnor Mnle e   n
Port L     a tohad tcated to  ree own;
Phase II Civil Works activities had to be restricted to
only sare areas;
The Drug Revorlvina Fund was Markel  diminiqhed because
the nuDer of exempt canes tnat snoUl1 receive drugs
wee or eharge inCreased, principal y amongst the
alsplace population.



6
III. ACHIBVEMENT8
It is yerYdifficul.t to assess the achievements of this
praiec     Y in isola ion; thi  is because manY actlvlt es that could
rontribute towar s achieving the stated objectives wereaso
Vined,  rom otner surye .  T is aT so ehasized becau8e of
tre rive yagrr prio           o   As ujsement3, when many planned
oject a r ivles  aa to De        ea rom ot m er sources.
III1.. OBJECTIVE I: BECTORAL 8UPPORT
The M nis ry of HeI a     af p,ow suc e3ded in formulat.ng,
comrrehens1ye National Healtt  P licyan  etyeloping a Na lora
Health Action Plan.  Although these activities were not runae
diretl  ba tae HPP (but b  aljaans  grant adnuniltered tIroug
the Wor    apd  by  he            r ea    Organization), tney ?orme
part of the origina1 obiectlv  re latlna t  nealth setoral
ret-orms.  Th ea     alog  nvo ved  he review of exising manpower
policles,  ob descr iptonsi, etatr teployment and traLninng
rograms tn'at formed nte basi  tor tne aevelopment O  a  ealth
Manpower Development  plan to addrees the identif ied n eds.  In
line with t4is, the new y   estab; L shed DiAe tQrat  o
D??gr Relations recived ygport :ram the H          n tne  orm of
o0$le equi mept ana su ls ,and aov'Ohi2lez   hq I,re - 
mentionea can      ieweq san antdgratvQ  prife  RaEtivities
with other relVee ac       lls  n   e Minltry oF    ea t tin
particular, ana the Health Sector in general.
There can be no doVbt that the planning capacity wititn the
Ministry of Health and in the Heta. th Sector has been cgnsiaerably
enhanced as a resuto of theest               of the PlanningI
Manaqement In formation ana Statistics Unit.  Redesignateo as the
Directorate of Plan  nn  and Infto mgtiQn in the new organ1zatioyal
structure of the  i n4 @ r  of Healtn, it nas contribut   marey
towarqs improying .efictency in the secto r ttIrQugh ppper
planning, monitoring ang evaluat    Ox ay :ivitieB.  In1, wae
achleveo by t ralni   re levant sta;r Qnf aL, aspects of P1anning
monltoring and eva1atl on, estapd ishinq Dis r ct Monitoring ana
EvaluaLi.ori oft ices in all the Daistricts, coordinatins relevant
research and developing a dat abase  aor planning in tne sector.
Financial management has been Improved considerably with 4
much more tran,sa  eft a c un ing atr avaiting s stem sapervisea
wY the prR n                                    degnate   irector
orinanci a tesources in th  Min .trS o, Health    The Drug
CostreCovgr   yysem suporte l   t e Project is now an i te ral
part orth th             ie cs; ffint;  uce y      prje           the
proyurerent o  the   ret bgach ao   rVgsI duNnF ana e;R K. t
ass sted in extending 1i  country - wi e during the pnriod 
svspension.  An escrow accun  as been  Sened with the sank of
Uierr4 Leone, where proceeds .rom the sal  o0  drugs are
aeposite .
Countrywide coordinotiSn of KHC atyivit es was strengthened
throuh the sumrt Provad  to the o  tIce Ot the.Notionl PHu
CoorXnator -,Si  ificludee  sta f  trainings, provision or
vehicles to assip  in countrywide supervigion and support,
provision of equipment and s pp ies.
Almost all the affices in the Ministry of Health received
su port from the pro iect in our efforts to.imprQve   r ormance,
ba ically through tri ntinas and the provision of neMea   qu ipment
ay  sugplies tl ensure t                          im iem nte
e Iectley Thsicud the oi- V           ices ot e Mn:s  r/l cretary
9taje7fThe Permsantn anret rytnow releA ignated    recror
Qeera4  of  anagemen   rervcs   t e  ha    eqcad O  icer tnow
rne8eign tta D  reys?r GenercaTsT S igal  ervices  PH director,
the    OP ma                             arector o   rugs ana
Medical Suipies, the evuy SerV   tnow rede i nated the
DirctQr o  Support Iervi es,    on     other aMtvIties  support
St ir ram theue of 1ges receive  tr ining  n otno    ce tecMoThgy
ana were provTaed with com ut ers, prlnter  and otnr  quipment
ani  sVlies t   nsure th t tne  can caf         t         uth   r  Utie
ticl  nt Y. th s support can ge exemp i ie  bythe ?act that



7
du5ing the pre - spension  eriod, 14 four wheal drive vehicles,
ton trUck an4 64   torcYc es were distributed to assist wit
countywiaoe proect im  iemen ation; in the.post - suspension
ge5jod, a to a  of 21 rour w eel drive v hicles, 17ton truck and
9  ter bus were procureq and supporteca suc.hiverse
1yfXict 1T8 ieSa1oBugetrdvision ana support, drugs' distrioution , and
III.2: OBJECTIVE 2: BASIC HELTH AND FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES
The following facilities were renovated/extended with
project funus:
-    National School of Nursing;
- BoParame ical School;
-    DB strS ct Government Hospital at Makeni, Bombali
is ir 4ct;
-    Distrct Government Hospital at Kambia, Kambia
Distirlct;
-    Lungi aovernme t Hospital (including the addition of a
maternity wing)
Peripheral  ealth Units Btjaougu, Kondembaia, and
Fa  ain ten   K anAdVu D strltd
-    Pepherlal Heiatip unifs at Kychom, Barmoi, and Numea in
tRe   mIa DTstrict;
-    Peripheral Health Units.at MatebQi  Kambj8, Batkanu,
anu        i an   _  maranka in Bom alb District
-~~I PeigrlHalh Unlts at Mo~l M4ra, Kumrabai Namila,
- n  P b aia   giU  In Tonx  i. i District
-     erp neral Hea      nits at  osint Buya, glnti,
Kag antama, and Sen ugu in Port Loko Dis rict.
n ad itiQn, tour sate1lite qlinics were constructed in well
PQpalJate  ang upaerserye   ocatioDs iLn the Western Area, i.e.
at ~iariah  Kngnarman Road, Macauiley street  an a RQJrCUes
Hore Inttned  o atsist in de ongesting the National Re? ria        '
spita s nFree own.
sQr some d these  acilitie anmedical equipmtnt were procured
Qr  ge     s        Iii    ghlenttlr            y being
dlatriute  toy ensure that  hese  acilties Kunction e fectively
an~ e Ficienty
The availability of af ordable essential and specialized
drui  wa  en ure  not only by their proc rement and the
estbglis  et oepn    a cst rec ovstery ssem  throh statt trainiags
na proyvsion of equipmenty os Titary ang ot  r sup lies  anags
aveioe  pt       g   anda  e fistrinatm  la  rua runu,   1 aiwW    also
tgrous ne renatgn nand e uipngof s                      foror Min  entral
Meiedi S toreh corlex,    the   provi ion o   2 7ton
aruck  toassi. t t e a el Mg~eeto  truckosrin tne c9untr  i'd
As far as staff training an~fgupVryt~sion is concerned
~eidTsohe repovati Qn  xtgnalon/fris         of the,t Nlonal.
~~ tha  FK t        rameffcal8h        VT ,   es.were
IC Eoo1  ol Hygienoe.  Ie curri   a fSo?sthe  aramei c~  coo? ad
c  o  Hv  ene w ge als  b ended and~ reyisec3 to reflect te
planoned mer Ig of  eie setw   raining inst itut ions.
The long list of trainings fundec) include those for MCHA1 des
and TBAs, wh  were subsequently proviadec  with the necessary kits.
Iii rel atioeship? Hea1th, Nutritiontano F m lyePanning
Education .5tyotivators were tainemil iFreeowan
~~en iwhj.los   e    r&dj  pQgyrams were fiindFd to pr mt  EPI,
uzcT,WATSA,Ik,FIii H,  and Malaria cqnVro?."Vehicles
were m~cured for t eHaltgh Educatton and Nutritign Divisions,
prima  Ily to assist wth te supervision of nutrition



8
surveillance activiftI vand efor the dismeminati.on of Health
Eaucation mesaemt gtnevenic e rocurea for the Health Education
ivision was rited with a Pub1ic soareas sys em).
111.3. OBJECTIVE 3: POPULATION kCTIVITI]S
Th  Nation    piutIgon   mmimmsign secr t rat
strengtnenea coaQ               D e arovision_   two Scha  so ,a
omputea,   inte  an, n ode    at?   erY  Cne groiec  a so wuoeed
ghe Con ucf hln  no : arafoi    CAe scue o                       aon
eveiopmeno   a              enB?lYz: n selnar  or polic  _
makers ana afln 8 stratorIro  mIKE ;a1                                a
eries of broa cas s to gone  ize the  p opu a no  a        IC D
ssues.
As mentione1 erjir  the act vities Dlanne  to addres many
of th  issues ra sea         w l od foe   mlmne  aursn  te
groge t sus ensoon pwt    unTngiom othr  ourc s.  For
exmpe  a Nat  onal Pou at o    lcy had are  x on leveloped
ar wesbein  promuli  e  w  tn            Im8 ance      NF rn
[ait'on, ma y DoDu  t on rTs         I   issues were e  ng addressed
gy the heafR Eaugua :ono  v  tov1n wt   paro3ect   pp rt.
From all  he  bove - Wlotie   i  beco           vdent that the
pro ect  ins e  o  many d    1u tfa   h          cue  a   ve vear
suspension,   a anievoe m                               i       TKs i
ver  ogomendaa   i a   ma otn   aectot gt ttion
peroo  travre  tbrvee  ir ent    arner  ants        Il    h   ee
war wasmsxarea anq euca a    conmsaenanjy  urng n  per
making many areas 1nacces   ae or unsare.



9
IV. CONSTRAINTS
ManY    the frbjemt and conatraints noted dun oroect
: elUSi $B     ankrl nancea oler t on 1  the heal   sec
8 mean. at k Y instry a g      ea th st        re      erU encUd
P   nm1r wtn   n ;oceaurea    In a
Re Pro' c r             T .m were over oads   t:h anY    ers of
OO            ni              yrelate         ro e:         ation.
cqnov, tne m1m ze   Qf tnR  tm remuvea    e a           ces
ncent   s asou              Li na:.teCAQne must  180 not  rgretht
ct           8m lemey aiQn :g  e  n ant ont                 t  tha t
laplemen a :1on ay the      el       r            did nothe
ee  an9fy  ncentivqs.  atnuh tha  was also  aejt od  iw  the
myre T   Rl Pyment Of :ncqtie  Ty te,have motlVae         f  oih
taxemoreintrest in Drol:ytv-rltdatviisi   lwo
er low moraie aue tE a r oua fnanc al dijiletinevs W
fg fpr f  g Itf OwerecOnerned,c                     SS.
Tly gi atTutta tonawgel pa y to smtneai  le d
see e     h   reTat6aiprTncTpally to the Tas  Managers
an fusgursement StaP.gr
The overalf co  t y situatiop and atmsp ere in which the
pro ect MA P leme        was ngtotfaayg ponauc    to  nropr
rmpserentalon  anq Iea tO  tne fact      on  me  me. uqe
f? ciel                        g at aRo
aecrssons were dlctatea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  PI.g s.a  tn  seurt   riaiongaln
pecmay   a             ec c  a              eo  renvate
ce may  ras  ou                   be se       caus
ans coai     l at   as  part alb exafla?n syme cons ru tonity;
gnsa       t            .   the  cop      on rat er most
on ~~~    na~~4Vai.S~on.fth    ?cg  reioat
n  canxru         VOLoca rf cgencY,    e aeone,
was  va1udea con.  Iartngqtie  i e of  he Prbj5c
cesst taling.  pyme     'sments rTr some advsrsey an &cted
E?vii Works cong  ac a tIt were in leones.
cause ah    f            the civillyorkg consulltanttwas olso a
-ause zggr,             arar  dooie    ePcflPV  we3n certfcates or Ragment
pnreparin Sot prdAo gay e               d  caus ing delays in        aye
urepratln otwntnriwa   P Api ations.
Withdrawal Ap 1 catgons w  5o0etim a ma            i tele
lrparea or pr seit ea wltout te retean  su               aoca r
ow were  evenreASto  an  returnea $or res   as m ion, wIrcfn
0 BOe unwarrant e a      S.tn                                eRtd
Governnt  tounterpart funds were not ?aid in a timelv
lan feaaina to laa yts to contractors and causing
osays in project imp em1 n    on.



10
V. CONCLUDING REMARKS
As can be seen fromi the  or  entioneI ,it is difficult to
assess the imPact of: thns proieCt in tne rqealth sector re au e of
reasons a1reaRy out; ned - the fact that curina the perlioa o
suspension, many    j ect activities were  mPlf.entSe with funding
frQmp other spurce".  It will be d.ffic2t to ident t?  any impact
inaicators that would aqequate y describe the contri  ution or the
p oiect towards the acblevement or any or the statea objectives,
i n e there was input from many other sources.
If however one should assess the project based on the
achieyement of the orAignal obgectives as outline , it becomes
immealately evident tnat most of thse oject ives were met,
although in most cases not with PrQlect  lput in islation.  For
examp1e, sectqral suPpQrt was si g1 icantiy improve1d  urlng tne
roject 1 fetime, le&fl   to the formulation ot a Ntlonal Healt n
Pol lC  and the deve1opme t of a National Health Act on P lan, witn
rarkeO reorgayizatioy go the Mini try o Health and the
ormul ation OI a Healt: Manpower Development lan.  Trere can be
no dount that the ins :itVtionai capacity bu ldlnq funded by the
HPP j.g  training grgvision of vehicles  equlpent and
SUPP '11j contributea in no small way to this performance.
In re  at ionhip to the second objective, almost all
districts gnel  tea  rom some supp rt that must have conMributed
towards imp roving the perfQrmance oN  thqir dui les   Many PHUs
were renovated and equippea, many district - levei staff
benefitted from locar ana overseas trainings.
The projeat conti bujted markedly tolaFds en$uring that baic
drVas are re  1 y aval ab e an  at aTfordVble prices countryw,iqe
whiI$t the seconaary and tertiary fci 1 ites were also supplied
specialized arugs procured witn roject tunas.
In view of the fact that a popylatien Policy was develoPed
during project suspension and promu lgate      h       tance  rrim
UNFPA  the project concentratea on Stren thenin   tne capacj y of
the NtC secretariat to per0fri its qutSi  e n?icIent cy.  Vehicles,
a cQmputer  printer and neeqea stationerx were proviled by the
project.  tn addition, tundina was provi ed fpr the conquKtion of
seagitizati nn seminars for reIevant pQligy ma4ers ana pianner*
and the condut yon of a series or raflo broadcasti on Rupiuation
issues, especially those relating to the International conference
on Population and Development (IcPD).
It is important to note that all project fuods w re
disbursed alon  aqreea upon lines to imp emnt piannea project
activ    s.  T e  ee  foy          earexte sign mag    c?n$ldered
a setttac'that can be torated  n view ot tn  pe ieiar tles or
the project i.e. long peraoq of sys ension, s  ow restart and
miplme?neatlon unaer condit ons ot an on - going and escalating
rebel war.
Virtually al4 sectors and safe ueographic areas benefitted
from HPP support in one form or  he othBr, notably the following:
Institutional capacity building and support through
provisionor trai ing faciliti   (local and overseas)
logistic support (venicle , motorcycl e, computers.and other
Mtice equ ipment and suppJl.,) essentlal ana specializea
arugs for countrywiade dsirl ution.
AtL thou h 't may      difficult to determine exactly the
contrui     thtY HU  to these achievmntA (sice many of
these aptivities simul%aneously r cilve   un in? rrom otnar
sourcesl, there is no  ao    t     thg   waN   iniant, an  that
tne project .n aio be iaudet  tor  1h ghlhtIn q the deficiencies
an   art culing t em as some ot    majof obj ctives during
project cesign.



ANNU -A
LIST OF HPP - =UPPORTD INTEIRTIBE   FELLOWSHIPS.
WORKNOP/ISIXAR ATTENDAW
PARTICIPANT(S)      LOCATION/          THEME/    TIME/
INSTITUTION        SUBJECT I DURATION
1. DR. C. KAMARA  ROYAL TROPICAL       MASTERS IN  1986 - 1987
DMO, BOMBALI       INSTITUTE, THE      PUBLIC       1 ACADEMIC
NETHERLANDS         HEALTH       YEAR
2. DR. P. ROBERTS LEEDS UNIVERSITY,   MASTERS IN  1987 -1988
DMO, BO           GREAT BRITAIN        PUBLIC       1 ACADEMIC
HEALTH      YEAR
3. F.P. TRAINERS  INSTITUTE OF         TRAINING    JULY, 1986
- MR. J. WILLIAMS TRAINING AND DEV.,  OF            3 WEEKS
- SR. J. C. SAMAI AMHERST, MA., USA   TRAINERS
- MR. B. S. TURAY
4. DR. A. MACFOY  PRINCE LEOPOLD       MASTERS IN  1987 - 1988
DMO, MOYAMBA       INSTITUTE, ANTWERP, PUBLIC       1 ACADEMIC
BELGIUM             HEALTH       YEAR
5. DR. C. KAMARA  HARVARD SCHOOL OF   WORKSHOP ON AUGUST 2 -
HEAD, PMISU/HPP   PUBLIC HEALTH,       DATA FOR    20, 1993
MANAGER           BOSTON, USA          DECISION -
MAKING
6.-DR. F.NYLANDER LEEDS UNIVERSITY,   MASTERS IN  1993 - 1994
DMO, PORT LOKO;   GREAT BRITAIN        PUBLIC       1 ACADEMIC
-DR. A. PRATT                        HEALTH       YEAR
DMO, KONO
7. -MR. B.S.TURAY MEETING IN NAIROBI, BUYERS/        JULY, 1993
CHIEF PHARMACIST; KENYA                SELLERS
-MR. J.STEVENS                      MEETING FOR
MED.ELECTRONICS                        MEDICAL
ENGINEER                               SUPPLIES
8. MR. J. SAWANEH GALILLEE COLLEGE,   WORKSHOP ON FEBRUARY 21 -
OPERATIONS OF'CER ISRAEL               HEALTH SYS. MARCH 12,
MANAGEMENT  1994
9. MR. J. LANSANA PRAGMA CORPORATION, SEMINAR ON  APRIL 18 - 29
SENIOR PHARMACIST NEW YORK             PHARM. QUA. 1994
CONTROL



PARTICIPANT(S)      LOCATION/           THEME/        TIME/
INSTITUTION         SUBJECT      DURATION
10. LT.COL. DR.   HARVARD SCHOOL OF   INTERNATION APRIL 10 - 16
A. A. GIBRIL       PUBLIC HEALTH        NAL HEALTH  1994
SOS, DOHSS                              LEADERSHIP
FORUM
11.  DR. STEVENS  LEEDS UNIVERSITY,   MASTERS IN  1994 - 1995
DMO, KENEMA        GREAT BRITAIN        PUBLIC       ACADEMIC YEAR
HEALTH
12. LT.COL. DR.   MILAN, ITALY          RESOURCE    NOVEMBER/
A. A. GIBRIL                            FOR HEALTH  DECEMBER,
SOS, DOHSS                              LEADERSHIP  1994
FORUM



.3  [ DR Sn       U SK R-aSmom. ?eT  SBTH U MA  w_ -
KAMARA   CMO/HPP  MASSACHUSETTS      IFOR LEAD-  I2ND JUNE, '951
DIRECTOR                               ERSHIP
14. MOHAMED SANDI MSH, BOSTON,         HEALTH FIN- 12TH   30TH
FINANCIAL CONTR-  MASSACHUSETTS         CING AND I UNE, 1995
OLLER, HPP                            ISUSTAINABI.1
15. R.R. ANDERSON MSH, BOSTON,        [PLANNING &  10TH JULY -
PRIN. PLANNING    MASSACHUSETTS      IDIRECTING  l18TH AUGUST,
OFFICER                               IMIS          199          I



LIST OF HPP - SUPPORTED LOCAL COURSESI/MSINARS/WORMSHOPS
PARTICIPANT(S)    LOCATION/           THEME/      TIME/
INSTITUTION        SUBJECT      DURATION
1. 30 SECRETARIAL INSTITUTE OF PUBLIC COMPUTER      JUNE, 1993
STAFF FROM DOH    ADMINISTRATION AND  TRAINING:       3 WEEKS
MANAGEMENT (IPAM)   DOS,WP51,
123, HG
2. 15 MED.RECORDS INSTITUTE OF POP.   DATA         12 JULY -
CLERKS/TECH'CIANS STUDIES, FBC, USL   COLLECTION  8 AUGUST,
FROM PMISU                             &PROCESSING 1993
3.-FC MR. SANDI   ICN COMPUTER         CUSTOMIZED  JANUARY -
-PPO MR. ANDERSON TRAINING CENTER,    COMPUTER    FEBRUARY,
-ARCH. MR. GANDA  FREETOWN             TRAINING,   1994
-ACC.MR. KAIWA                         SEN. STAFF  4 WEEKS
4.SOSs,PSs,HEADS  BINTUMANI HOTEL,    SENSITIZA.  MARCH 3,1994
OF DEPTs,NGO REPS FREETOWN(ORGANIZED  SEMINAR FOR    1 DAY
BY NATIONAL POP.    POLICY -
COMMISSION          MAKERS
5.20 DOH PHARM-   CENTRAL MEDICAL      WORKSHOP ON AUGUST 9 - 11
ACISTS            STORES, FREETOWN    STORES        1994
MANAGEMENT/
EDP
6.150 MCH AIDES   MCH TRAINING         MCH COURSE  STARTED JUNE,
CENTERS, PORT LOKO,              1994  (STILL
MAKENI AND BO                    IN PROGRESS)
7. 20 SECRETARIES INSTITUTE OF PUBLIC  COMPUTER   12TH SEPTEM.-
ADMINISTRATION AND   TRAINING   7TH OCTOBER,
MANAGEMENT                       1995



8. 100 COMMUNITY    *IPAM           PROMOTION OF   DECEMBER,
MOTIVATORS           FREETOWN       EPI, ORT,       1995
WATSAN, AIDS,
BFHI, FP,
ARI, MALARIA
9. 20 M&E OFFICERS  *IPAM           M&E REFRESHER  DECEMBER,
FREETOWN       TRAINING        1995
10. 80 PHU STAFF    *IPAM           REFRESHER ON   DECEMBER,
FREETOWN       DATA            1995
COLLECTION
AND RELATED
11. 71 PHU STAFF    *IPAM           REFRESHER ON   DECEMBER,
KABALA         DATA            1995
COLLECTION
AND RELATED
12. 30 HEALTH        *IPAM          TOTRAINERS      DECEMBER,
STAFF                FREETOWN       REPRODUCTIVE   1995
HEALTH/FAMILY
PLANNING
13. 30 HEALTH        *IPAM          TOTRAINERS      DECEMBER,
STAFF                BO             REPRODUCTIVE   1995
HEALTH/FAMILY
PLANNING
14. 600 COMMUNITY   *IPAM           ORIENTATION    DECEMBER,
REPRESENTATIVES      FREETOWN       REPRODUCTIVE   1995
HEALTH/FAMILY
PLANNING
DISPLACED
CAMPS
15. 200 COMMUNITY   *IPAM           DISTRICT        DECEMBER,
REPRESENTATIVES      BO, KENEMA,    TRAININGS ON   1995
MAKENI,        REPRODUCTIVE
MAGBURAKA      HEALTH AND
FAMILY
PLANNING
16. 60 DOCTORS,      *IPAM          PREVENTIVE      DECEMBER,
NURSES,              CONNAUGHT      MAINTENANCE    1995
LABORATORY/          HOSPITAL,
DISPENSING           FREETOWN
TECHNICIANS
17. 30 MEDICAL       *IPAM          INVENTORY       DECEMBER,
STOREKEEPERS         CENTRAL        CONTROL AND    1995
MEDICAL        STOCK
.____ _   STORES      MANAGEMENT       .__ .



18. 30 HOSPITAL     *IPAM         INVENTORY      DECEMBER,
PHARMACISTS AND     CENTRAL        CONTROL AND    1995
DISPENSING          MEDICAL        PHARMACEU'CAL
TECHNICIANS         STORES         MANAGEMENT
19. 20 POLICY -     *IPAM         SENSITIZATION  DECEMBER,
MAKERS FROM         NPC, FREETOWN ON             1995
SECTORAL                           INTERNATIONAL
MINISTRIES                         CONFERENCE ON
POPULATION
AND
DEVELOPMENT
20. 10              *IPAM         CURRICULUM    DECEMBER,
TRAINERS/LECTURERS  FREETOWN       DEVELOPMENT    1995
FOR COMMUNITY
HEALTH
TRAINING
__________ _.  _   ...   , _ _. . ,.   SCHOOL . ..._.,____I.O
*IPAM    TRAININGS CONDUCTED UNDER THE AUSPICES OF THE INSTITUTE
OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT



I



APPENDIX C
Borrower Comments on the ICR



I



SIERRA LEONE - HEALTH AND POPULATIONIIMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION MISSION
Please allow me to express, on behalf of the Ministry of
Health and on my own personal behalf, my appreciation for the time,
effort and other resources put into the preparation and compilation
of this Draft Implementation Completion Report on the Health and
Population Project for Sierra Leone (Cr-1695-SL).
The constraints attending project implemention e.g-suspension
of I.D.A. Credit, the Rebel War with its attendant military
expenditures, the 'coup-d'etat etc had serious adverse effects on
effective Project Implementation.
I am therefore of the opinion that the successes achieved and
the failures recorded can be viewed against that background.
In our bid to attack the multi-faceted problems of our
Development, the temptation to encroach on areas which are outside
the ambit of our training and expertise is great.
The safest and I think, the most cost effective and productive
outlet is to grapple with problems that fall within our sectoral
training, knowledge and expertise.
In this regard, my humble submission is that the Health Sector
can perhaps deal more effectively, efficiently and more competently
with health related issues. I consider this as the only rational
explanation for the reluctance, unwillingness and inability of
Project Implementors to equitably and adequately address the
population issue.
To demand and attempt to enforce this prerequisite is perhaps
premature, perhaps inappropriate and certainly not met.
The term "Integrated Approach" which in the 1980's became the
Magic Term to attract funds by Cash-Trapped African, can we say,
"Third World" governments needs re-appraisal.   This in no way
indicts project implementators, but given the level of third world
development, it is simply in the nature of the case.



A major area of concern to me in the report is ths
ineffectiveness of the COTS RECOVERY System.   This concern was
expressed by His Excellency in his address to Parliament on the 7th
June 1996 and I quote: "The Cost Recovery System for the Marketing
of Drugs in hospitals which offer drugs and other medicaments at
reasonable prices to the public is a commendable venture, but its
Present mode of operation will have to be reviewed".  It will be
idle if not dishonest, to suggest that its current mode of
operation is commendable.   The Ministry will  soon initiate a
vigorous process of reviewing the entire system. In this process,
realistic and achievable objectives will be put in place to make
the Cost Recovery respond more adequately to the needs of "Target",
beneficiaries. A problem area is the management of the system.
This will undergo serious review.
Admittedly the project had its merits. Inspite of problems
adequately and objectively described in your highly informative
report, the project is not without its usefulness and relevance.
The Zeal and enthusiasm with which the Ministry's staff sought
funding support to rescue the project from total collapse after
IDA's suspension, is a testimony to the Ministry's commitment to
the project's objectives. The delays or deficiencies on the part
of Ministry's staff in meeting the objectives can be considered
only as part of the problem which I think, the project was in part
designed to address.
It is however salutary to note that much has been learned from
the exercise and I hope the knowledge, training and what the
project called "Capacity Building for the Ministry of Health", will
prove very useful in the preparation and implementation of other
Health-Related Projects in the future.
Mr. Foday        eisay    7
Deputy Mi ster of He d A
and Sanitation.
27th June, 1996.



N011O3S dVW






IBRD 19459R
MAUSRIANI.  
S I E A R A   L E O N E                         "'             - S    -SA  I     =
HEALTH AND POPULATION                                                               SX-GnS
U, IE   ,J
SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT                                            n   hEA k_C
Existing  and  Proposed                                                              N r      IIGERIA
o   P0,,r,c Hoadquarters                              Primary   Health  Care  Programs                                        -            TOGC
-AfLIIe Ti
e    NatorIeal CrtaltC
0   --- Distr,ct Boundorres                                        j       -.                                                O -- -
-  -  Prom.nce Bo-ndarnes
-        -    .rnat,ohsol  u,darr.s         :            '.     t .
Primary Health Care
<r,, .........     . ...   . 
by District:
EXISTING          ,          in,                                                                               GUINEA
h.
0 K.bal.
PROPOSED                                                                                                 'S\
0  -t  r5,..4 * t                                   K O I       N A D U G U
G U  I N E A              Jv)l r>~Zs;<Z:                                 i<
_ 0Kombi; o-a  :   . i .\' ' 5 I
<   f       ,Nrs^t;tD;ff>i ', P ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r o v i n c e                                                        
~r-   KA       j    A                                                ***-nb-                  *                                       - a-;.'-,    f
/'N
K A  M B    A , <r,fif ........ ,sig!n    
0 Port Lok.                                                              I              KONO
P            R   T       L  O   KO                                                          ) .                0Sefod.                   '
FRfEE7                                                                                                                 e
\-  WES TERNs -T          A;'
'  AREA      !                                                                     -OK,lahur                                                       ,
'>  ._4 -                                                                       80- <> n c e
r        ~e                                                                 .                    KA IL A HU N 
tf~~~~~~~~>ern ~~~~~~~~~~LIBERIA
5-k.   '                              3Sa-'3" f.f' 't$  '-    b .  . ,, .
~~~r    _    Vg,^ LIBERI,,,<..........Ar-.,';' '''....... '
3 Shtrto ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - ,~~~4 ff  N>,.   
X~ ~ ~ ~~~~J                 B       N       H         ?NtIII                                                       Ta ass,N has,iC  L.a.,,E  p re .pase;an ,
'I-' '_ '  T_._he,,.Wand,  ThS W,,,c ,1-_
t<='5B~~~~f                     O     J I          N       r*        H            E     eadefr'  ' 0,5smephCthenpretyertb
a ss-  r rhO T e .Sd BanS,
Fnd sahet rhe denS-anna IonS
0       20       A0        60                t                           ,                                                        seedthe SandJ.tSShot
KttOMIThtS                                                                                                    e  .  art or rna. WVoan nan 0.a  ltsr
0             20                                                            '                                                    esaaat oan:, bgalar'oo
7-                  U{~~       ~         ~        ~~~ILlS              ,5a                                                       ata, a,Medr,em,t{o' St.ean, 
MAY 1986









IMAGING
Report No:      15924
Type: ICR



