Damseo
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIL USE ONLY
CR. /GSS- it
Report No. P-4296-SL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR?
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 4.6 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
FOR A
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
APRIL 22, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                     Le 5.26 1/
Leone 1          =       US$0.19
SDR 1                    US$1.16
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
C4O     -  Chief Medical Officer
IEC     -  Information, Education and Communication
MCH/FP  - Maternal and Child Health/Fatily Planning
MODEP   - Ministry of Development and Economic Planning
MOH     - Ministry of Health
NPC     -  National Population Commission
EHC     -  Primary Health Care
PHU     -  Peripheral Health Unit
PIC     -  Project Implementation Committee
PMISU   -  Planning, Management Information and Statistics Unit
1/ The official exchange rate in Sierra Leone has been fluctuating since
it is based on a basket of currencies. The rate used in this report
is US$1 = Le 6.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SIERRA LEONE
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Sierra Leone
Beneficiaries: Ministry of Health (MOH) and National Population Commission
(NPC).
Amount:        SDR 4.6 million (US$5.3 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard
Project
Description:   The proposed project is designed to:  strengthen MOH's
capacity for planning, management, coordination and
monitoring; improve basic health and family planning
services; and help develop population policy and programs
for family planning demand generation activities. A key
project objective is to reduce dependence on public
expenditure to finance developments in the sector by using
available resources more efficiently and by significantly
improving cost recovery and cost containment practices. To
assist in the policy reforms and management improvement
efforts, the project would provide technical assistance and
training, equipment, materials, vehicles and incremental
staff. To strengthen health and family planning service
delivery, it would finance renovation and equipping of a
limited number of service facilities and provision of
essential drugs and medical supplies.
Benefits
and Risks:     The project would help reorient Sierra Leone's health and
population programs away from their current urban bias to
improving health services in rural areas. It is estimated
that over US$1.25 million would accrue each year from the
cost recovery measures and savings from the cost containment
measures. The project would extend primary health care in
three presently underserved districts with a total
population of 1.2 million. Through its support for
population programs, the project would help lay the
foundation for the development of a national population
program by increasing awareness of and access to services.
Institution building in both health and population would
contribute to improved planning, policy implementation and
close coordination.
As the project would be the first Bank-financed operation in
the sector, there is a risk of delays in implementation.
Also, due to Sierra Leone's precarious financial situation,
the Government may be unable to support fully incremental
I      doument ha a resticted distrbution and may be ued by recipients only in dhe perfornane
of|thk officiid dutieL Its contents may not othewise be disclosed without World DBank authoiation.



- ii -
recurrent cost at the end of the project. To minimize these
risks, additional higher-level staff would be added to key
units in MOH and technical assistance would be provided.
The project proposal has been scaled down and revised with
the objective of cost-minimization. It is expected that the
incremental recurrent costs would be more than offset by
budgetary resources freed up as a result of cost-containment
and efficiency measures required under the project.
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign     Total
--- -US$ Million----
Policy and Institutional Reforms               0.26        1.23       1.49
Improvement of Health Facilities               0.33       0.48        0.81
Essential Drugs and Medical Supplies           0.11       0.82        0.93
Health Education and Training                  0.34       0.52        0.86
Monitoring and Evaluation                       -          0.12       0.12
Population Policy and Program Development      0.22        0.18       0.40
BASE COST                                 1.26       3.35        4.61
Repayment of PPF                               0.05        0.20       0.25
Physical Contingencies                         0.06        0.20       0.26
Price Contingencies                            0.20        0.39       0.59
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        1.57       4.14        5.71
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign     Total
IDA                                            1.2        4.1         5.3
Government                                     0.4         -          0.4
1.6        4.1        5.7
Estimated Disbursements:
---- ---US$ Million --
IDA FY                               87         88         89          90
Annual                              1.30       1.35        1.50       1.15
Cumulative                          1.30       2.65       4.15        5.30
Rate of Return:          Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:  5995-SL, dated April 22, 1986
Map:                      IBRD 19459



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO SIERRA LEONE FOR A
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Sierra Leone for the equivalent of SDR4.6 million
(US$5.3 equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a health and
population project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Sierra Leone - Prospects for Growth
and Equity" (No. 3375-SL) of July 31, 1981 was distributed to the Executive
Directors. The folloving discussion is based on that report and on the
findings of missions which visited Sierra Leone during 1984 and 1985 for
purposes of assisting the Government in the preparation of a structural
adjustment program. Country data sheets are contained in Annex I.
Structural Characteristics
3.        Sierra Leone has a population of 3.7 million (1985), growing at
2.3 percent a year. Sierra Leone has been classified as a "least-
developed" country by the U.N. Its per capita income, which declined
nearly 2 percent a year since 1980, was estimated at US$330 in 1983. Even
the US$330 gives a misleadingly high impression of living standards because
the distribution of income is markedly uneven. About two-thirds of the
population are estimated to live below an absolute poverty line of US$75.
4.        Agriculture, the dominant sector, provides employment to 65
percent of the labor force. But it accounts for only about 35 percent of
GDP, consistent with the dominance of subsistence agriculture using
low-input technologies. Rice, the staple food, is grown by more than 80
percent of the farmers. Even so, rice imports to the country have been
steadily increasing since the late 1970s. Cocoa, coffee and oil palm are
the major export crops.
5.        Mining has been a key sector in Sierra Leone.  Of the country's
mineral resources, diamonds have been the most important. However in
recent years the share of mining in total exports drastically declined -
63% in FY75, 30% in FY84, and 15Z in FY85. The other minerals exported are
bauxite, rutile and gold. A significant proportion of diamonds and gold
have in the past been exported through the illegal parallel market and
hence unrecorded; this proportion has increased substantially in recent
years as the exchange rate got substantially out of line. The
manufacturing sector is small and consists largely of import-substituting
industries; it employs 12 percent of the labor force.



- 2 -
6.        Sierra Leone's economic and social infrastructure is not well
developed. The main road network is generally adequate, but feeder roads
are often lacking, and road maintenance is poor. The country has good
hydro-electric power potential, but at present the fiscal and balance-of-
payments situation is so weak that investment in hydro pover must be
temporarily deferred.
7.        The development of Sierra Leone's human resources has been poor.
The literacy rate is only 15 percent and life expectancy is estimsted at
about 38 years, both among the lowest in the world. The key factor in the
low life expectancy is the extremely high infant mortality rate, about 200
per 1,000 live births during mid-1983. Access to social services in rural
areas is extremely limited. Only 16 percent of the population has access to
safe drinking water. The primary school enrollment ratio, at 41 percent of
the eligible age group, is even far below the (already low) average for the
low income Sub-Saharan countries (71 percent in 1982). The lack of
educational and training opportunities is reflected in the shortage of
skilled manpower. Although Sierra Leone has a reasonably good
administrative structure, with adequate managerial and professional skills
at the highest level, skills at the middle and lower levels are generally
quite weak.
Recent Economic Performance
8.        GDP growth during the first decade of independence (1962-72) was
impressive at nearly 5 percent a year. The fiscal and foreign exchange
situations were quite comfortable. Even after the first oil price shock in
1973, the economy managed to grow at over 3 percent a year during 1972-75.
GDP growth slowed down during 1975-80. This was mainly on account of
decline in diamond output as a result of depletion of alluvial deposits and
of the closure in 1975 of the only iron ore mine, which had been the
country's second largest source of export earnings.
9.        The situation has worsened in the 1980s. Agricultural and
mineral output, which together account for nearly 45 percent of GDP and
almost all the country's exports, have decreased further. A sharp decline
in the terms of trade, combined with a further drop in diamond output and a
substantial increase in debt service obligations resulting from imprudent
borrowing in the late 1970s, resulted in severe economic difficulties. GDP
has stagnated, resulting in a substantial fall in per capita income at
constant prices.
10.       Domestic savings performance has declined since the late 1970s as
a result of a stagnating economy and high levels of Government consumption.
The savings performance has improved slightly in recent years, but the
economy still has a low rate of savings (estimated at about 7 percent of
GDP for FY85). The rate of taxation and actual tax collections are also
low. During 1980-84, the ratio of tax revenue to GDP was about 10 percent,
one third less, for example, than the average ratio in Kenya and Senegal.



-3-
Fiscal Performance
11.      A rapid increase in public expenditure in the 1970s contributed
to a deterioration in fiscal performance, which became much more pronounced
after 1980 with the slowdown in economic growth and erosion of the export
revenue. While public revenues increased 17 percent a year between FY73
and FY81, public spending rose at nearly 23 percent a year. Between FY81
and FY83, public revenues declined slightly, but public spending continued
to increase. Because of Government policy of not passing through exchange
rate adjustments to prices of commodities such as oil, the budget deficit
increased even more rapidly in recent years, reaching 12Z of GDP in FY85.
The proportion of public expenditures spent on salaries and wages is large
and increasing, because most Government departments are holding down total
current expenditures by reducing outlays on current inputs needed for
maintenance and operations, while maintaining or even increasing the amount
spent on wages and salaries. Rising debt service payments and subsidies to
public enterprises also put heavy pressures on the current budget. Because
of increases in current expenditures and relative stagnation of revenue,
the development budget has been declining since FY80. The declining
resources for development have been thinly and wastefully spread over a
large number of projects in the absence of well-defined development
objectives and priorities. Along with fiscal deterioration, monetary
policies have been expansionary; the money supply roughly doubled between
1983 and 1985. Inflation, which was 20-25 percent during 1980-82, reached
nearly 80 percent in 1985.
Balance of Payments
12.       Sierra Leone's balance-of-payments position has deteriorated
steadily since the early 1970s as the terms of trade worsened, largely due
to sharp increas&s in energy prices after 1973. The cost of petroleum
imports jumped from US$8 million in 1971 to US$45 million in FY82, claiming
one-third of the country's export earnings; between FY82 and FY84
petroleum's share increased to half. Prices of Sierra Leone's major export
commodities fell sharply between FY80 and FY83. Even after a partial
recovery during FY84 and FY85, the terms of trade in FY85 were 20 percent
lower than FY81. In addition, the growing budget deficits increased
domestic demand, which created pressure on imports, while declining
production reduced the volume of exports and foreign exchange earnings.
Between FY80 and FY82 exports fell 23 percent a year in real terms, while
imports declined only 11 percent a year, leading to strains on the balance
of payments. Although the exchange rate was devalued in 1983 and 1985,
these devaluations were not sufficient. The substantial overvaluation has
strengthened the black market, reduced production incentives, particularly
for exports, and encouraged excess demand for imports.
13.       In FY84 the performance of exports improved for the first time
since the beginning of the decade and in FY85 the performance improved
further due to favorable world price of coffee and an increase in rutile
and gold exports. The FY85 imports, however, were 16 percent higher than
the FY84 level.   The current account deficit increased from US$30 million



- 4 -
in FY84 to US$62 million in FY85. But the overall balance of payments
deficit decreased from US$45 million in FY84 to US$32 million in FY85
because of larger official capital inflows. The FY85 deficit was financed
partly by some debt relief, but largely by increases in external payment
arrears. The accumulated external arrears at th2 end of FY85 were about
US$285 million, more than double of FY85 exports.
External Debt
14.       In the face of the slow growth in public revenues and export
receipts, Sierra Leone has relied heavily on foreign borrowing to finance
its capital expenditures. External debt increased from US$184 million in
1975 to US$515 million in 1985, of which US$389 million was disbursed. Of
the total debt outstanding and disbursed, 22 percent was in commercial
credits, 41 percent in bilat2ral loans, and 37 percent in loans and credits
from international institutions. As.of December 1985, the Bank Group held
about 15 percent of Sierra Leone's external debt outstanding and disbursed.
Assistance from bilateral government sources has come mostly from the
Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and
Japan. The maturity structure of Sierra Leone's external public debt has
deteriorated since the mid-1970's as a result of substantial borrowing
through suppliers' credits. The Government negotiated debt-relief through
the Paris Club in 1977, 1979 and again in 1984. The 1984 debt-relief
reduced the debt service ratio for 1983/84 from 42 percent to 27 percent.
The scheduled debt service obligations for 1984/85 give a debt service
ratio similar to that of 1983/84. The ratio, however, would be
considerably higher if the external arrears, including overdue obligations
to the International Monetary Fund, were taken into account. Further debt
relief and continuing access to Fund resources will therefore be necessary
to keep the debt service ratio from going over 40 percent again. However,
this in turn would be dependent on implementing a major reform program.
Recent Reform Measures
15.       The Government took some important macroeconomic reform measures.
It devalued the Leone by 100 percent in July 1983 and again by over 200
percent in February 1985, (from 1.25 to 2.50 and then to 6 Leones to the
dollar). However, as noted earlier, these devaluations were neither timely
nor sufficient to correct the serious over-valuation of the Leone. The
Government increased agricultural prices up to 100 percent in 1984, and up
to 150 percent in 1985, and prepared, with the Bank, a plan to reorganize
agricultural services under the Agricultural Sector Support Project (Credit
1501-SL). A Fund standby of SDR 50.2 million was approved on February 3,
1984, but the program was discontinued after two tranches because of
disagreement between the Government and the Fund on the question of further
exchange rate adjustment after the 1983 devaluation. Following the latest
devaluation, the Government and the Fund held discussions for a new standby
program. In this instance, the rund required several policy steps,
including a managed float of the exchange rate, as conditions for a new
program. The Government's inaction on the recommended policy steps, which



-5-
is partly explained by the recent political transition, held up progress
toward a Fund program.
16.      After nearly twenty years of President Stevens' rule, General
Joseph Momoh, former Army Chief and a cabinet minister under Stevens,
assumed the Presidency recently. Be has recently expressed intentions to
implement the steps required for a program with the Fund. His Government
has also made a part payment of Fund arrears.
Adjustment Policy and Development Issues
17.       The Bank has been working with the Government in preparing a
medium term reform. In the short-run, weak economic management is still an
urgent issue and macroeconomic policy reforms (beyond the exchange rate
issue) are required to stabilize the economy and make economic growth
possible. These policy reforms include budgetary measures to reduce public
sector spending, particularly by eliminating currently large subsidies to
public enterprises. Overstaffing in the public sector is also a serious
problem. The Government already has initiated process of reducing
redundant staff in the Ministry of Agriculture under the Agricultural
Sector Support Project (Credit 1501-SL) and similar action is planned in
the Ministry of Health under the proposed project. The Government
recognizes the need to take similar steps in other ministries as well.
18.       For the medium-run, the reform program aims at:  (i) improving
public sector efficiency by rationalizing and overhauling public
enterprises and reforming the Government's budgeting and expenditure
system; and (ii) stimulating agricultural and industrial output through
maintaining an appropriate exchange rate, ensuring adequate agricultural
producer prices, removing price controls and rationalizing tariff policy.
The Government has increased agricultural producer prices but further
increases for export crops are required. There also is increasing
recognition on the Government's part of the desirability of abolishing
price controls and using prices, rather than administrative controls, to
allocate foreign exchange. The Bank is also helping the Government analyze
the impact of adjustment and design measures to mitigate the impact on
vulnerable groups.
19.       In addition, to achieve economic growth over the longer run,
Sierra Leone must step up the mobilization of domestic savings, accelerate
agricultural development, provide better health and education facilities
and reduce its population growth (which currently is 2.3 percent per year).
Domestic savings will improve somewhat with the reversal of economic
decline and reduction in Government consumption. The Government will also
have to improve the efficiency of tax collection and increase taxation of
the mining sector, vhich is taxed quite lightly by international standards.
Sustained agricultural development will need - in addition to an
appropriate agricultural pricing policy - investment in land improvement,
introduction of improved technology and infrastructural development in the
rural sector. The ongoing Bank education project (Third Education Project
Credit 1353-SL) and this health and population project will improve



- 6 -
education and health services. The health and population project will also
help the Government in policies and programs to reduce population growth
and in providing family planning services in areas where such services are
not available now.
Future Prospects
20.       The next two to three years will be difficult for Sierra Leone.
Even with the domestic policy changes under a reform program described
above and with investments in agriculture (supported by IDA and other
donors), economic growth probably will not be substantially revived before
1988.
21.       For future economic growth, Sierra Leone will have to rely more
on agriculture than mining. Sierra Leone's relatively abundant land
resources provide the basis for a growing agricultural sector. Appropriate
agricultural pzices, increased investments in the sector and further
improvements in transportation and marketing facilities will, over time,
increase export earnings from palm oil, cocoa and coffee and reduce rice
imports. Compared to agriculture, the future outlook of the mining sector
is at best mixed. The alluvial diamond output has fallen and the prospects
of underground diamond mining seem limited. As noted, the country's only
iron ore mine has closed because of depletion of reserves. Large iron ore
reserves have been discovered in other areas, but most of these are of low
grade and presently are not economic to mine. Mining of rutile is likely
to continue operating well below capacity because of production problems
and market conditions. Bauxite mining has recently improved, but its known
deposits are of low quality. In recent years, interest in gold mining has
revived, but its recorded production remains small.
22.       The balance of payments will continue to be under pressure in the
short run. Further rescheduling of both official and private debt
servicing will be necessary. Sierra Leone's extremely difficult economic
conditions and its vulnerability to fluctuations in primary product export
earnings make it desirable for future debt service obligations to be kept
low. These conditions and the country's low per capita income mean that
Sierra Leone will have to depend upon IDA resources for Bank Group
borrowing over the next several years.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SIERRA LEONE
Past Operations
23.       Since 1964, when the Bank Group financed its first operation in
Sierra Leone, the Bank has made five loans amounting to US$18.7 million and
thirteen IDA credits totalling US$110.3 million-for agriculture (44
percent), education (23 percent), power (16 percent), highways (15 percent)
and technical assistance (2 percent). Five Bank loans and seven IDA
credits are fully disbursed. IFC has provided a loan of US$2.1 million to



- 7 -
Sierra Cement Manufacturing Company, Ltd. which is now fully disbursed.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of
December 31, 1985.
24.       Agriculture has been a major focus of the Bank Group lending in
Sierra Leone. Agricultural projects have provided impro-ued extension
services, feeder roads and farm inputs to small-holder farmers. Earlier
assistance in agriculture supported the Government's emphasis on
concentrating scarce resources directly on increasing production in
specific areas with high potential by implementing integrated agriculture
development projects (IADPs). The Bank Group contributed to the financing
of two IADPs, through a phased approach under loans and credits rade
between 1973 and 1981 (Cr. 323-SL, Cr. 568/Ln. 1138-SL, Cr. 1094-SL and Cr.
1128-SL). These IADPs complemented the efforts of other donors like the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and the European
Economic Commmnity (EEC). In late 1982, the Bank carried out a review of
the agricultural sector which determined the need for a broader reform of
the whole sector, for the provision of direct productive investments in
rice, coffee and oil palm, and for a smooth integration of the IADPs -
which has been managed by the project committees -  into the Ministry of
Agriculture. In June 1984, a US$21.5 million Agricultural Sector Support
Project (Cr. 1501-SL) was approved to address key priorities of the sector
at the national level as identified by the sector review. The project
combines the sectoral reorganization and policy reforms with financing of
imports of key agricultural inputs and specific investments.
25.       In education, the Bank Group's first and second education
projects (Cr. 170-SL of January 1970 and Cr. 573-SL of July 1975,
respectively) supported the Government's priorities for skilled manpower by
providing assistance to improve secondary education and technical training.
The third education project (Cr. 1353-SL of May 1983) is assisting in the
improvement of the quality of primary education and increase in access to
primary education in rural areas. In power, the Bank Group has provided a
total of US$20.9 million for power generation and distribution in Freetown
and provincial centers, technical assistance and a feasibility study and
preparation for the Bumbuna hydroelectric project, through two fully
disbursed loans (Ln. 338-SL of August 1964 and Ln. 553-SL of August 1968)
and one credit (Cr. 734-SL of September 1977) and one ongoing credit
(Cr. 1265-SL). In infrastructure, the Bank Group's first highway project
(Cr. 218-SL/Ln. 710-SL of October 1970) included sections of the country's
main trunk road system and a maintenance program, as well as studies for
further improvements of the road system. The second highway project
(Cr. 1129-SL of October 1981) is being implemented to strengthen the
country's capacity to maintain its road network and to rehabilitate major
roads. In December 1979, a technical assistance project (Cr. 970-SL) was
approved to strengthen the Government's capability in development planning,
preparation of development projects, training of local staff, and monitor-
ing and evaluation of public investment programs.



- 8-
Project Implementation Experience
26.       Until the early 1980s, implementation of the Bank Group projects
was reasonably satisfactory. Disbursements during FY78-FY81 amounted to
more than 40 percent of loans and credits outstanding at the beginning of
each fiscal year. The implementation performance has greatly deteriorated
since then and the disbursements have fallen to below 20 percent of the
outstanding commitments since FY1984. Because of the present economic
difficulties, each of the Bank Group-assisted projecta is suffering from
serious counterpart fund shortages, inadequate foreign exchange allocation
and inefficient management. Furthermore, arrears in service payments to
the Bank Group and others have caused frequent suspensions of disbursements
by the Bank Group and the other cofinanciers causing costly disruptions in
project implementation. The Bank Group has started a review of each
project to examine if any adjustments are required to meet the project's
basic objectives. A country implementation review was held in Freetown in
February 1986 to identify steps which could be taken by the Government or
the Bank Group to improve implementation performance.
Bank Group Strategy
27.       Given the present deteriorating economic condition of the
country, the principal objective of Bank Group assistance to Sierra Leone
is to work with the Govrernment to design and implement economic reform
measures that will stabilize the economy and stimulate production growth.
The country's structural adjustment program is the main vehicle through
which the Bank Group is seeking to implement this objective. Such an
'adjustment program would be designed to improve the efficiency, and reduce
the scope, of the public sector and to create stronger incentives for
private sector production in agriculture and industry through more
attractive pricing and trade policies. Therefore, for the i-ediate
future, both lending and economic and sector work will give particular
emphasis to promoting and supporting the urgently required reforms.
28.       The Bank's economic and sector work is expected to prepare and
underpin policy reforms, to broaden and deepen our understanding of
constraints which are likely to impede the recovery process, and to provide
direction to our future lending. The lending program would focus on
stimulating productive sectors with emphasis on institutional reforms and
greater incentives, on improving essential infrastructures, with emphasis
on rehabilitation and capacity utilization, and on developing human
resources with emphasis on greater tfftciency and cost effectiveness.  In
both lernding and economic sector work, particular attention will be given
to ways of strengthening the institutions responsible for economic policy-
making, management and project implementation.
29.       With decline in the production of diamonds, improvement in
agricultural production has become increasingly important to reduce imports
of rice and to increase exports of major crops (cocoa and coffee). The
Bank Group will work intensively with the Sierra Leoneans to implement the
ongoing Agricultural Sector Support Project (para 24) and to prepare an



-9-
appropriate sequel to this project and for tree crops and forestry
development. In the power sector, the immediate objectives are to assist
in the urgently required rehabilitation of the generation and distribution
of electricity and to rebuild the National Power Authority's management and
finances. A longer-term objective is to develop renewable energy alterna-
tives, particularly the Bumbuna hydro-electric project. Regarding roads,
the Bank Group's emphasis will be to strengthen local capacity to plan, to
implement and maintain highway systems, to assist in the rehabilitation of
major highway networks and to continue development of feeder roads.
Emphasis will also be given to develop local private contractors to carry
out small construction and maintenance in a more cost- effective way.
Development of human resources also will continue to receive high priority.
Sector work will be carried out to provide direction for Bank Group
assistance beyond the ongoing Third Education Project. The proposed Health
and Population project seeks to improve health and family planning services
in the country and to initiate a process for more efficient resource
allocation and greater cost recovery in the sector.
30.       As stated above (para 22), Sierra Leone's low per capita income
and extremely difficult economic conditions mean that the country will have
to depend upon concessionary resources for external financing. The country
will also need a very high proportion of external financing, including of
local costs, to implement externally financed development projects. The
Government hopes to mobilize increased external assistance for its develop-
ment projects and intends to make special efforts during the UNDP
sponsored Round-table Conference expected to take place in late 1986. The
extent of the Government's success in mobilizing external resources will
depend in part upon its record in implementing the structural adjustment
programs.
PART III - THE HEALTH AND POPULATION SECTOR
Sector Status
31.       Sierra Leone's health and nutrition conditions are precarious.
In 1983, life expectancy at birth was 38 years (well below the sub-Saharan
African average of 49 years). The country's infant mortality rate (198 in
1983 compared to 119 for sub-Saharan Africa) is about the highest in the
world; the lead causes include tetanus, whooping cough, polio, measles and
malaria, most of which are treatable and preventable. Protein calorie
malnutrition is widespread, the available daily calories per capita is
about 85 percent of need. Malnutrition among the most vulnerable
population groups (young children and pregnant and lactating mothers) is
very high.
32.       The country's mid-1985 population was estimated at 3.7 million,
crude birth rate was 1,9 per thousand population and the fertility rate was
high at 6.5. While the present rate of population growth is low at 2.3
percent, compared to the regional average of 2.8 percent, it is mainly



- 10 -
because of a very high death rate of 27 per thousand compared to the
regional average of 18 per thousand. Population projections indicate that
the country's population will double in 30 years and over the same period
the labor force will grow from the present 1 million to 2 million.
33.       Health Services in Sierra Leone are provided by the Government,
non-Governmental organizations (NGOs) and by private practitioners and
industries. In mid-1984, there were 25 Government and 24 non-Government
hospitals with a total of about 4,600 beds, concentrated in urban areas.
At the Chiefdom and village levels, there were nearly 250 peripheral health
units (PHUs) to provide preventive, promotive and curative services,
including maternal and child health (NCH) services, immunization and
treatment of common diseases and injuries. Although about 40 percent of
the country's hospital beds are in the private sector, they are
concentrated in urban areas and cater mainly to the higher income group.
The Government's role is, therefore, important in making the health
services more widely available. Nutrition activities are considered a part
of the Government's primary health care (PHC) program but no national
organization is promoting and monitoring nutrition policy and programs. A
large number of un-coordinated fledging population and family planning
activities are underway mostly sponsored by NGO's. Recently, the
Government, with assistance from UNFPA and USAID started programs to
increase family planning awareness and improve services. Currently, only
about 20,000 couples (less than 5 percent of those eligible) are estimated
to be practicing contraception, and over 80 percent of those couples live
in or around the capital city. So far, the existing family planning
programs have failed to generate any significant increase in demand for
services or create facilities beyond the capital area.
34.       Total private and public health services expenditures in 1983/84
were estimated at Le 160 million (US$26.7 million), about 3 percent of GNP
or about Le 44.4 (US$7.4) per capita. This compares with the per capita
expenditure of US$4.7 in Burkina Faso and US$4 in Ghana in 1984. Over the
past five years, current health expenditures have been increasingly
dominated by personnel costs, which in 1983/84 accounted for nearly 60
percent of expenditures. The greatest increases have been for daily wages.
On the other hand, allocations for maintenance, service delivery and
supervision have decreased significantly. The regional distribution of
expenditures has been very uneven with three-quarters spent on urban health
programs. Over the past five years, health expenditures have averaged
about 9-10 percent of total Government expenditures which is considerably
more than the average for Western Africa (6 to 7 percent). Yet, the
country's health conditions are extremely poor (see para 31). Therefore,
it is critical that the available resources be utilized efficiently if
adequate health coverage is to be achieved.
35.       Organization.  The Ministry of Health (MOH) is responsible for
formulation and implementation of national health policy and for the
overall administration, coordination and management of the country's health
system. It is headed by the Minister of Health and comprises two arms: an
administrative arm supervised by the Permanent Secretary, and a technical



- 11 -
arm headed by the Chief Medical Officer (CMO). The CMO is assisted by a
number of professional staff with specific functions, such as the PHC
Coordinator, the NCH Director, the Immunization Director, the Chief
Pharmacist and the Chief Statistician. In each of the country's three
provinces (Northern, Eastern and Southern) and the Western Area (around the
capital), health services are under Principal Medical Officers reporting
directly to the CMO. The District Medical Officers manage the district,
sub-district and chiefdom level health services. Overall, the country's
health services structure is centralized, with senior MOH officials in
Freetown holding most decision-making authority.
36.       In 1982, a National Population Commission (NPC) was established
to formulate overall population policy. It is a multi-sectoral body
comprising representation from several Ministries, including Development
and Economic Planning (MODEP), Health, Agriculture, Social Welfare and
Education. The NPC is supported by a small secretariat within the
Population and Human Resources Sector of MODEP. The NPC has also
constituted a number of Population Policy Task Forces to examine specific
issues (e.g. fertility and mortality determinants, population and
environment, and labor and employment) and make appropriate
recommendations. The functioning of the NPC, its secretariat and the task
forces has, however, been constrained by continuing shortages of physical,
financial and staff resources.
Policies and Programs
37.       The Government has been increasingly aware that, to raise the
national health status, health conditions and services in the rural areas
- where 77 percent of the population lives - must be improved. This
implies a major shift away from the currently predominant urban
hospital-based programs. In 1982, through a series of national seminars
and vorkshops, MOR reviewed past experiences with primary health care and
developed a policy paper which is the basis for new health services in
several communities.
38.       Under its new policy, the Government aims to reduce national
mortality and morbidity levels through the development of a uniform primary
health care (PHC) system for nationwide application. Its operating
strategy is to use the existing network of the peripheral health units
(health centers, treatment centers and dispensaries) as the focal point for
delIvering six priority health interventions: maternal and child health
(MCH) services, including family planning; immunization; health, nutrition
and family planning education; prevention and control of endemic diseases;
environmental health services; and treatment of common diseases (e.g.
malaria or diarrheal diseases). The main target groups for these
interventions would be mothers and children under five. Each peripheral
health unit (PHU) would be staffed by a minimum of four paramedicals (1
nurse-dispenser, 2 MCH nurses and 1 public health inspector) trained in
community health and receive in-service training and at least bi-monthly
visits for technical supervision and guidance from the nearest district
hospital. The policy also places emphasis on the need of regular supply of



- 12 -
essential drugs, vaccines, contraceptives and other medical supplies at
PHUs, and advocates instituting user fees. To improve community outreach,
home visits are also provided.
39.       The Government's policy thus contains the key ingredients
essential for the development of a comprehensive, broad-based system of
health care. This system has been implemented on a pilot basis in Bo and
Pujehun districts with assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany and
in Bombali district with UNICEF assistance. Initial evaluation of two of
the largest PHC pilots indicate better utilization of health facilities,
improved coverage, more widespread and quicker treatment of diseases, and
improved health and nutrition knowledge and practices in the communities
themselves. Both pilot programs have been largely successful in mobilizing
incremental resources for the health system through the introduction of
user fees and through community involvement in the construction and
renovation of health facilities (see also para 50).
Issues and Constraints
40.       The major constraints to health service delivery in Sierra Leone
include: lack of data-based analysis of policies, program priorities and
resource allocation; poor planning, coordinating and implementing capacity
of HOH; lack of access to and under-utilization of public health
facilities; low credibility of public health services due to inadequate
provision of drugs and other essential supplies; lack of trained staff; and
insufficient community education activities. Given the budget constraints
(see para 34), there is also an issue of how to institute a system of user
fees that would work. With regard to population, the chief constraints
are: weak policy formulating and coordinating capacity within the National
Population C,ommission; and the poor capacity to coordinate successful,
albeit fraglented, family planning initiatives in the country. As a
result, the country does not have a national population policy and plan of
action to serve as an overall framework for national program development.
Bank Role cmd Strategy
41.       The Bank Group's past assistance in this sector has been confined
to the provision of two man-years of consulting services for health
planning under the Technical Assistance Project (Credit 970-SL). The
consultant assisted MOH in assessing the health sector needs. His
recommendations were considered in designing the proposed project.
42.       There is an urgent need to improve the health services in Sierra
Leone without increasing the Government's financial burden beyond the
already high share enjoyed by the sector (see para. 34). The Bank Group
has a useful role to play in meeting the serious need for strengthening
sector capacities as well as in dealing with structural adjustment issues
like the correction of internal imbalances (in resource allocation and
service delivery), institutional reorganization and strengthening, and the
establishment of a system of cost recovery that is workable and equitable.
Assistance in the population sub-sector needs to be focused on the



- 13 -
development of a national policy and on strengthening the institutional
capacity of the NPC to coordinate and monitor numerous fragmented and
duplicative activities. The activities proposed in the project are
consistent with the recommendations of the recent review of the country's
public expenditure program.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
43.       The project was prepared by the Ministry of Health with
assistance from the consultants recruited under a project preparation
facility advance. The project was appraised in July 1985 and the staff
appraisal report (No. 5995-SL) is being circulated separately.
Negotiations took place in Washington, DC in March, 1986; the Sierra Leone
delegation included Dr. Belmont Williams, Chief Medical Officer and
Mr. W. B. Munu, Permanent Secretary of Health. Significant events and
special conditions are summarized in Annex III (Supplementary Project
Data).
Project Objectives
44.       The proposed project would assist the Government to restructure
the country's health and family planning policies and institutions and
improve and expand the services. As already noted, Sierra Leone has one of
the highest infant and maternal mortality rates in the world although the
country's per capita health expenditures are also among the highest in the
region. Furthermore, because of general economic decline, the condition of
the country's health facilities is fast deteriorating. The reform measures
included in the project are expected to benefit the whole sector. A key
element of the reforms would be to reduce the sector's dependence upon
public expenditure by intensifying cost-containment and cost-recovery
measures. Specifically, the project has three objectives: (a) to help
achieve necessary adjustments in the health sector (including nutrition)
through policy developments and reforms and strengthening of MOH's capacity
to plan, manage, coordinate and monitor programs; (b) to help develop
population policies and strengthen programs designed to generate demand for
family planning; and (c) to strengthen basic health and family planning
services with emphasis on a PEC approach.
Project Description
45.       Project activities are divided into four parts:  (a) health
policy reforms, (b) institutional development for MOH, (c) strengthening of
basic health and family planning services, and (d) population policy and
program development.



- 14 -
(a) Bealth Policy Reforms
46.       As part of its effort to address sectoral issues, the Government
has completed, with assistance from Africare (a US-based NGO) and
PPF-financed consultants, studies pertaining to health manpower, facilities
and services utilization, health expenditures, and drug logistics. These
studies have identified a number of policy reforms which are included in
this project. They are: cost recovery and cost containment measures,
daily wage expenditure reduction, reallocation of resources away from
urban bias to rural health services, decentralized management of drugs and
medical supplies and improved health services staffing. In addition,
several key policy issues pertaining to organizational and financial
management reform.s are being studied and their recommendations would also
be implemented during the project period. MOR would review the results of
these ongoing studies, including their recommendations, by March 31, 1987
and would incorporate the agreed recommendations in the long-term health
investment plan. MOH would provide IDA by September 30, 1987 for its
review the draft health investment plan, and in each year thereafter would
also provide an annual investment plan for IDA's review. The project
includes technical assistance to design and implement these reforms.
(b) Institutional Development for MKO
47.       (i)  Planning. Management Information and Statistics.  The
Government intends to merge MOH's health planning and medical statistics
units to establish a single Planning, Management Information and Statistics
Unit (PMISU) to help improve the planning and management capabilities of
MOB. The project would provide the PMISU with micro-computer and office
equipment, vehicles, local and overseas training, technical assistance and
funds for operational research studies. Establishment of the PNISU and
assignment of a Principal Health Planning Officer would be a condition of
credit effectiveness.
48.       (ii)  Financial Management and Cost Recovery.  The Government,
with the assistance of PPF-financed consultants, has identified three areas
requiring close attention, namely, budgetary control and financial
reporting, cost-containment and cost recovery. The project would provide
MOH with incremental staff, staff training, equipment, vehicles, and
technical assistance to improve financial management at the central and
provincial levels. Improved financial control is expected to increase
receipts of hospital user fees from hospitals from Le 100,000 at present to
about Le 1 million per year.
49.       Cost containment is crucial to meet the new investment needs of
this sector (see para 34). In particular, in line with the recommendations
of the Bank's public expenditure review, significant reduction in wage
expenditure is both a possibility and a need.  To implement the reduction,
a health expenditure analysis was carried out which identified daily wage
expenditures that would be phased out over the next three year period. A
detailed plan is being worked out. The Government would reduce the nunber
of MOH's daily wage employees by at least 10 percent annually starting from



- 15 -
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1987 as a condition of disbursement for
expenditures of civil works, local training and operating costs after June
30 of each year. Under the project, a total of at least 30 percent
reduction in the number of daily wage employees, as determined on December
31, 1985, is expected by June 30, 1989.
50.       User fees to recover costs of drugs are already being charged in
three pilot PHC districts (Bo, Pujehun and Bombali, see para 39) but only
50-75 percent of the costs are being recovered in these districts at this
time. The Government intends to institute similar cost recovery measures
in the three districts where PHC programs would be extended under the
project where full costs are expected to be recovered. An operation plan
to carry out these cost recovery measures, with appropriate improvements
based on lessons learned from the pilot experience, has been developed for
implementation under this project. The operation plan includes methods to
retain the fees collected in a revolving fund to replenish drug supplies.
51.       (iii)  PHC Coordination.  To help alleviate the adverse
implications of MOB's vertical structure and overcentralization, the
project would improve institutional capacity for coordination and
management of the PHC program at the central, proviucial, district and PHU
levels. The project would provide incremental technical staff, vehicles,
equipment and materials. To assist the provincial and district medical
officers in the project areas, the Government would appoint an
administrative officer in each provincial health office and a medical
officer in each district health office. Appointments of additional staff
in the PHC Co-ordination Unit and at provincial and district levels would
be a condition of credit effectiveness. No difficulties are anticipated in
recruiting or redeploying these incremental staff.
(c) Basic Health and Family Planning Services
52.       The Government intends to extend the PEC approach 1/ to health
services delivery to the whole country in the long run. In view of
existing institutional and financial constraints, it has identified three
districts for extension of PHC coverage under this project: Kenema in the
Eastern Province, Moyamba in the Southern Province and Tonkolili in the
1/   Under this approach, the health units would be focal points for
delivering six priority health interventions: MCH services, including
family planning; immunization; health, nutrition and family planning
education; prevention and control of endemic diseases; environmental
health services; and treatment of common diseases.



- 16 -
Northern Province 2/. With the addition of these districts - which are
contiguous to the three existing PHC districts -- six of the country's
twelve districts would have health infrastructure capable of providing the
priority preventive, promotive, and simple curative health services at a
cost affordable to the community. In contrast to the existing three pilot
projects, the PHC program would now be implemented within the Government's
existing management structure.
53.       To assist the Government in extending PHC to the three additional
districts, the project would finance physical rehabilitation of the three
district hospitals, a referral hospital and 42 PHUs. It would also assist
in standardizing and upgrading staffing pattern, in--service training and
management at the PHU level.
54.       Drug supply and distribution problems are a major cause of low
efficiency and under-utilization of health services. There is an acute
shortage of essential drugs and medical supplies throughout the system
because of low budget allocations, inefficient and very costly procurement
practices, poor drug selection and inventory management and almost total
lack of transportation and distribution facilities. As a first step in
addressing this situation, the Government has developed a standard list of
drugs, contraceptives and medical supplies with assistance from the WHO and
an IDA project preparation mission and has agreed with the Bank's
recommendation to employ international competitive bidding (ICB) to procure
drugs. The MOH, with assistance from Africare, has started to improve
overall drug supply management and control.
55.       The project would finance renovation of the central medical store
warehouses, furniture, equipment, vehicles, technical assistance and
training in record-keeping and inventory management, and the production of
a prescription manual for training of and use by health workers. In
addition, the project would provide, for the three new PEC districts,
technical assistance, vehicles, drugs, contraceptives and vaccines to
improve drug supply in the project districts and to serve as a base from
which to develop cost-recovery and drug supply replenishment programs. The
Government would (a) not later than December 31, 1986, finalize the
standard drug list, a prescription manual and a plan for procurement,
storage, distribution and safe-keeping of drugs, and (b) not later than
March 31, 1987, begin training of health workers on drug storage
distribution and prescription. IDA disbursement for the cost of drugs
would be contingent upon the procurement by the Government under ICB of all
essential drugs, vaccines and medical supplies for the public sector
(except those provided by the donor agencies as grants or tied credits).
Mechanism for monitoring procurement under ICB has been finalized.
2/   The criteria used for selecting the project districts are:
(a) underserved areas with poor health indicators; (b) geographical
contiguity with districts currently having PHC program; and
(c) availability of health staff.



- 1I7 -
56.       Given the importance of ensuring a reliable and regular supply of
essential drugs, vaccines and medical supplies, the Government has
established a revolving fund in the form of an escrow account at the Bank
of Sierra Leone. The fund would consist of the money collected under the
cost recovery system (para 50) to replenish the drugs and supplies in the
project districts. The Government would deposit the annual foreign
exchange requirement to procure these drugs and supplies for the three
districts in the escrow account.
57.       To assist in the Government's program of providing community
health interventions required at the district level and below, the project
would finance training of about 60 Assistant Community Health Officers, one
each to be posted in the project PHU's, and technical assistance to
introduce comnnnmity health content into curricula for pre-service training
of all paramedicals. Technical assistance would also be provided to
develop a consolidated in-service training plan. In addition, based on a
review of the ongoing manpower study, a comprehensive health manpower plan
would be developed for implementation in the short- to medium-term.
Finally, to help develop a coherent, coordinated effort in health,
nutrition, and family planning education, the project would strengthen the
Council on Health Education and Nutrition and the Health Education unit
within NOR through support for staff training, office equipment and
materials. A comprehensive plan for community education would be prepared
and furnished to the Association no later than December 31, 1987.
(d) Population Policy and Program Development
58.       The project would assist in strengthening the National Population
Commission's (NPC's) capacity, to implement, coordinate, monitor and
evaluate family planning by providing incremental staff, vehicles,
equipment and materials to the NPC Secretariat. To enable the NPC to
increase population awareness among policy-makers, planners and other
Government officials, the project would provide funds for training seminars
and workshops and for the development and production of informational
materials. UNEPA has been assisting the Government in the development of a
national population policy and an action plan for its implementation. To
ensure participation and commitment of various segments of the population,
especially of the professionals, the Government has established a number of
task forces to study and report on various aspects of a population policy.
The task forces are expected to report by mid-1986. Based on these
reports, a comprehensive national population policy and an action plan are
to be finalized. The Government would submit to IDA for its review and
comments a draft national population policy statement by December 31, 1986
and an action plan not later than July 31, 1987. -The Government would
carry out a study of the legal status, composition, structure and functions
of NPC and its secretariat, and submit to IDA by July 31, 1987, proposals
on how to upgrade the position of NPC and its secretariat in the Government
organizational structure.



- 18 -
59.       To complement the Government's efforts to increase the demand for
family planning, the project would help strengthen the ongoing information
education and communication activities of the principal NGOs -- the Planned
Parenthood Association and the Home Economics Association -- by providing
vehicles, equipment and materials. The NGOs would work closely with the
NPC Secretariat to ensure appropriate coordination. In addition, the
project would assist the Government to complete the process of integrating
population content in the curricula of both formal and adult education
programs (already started with assistance from UNFPA) by supporting
education material development and teacher's training.
Project Costs and Financing
60.       Total project costs are estimated at US$5.7 million, net of
duties and taxes from which the project would be exempt. Its foreign
exchange component is US$4.1 million (or 70 percent). Physical
contingencies are 10 percent. The base cost estimates are expressed in US
Dollars determined by using the approximate average rate of exchange
prevailing during project appraisal which was US$1 = Le6. The assumed
rates of increases in international prices are: FYs 1986-87, 7%; FY1988,
7.5%; and FY1989, 7.7%. These rates were used for estimating price
contingencies for both local and foreign costs, on the assumption that
periodic local currency devaluations, estimated on a purchasing power
parity basis, would compensate for differences, between projected US dollar
inflation and local inflation rates.
61.       The project cost of US$5.7 million does not include other
important activities which have been identified and appraised but would be
implemented if cofinancing is available. These include: (a) construction,
equipping and furnishing of additional 18 PHUs (US$1.1 million);
(b) support to the Census Commission and the Ministry of Social Welfare
(US$0.3 million); and (c) research contracts (US$0.6 million). There have
been a few indications of cofinancing possibilities but they are still
uncertain. The proposed IDA credit would finance US$5.3 million and the
Government would contribute US$0.4 million.
Operating Costs and Affordability
62.       The proposed project concentrates on rehabilitating and
increasing the efficiency of existing facilities, and implementing
cost-containment measures. The project, upon completion, is expected to
add about US$0.4 million in recurrent costs each year, approximately 7
percent of MOR's 1983184 budget. However, these incremental costs would be
offset by the cost containment measures introduced by the project. For
example, the daily wage reduction alone would save US$0.4 million annually.
Moreover, the cost recovery measures would yield another US$0.8 million
yearly so that, on balance, the measures introduced by the project would
result in a net annual saving of US$1.2 million or 20 percent of the
projected FY1989 recurrent expenditures of MOH. Thus, the Government
should be able to replicate this project on a national scale, when its
implementation capacity is improved. Experience gained in the project
should indicate how rapidly the PHC approach can be replicated nation-wide.



- 19 -
Project Implementation
63.       The proposed project would be implemented by strengthening
existing units in MOH and NPC. No separate project management unit is
.envisaged. A Project Steering Committee (PSC) has been established to deal
with broad policy matters, oversee implementation, review performance,
assure timely financial flow and advise IDA of project progress. The PSC
is chaired by the Financial Secretary and its members include the Health
Secretary, Development Secretary, the Chief Medical Officer (CMO), the
Principal Planning Officer of MODEP (who represents NPC and also acts as
Secretary of PSC) and a health and family planning NGO's representative. A
Project Implementation Committee, chaired by the CHO and comprising the
heads of various inRlementation units and its members, has also been
established to monitor timely implementation of annual plans and coordinate
all implementation activities. The establishment of provincial and
district implementation teams in each project province and district would
be a condition of credit effectiveness.
64.       A comprehensive mid-term evaluation of the project is planned to
review progress in policy development and reforms, particularly the
recommended shifts in financial resources allocation, cost recovery and
cost containment measures (including increased hospital users' fees)
population policy, project cost and disbursement status and general
implementation progress. It would also review the need foi changes in
project scope and restructuring if cofinancing becomes available or the
country's economic situation dictates such change. The project evaluation
would be carried out jointly by the Government and IDA within 18 months
from the credit effectiveness.
Status of Project Preparation
65.       Project preparation, facilitated by the PPF advance, is
considerably advanced. Almost all ten pre-project activities agreed with
government during appraisal have been completed. The activities pertaining
to an improved financial and drug management system, appointment of key
project staff and consultants, and drafting of PEC operational plan and
manuals have been completed. Preliminary reports of the health manpower
and health services utilization studies have also been completed.
Additional preparatory activities pertaining to training of key project
staff, preparation of draft tender documents and a renovation plan for
health facilities and introduction of improved financial and drug
management system, funded under the second tranche of PPF advance, are
already ongoing. No difficulties are foreseen for timely start-up of
project implementation.



- 20, -
Procurement
66.       Procurement arrangements are suu.arized as follows:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(U.S.$ million) a/
Project Element               ICB      LCB    Other         N.A.   Total Cost
Civil Works              -        0.3      0.3          -        0.6
(0.3)    (0.3)                (0.6)
Furniture, Equipment,
Vehicles, Materials      1.5      0.3       0.1                  1.9
(1.5)    (0.3)     (0.1)                (1.9)
Technical Assistance     -         -        1.2         -        1.2
(1.2)               (1.2)
Fellowships              -         -        0.1         -        0.1
(0.1)               (0.1)
Group Training           -         -        0.4         -        0.4
(0.4)               (0.4)
PPF Refinancing           -        -         -         0.3       0.3
(0.3)     (0.3)
Operating Costs           -        -        0.6        0.6       1.2
(0.6)     (0.2)     (0.8)
TOTALS                        1.5      0.6       2.7        0.9       5.7
(1.5)    (0.6)     (2.7)      (0.5)     (5.3)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by
IDA.
a/   Costs include physical and price contingencies.
b/   Other procurement includes prudent shopping, technical assistance and
fellowships, and training overheads.
67.       All goods and services financed by the IDA credit would be
procured in accordance with IDA guidelines. Contracts for the renovation
of two Central Medical Stores buildings, the Bo Paramedical School and
three district hospitals totalling US$0.3 million would be too small and
dispersed to attract foreign bidders and would therefore be awarded through
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures, which are acceptable to IDA.



- 21 -
Construction materials costing less than US$8,000 per PHU may be procured
on the basis of prudent local shopping procedures acceptable to IDA.
Drugs, medical supplies, vehicles, equipment and materials (including those
for the NGOs) valued at about US$1.5 million, would be grouped to the
extent practicable into bid packages estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent
or more and would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Local suppliers would be
eligible to bid and, in the evaluation of bids, would be eligible for a
margin of preference equal to 15Z of the CIF costs of competing imports, or
the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower. Furniture and standard
office equipment, available at competitive prices locally, would be
procured following local competitive bidding procedure". Items would be
grouped to the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and to
permit bulk procurement. Miscellaneous equipment and materials in packages
not exceeding US$5,000 equivalent, and subject to an aggregate total of
US$0.1 million equivalent, may be procured through prudent shopping.
Selection and appointment of technical assistance consultants would be
carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines. Fuel, operation and
maintenance and perishable supplies (about US$0.7 million) would be
procured by local shopping. Prior IDA review would be required for all
contracts to be awarded under ICB and all other contracts of US$50,000
equivalent or more. Sample post-award reviews of contracts of less than
US$50,000 equivalent would be carried out during project supervision
missions.
Disbursement
68.       The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed as follows:
90% of the cost of civil works, (US$0.6 million);
100Z of foreign expenditures and 85Z of local expenditures for
equipment and materials, vehicles, drugs, and medical supplies
(US$1.9 million);
100% of technical assistance and fellowships (US$1.4 million);
1OOZ of the cost of local training and recurrent cost except for
building and equipment maintenance, and stipends (US$0.8
million);
1OOZ refunding of the project preparation advance (US$0.3
million); and
unallocated (US$0.3 million).
69.       Disbursements for contracts of less than US$20,000 equivalent for
local training and recurrent costs would be made against statements of
expenditure. Documentation for these items would not be submitted for
review but would be retained by the Government at one central location and
would be the subject of an annual audit by auditors acceptable to IDA. In



- 22 -
addition, all documentation should be readily available for review by IDA
representatives during project supervision. In view of the Special Account
to be opened for the project IDA would not accept reimbursement
applications for less that US$60,000 equivalent.
70.       In the absence of a country disbursement profile, the
disbursement schedule was based on the standard disbursement profile for
West Africa Education projects. The estimated disbursement schedule would
be reviewed at mid-term and amended, if necessary.
Special Accounts
71.       In order to ensure that project funds are readily available as
needed, a special account (in US$), operated by the Project Implementation
Committee, would be established in a commercial bank in Freetown with an
initial deposit of US$0.3 million equivalent, corresponding to about 4
months of IDA's share of estimated project expenditures. To ensure that
the Government's counterpart funding also would be available when needed,
the Govertment would establish a separate replenishable local advance
account in local currency of about Le 0.2 million. Establishment of the
local advance account and depositing the initial amount of Le 0.2 million
would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Project Benefits and Risks
72.       Benefits. Through its support for sectoral adjustment in health,
the project would help reorient the health system away from its present
urban bias and towards improved health services for the majority of the
population located in rural areas. In so doing, the project would increase
the quality and accessibility of health and family plan-ning services,
particularly to mothers and children. The project would strengthen PHC
services, particularly MCR/family planning in three presently underserved
districts with a total population of 1.2 million. It would help lay the
foundation for the development of a national population and family planning
program, by increasing awareness of and access to services in both urban
and rural areas. Support for ongoing institution-building in both health
and population would contribute to improved planning, policy implementation
and donor coordination. By reducing wage-labor expenditures, increasing
the collection of user fees and introducing other cost-containment and cost
recovery measures, the project is expected to free up resources of about
US$1.25 million per annum, by the end of the project period, for the
regular supply of essential drugs to contribute to improving the management
and operation of the health program. Finally, the project would introduce
improvements in procurement and management of essential drugs, vaccines and
other medical supplies thus increasing their supply and the efficiency of
the health services.
73.       Risks.  As the proposed project wo'ald be the first Bank-financed
operation in the sector in Sierra Leone, there is a risk of delays in
implementation. However, project preparation, facilitated by PPF
assistance, is well advanced and the Government has demonstrated strong



- 23 -
commitment to the project's objectives. Moreover, the addition of several
higher-level staff to the key units concerned with project implementation
and the provision of technical assistance to these units should further
minimize the risk of delays. In addition, an initial project "launch"
workshop is planned prior to effectiveness to familiarize middle-level
staff with the project's scope and requirements.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Aireement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 22, 1986



-            - 24 -                                      ANNEX I
Pa2e 1 of 6
StEaM Lao              - SOCtA. nezenon0R  OASA SlEET
SICIIA LEONL                         REPENE DainwS (WEIGHED AVRAGS i
NOST                     (mOE? ECE  E3TINAT) /b
191.Jb  j97   JUCIbILOt INCOME AFRICA   MEDALL rnwu
1I ! Go /!b    19701-b. lolgsr="Anl  souTm or SANAtA      AFICA S. OF SAHARA
A-A (TMOA- SQ. no
TOTAL                               71.7       71.7        7L.7
AGRICULTURAL                        35.9       36.9        39.5
GW P  CAPIU  us)                        .                    130.0              238.5                   1063.6
-r ama. mr crna
(KILOGRSAS OF oIL EqUIVALD          66.0      152.0       110.0              62.3                     581.5
nwwgana. Am  ITAL sCXunma
POPULATION.NaD-YAR (THOUSANDS)   2371.0      2762.0      3700.0*
URBAN POPULATION (R OF TOTAL)       13.0       18.1        23.0              2n.1                      32.0
POPULATINW PRWECrtOS
POPULATION IN TZAR 2000 MILL)                             5.4
STATIONAY POPULATION (HILL)                              17.0
POPULATION MlET                                           1.
POPULIATION DEMS ITT
PER SQ. ax.                       13.0       38.5        50.0              33.2                      65.1
PER SQ. 9M. AGRI. LAND            66.0       74.8        68.2              112.8                    124.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE CZ)
0-14 IRS                         41.1       42.9        40.9              46.0                      45.1
15-64 YRS                         55.0       53.7        52.8              50.8                      51.5
65 AND ABV                         3.4        3.2         2.9                2.9                      2.7
POPULATION CROWT RATE (I)
TOTAL                              1.3        1.5         2.3*               2.8                      2.9
URBW                               4.6        4.6         3.5                6.4                      5.1
CRUDE 81T RAru (PER THOUS)          48.0       46.3        49.1              47.2                      47.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THtlS)        33.9       30.8        26.5               17.8                     15.0
GOSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.0        3.0         3.2                3.3                      3.2
FAMILY PLUNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOU.S)
usERs (K OF  ARRID  OEN)           ..          ..          .0                3.3                      6.4
INDCX OF FOO PIOD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       96.0       99.0        32.0              83.3                     62.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALO!IES (C OF REQUIRESNTS)       69.0       88.0        39.0              87.7                      96.5
PRTINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            34.0       '2.0        47.0              51.9                      55.4
OF WHICH AItHAL AND PULSE        12.0       14.0        17.0 /c            15.7                     16.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE         73.2      6".J         5.0               23.1                      16.6
LIFE EXPSCr. AT UtE (CLARS)         31.8       34.0        37.6              47.8                     52.0
INFANT lOSr. RATE (PER THOUSI     234.0       227.5       198.0             119.5                    108.8
ACCESS TO SArE WATER (XPOP)
OL                                 ..        12.0        16.0 id           27.1                      42.4
URUAN                              *-        75.0        50.0 7d           63.5                      67.5
RURAL                              ..         1.0         2.0 7             19.3                     35.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
CR OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         ..         13.0 Id           26.5                      28.9
URBA                               ..         ..         31.0 7d           65.4                      57.7
RURAL                              ..         ..          6.0 71           20.6                      20.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        22370.0    1354O.O    17790.0 1.          27901.7                   117!. 7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON          3200.0      3900.0      2070.0 7          3308.4                   2459.8
POP. PER WSPITAL NE
TOTAL                           1370.0     1120.0       840.0 /I         1273.6                    981.1
URBAN                            310.0      380.0         ..              428.2                    368.8
RURAL                              ..         ..          ..             3292.5                   4371.9
ADKISSIONS PR HOSPITAL BCD           .          ..          ..                ..                      27.2
AVERAGE SIZE OF WUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         6.5
URBAN                              ..         5.7
RDRAL                              ..         6.7
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSOIISIROO
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                              ..         2.1         .
RURAL                              ..         ..
PClA  or DWmlLiE S WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                              2.0 lf     ..



-              - 25 -                                     ANNEX I
r'age _ o f 6
SIERtA LO              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SIERRA LIONE                         RENCE GROUPS (CEIGUTD AVELAGES) /a
"DST                     (MOST RECNT ESTtNATE) lb
bECEb T        LOW INCOME AFRtCA         NaouLE 1C
igeoLk     1970Lk! ElST9PIATEI       SOUTH OF SAARA       ARICA S. OF SAKA
UICAInM
ADJUSMD EHUJOE? ItATIOS
PRINAt:  TOTAL                    23.0        33.0       41.0 /d             71.0                     95.7
IILZ                   30.0        40.0         ..                77.6                     100.0
P31*1                  15.0        26.0         ..                54.9                     51.2
SCNAOIDUYt TOTAL                   2.0         9.0        13.0 Id            13.5                     17.3
KILE                    3.0        12.0         ..                17.9                     25.0
EAL                     2.0         5.0         ..                 9.1                     14.6
VOCATIONAL (c or SECOeDaIT)          7.2         1.5         1.4 /a            13.2                      5.9
PUPIL-TEAHR RfATIO
PRIMR                             36.0        32.0        25.0 /d            44.9                     41.1.
SECOIDART                         17.0        20.0        22.0 7             27.4                     25.5
PASSEINGER CAPSITUOUSAND POP         2.1         D.5         6.0 Ih             3.8                     20.J
RADIO UCETVEESITOUSAI  MP            3.9        14.5       1U5.2               55.J                    107.6
TV IESCVES/TMOUSAND FO               0.2 /I      1.1         6.3                2.6                     20.8
HENSPAPE  MALY GENERAL
LmTRE:) CZCULAATIO
PER THOOSAD POMATWOI                6.3        16.3         2.8                5.0                     16.4
CXNMA ANWAL AT-EMMJJC/CAPITA         0.2         0.0         ..                0.5                       0.4
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TWUS)          1041.0      1112.0      1257.0
FUW.E (PECENT)                    36.6        35.6        34.2               34.2                     36.2
ACRICULTUUI  tPERCT)              7S.0        71.0        65.0 /d            77.5                     54.5
INDUSTRY (CPZRCZT)                12.0        15.0        19.0 7d-            9.7                     16.3
PARTICIPATION RATE ( PRCEIT)
TOAL                              42.1        39.2        36.2               39.3                     36.8
MALE                              54.7        51.5        49.2               50.9                     47.1
FRIELE                            30.0        27.5        24.8               28.1                     27.2
ECONMIC DEPENDENCF RATIO             1.1         1.2         1.2                1.3                      1.3
-        D 113UITIU
PERCENT OF PRIVATE ncE
ECEIVED bT
IGET 3SW HOrSUSOLDS                ..         27.ME
HGET 20207 WOUSLDS                 ..         52.5
L-MEST 20S OP HO OS                ..          5.6
LouE  4020or 7DwsOas               ..         15.2
-  I -
-TO    ABSOLUTE PCVET INCOM
LVEL CUSS PM CAPZTA)
URAW                               ..          ..        105.0 le           165.5                    590.7
IURAL                              ..          ..         75.07             95.0                     275.3
ZrESTATED SELATIVE POVERT INCOSZ
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UIlIA                              ..          ..        198.0 /a           113.1                    545.6
RAL                                ..          ..         40.0 7;           67.6                     201.t
RSTIMATED POP. EMW AES.UTE
POEST INCONE LEVEL CZ)
URIN                               ..          ..          ..               36.6
RURAL                              ..          ..         65.0 /            61.8
NT AVAILABLE
NOT APICAULZL
SOTES
La   TbS groop avgrage for each indicator are populatioumelgbted arithmtic mea. Coverage of coentries
ionS rbe Indicators depend. on availabliety of data ad ia not uniform.
/b   Unless otb riae noted. 'Data for 1960r retfr to any yer betwee  1959 and 1961; "Date for 1970" betwesn
1969 and 1971; ad data for eNot Race.  atimte  between 1981 ad 1983.
/c   1977; /d 1960; /a 1979; /f 1962; jL 1967;  /b 1976; /t 1963.
*   1985  caum ae   t =tae.
iUNE. 1985



-26 -                                ANNEX I
-                                                 Page 3 of 6
D    0T0O    OF SOCIAL IdICATS
No_: Altho tI data am drwn arm msoai  ginaflly judd inhe mong audontine and mlable. i should als be naied dint they may nat be iaumuonaly
compable becale the lack of 1andwd dindMtmna and cnamp sad by differet cmuna in collecung ght data. The duu  r- inonedt_ai uwful to
d be gardia afma_ _udL mudiU tu-d and em        nat   _aRd diffn   betn  countr.
The r e -   pu  ar (1 t      untAy ppaf d    aubjsacounta y ad t2)  cotry roup wt somewhat biger avea incme than the country
group dthe  ubi _ any ( t to -HIg o    Oil EpO    group-here -M.ddle Income Nortb Afra ad imdc Eastiioen be me Orslionr
omo-c.uudalbalmemto IN  abm   gro_p da the *ang am popuaon w_gtd an_hiei mmes for each indiaor and shown only wha niajonay
ofthe onan in a Wapli dat for tIu inditor. Since tbe crng arcaunutm among the indcaton depends on the asalabthty ofdaa *nd is not umrnvim.
cautmon m  beeurcndin_iug ang agone o nodicatr to anotha. Thm aanup ae aly umeful m companng the walue ofone indritor atA tw amog
|tbe counay and I    a  
AREA (thouand sq.km.)                                          Crude hi Atwe (per thmai-Nd)-Number of live births in the year
T4val-Total surfac arw  cmprsing lkad area and irand watem     per thousand of itl-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 ata
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Crde Deal*tR    (per rauad)J-Number of deaths in the year
AgrkjiEah -Estimate of agricultural area used temnporanly or    per thousand of mid-year population. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
pemanetly for crops papsture  market and kithben gardens or to  Grs Rep.* _iu  Rae- Avrage nunmber of daughtes a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 191^2 data.                        wvi bear in her norraal reproductive period if she expenences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current        in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices calculated by sane conveion method as World         w   Pkaiq-Accepr.rs. d4uma (rhasaafhj-Annual num-
Bank Ada (I 9911843 basis); 1983 data.                         ber ofacceptors of birth-control devces under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTlON  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 family planning program
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.     F      b LIy Plwiq-L ars (peetr fmWriet m)-Theprcen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal clec-  tage of manrried women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricityq in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. ad  whos htusbands are practicing any form ofcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                     of child-beanng age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive use is measured for othwr age
POPULATlON AND VITAL STATSTICS                                 groups.
Tvalhpu1 aiM. Wid- Y- (9tkausmdr-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.     FOOD AND NUTRIMON
and 1933 data.
Po RrtfFoohd Predua Pr CqApa (1969-71 - 100J-Index of per
popula on_ different efimous of q,t' an areRsomay urbanetoetotal capita annual production of aDl food comnmodities Production
populaton; different defintionis of urban area my affect compar- exudsamlfedndedfoagiltr.Fdcmoiis
ability of dat among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.     indude primnry commodities (esg. sgacane isood comfodstirs
-            Awjectiu                                          which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. cofree and tea are
Popuation in year 2W0-The projection of population ror 2000.   exdluded); they comprise cereals, root crops. pubes oil sds.
made for each eeonomy sepaately. Starting with information on  vegetables. fruits nuts. sugarcatte and sugar bets. Iiwvtock, and
total population by ae and,. fertility rs mortality rates and  livestock products. Aggregte production ofeach country is basd
international nugration in the base year 1910. thew paramets   on national average producer price weights. 1961-65. 1970. and
wer projected at rive-ycar intervals on the basis of genalized  1912 data.
assmptions until the population became stadonary.             Ptr Cap  SW& ofCaae (peet  frew-emesD-comput-
S:tatioay popuhlnia-4s one in whicb age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-pecific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertiliy rates have simultaneously remaied at replment level   tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate -I ). In such a population, the birth rate is  exdude animal feed, seeds for usem agricture quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rte, the age structure is alo  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristis of  and bealth considering environmental temnperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rare of decli  of retiity  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rrte to replacemt level,                                       wase at household level. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data..
Popukun Momka-I the tendency for population growth to          Pr Cpit Suly of Pfte  (grau per d7)-Protein content of
continue beyond the tie that replacement-level fertility has been  percapita net supply or food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achived: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momcntum of a population in the year r is mnessured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate sttionary population to the population in  day nd 20 grams of animal and pulse protein of which 10 grams
the   r t. given the assumption that fertilty remains at replace  should be animal protein. These standards are lower tban those of
mnent lve from yr t onward. 1985 dat                           75 grams of total protein and 23 grms of animnal protein as an
-P fants - Davmky                                              average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqk-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tames) of totl are  1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 hr Cpta  otwein Sp*p  From Auiuulm  Pubse-Protein supply
Per sq.knL agriadnatl  nd--Computed as above for agricultural  of food deived from animalsand pulses in grams perday. 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
pAV&"    Age Swerr (percew)-Childmn (0-14 years). work-        Cid (age 1-4) Deth Ate (pR er trh usad)-Number of deaths of
ingage(15-64yes).andretred(65years ndover)asypercentge         children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mnid-yar populatoe 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Popalutia. Greuth Rore (perceau)-ea.d---Annual growth rates of  from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 19f3 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-33.   KEALIH
Pbpulds GiCwtl Date (pwcea)-whm--Amnual growth rates           Lje Epeetwy   rh    (ywur-Nurnber of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950.60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevaiing patterns of mortality for all people



-27 -
_                                  ~~~~~~~~ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life;  AvpM-iencher Ratio - pru. and soredw-Total students en-
1960. 1970 nd 1983 data.                                       rolled iu primary snd secondary kve  divided by numbers of
1*rw MuveMh Rot (pi  *_d)-Number of infants who die              achm  in the corresponding klvL
befor raching one year of age per thousad live births in a given
year 1960. 1970 and 19U3 dat                                    CONSUMPTION
Ace  so SAO  W_W (Pu'f                 _-J-     ei6  d          A1-.mr w Cds (pe unarmed pa sheo,ieaaJ-P enrer car com-
nwd-Number of people (1 toLmuban. and rural) with reasnable     prie motor cas sating less than eight persons. excludes ambul-
access to safe watr supply  ntbis  tated surface waten or       ane. heuses and military vhicles.
unuened butuncontaminated wealr such a that from protetd  A            em  { r      t*_ ._          J-AU t of     receivens
bohle sprngps and sanary woE) as perre nages of dear 'epe       R  radro         to generapicer huAnd ofpopulation:
tive populations. In an urbana a public fountain or sandpost   exudesi f -licensed roeeiver in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 metes from a house may be on red      itration of rndio ss was i effe: dau   for recent yrs may
as being witin reasonable aem  of that houe. In rural an                        o se was in ct dareas  .bt lcansin g
reasonable access would unply that the housewife or members of the  not be comparable since most countrt= abolished licening.
housiold do not have to sed a diprporiona  part of the day       vRefio (per -TV  receivers for broadcast
ui fetching the family's waer ne                                to general public per thousnd population: excludes unlicensed TV
Aeso Exetw  Di_1si (pevt rgw of                                receiver in countres and in years when rgstrton of TV ets was
eud mal-Number of people (total. rbn. and nu-a)        b       in e3ect.
excta disposl as percentages of their respective populations.          W CL'eUINiPE    hAwA PdP m)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposaL with or  age circulation of -daly general interet newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, of humnn excrta and waste-water by water-    peodal pubbcauon devoted prnmarily to recording general news
borne s       or the use of pit pnvies and simtiar insailations.  It is consade  to be -daily" if it appars at kagt four times a wedek
P     _pdai  par Phyddin.-lopulation divided by number of pr c-  CG_.  A _ul AIteEdAm    pr Capta per Yer-Based on the
tsing physins qualified from a medical school at university level.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
N.rdoa per Nwuq hfn.-Ibpulation divided by number of           dnv-in cinemas and mobile unts
pricing male and female graduate nurses. asitnt nures                  FORCE
praccl nures and nuring auxiare.
M-      Pr Haii.pa  Bod-44ga,a  w&m. mi rniff-4ipulaftion       Taie Lalo Farc (theusuuhp-lconorrucally active persons an-
total. urboL and rurlI divided by their resetive number of      cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewrviv
spital beds avaabLe i public and pnvat gera and   lized        students, etc. covering popultion of al ags. Definitions in
hospn s and rebiliation cntes Hospitals are sbbsnents           vaious countnies are not compuabl  1960. 1970 and 1983 data
p     yanenly staffed by at kat one physia Estblishments prov-  Femal (prevmr-Feale labor fome as percentage of total labor
ing principay cusiodial care ame not induded. Rural hospitals.  force.
howe. iodude hh and medil nters not pemanently saffed          Ap      rv (paswa-labor foc in farmin  foresaty hunting
by a physica (but by a medical assistanL nurse midwife. etc.)  and fishing as pmentag of totl lbor force; 1960 1970 and 1980
wh  offer in-patient aconuodauo and provide a linited rane     data.
of medical faclities.                                          Iadery (percemoj-Labor force in nining. construction. manu-
A          pr  .pit Bed-Total number of admissions to or       factoring and eleticity. water and ps as percentag of total labor
dschar  from bospitals divided by the number of beds.          for=c 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
H. O  SN  (PrceJ-fd                      a    tion
HOtISU4G                                                       or acivity rates ae computed as totaL male. and femae labor force
,bowge Se of NOM0he  (Pr'' P r AuUJ"-e0wI  Wdar.    as percentag  of totaL male and female population of a ags
AFd-A household consiss ora group of individuals who share     reqsctivdy 1960. 1970. and 1983 dat These ar based on iLas
hving quartes and therw mai meals A boarder or lodger may or   p tion rates rlecting age-sm structure of the popultin and
may not be included in the housbold for statsical purpos.      long time traend A few estimates are from national soures.
Aveg  Nw"- of P-sm pr Ro-haeval, wim. md wed-                 &Eao.ic DepAmey Rai&-Ratio of population under 15. and
Avge mnber of persons per room in all urban. and rural         65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
ocupied cooventional dwdlings, rev vdy. Dwdengs xclude
non-perment stuctures and unoccupied parts.                     NCOME DISTRIBUTION
rI'eeaedw of DWO_g Wmt                   41- , 6111s. MIl      An P caue .r  TrW Dspesehk 1w   (iot  in cm* and kbdj-
Conventional awelings with lectricity in living quartersas peucen-  Accruing to percentile groups of houxholds ranked by total house-
tap of total urban and rural dwelings respectively.            hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROl'PS
A*std EAmuea  A5-i.                                            The following esimtes are very approximate measures of povery
pFrswyi xheof - otad. mw  and fiair-Cross totaL mle and        kvs. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enronent of al ages at the primay level as perntages of  EstIai.t*diiii&te Iwy lacm  Lewd i(USSpf rcaFpike-biu
reqsctive prmary schoolage populations. While many countries   a_d raed-Absolute poverty income kvd is that income level
consider primary school agc to be 6-11 yers others do noL The  bekow which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essental
ditfrences in country praces n the  es and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the rts gvn  For some countries wah universl  Es       REdld ,f Woery, Icom  Lead (UUpfr cipiea)-a-whs
educatiomn gross enroment may exceed 100 percent since some    ei r -Rurl relative poverty income kvel is one-third of
pupils ar below or above the country's standard primayschool   aveage per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                           derived from the rural levd with adjustment for higher cost of
Secaudhry xdaool - totd. mak  and feal-Computed as above:    living in urban rues.
secondary educatin  qres at least four years of approved pri-  Ef_gja@ Papxhul. kebw A&sdate Pyery  AnFr Lmel (per-
uhay mu_con provi  generaL vational or teacher trainig        cantj-'wdr d_    -   fte.wt of population (urtan and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of a  correspond-  who are abolute poor.-
ence courses are geerally clded.
Vocaimm    iohnei (pecet ofscmdtaryj-Vocational insntu-                   Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tioW  inlude tehical, indstiLL or other progns whic operate            Economic Analysis and Prtion Dertment
idependenty or - departms of secondary i      _nutons                                   June 1985



_            - 28-
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
zCONCMoC MDICATOE5 - S2ZRA LEONE
GNP P*R CAPrTA IN US S (1983) -        330.0                               Annual Growth Rates
In Constant Ff73 Leomnm
GROSS NATIOnAL PROOUCT M5           US S min.                 Z XT77-79  FfUO-82  Ff35-S5
GNP at Market Prices                   875.4              100.02               2.81     1.1S     0.41
Gross Demeatic Investmeat               65.4                7.52              83.4     -5.    -17.01
Gross National Savings                  58.0                6.62               6.9Z   -59.72    14.32
Current Account BDLance                -62.4               -7.1X             -- -      -- -     -- -
Exports of Goods, UFS                  129.5               14.8S              -8.31   -23.32    17.1S
imports of Good., NFS                 -143.3              -16.4Z             13.7Z   -11.2Z    -5.72
OUTPUT. EMPLOYMENT & PRODUCTIVIY  - Value Added -               -- Employment --
IN FYBS                             US S ML.         z          Thousands        2          US SlWrkr
Agriculture                            334.7        37Z            908.7        652            36863
IndustrLal & Eon-Agricultural          18B.0       212             265.6        191            707.9
Services                               376.4        422            223.7        161           1682.6
Total                                  899.1       100X           1398.0       1002            643.1
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE              - MilLions of Leones -                --- Percent of CDP ---
FY83     FY84     FY8S               FY83     FY84      FY85
Current ReceLpts                       181.5   264.9   324.6                   9.32     9.02     7.62
Current ExpandLture                    409.0    468.0    845.5               21.12    15.92    19.9S
Current Surplus                       -227.5   -203.1   -520.9              -11.72    -6.9X   -12.22
Development EspendLtures                99.2    103.1    126.2                 5.12     3.52     3.02
MONEY. CREDIT. AND PRICES (DEC.)        - Millions of Loones -
1983     1984     1985
Honey and QuasL-money                  443.9    570.2    882.2
Bank Credit to PubLiLc Sector          732.6    900.9   1171.5
D-nk Credit to Private Sector           98.5    120.3    164.5
Money as X of GDP                       22.9X    19.3Z    20.7Z
X Change ln Public Sector Credit        44.32    23.01    30.0X
S Change Ln PrLvate Sector Credit      -13.4 2 22.12    36.7X
Consumer Price Iadex (1978 - 100)      343.1    572.6   1011.1
AnnuaL I Chan-e In CPI                  68.52    66.61    76.6X



_           - 29-
ANNEX I
Page  6 of 6
ECONOIIC INDICATORS - SIERRA LEONZ
BLLANCE Of PAUCETS                 MlLLons of US DolLars      ERCEANDISE EXORTS                 MliLons of US Dollars
FY83     FY4      FY35                                        FY83     FY84     FY85
Exports of Goods. NFS              93.8    109.3    129.5   AGRICULTURU                          19.8      26.7    40.8
Dmports of Goods. NFS            -172.2   -124.3   -143.3       Coco                             12.6      20.2    20.7
Resource Gap                      -71.5    -15.3    -13.8       Coffee                            7.3       6.5    20.2
KINERALS                           65.3     72.5    61.1
Net Intorest Payments              -9.7      -9.2    -28.6    .uxLte                             13.3      16.7     19.7
Othor Factor Payments             -45.4    -32.1    -41.5       RutLLe                             8.2     21.5     18.2
Net Transfers                      23.4     26.8      21.5      Diamonds                         42.7      31.8     15.3
CoLd                             11       2.6       7.8
Balance on Current Account       -1o.0a    -29.8    -62.4    OTmERS                               8.6      10.1     27.5
Long Term Capital                  -7.5    -29.5      13.8    PETROLEUM IMORTS                   39.4      53.5     36.'
Short Term Capital                 38.6     14.6      16.2
Overall Balance                   -78.9    -44.8    -32.4    EXrERNAL DEBT: DEC. 31. 1985                       US S Mln.
---------------------------------------------------------
Gross Reserves (Dec.)             -20.4     23.9      11.5    Pubhlc Debt  Incl. Guaranteed                        515.2
Inerease ln Reserves              -52.1     43.5    -12.2    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                              NA
Total Outstanding L DLsbursed                       388.6
OFFICIAL RATE OF EXCHANGE                                     NET DEBT SERVICE RATIOS: DEC. 31. 1985                   1
Period Averages                    FY83     FY84      FY85    PubiLc Debt. acl. Guaranteed  11                      26.52
---------------------------------------------------------   Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                              0.02
US Dollars per Leone             0.5958   0.3984   0.2114    Total OutstandLng & Disbursed                          26.52
Leones per US Dollar             1.6784   2.5100   4.7304
rBRD/IDA LENDING: DECEMDER 31. 1985         US S Mllions
IBRD      IDA
Outstanding S. Dlsbursed                     9.1      59.1
UndLmbursed                                  0.0    47.9
Outstanding Incl. UndLsbursed                9.l    107.0
SOURCES:
GNPICapLta:  Economic Projectlons Department                  Rate of Exchange:  Dank of Slorra Leone  Freetown. S.L.
CNP:  ProvLlonal. CentraL Statistics Offce  S.L.           Debt Service Ratios:  EPD External Debt
Output. Employmnt & ProductivIty:  IM. ILO, and EPD           1. Based on scheduled dobt servIce payments and thls does
Government Finance:  Internatlonal Mone-try Fund                 not include servieLng of arrears.  If arrears are
Honey and Credit:  InternatLonal Monetary Fund                   taken Lnto account. debt servle- rcato would be
PrIces:  Central. Statistics Office0 Freetown, S.L.              considerably hlgher.
Balance of Payments:  InternatlonaL Monetary Fund             IBRD Lending:  IPRD Statement of Loans  Dec. 31* 1985
External Debtt Dank of Sierra Leone                           IDA Lending:  IDA Statement of Development Credits
Exports and Trportet International Monetary Fund



- 30 -
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SIERRA LEONE
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1985)
Loan or                                                   US$ million
Credit                                           Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year   Borrower       Purpose          Bank    IDA 1/  Undisbursed 2/
Five Loans and Seven Credits Fully Disbursed    18.70    33.28
1094      1981   Sierra Leone  Eastern Agric.      -       12.0        1.5
1128      1981   Sierra Leone  Northern Agric.    -         8.5        4.8
1129      1982   Sierra Leone  Highways II         -       10.0        4.1
1265      1982   Sierra Leone  Power Sector Engr.
and T.A.         -       5.0         1.5
1353      1983   Sierra Leone  Education III       -       20.0       17.0
1501      1984   Sierra Leone  Agricultural
Sector Support    -      21.5        19.0
Total                           18.70   110.28      47.9
of which has been repaid        9.02     0.47
Total now outstanding            9.68   109.81
Amount sold        0.5
of which has
been repaid       0.5           0.0
Total now held
by Bank and IDA                 9.18   109.81
Total undisbursed                 0      47.9        47.9
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Computed at exchange rate applicable on December 31, 1985.
Note:  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a
separate report on all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution,
which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SIERRA LEONE
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMFNTARY PROJECT DATA
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  About one year
(b)  Project prepared by           : Ministry of Health
Government of Sierra Leone
(c)  Date of appraisal             : June/July 1985
(d)  Date negotiations completed  : March 13, 1986
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:  September 1986
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)    Conditions of Credit Effectiveness:
(i) Government 'to establish the Planning, Management Information
and Statistics Unit and assign to it a Principal Health
Planning Officer (para 47).
(ii) Government to appoint additional staff for the PEC
Co-ordination Unit, provincial and district health offices
(para 51).
(iii)  Government to establish provincial and district implementation
teams (para 63).
(iv) Government to establish a local advance account and deposit an
initial amount of Le 0.2 million (para 71).
(b)    Conditions of Disbursement:
(i)  Government to reduce the number of MOH's daily wage employees
by at least 10 percent annually starting from June 30, 1987, as
a condition of disbursement for expenditures of civil works,
local training and operating costs starting June 30, 1987
(para 49).
(ii) Government to procure all essential drugs, vaccines and medical
supplies for the public sector under ICB (para 55).



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d)    Other Conditions:
(i) MOH to provide, by September 30, 1987, its draft health
investment plan and in each year thereafter to provide its
annual investment plans for IDA's review (para 46).
(ii) Government to submit to IDA a draft of the national population
policy statement not later than December 31, 1986 and an action
plan for implementing the population policy not later than July
31, 1987 (para 58).
(iii) Government to finalize a standard drug list, a prescription
mannual and a plan for drug procurement, storage and
distribution by no later than December 31, 1986 and begin
training health workers for drug distribution by March 31, 1987
(para 55).
(iv) Government and IDA to carry out mid-term evaluation of the
project 18 months after credit effectiveness (para 64).



IBRD 19459R
SIERRA  L E O N E                              N                4C* )
HEALTH AND POPULATION
SECTOR  SUPPORT  PROJECT                                      A -AU   rGUJIA
O  Dssinct H4urar                               Existing ana Proposed                                          *
*   P'oowce HmdQuarms                      Primary  Health  Care Programs
*   Nthol Capitl                                                                              AAfr, r/              N
DOirrrica Baundaries
P--    ian Boundarne_
Primary Health Care
by District:                            -
. EXISTING              r                                                                 GUINEA
0 K.b.la
PROPOSED
4,     ',  8 ~0 M-8-A L I              K  0  o     N   A D  U  C; U     *
GU I N EA 
,            t   h   e  r  n  l  n    P   r  o   v   i  n   c   e              )
K     A M B I A 
i_;-.        I                           M ,  ENI
" PortLa-                                                  /          K   O   N  O
P  O  R  T    L O  K o                        --ad.
\ _d ~~-             ,            .i
,REO J '" ., -t                                                                            e .(1t     ' '' ' '' ' -'
-                     /_ s  n eJ rn
^   ;_   -  - -. _n c eOKoaot-                                                                     (
OKo.Iahn
BO 
~~60                    I~KALAHUNr
_h    e~~~~~~~~~~r n    . ~~ 
IL.     r-(-
>- 1 - r-      -                              AS
~~H    r  0   VI~~~~fl   ce ~LIBERIA
-- - P ~r ov ir n c e >.  IEl
B O   N  r H  E      P*hb                                                     a.  - r,
I                        -kE   rt. .  .,e . ..AAb
JF  P UJ EH UN
0.    ap    4p  v  op  TO~~~~~~~~~~~.,..fllh. r..0S&,
OO 0       20          40     K    _  4  60
MILES
i.   -                                   IM                                                                       198
MAY 1986






