Do_uen of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C t /69o~0L
Report No. 5995-SL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
HEALTH AND POPULATION SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
April 22, 1986
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Leone (Le)
US$1.00   Le 5.26 !i
Le 1.00 = US$ 0.19
SDR 1.00   US$1.16
GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYMS AND INITIALS
ACHO                      :   Assistant Community Health Officer
CHEN                           Council for Health Education and Nutrition
CR0                       :   Community Health Officer
CMO                       :   Chief Medical Officer
DM0                       *   District Medical Cfficer
EPI                            Expanded Program for Immunization
GTZ                            German Agency for Technical Cooperation
IEC                            Information, Education, Communication
MCH/FP                         Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning
MODEP                     .   Ministry of Development and Economic Planning
MOH                       *   Ministry of Health
NNS                       *   National Nutrition Survey
NPC                       .   National Population Commission
PCM                            Protein-Calorie Malnutrition
PHC                       :   Primary Health Care
PIC                       .   Project Implementation Committee
PHU                       :   Peripheral Health Unit
PMISU                     :   Planning, Management Information and
Statistics Unit
PMO                           Principal Medical Officer
PPF                            Project Preparation Facility
PSC                            Project Steering Committee
SECHN                     :   State-Enrolled Community Health Nurse
TBA                       :   Traditional Birth Attendant
1 The official exchange rate in Sierra Leone has been fluctuating since
it is based on a basket of currencies. The rate used in this report is US$1
= Le 6.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPPAISAL REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pare No.
Credit and Project Summary ..          ..............   iii
Basic Data ......       ..........................       vi
Definitions ...............................             vii
I.   INTRODUCTION            .........................................      1
II.  SECTOR ISSUES AND STRATEGY ..........................                  I
A.   Sector Status ..................1................ 
Population ................................               1
Health .......       .............................        2
Nutrition .................................               3
B.   The Health Sector ..............................                 4
Health Services Organization and Performance              4
Health Expenditure and Financing ........ ..              6
Health Policy and Strategy ................               7
C.   Population Initiatives .....         ....................        8
D.   External Assistance ......         ......................       10
E.   Issues and Constraints .....          ....................      10
F.   The Bank Group's Role and Assistance Strategy ..                13
III. THE PROJECT                    . . . .........  14
A.   Project Objectives ............. .. ..............              14
B.   Project Composition ............. .. .............              14
C.   Detailed Project Description .................        ..        15
Health Policy Reforms ......... .. ..........            15
Institutional Development for MOB ........ .             17
Strengthening of Basic Health Care and
Family Planning Services .................       .       20
Population Activities ......... .. ..........            24
rTh documnt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the peforumae
of their oflcial dutis. It contents may not otherwi be disdaosnd without Wrld Dank autnorokn



I .L
- ii -
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .. .........                          27
A.  Cost Estimate ....                                            27
B.   Financing Plan .............28
C.   Procurement  .......                                         30
D.   Disbursements ..                            .     . ..       31
E.   Accounts and Audit  ..... .. .           .                   32
V.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION, NANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ........    32
A.   Project Organization and Management ...                      32
B.   Project Implementation and Monitoring .......                33
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS       E    ............                 35
VII. AGREEUENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..............              35
ANNEXES
Annex 1   Tables
2.1       Comparative Health and Population Related Indicators ...   39
2.2       Percentage Distribution of Communicable Diseases,1979 as  40
2.3       Main Causes of Rospitalization Among Adults, 1980 ......   41
2.4       Distribution of Health Facilities ........6660* ......   42
2.5       Comparison of Drug Prices Paid Locally vith World
Market Generic Prices 4.... a    ....*               ... .  43
3.1       List of Project Preparation Studies and Dates of
Completion ....................................... . .  44
3.2       List of Incremental Staff              ......    45
4.1       Detailed Project Cost Estimate (by Components and Years)   46
4.2       Financing Plan .                                             53
4.3       Post-Project Annual Recurrent Cost .....................   54
4.4       Procurement Method ........ ............        ........    55
4.5       Estimated Schedule of Disbursement ....s.....e .......    56
5.1       Implementation Schedule of Project Activities ..........   57
5.2       List of Technical Assistance and Fellowships ...-.......  61
Annex 2   Primary Health Care Strategv in Sierra Leone ...........   63
Annex 3   Illustrative Drui Revolving Fund System ................   67
Annex 4 Selected Documents and Dats Available in the Proiect File 75
Annex 5   Charts ...........*.*.. .......... De           ........   76
C-1       Organigram of the Ministry of Health
C-2       Organigram of the Project
Map ..    ... .. .....................                       78
19459     Existing and Proposed PHC Areas



- iii -
SIEan LEONE
mATH AND POPULATION PROJEC
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUIDART
Borrower:           Sierra Leone
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Health and National Population Commission
Amount:              SDR 4.6 million (US$ 5.3 million equivalent)
Terma:              Standard
Proiect
Obiectives:         The major objectives of the project are to:
(a) support necessary adjustments in the health
sector through policy reforms and strengthening of the
Ministry of Health's capacity for program planning,
managing, coordinating, and monitoring;
(b) strengthen basic health services with emphasis
on the Primary Health Care approach and inclusion of
family planning in health services; and
(c) help develop population policy and strengthen
family planning demand-generation activities.
Benefits:           The project will help reorient health and population
program efforts away from their current urban bias and
towards improving the availability and quality of
services in rural areas. By stimulating policy reforms
and improving financial management including the
adoption of cost-recovery and cost-containment measures,
the project would enable the Government (in the long
run) to finance broad-based health and population
programs. It is estimated that by the end of the
project period, about Le 5.1 million of the cost of
service delivery would be recovered through cost
recovery measures and about Le. 2.4 million would be
saved through cost containment measures. The project
will extend primary health care services in three
presently underserved districts with a total population
of about 1.2 million. Through its support for
population efforts, the project will help lay the
foundation for the development of a national population
program and increase awareness of and access to
services.



- iv -
Through institution building activities in both health
and population, it vill contribute to improved planning.
policy implementation and coordination.
Risks:              As the project would be the first Bank-financed
operatLn in the sector, there is a risk of delays in
implementation. To minimize these risks, the project
provides for additional higher-level staff at key units
of the implementing agencies and for technical assis-
tance in organizational development and management. In
addition, a project launch workshop would be held
following IDA approval of the project to fully
familiarize all concerned staff with project goals and
implementation requirements.



-v -
A. Proiect C0st 5 _ry
1.   Sectoral Adiustment                       in USS million
( i)  Policy Reforms                                0.5
(ii)  Institutional Development                     1.0
2.   Strentthenina of Basic Health and
Family Planning Services
( i)  Facilities and Drug Supply                    1.6
(ii)  Training. Health Education,                   1.0
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.   Population Activities                               0.4
4.   Proiect PreDaration Facility                        0.3
5.  Base Cost                                            4.8
6. ContinRencies
C i)  Physical                                       0.3
Qii)  Price                                          0.6
Total Proiect Cost                                       5.7
S. FinJncint Plan
Local     Foreizn   Total
IDA                             1.2       4.1        5.3
Government                      0.4         -        0.4
Total                           1.6        4.1       5.7
C. Kutiunted Disbursements
FY87      FY88       FY89      FY90
Annual               1.30      1.35       1.50      1.15
Cumulative           1.30      2.65      4.15       5.30
Rate of Return: not applicable
Proiect Completion Date: June 30, 1989.



- vi -
SIERRA LEONE
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Total Area (km2. thousands) .          . ..............................   72
Total Population (mid-1983, millions)                  ...                  3.6
GNP per capita (1983, U.S.$)                    ...   330
Life expectancy at birth (1983, years) ....................  .             38
Crude birth rate (1983, per 1000 population)             . . .            49
Crude death rate (1983, per 1000 population)             . . .            27
Infant mortality rate (1983, per 1000 live births) . .....               198
Child death rate (1983, per 1000 children of 1-4 years) ....               54
Population growth rate (1983%) .............................                2.3
Maternal mortality rate (1983, per 100 deliveries) .........                4.5
Population per physician (1980) ............................  17,520
Population per nurse (1980)            ..................   2,040
Daily calorie supply per capita (1981)    .             ............   2,049
Daily calorie supply as Z of requirement (1982)             .    .         85
Working age population (1983, %)                   ..                      55
Urban population as x of total (1983)                 .        .           23
Source: 1985 World Development Report and World Bank Social Indicators Data
Sheets (June 1985).



- vii -
DEFINITIONS
Adult Literacy Rate:           The percentage of persons aged 15 and
over who can read and write.
Child Death Rate:              The number of deaths of children one to four
years of age per 1,000 children in that age
group in a given year.
Crude Birth Rate:              Number of births per 1,000 population in a
given year.
Crude Death Rate:              Number of deaths per 1,000 population in a
given year.
Dependency Ratio:              Population 14 years or under and 65 years
and over as a percentage of population
aged 15 to 64 years.
Incidence Rate:                The number of new cases of a disease which
occur in a population during a specified
period of time. Usually expressed as the
number of cases per 1,000 persons.
Infant Mortality Rate:         The number of deaths of infants under one
year of age per 1,000 live births in a given
year.
Maternal Mortality Rate:       The number of deaths to women who die due
to pregnancy, childbearing complications
in a given year per 1,000 live births in
that year.
Morbidity:                     The frequency of disease and illness in
a population.
Prevalence Rate:               The total number of people affected by a
disease estimated either at a specific
time (point prevalence) or over a stated
period (period prevalence) expressed per
1,000 population (in case of low figures,
prevalence is expressed per 100,000
population).
Rate of Natural Increase:      The rate at whicb a population is
increasing (or decreasing) in a given year
due to a surplus (or deficit) of births



- viii -
over deaths, expressed as a percentage of
the total population.
Rate of Population Growth:    Rate of natural increased adjusted for (net)
migration, expressed as a percentage of the
total population in a given year.
Total Fertility Rate:          The average number of children that would
be born alive to a woman (or group of women)
during her lifetime if she were to pass
through her child-bearing years conforming to
the age-specific fertility rates of a given
year.



SIERRA LEONE
HEALTH AND POPUIATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      With an annual per capita income of about US$ 330 (mid-1983),
Sierra Leone is among the 25 poorest nations in the world. Throughout the
1970s and early 1980. the country suffered from a prolonged period of
economic stagnation brought on by a combination of factors including: con-
tracting output in the predominant mineral sector and a resulting decline in
domestic income; unfavorable external factors such as worldwide inflation,
particularly the sharp increases in oil prices; and continuing over-reliance
on a narrowly-based development strategy which focused on the mineral sector
(primarily diamonds) to the detriment of agriculture and other renewable
resources. In consequence, by the start of the 1980s, real per capita
income was nearly 20% lower than it bad been a decade earlier. Moreover,
the prevailing incentive structure, which was biased towards minerals and
against agriculture, has led to serious inequities in income distribution --
with the about 2.6 million Sierra Leoneaus engaged in agriculture (65Z of
the population) earning far lower incomes and having much poorer access to
social services than their urban counterparts.
1.02      Faced with limited prospects for longer-term growth and an
increasingly constrained resource position, the Government has, with
assistance from the Bank, begun to develop a structural adjustment program
to help rehabilitate the economy and set it on a growth path. The program
would include measures to increase control over the growth and composition
of public expenditures, broaden the revenue base, promote greater efficiency
in investment and improve the institutional framework for effective manage-
ment. By placing major emphasis on achieving such adjustment in the health
sector, the project proposed later in this report would further this
national structural adjustment process. In addition, through support for
health and family planning services in rural areas, the proposed project
would also increase access to improved health and family planning services.
II. SECTOR ISSUES AND STRATEGY
A. Sector Status
PoDulation
2.01      Sierra Leone's mid-1983 population was estimated at 3.6 million,1
representing an increase of about 30% over the population size of 2.7
million recorded by the 1974 census. With a crude birth rate of 49 per
thousand population and a total fertility rate of about 6.5, fertility in
Sierra Leone remains extremely high. While mortality has shown some decline
in the past 10-15 years, Sierra Leone's current crude death rate of 27 per
thousand is considerably higher than the average for Sub-Saharan Africa (18
lAll data in this section are from World Develoument Report 1985, unless
specified otherwise.



- 2 -
per thousand). Thus, Sierra Leone remains at a very early stage of
demographic transition, and as a result, the rate of population growth (2.3Z
per annum) is somewhat lower than the regional average of about 2.8x. If,
as is expected, mortality were to decline rapidly in the short term to
levels commensurate with those in other Sub-Saharan countries, the rate of
population growth would rise substantially, particularly as declines in
fertility are likely to be relatively slower.
2.02      Population projections for Sierra Leone indicate that the
country's population will nearly double over the next 30 years (assuming
reasonable declines in both fertility and mortality), and that total
population size will grow to over 17 million before it becomes stationary.
Under this scenario, and assuming constant labor force participation rates,
Sierra Leone's labor force would grow from its present size of slightly over
1 million to just under 2 million by 2009. Thus, in 2009, about 60,000 jobs
would have to be created to accommodate new labor entrants, versus only
about 20,000 in 1984. Since future labor entrants, i.e. for the next 15 or
so years, have already been born, and the bulk of them are likely to
continue to be absorbed by agriculture, this situation will reduce agricul-
tural land per capita. Moreover, annual food import requirements (which
already more than doubled in the last decade) would increase further. Even
with reasonable increase in annual food production, the food import
requirement will double again by the year 2009. Thus, there is an urgent
need to improve agricultural productivity and simultaneously pursue policies
and programs to reduce fertility in the near-term if pressure on
unemployment is to be relieved, and food imports are to be kept within
reasonable bounds, in the long-term.
2.03        Fertility decline in the short-term would also have immediate
beneficial implications for the economy. Currently, Sierra Leone's child-
dependency ratio (the proportion of children under 15 years to working-age
adults) is extremely high at about 80 per 100 adults, implying lower
capacity for saving, greater pressure on limited food supplies, and the need
for substantial expenditures on social services such as education and
health. If fertility were to fall, however, there would be an immediate
lessening of this dependency burden, freeing up additional public and
private resources for more intensive investment in human resource
development and for other priority investments and consumption.
Health
2.04      Despite improvements in the past two decades, health and nutrition
conditions in Sierra Leone remain precarious. In 1983, life expectancy at
birth was approximately 38 years (well below the Sub-Saharan average of 49
years), and infant and child mortality levels were about 198 and 54 per
thousand respectively. This implies that over one-quarter of all babies
fail to reach their fifth birthday. While studies show that there is wide
regional variation in the mortality levels in the country, Sierra Leone, as
a whole, however, has one of the highest infant and child mortality levels
and lowest life expectancy in the world. These indicators nonetheless



- 3 -
reflect some improvement since 1965 when infant and child mortality rates
were 230 and 69 per thousand respectively (Annex 1, Table 21 ).
2.05      Sierra Leone's epidemiological profile is typical of the region,
with infectious and parasitic diseases and gastro-intestinal illnesses
accounting for most morbidity and mortality (Annex 1, Tables 2.2 and 2.3).
Over one-half of total mortality occurs among children below five years of
age; the leading causes of death in this age group include new-natal
tetanus, whooping cough, polio, measles, diarrheal diseases, respiratory
infections, malaria, anemia and nutritional deficiencies, most of which are
preventable or treatable. Maternal mortality is also high, estimated at
about 4.5 deaths per thousand deliveries. These deaths are for the most
part attributable to the fact that under 20% of births are institutionalized
and that traditional birth attendants MTBAs), lacking training, often employ
unsafe practices in handling deliveries. Moreover, high fertility means
that Sierra Leonean women have frequent and closely-spaced deliveries,
making them (and their infants) more susceptible to the risk of complica-
tions. Other important causes of illness or death among adults include
malaria, pneumonia, gastroenteritis and tuberculosis, which, like diseases
affecting children, can largely be avoided or treated through simple,
sow-cost primary health care (PHC) interventions (Annex 1, Table 2.3).
Hence, strengthened PHC efforts, particularly improved maternal and child
health (MCH) services, are an obvious priority in the Sierra Leonean
context.
Nutrition
2.06      The daily supply of calories per capita in Sierra Leone is only
85Z of estimated requirements, and, as a result, protein calorie
malnutrition remains widesp-ead.  According to the 1978 National Nutrition
Survey (NNS), the nutritional status of the "vulnerable group', i.e. young
children and pregnant and lactating women, is very poor and an important
contributor to the high levels of maternal, infant and child morbidity and
mortality. Although conducted in January-March which is the annual period
of high food supplies, the NNS found that about one-quarter of all children
under 5 years were chronically undernourished or stunted2 and that about
3-5% suffered from acute undernutrition3. Moreover, the prevalence of
undernutrition was found to be nearly 2 1/2 times higher in the rural areas
than in the largest city, Freetown, and 1 112 times higher than in urban
areas in general.
2.07       With regard to micronutrients, iron-deficiency anemia is the most
important, with two-thirds of pregnant women and 58' of all children (70.6%
rural) found to be anemic. Malaria, worm infestations, and the common
practice of not feeding supplemental foods to infants until they have
2Height for age less than 90 percent of reference median.
3Weight-for-height less than 80 percent of refences median.



- 4 -
reached the age of one, together with food shortages, have contributed
significantly to undernutrition. Given the worsening of economic conditions
and the concomitant sharp increases in food prices and occasional scarcity
of basic foodstuffs since the NNS was conducted in 1978, it is likely
that Sierra Leone's nutritional situation has deteriorated in the past few
years, as indicated by the anecdotal evidence of health and nutrition
professionals.
B. The Health Sector
Health Services Organization and Performance
2.08      Organization.  The Ministry of Health (MOB) is responsible for the
formulation and implementation of national health policy and for the overall
administration, coordination and management of the health system. It is
headed by the Minister, responsible to the President, and comprises two
arms: an administrative arm supervised by the Permanent Secretary, and a
professional arm supervised by the Chief Medical Officer. As the attached
organizational chart (Annex 5,  __1) shows, the Permanent Secretary, assisted
by a Deputy, is responsible for overall administration, including personnel,
accounts and audit, budget preparation, supplies and logistics, public
relations and health p'Lanning. The Chief Medical Officer (CMO), as principal
advisor to the Government on medical and health matters, oversees all
technical aspects of public health services delivery, including: hospital
and basic health services; specialized programs (e.g., the expanded program
for immunization (EPI) or leprosy control); and support services
(e.g. medical statistics reporting, health manpower development or medical
supplies procurement/distribution). The CML is assisted by the Deputy CMO,
the Chief Nursing and Dental Officers, and supported by a number of
professional staff with more specific functions, sucb as the Primary Health
Care (PHC) Coordinator, the Maternal Child Health (NCR) Director, the EPI
Director, the Chief Pharmacist and the Chief Statistician, among others.
2.09      In each of the country's three provinces (Northern, Eastern and
Southern) and the Western Area, health services are directed and coordinated
by Principal Medical Officers (PMOs) who report directly to the CMO.
Distric,, sub-district and chiefdom-level health services are managed by
District Medical Officers (DMOs). Overall, however the administrative
.'ructure remains essentially centralized, with senior MOB officials in
Freetown holding most decision-making and management authority.
2.10      Health services in Sierra Leone are provided by the Government
(principally MOH), by many, uncoordinated noa-governmental organizations
(NGOs), and by private practitioners and industry. The basic health care
infrastructure consists of referral and general hospitals, and peripheral
health units (PHUs). In mid-1984 there were 25 government hospitals, with a
total of about 2,772 available beds; 8 church-related hospitals, with some
920 beds; and 4 industrial (mining) and 12 privately-owned hospitals,
providing an additional 932 beds.



2.11      Government and private hospitals, together accounting for about
two-thirds of available beds, are concentrated in urban centers, while
mission and mining hospitals are generally located in rural areas. PHUs
located primarily at the Chiefdom and village levels, numbered 237 in 1984.
They are intended to provide crucial preventive, promotive and curative
services including: MCH services, immunization and treatment of common
diseases aid injuries. About 75% of PHUs are government-run, and in theory,
are linked to the district hospitals for supervision, technical support and
referral. The precise distribution of hospitals and PHUs by province and
district is given in Annex 1, Table 2.4.
2.12      Performance.   Since the mid-1970s, there has been growing
recognition in Sierra Leone that any substantial improvement in national
health status would require significantly-improved health conditions and
services at the periphery (i.e., district level and below). Consequently,
the Government, with assistance from WHO, UNICEF, and the Federal Republic
of Germany has initiated pilot PHC programs focused on: strengthening
service delivery at PEUs (through improved staffing, in-service training,
equipping and supplies, and better supervision and referral); revitalizing
eutreach efforts; and increasing community involvement through training of
village health workers and TBAs, and formation of health committees at the
village, chiefdom and district levels.
2.13       Initial evaluations have been conducted at the two largest PHC
pilots -- in Bombali district in Northern Province and Bo and Pujehun
districts in Southern Province -- which indicate that the PUC approach has
resulted in better utilization of health facilities, improved coverage of
deliveries, more widespread and quicker treatment of malaria and diarrheal
diseases, and improved health and nutrition knowledge and practices in the
communities themselves. Moreover, both programs have been largely success-
ful in mobilizing incremental resources for the health system, through the
introduction of user fees to support drug and medical supply costs and
through community involvement in the construction and renovation of health
facilities. The Bo-Pujehun project (assisted by the German Agency for
Technical Cooperation) has succeeded in recovering about 78% of the cost of
drugs while the Bombali project (assisted by UNICEF) recovered about 40%.
This is a remarkable achievement particularly when compared to other
districts where no costs are recovered. A description of these projects is
available in the project file.   Cost recovery measures are also being
tested by small church-related health programs. A comparative analysis of
these various efforts is being undertaken by the Government with Bank
assistance.
2.14      Nutrition.  Nutrition activities are pursued as part of MOH's PHC
activities. Various NGOs are also implementing small nutrition projects.
No national organization is promoting and monitoring nutrition policy and
programs. Although in principle, the Council on Health Education and
Nutrition (CHEN) could perform this role, its effectiveness is limited owing
to lack of staff and financial support.



- 6 -
2.15      Among the priority actions recommended by the 1978 National
Nutrition Survey Report are strengthening CHEN, conducting intensified
nutrition education and incorporating nutrition activities into PHC.   Meals
for Millions (a California-based NGO) is encouraging food production,
providing supplementary feeding to malnourished children, and promoting
sanitation.
Health Expenditure and Financing
2.16      Total private and public health expenditures in 1983/84 were
estimated at Le 160 million (US$26.7 million equivalent) or about Le 44.4
(US$7.4 equivalent) per capita, and about 3% of GDP. This total figure
includes actual recurrent and development expenditure of about Le 29.1
million and Le 0.9 million respectively by the NOR, and estimated health
expenditures of nearly Le 3.0 million by other governmental agencies (e.g.,
the Ministry of Defense, the Civilian Police and the Ministry of Social
Welfare) -- implying per capita public health expenditure of Le 9.2 or
US$1.5 equivalent. This compares favorably with expenditures in other West
African countries. Public financial resources for health are virtually all
derived from general government revenues, with only nominal sums generated
through user fees or pension schemes.
2.17        Over the past five years, health expenditures have averaged
about 9-10% of total government expenditures, substantially lower than
allocations for education (24% in 1983/84), but higher than public
expenditures in most other sectors, including agriculture, social welfare,
industry and defense. Health's share of total government expenditure is
thus relatively large, and given sectoral expenditure ceilings set by the
Ministry of Finance (in consultation with the IMF), unlikely to increase
significantly in the foreseeable future. It is, therefore, critical that
available resources be utilized efficiently, if adequate health system
coverage is to be achieved and services effectively delivered.
2.18       Since 1978/79, current expenditures have been incred-
singly dominated by personnel costs, and by 1983/84 these accounted for
nearly 60% of expenditures. The gr-aatest increase occurred in the wages
subcategory, reflecting unchecked -.ecruitment of daily wage workers (most of
whom are underemployed) in an effort to ease employment pressures brought on
by recession. In parallel, spending on salaries/training for skilled health
personnel, essential drugs and supplies, supervision costs and maintenance
has had to be reduccd, impeding effectivp service delivery and causing rapid
deterioration of existing infrastructure. In 1983/84, the Government
allocated Le. 5.1 million for drugs; an amount which covered only about
one-quarter of estimated drug requirements under prevailing drug procurement
practices, (Annex 1, lable 2,5).
2.19      Despite policies e:ressing the need for improved PEC services in
rural areas, nearly three-quarters of the current budget has supported urban
health programs (primarily hospitals), with under 20% devoted to rural
health activities. As a result, per capita public bealth expenditure in the



- 7 -
Western Area (comprising greater Freetown) remains nearly 5 times as high as
the average for the predominantly rural Northern, Southern and East'Žrn
provinces. While development expenditures show better balance between urban
and rural investments, they typically account for less than 2% of total
health allocations and have had only a marginal impact on health conditions.
Health Policy and Stratety
2.20.     Policy.  Following the 1978 international health conference at
Alma Ata, the Government has committed itself to the objective of achieving
"health for all by the year 2000". This commitment implies a major shift
away from heavy reliance on curative urban hospital-based programs to meet
health care needs, towards a greater emphasis on extending cost-effective
preventive health services to the rural areas, where the vast majority (77%)
of the population currently lives. In 1982, MOE, in a series of national
seminars and workshops, reviewed past experience with rural health
initiatives (para. 2.13) and developed a policy paper on primary health care
(Annex 2). This policy paper is the basis for establishment of more
effective health services in rural communities.
2.21       The Government aims to reduce national mortality and morbidity
levels through the development of a uniform PEC system for nationwide appli-
cation. Its principal operational strategy is to use the existing network
of PEUs (health centers, treatment centers and dispensaries) as the focal
point for delivering six priority health interventions: (a) comprehensive
14CH services, including family planning; (b) immunization against the major
diseases; (c) health, nutrition and family planning education; (d)
prevention and control of locally endemic diseases; (e) environmental health
services; and (f) treatment of common diseases (e.g, malaria or diarrheal
diseases) and injuries. These interventions would be targetted, to the
extent possible, to the two most vulnerable population groups: mothers and
children under 5 years of age.
2.22      Strategy.  To ensure effective delivery of PHC services and
efficient functioning of the PHns, each PHU would be staffed by a minimum of
4 paramedical health workers (1 CEO, 1 state-enrolled community health nurse
(SECEN), 1 NCR aid, and 1 public health inspector), trained in community
health, and receive in-service training and at least bi-monthly visits for
technical supervision and guidance from the nearest district hospital.
Moreover, noting that shortages of drugs and medical supplies continue to
seriously impede health system performance, the MOB places considerable
emphasis on the need for a regular supply of essential drugs, vaccines,
contraceptives, and other supplies at PRUs, calling for revised drug
policies and the institution of user fees if necessary. Finally, drawing on
the successful experience of pilot PEC projects (para 2.13), the MOE would
promote community outreach through home visits by health personnel,
formation of community health and development committees at the village
level, and training of village volunteers and TBAs to serve as front-line
health workers. The Government thus has the key ingredients essential for
the development of a comprehensive, broad-based system of health care;



however, major sectoral adjustment would be required (particularly in expen-
diture patterns, revenue mobilization and overall program management), if
its health goals are to be achieved.
C. PoDulation Initiatives
2.23      By the mid to late 1970s, as awareness grew within Sierra Leone of
the adverse socio-economic consequences of rapid population growth and high
fertility, the Government became more concerned with addressing population
issues. In 1982, a National Population Commission (NPC) was establisbed to
formulate overall population policy. More specifically, NPC, a multi-
sectoral body comprising representatives from several ministries (including
Planning, Realth, Agriculture, Social Welfare and Education), is mandated
"to provide overall direction on the goals, objectives, priorities, and
strategies in the field of population as well as to formulate policies for
the effective implementation of a programme.'
2.24       Supporting NPC are its working committees, and a small
secretariat within the Population and Human Resources Section of the Central
Planning Unit, Ministry of Development and Economic Planning (MODEP). In
addition, NPC has constituted a number of Population Policy Task Forces to
examine specific population-related issues (e.g., fertility and mortality
determinants, population and environment, and labor and employment) and make
appropriate policy recommendations. The functioning of the NPC, its
secretariat and the task forces has, however, been severely constrained by
continuing shortages of the physical, financial and staff resources required
to sustain their activities.
2.25     A large number of uncoordinated fledging population and family
planning activities are already underway in Sierra Leone.   To date, the
bulk of these activities are conducted by NGOs -- notably the Sierra Leone
Planned Parenthood Association, the Home Economics Association and
church-related groups -- and private practitioners. In recent years,
however, the Government, with a3sistance from UNFPA and USAID, has also
initiated several activities to increase population and family planning
awareness and improve family planning services. A population education
project involving the Ministry of Education was started in the late 1970s,
with the long-range objective of increasing population knowledge through the
integration of population education into school curricula. Population
education has since been added to the social studies curricula at a small
number of secondary schools and teachers training colleges, but shortages of
textbooks and teacher aids have inhibited program expansion. Another
on-going project, designed to increase awareness of the relationships
between high fertility and family welfare among members of agricultural
cooperatives, was begun in 1979, with UNFPA assistance.
2.26      Efforts to improve service delivery have centered on giving family
planning greater prominence within NCO services. The principal operational
goals of a UNPFA supported Fertility Advisory Services project are: to
establish family planning within MCH in seven district hospitals and 30 PHUs



- 9 -
which do not currently offer such services; and improve family planning
outreach through training of about 200 village health *iorkers. In addition,
UNFPA has earmarked US$2.8 million for 1985-88 to finaitee the following
activities: MCH/FP (US$1.05 million), IEC (US$0.8 mill-.on), data collection
and analysis (US$0.7 million), and population policy and development
planning (US$0.3 million). Assistance includes technical assistance,
fellowships, local training, equipment, and contraceptives. Of the total
amount earmarked, only US$0.9 million has so far been committed.
2.27       Similarly, a Family Health Initiatives Project supported by
USAID, seeks to assist MOB to improve staff capacity for providing family
planning services and information at MCH clinics. The project provided
training materials for in- and pre-service paramedical training in family
planning, and renovated, equipped and provided supplies for four training
centers and selected PHUs nationwide. In addition to these activities, the
NPC, with both Government and donor resources, is conducting a series of
population and development seminars and workshops to sensitize government
officials and political leaders to the implications of population growth.
2.28      Although a systematic evaluation of ongoing populatioa and family
planning activities is yet to be undertaken, available data suggest that
their impact to date has been minimal. Current estimates of contraceptive
prevalence indicate that about 20,000 couples, or less than 5Z of those
eligible, practice family planning; and that over 80% of these couples live
in or around the capital city, Freetown.  This, however, is hardly
surprising given the limited scope and relative recency of most family
planning efforts, and the fact that NGOs and private practitioners are
centered around Freetown. Moreover. it is still too early to assess the
impact of investments in population awareness-creation, aimed at school-aged
children.
2.29        Nevertheless, there is little doubt that existing small-scale
activities need to be better coordinated, evaluated, and expanded into a
coherent national program, if any significant increase in contraceptive
prevalence is to be achieved. In particular, family planning activities
need to be extended to rural areas (as well as intensified in urban areas).
Inclusion of family planning as an integral part of the PHC program (through
MCR activities) is an important step in this regard. The two task forces,
which were established as part of project preparation activities, have
recommended the (a) adoption of a national population policy with explicit
demographic targets, and (b) implementation of an intensive information,
education, and communication (IEC) efforts to encourage greater acceptance
of fertility control and contraceptive use. Strengthening the IEC
activities of various NGOs involved in population and the introduction of
population education in the formal and nonformal education systems were
emphasized.



- 10 -
D. External Assistance
2.30      The principal bilateral donors providing assistance in the health
and population sectors include France, United Kingdom, United States, USSR,
and the Federal Republic of Germany. The multilateral agencies active in
the sectors are WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA, UNDP, CARE, and IDA. IDA provided two
manyears of technical assistance in health planning under the technical
assistance credit (970-SL) (para. 2.42).
2.31      The main activities which received external assistance have been
maternal and child health and family planning (MCH/FP), health planning,
hospital administration, environmental sanitation, and various preventive
programs.
2.32      The total external assistance for bealth during the period
1979-1986 amounted to US$10.7 million, of which 24% was for MCH/FP, 24% for
environmental sanitation, and the remaining 52% for various preventive
programs such as diarrhea, tuberculosis and leprosy control, immunization,
and technical assistance for training, health management and
administration. In addition, about US$10.6 million in external assistance
was provided for water supply projects, which have important implications
for health status.
E. Issues and Contraints
2.33      The major constraints to health service delivery in Sierra Leone
include: (a) lack of data-based analysis of policies, program priorities and
resource allocation; (b) poor planning, coordinating, and implementing
capacity of MOH; (c) lack of access to and under-utilization of public
health facilities; (d) low credibility of public health services due to
inadequate provision of essential drugs; (e) lack of appropriately trained
staff and (f) insufficient community education activities. With regard to
population, the chief constraint faced by the Government is the weak
capacity of the NPC for (a) policy formulation and (b) coordination and
integration of successful, albeit fragmented, population/family planning
initiatives into a coherent national program.
2.34      Weak Planning and Monitoring Capacity. Lack of reliable data to
establish policies, set program priorities and devise appropriate implem-
entation and monitoring strategies severely handicap the planning process.
Even where problems are recognized, appropriate solutions cannot be
developed in the absence of data-based analysis of issues. While small
Medical Statistics and Health Planning units exist in MOD, their
effectiveness is seriously hampered by the lack of coordination between
them. Moreover, both units suffer from inadequate staffing, and lack of
basic equipment and facilities (sucb as computer capability, transport and
supervision of data collection, etc.).
2.35      Poor financial reporting and control.  A second constraint to
efficient management of resources is the absence of an adequate system of



- 11 -
financial reporting. Expenditures are not maintained by health facility
(e.g., hospitals, PHUs, administration, etc.), thus making it difficult to
determine, much less alter, the proportions devoted to specific activities
and areas.
2.36      Weak capacity to coordinate vertical programs.  As MOB is
presently structured, several of its key interventions are managed through
near-vertical programs, each with its own system for reporting, supervision,
outreach, logistics and staff training. This has led to costly duplication
of effort, poor cooperation among staff at health facilities, and a failure
to maximize technical complementarities between the interventions them-
selves. The lack of coordination in key activities such as MCH, endemic
disease control and diarrheal disease control, which are vertically-managed,
is of particular concern to the Government as it establishes a broad-based
PHC program. To help alleviate this situation, the Government has recently
established a PHC Coordination unit within HOB, but the unit remains
severely constrained in carrying out its functions owing to limited staff
resources with ambiguous functional responsibilities, and lack of other
operational requirements such as transportation and basic equipment.
2.37      Inadequate Coverage and Under-utilization of Health Services.  The
coverage of health facilities is far from adequate. Nationwide only about
65Z of the population lives within a 10 km. radius of a health facility; and
that proportion is considerably lower in the (predominantly rural) Northern
and Southern Provinces. Access to health services is best in the Western
Area (comprising greater Freetown) where average distance from a health
facility is about 3 km. Poor access has led to serious underutilization of
health facilities, and the situation is compounded by the low quality of
services offered through them. This is paiticularly true of government
facilities, where performance is hampered by lack of equipment, limited
funds for maintenance, shortage of essential drugs (para. 2.38) and
inadequate provision of vehicles, transport costs and allowances required
for supervision. These problems are most acute at the periphery
(district-level and below); additionally, PHUs are frequently housed in
inadequate buildings, lacking even safe water, and by dint of their remote
locations (and low compensation levels) are unable to attract sufficient
numbers of qualified staff. Service delivery at PHUs is further inhibited
by poor definition of tasks, and insufficient integration of key preventive
programs, curative sevices, and promotional/educational activities. The
Government is aware of these deficiences and efforts are being undertaken to
improve the situation. The situation, for instance, in Bo, Pujehun, and
Boibali districts have considerably improved both in the coverage and
quality of services since the introduction of PHC.
2.38      Inadequate Drug SuDply and Inefficient Procurement.  A major cause
of low efficiency in and utilization of health service delivery is the acute
shortage of essential drugs and medical supplies throughout the system -- a
consequence of low allocations, inefficient procurement practices, poor drug
selection and inventory management, and almost total lack of the
transportation facilities required to distribute available drugs. Currently,



- 12 -
drugs are procured locally at up to 3-5 times their international prices
(Annex 1, Table 2.5); drug selection is made with little regard for costs or
usage patterns; facilities for storage and distribution are inadequate; and
in the absence of adequate control, leakages from the public health system
of drugs and other supplies are widespread.
2.39      Inadequate Staff Developmsent and Supervision.  Staff supervision,
monitoring, and pre- and in-service training remain weak.   There is no
systematic in-service training for staff to upgrade their skills. Many
staff who were trained several years ago to provide essentially curative
services must now be upgraded and reoriented towards a community-based
preventive system. The importance of these activities to program operations
can hardly be overemphasized, and action is needed to strengthen these
activities before the Government's objective of developing an effective and
equitable health system can be achieved.
2.40      Weak Health. Nutrition, and Family Planning Education.    The high
illiteracy level and strong cultural preference for traditional medicine and
taboo against the use of modern contraception impede use of health and
family planning services. While the Government recognizes the importance of
community education in achieving its health goals, activities to promote
community education remain limited and ad hoc owing to inadequate
institutional capacity, lack of trained personnel, absence of a comprehen-
sive operational plan, and shortage of funds.
2.41      Inadequate Coordination of Population Activities.  In view of the
multiplicity of Government, private and external agencies involved in
population and family planning activities in Sierra Leone, there is an
urgent need to improve coordination among them, evaluate ongoing activities
and expand and integrate successful initiatives into a coherent national
program.  The chief constraint in this regard is the continued absence of a
national population policy and plan of action to serve as an overall
framework for such program development. While UNFPA has allocated funds for
population policy and development planning (para.2.26), to date, no
significant progress has been made. This is in large measure, a result of
the limited absorptive capacity of NPC. At present, government resources
support only the salaries of two full-time professional staff members in the
NPC Secretariat, allowances for meetings and minimal operating costs. Thus
institutional strengthening of NPC to complement the technical assistance
being provided by UNFPA is required. In addition, activities aimed at
creating greater family planning awareness among the population should be
initiated to complement MOH family planning service delivery efforts (paras
2.25-2.27). Moreover, a strategy should be developed for introducing family
planning into the curricula of the basic pre-service training of all
paramedical health personnel and other extension workers.



- 13 -
F. The Bank Group's Role and Assistance Strategv
2.42      The Bank Group's direct lending for the health, nutrition and
population sectors in Sierra Leone has hitherto been confined to the IDA
Technical Assistance Project (Credit No.970-SL). Under this credit, MOB was
provided with two man-years of consulting services for health planning. The
consultant assisted MOR in assessing health sector needs. The resulting
recommendations were considered in designing this project, particularly
those relating to the phased extension of the PHC program in the country,
the strengthening of the planning, health, information, and evaluation
capacity of MOB, and improvements in financial management and resource
mobilization.
2.43      There is a useful role for the Bank in the population, health, and
nutrition sectors both in meeting the serious need for strengthening sector
capacities, in providing technical assistance and other support. Such
assistance would be of critical importance for dealing with issues
pertaining to health policy in rural areas, integration of health services,
and decentralization of health administration to facilitate implementation
of PEC approach and improved resource mobilization for sustained
implementation of this approach. Bank assistance to improve planning and
financial management, and in providing support for extension of PEC will
also be consistent with the recommendations of the Government's Public
Expenditure Program (5513-SL). Making it particularly timely for initiating
assistance in popul_tion and health are the establishment of NPC and the
adoption of a national PHC policy.
2.44      As a complement to UNFPA's and USAID's involvement in the
population sector (paras. 2.25-2.27), Bank assistance in population needs to
be focused on strengthening the institutional capacity of the NPC to
formulate policy, coordinate and monitor numerous, often fragmented and
duplicative activities and to assess performance against demographic
targets. In nutrition, initial emphasis should be placed on examining the
determinants of malnutrition, developing a national nutrition policy and
institutional framework, and strengthening nutrition surveillance and
education as part of PEC. Broader efforts would have to await more
comprehensive analysis of nutrition problems.
2.45      The proposed project would be the Bank Group's first lending
operation in the population, health and nutrition sector. Because of the
limited absorptive capacity of the Government, the project scope is modest
and focuses on policy reforms, institutional development and limited
improvements in service delivery. It is expncted that as the institutional
capacity of the relevant agencies improves under this first phase, the
second phase of the Bank Group's assistance would focus on further extension
of service delivery to underserved areas, and greater attention to
population and nutrition activities for which policies and institutional
frameworks would be developed during the project period.



- 14 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
3.01      The proposed project is designed to assist the Government in
implementing its sectoral development objectives for the health, population,
and nutrition sectors, taking into account existing sectoral conditions and
the key constraints discussed in Chapter II above. Moreover, the project
would complement the structural adjustment program being developed by the
Government (with Bank assistance) by helping to restructure revenue and
development expenditures in the health sector, mobilize additional resources
through viable cost recovery measures and build the requisite institutional
capacity to plan and enforce appropriate policies and programs. Against
this background, the project's specific operational objectives would be
three-fold:
(a) to help achieve necessary adjustments in the health sector
through policy reforms and strengthening MOH's capacity for
program planning, management, coordination, and monitoring;
(b) to strengthen basic health services with emphasis on PHC
approach and incorporate family planning in health services; and
cc) to help develop population polity and programs aimed at
increasing demand for family planning.
These inter-related objectives would be accomplished by the project inputs
described below.
B. Praject CouDositign
3.02      In summary, the project would support the following:
Part A:   Sectoral Support
A.l. Bealth Policy Reforme
- Introducing health policy reforms aimed at improving access
to and quality of services, resource mobilization initiatives,
and strengthening sectoral management: through technical
assistance.
A.2. Institutional DeveloEment for MOR
- Strengthening management, planning and program monitoring
capacity of MOH: through provision of equipment, supplies,
training and technical assistance.
- Strengthening MOR's financial management including improved
cost-containment and cost recovery measures: through provision of
equipment, vehicles, technical assistance, and funds for training,
incremental salaries, and operating costs.



- 15 -
- Strengthening the capacity of the PHC coordinator's office
for coordinating and implementing basic health and family planning
services: through provision of equipment, vehicles, incremental
salaries and operating costs.
Part B:   Strengthenin2 of Basic Health and Family Planning Services'
B.1. Upgrading of health facilities (district and referral
hospitals and PHUs): through provision of construction costs,
vehicles, supplies, and incremental staff.
B.2. Improving the drug supply and distribution system through
provision of drugs (including vaccines and contraceptives),
medical supplies, vehicles, equipment, technical assistance,
training, vehicle and equipment maintenance. and rehabilitation
of warehouses.
B.3. Strengthening staff training and supervision through
provision of additional classrooms in the Bo Paramedical School,
vehicles, equipment, materials, technical assistance, fellowships,
training and operating cost.
B.4. Developing nutrition policy and strengthening health,
nutrition, family planning education by support for MOR's health
education unit and CHEN: through provision of furniture,
equipment, vehicles, materials, training and operating costs.
Part C:   Population Activities
C.I. Strengthening NPC's capacity for population policy
formulating, coordinating, and monitoring population related
activities through provision of equipment, vehicles, technical
assistance, fellowships, and incremental operating cost.
C.2. Strengthening IEC activities of NGOs for population th-rrugh
provision of equipment, vehicles, materials, and training.
C.   Detailed Proiect Description
Part A: Sectoral Support
Health Policy Reforms
3.03      As part of its effort to address the sectoral issues outlined
in paras. 2.33-2.41 the Government is undertaking, with assistance from
Africare (a US-based NGO) and PPF-financed consultants, several studies to:
'Sub-components B.1-B.2 are limited to the three project districts,
while B.3-B.4 are intended to benefit the national program. However, the
improvements in the drug distribution and health information systems would
benefit the six districts in which PHC approach is implemented.



- 16 -
(a) review the organization and administration of all levels of the
health care delivery system in order to identify required policy
reforms, relating to the integration of ezisting vertically-msuaged
programs, decentralization of program administration and related
reallocation of resources;
(b) reviev existing manpower policies, job descriptions, staff
deployment and training programs to establish the basis for defining
future health manpower policies, adopt measures to rationalize skill
mix and staff development for effective program implementation;
(c) review health expenditures and resource allocation to achieve
more balanced budgeting in line witb the recommendations of the
Structural Adjustment Program, and develop policy options for cost
containment and cost recovery measures;
(d) review existing budgeting, accounting, and auditing practices to
simplify procedures, improve accountability and credibility of the NOR
to allow for its development into a self-accounting entity in the
mediumr to long-term;
Ce) review pharmaceutical procurement, mauagement and logistics
practices (including standardization of drug lists) to develop an
efficient system for regular supply and distribution of adequate drugs,
vaccines, and contraceptives; and
(f) review the utilization of health services and facilities to
identify ways to improve their efficiency and effectiveness.
3.04      The following studies have now been completed: (a) the review of
existing budgeting, accounting and auditing practices; (b) the review of
health expenditures and resource allocation; and (c) the review of phar-
maceutical management and logistics practices.  These studies have led to
the following policy initiatives: (a) the development of simplified
budgeting and accounting procedures and accountability at all operational
levels, and the provision of in-service training to all accounts and audit
staff; (b) the development of cost containment and cost recovery measures;
(c) the development of a standard list of essential drugs, and improvement
ofthe existing drug logistics and storage system; and (d) improvement of the
present inefficient drug procurement system by introduction of international
competitive bidding.
3.05      The remaining studies are ongoing and are expected to be completed
by mid-1986 (Annex 1, Table 3.1). The terms of reference and protocols for
these studies are in the project file (B.6). It is expected that additional
policy initiatives and organizational reforms to improve management effec-
tiveness and more efficient use of resources would result from these
studies. In addition, these studies would also provide operational guidance
to policy reforms pertaining to decentralization of health administration,
the selective integration of vertical progrAms, equitable resource
allocation, and further refinement of cost recovery and containment



- 17 -
measures. The formulation and implementation of these policy reforms would
be reviewed during the mid-term evaluation of the project (para. 5.06).
3.06   Technical assistance is provided under the project to assist the
Government to review the findings of these studies, determine pertinent
recommendations for required policy reforms, and develop plans for their
phased implementation. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the results of these studies, including their recommendations, would be
discussed with IDA by March 31, 1987, (para. 7.01a) and that the agreed
recommendations would be incorporated in the long-term health investment
plan which the Government aims to develop under the project (for which about
seven man-months of technical assistance would be provided). Assurances
were also obtained during negotiations that the draft investment plan would
be submitted to IDA for review by September 30, 1987 and its draft annual
development plan and related recurrent cost implications would be reviewed
annually with IDA by April of each year of the project period (para. 7.01a
and b). These are consistent with the recommendations of the Structural
Adjustmemt Program being discussed between the Bank and the Government.
Institutional Development for MOH
3.07      To address the management issues mentioned in paras. 2.34-2.36,
the proposed project would strengthen MOHus (a) planning, statistics, and
management information system, (b) financial management and cost recovery,
and (c) coordination and management of the PEC program.
3.08      Planning. Management Information, and Statistics.  As indicated in
para 2.34, MOB suffers from an absence of up-to-date data, weak planning,
programming and project analysis and almost non-existent program monitoring
and evaluation, contributing to poor management of sectoral resources. To
help alleviate this situation (and allow optimal use of available staff,
equipment and facilities), the Government intends to.merge the existing
health planning and medical statistics units and add to them a management
information sub-unit, to establish a single, Planning, Management Informa-
tion and Statistics Unit (PMISU). PMISU will establish a baseline for and
document changes in health status, help identify problem areas for research
and implement (or contract to independent agencies) appropriate studies.
Emphasis would be placed on identification of performance indicators,
assessment of program impact and timely reporting to management for planning
purposes. To assist PMISU in carrying out these functions, the project
would provide support for micro-computing and office equipment, materials,
vehicles, local and overseas fellowships, and technical assistance. The
establishment of PMISU including the assignment to it of a Principal Health
Planning Officer is a condition of effectiveness (para. 7.03a). Assurances
were also obtained that the Government would assign to PMISU not later than
September 30, 1986, a Senior Management Information Officer, a Computer
Operations/Systems/Analyst, and a Secretary (para. 7.01c).2J
...   ........ .   .-
2 A complete list of incremental staff supported under the project is
given in Annex 1, Table 3.2.



- 18 -
3.09      Financial Manatement and Cost Recovery. The Government, with
assistance from a PPF-financed consultant, had identified three areas in
financial management and resource use which require close attention: (a)
improving budgetary control through the establishment of an effective system
for accounts maintenance, internal monitoring, audit and financial
reporting; (b) instituting appropriate cost-containment measures -- in
particular reducing expenditures on wages for daily workers and introducing
efficipnt procurement practices (e.g., for drugs, para 3.22); and (c)
strengthering cost recovery, in part, through better enforcement of revenue
collection from hospitals, where patient fees are now unaccounted, and in
part through widespread institution of fees for services as improved service
delivery is achieved. These findings are consistent with those outlined in
the Public Expenditure Program (5513-SL).
3.10       To address (a) above, the project would help strengthen its
Accounts and Audits units at the cenrrcl and provincial levels.  To this
end, the project would providc appropriate micro-computer facilities, staff
training, furniture and basi: office equipment, and vehicles. Moreover, a
long-term consu'tancy in fi-'ancial management would be provided to assist
MOH in improving accounts procedures and financial reporting, and in
organizing a comprehensive in-service training program for accounts staff.
Through the introduction of improved financial control mechanisms under the
project, it is anticipated that receipts of user fees from hospitals would
increase from about Le 100,000 to about Le 1.0 million per year
(para. 4.07).
3.11       To address (b) above, the financial consultant to be provLded
under the project (para 3.10) would also assist MOE to implement proposed
cost containment measures (particularly the phased reduction of wage
expenditures in line with the Bank's recommendation rnder the Public
Expenditure Program) and in identifying additional areas in which greater
efficiency m_ght be achieved. MOH has constitured a committee of technical
and financial experts to work witb the consultant. With regard to the
planned reduction of wage expenditures as a cost containment measure,
disbursements of credit funds for civil works, local training and recurrent
cost after June 30 of each ycar of the project period, starting June 30,
1987, would be contingent upon the Government's submission of evidence that
the number of MOH's daily wage employees have been reduced by 10 percent
during the preceding year, or a total wage reduction of 30 percent bas been
achieved by June 1989 (para. 7.02a).
3.12      Regarding (c) above, the Government has already approved the
institution of user fees to recover drug costs in the three pilot PHC
districts (Bo, Pujehun, and Bombali), has agreed to allow fee-collection in
the three districts 'elected for extension of PHC services under the
proposed project (para 3.17) and has prepared, with the assistance of a
PPF-financed consultant an illustrative drug revolving fund system which may
be used in the three project districts (Annex 3). A financial consultant
supported by the secona tranche of the PPF, in cooperation with a local
team, is currently reviewing experience to date with cost-recovery in the
three pilot districts to determine its impact on service utilization and
appropriate and equitable fee scales, review collection procedures for



- 19 -
uniform application in all six districts, dnd incorporate, to the extent
possible the illustrative drug revolving fund system mentioned above
(para. 2.13). Specifically, the consultant will review the cost recovery
mechanisms used in the pilot districts including (a) the recovery of cost of
drugs by charging flat fees for services; (b) retaining the fees collected
to replenish drug supply and finance partly maintenance cost; (c) the
appropriateness and equitability of fees charged; and (d) the role and
accountability of dispensers in charging, collecting, and managing drug
procurement.
3.13      PHC Coordination.   To help alleviate some of the adverse impli-
cations of MOH's vertical structure and overcentralization, particularly as
they relate to PHC (para.2.36), a third focus of the project is to improve
institutional capacity for coordination and management of the PHC program at
the central, provincial, district and PHU levels, taking into account
management needs, as follows:
(a) The PHC coordination unit at the central level presently
comprises a single professional staff member (the PHC coordinator himself)
and three support staff. As such, the unit is severely constrained in
carrying out its designated functions, including: program planning,
operations monitoring and evaluation, promoting effective cooperation
between MOH's vertically managed programs, and coordinating the activities
of the numerous NGOs and donor agencies involved in the health sector.
Given the importance of these activities to economical use of scarce
resources and to the process of shifting away from hospital-based health
care towards preventive and promotive services, the project would provide
support for three additional staff - an operations officer, a training and
evaluation officer and a liaison officer - in the PHC Coordination unit to
enable it to better carry out its functions. In addition, two annual
residencies would be established within the unit for physicians who are
scheduled for overseas public health fellowships. Moreover, the unit would
be provided with vehicles, furniture, equipment and materials.
Cb) To improve PHC management in the provinces and districts, and help
promote greater decentrslization, the project would provide support for
equipment and vehicles for program supervision, monitoring and routine
evaluation to h'K.' offices at these operational levels. Furthermore, an
administrative officer and a medical officer would be appointed to each
provincial health office and district health office respectively, to assist
the PMOs and the DMOs in carrying out their duties. The appointment of the
required additional staff to the PEC Coordination Unit, the provincial and
district health offices is a condition of credit effectiveness
(para. 7.03b).
3.14        A PHC Operational Plan which sets out MOH s goals, strategies,
and operational priorities is being developed with the assistance of PPF
funds. This Plan is intended for the use of program managers at all levels
to reduce current anomalies and overlap in program operation, improve com-
plementarities of efforts, and improve donor and NGO coordination. The
project would provide funds for finalizing and printing of the Plan.



- 20 -
3.15        Finally, to increase understanding of the PHC approach (Annex 2)
and assist personnel in its day-to-day management and implementation at the
provincial, district as well as PHU levels, the project would support
production of a detailed PHC operational manual for use by MOE staff. The
manual, vhich is already under preparation, with PPF funds, vould define the
recommended roles, functions and tasks of all MOB staff and linkages between
various levels of health facilities.
Part B: Strengthening of Basic Health and Family Planning Services
3.16      The major causes of morbidity and mortality (para. 2.05) could be
prevented by simple, appropriate techniques, but health service coverage in
the rural areas in Sierra Leone is poor. Financial and institutional
constraints inhibit the expansion of health services in the near- to medium-
term. Thus, the Government has introduced a primary health care approach
(paras. 2.20-2.21 and Annex 2) which provides the only feasible least cost
solution to the problem of extending service coverage presently available.
While the Government intends in the long-term to extend the PEC approach3
across the nation, the Government, in view of existing institutional and
financial constraints, plans to embark cautiously on such expansion.
3.17       In consequence, the Government has identified three districts4 -
Kenema in Eastern Province, Noyamba in Southern Province and Tonkolili in
Northern Province - in which to extend the PHC approacb over the next 3-4
years. As the attached map 1BRD No.19549 shovs, these districts are all
contiguous to the three existing PHC districts (Bo, Pujehun and Bombali) -
para 2.13), thereby allowing for a strong "demonstration effect" and
facilitating introduction of PEC. With the addition of the above three
districts, six of the country's twelve districts would have strengthened
MCRIfamily planning services, immunization, diarrheal disease control,
treatment and control of endemic diseases, health, nutrition, and family
planning education, at a cost affordable to the community.
3.18      The implementation of PHC would require not only community mobili-
zation and involvement but also the effective support of health services.
Thus, PHUs have to be brought up to standard in terms of staff, facilities,
drugs, and equipment; the referral system has to be strengthened; and PHU
staff and commmuity workers have to be trained and the community educated in
the new approach. In contrast to the three pilot projects which were managed
in the past by expatriates, PHC in the six districts (three pilots plus
three project districts) would now be implemented within the Government's
3PEC approach, as defined by WHO, iH essential health care made
universally accessible to individuals and families in the community by means
acceptable to them, through their full participation and involvement, and at
a cost that the community and country can afford. The Government has
translated this concept into an operational strategy (see pars. 2.21).
*The criteria used for selecting the project districts are: (a) underserved
areas with poor health indicators; (b) geographical contiguity with districts
having PHC program; and (c) availability of health staff.



- 21 -
existing management structure. In addition, user fees would be collected
(para. 3.12) based on fees determined jointly by MOB and village health
committees. The proceeds would be deposited in a revolving fund and would be
used to replenish drug supplies and to finance some part of operating
costs. A decentralized in-service training, supervision,and management
information system would also be introduced.
3.19      To assist the Government in extending PEC to the project
districts, the project would support (a) the upgrading of selected health
facilities; (b) improvements in drug supply and distribution; (c) staff
training and supervision; and (d) health, nutrition, and family planning
education. Components (a) and (b) would be limited to the three project
districts, while components (c) and (d) would benefit the national program
as a whole. The improvements in the system for drug distribution would also
benefit the national program.
3.20      Upirading of Health Facilities. The project would provide support
for the physical rehabilitation of three district hospitals, one referral
hospital, and 42 PHUs. These facilities require upgrading and renovation to
enable them to support effectively the PHC approach. Selection of these
facilities followed a review of the location and catchment area of the
facilities. Renovation would be carried out under force account and
supervised by the District Implementation Team (para. 5.04). The upgraded
PHUs would be staffed by a minimum of one Community Health Officer (CHO),
one State-enrolled Community Health Nurse (SECEN), one NCR Aide, and one
public health inspector, in accordance with Government policy.
3.21      The PHUs would offer MCR care, including pre- and post-natal care,
family planning services, well baby care, immunizations, and health and
nutrition education. They would also offer identification and treatment of
chronic and communicable diseases and first-line curative services. The
three district hospitals, which would be rehabilitated under the project,
would provide the first level of referral from the PHUs. It is expected that
these facilities would cover about 720,000 people (60% of the population in
the project area), compared to the present coverage of 240,000 (or 20x).
3.22      Drug Supply and Distribution. As a first step in addressing the
drug situation described in para.2.38, the Government has, with assistance
from WHO and an IDA preparation mission, begun to develop a standard list of
drugs, contraceptives and medical supplies (using cost-effective generic
fomulations where feasible) for use at various health facilities. Moreover,
the Government has agreed with the recommendations of the Public Expenditure
Program to employ international competitive bidding procedures (ICB) in the
procurement of drugs. The use of ICB would considerably reduce the cost of
drugs which the Government is presently spending. As shown in Annex 1,
Table 2.5. the Government is paying about 80-300 percent more than the
average world market price. In addition, NOR, with assistance from Africare,
has started to improve overall drug supply management and control through
introduction of an improved system for record-keeping, storage, distribution
and supplies monitoring at the central medical stores and on a pilot basis
in the Bo, Pujehun, and Boubali districts.



- 22 -
3.23      To help further this process, the project would provide, at the
national level, for the renovation of two warehouses at the central medical
stores, furniture, warehouse and office equipment, vehicles, technical
assistance and funds for staff training in record-keeping and inventory
management. Moreover, the project would provide support for the production
of a prescription manual for in-service training and use by health workers
at all levels of the health system. The project would also provide at the
three Droject districts technical assistance, vehicles, drugs, contracep-
tives, and vaccines to improve drug supply in the project districts and to
serve as a base from which to develop cost-recovery and replenish drug
supplies. During negotiations assurances were obtained that (a) the
standard drug list, and a plan for procurement, storage, distribution, and
safe-keeping would be finalized by December 31, 1986, and (b) not later than
March 31, 1987, the Government would start the training of health workers on
drug storage, distribution, and prescription, and complete and furnish IDA
the prescription manual (para.7.01d). In addition, the disbursement for the
cost of drugs would be contingent upon the procurement by the Government of
all essential drugs, vaccines and medical supplies for the public sector
under ICB (except those provided by other donor agencies as grants or tied
credits (para. 7.02b). Assurances were also obtained that the Government
shall carry out a study of the drug procurement and pricing practices of the
private sector and submit to IDA for review by June 30, 1987 proposals for
improving these practices (para. 7.01e).
3.24      In connection with the cost recovery initiatives described in
para. 3.12, and given the importance of ensuring a reliable supply of drugs
to health facilities, the project would assist the Government to establish a
revolving fund to ensure regular replenishment of drugs in the project
districts. Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that the
Government would maintain the permanent escrow account which has been estab-
lished in the Bank of Sierra Leone to maintain money collected under the
cost recovery scheme and enable its conversion to foreign exchange as needed
for the procurement of drugs, vaccines, and medical supplies
(para. 7.01f). The experience in these six districts would be reviewed (with
technical assistance provided under the project, para. 3.12) in preparation
for development of a national policy concerning cost recovery and drug
supply taking into account affordability and equity issues.
3.25      Staff Traininq and Supervision.  Although the orientation of
healtb policy is shifting away from emphasis on urban-based curative care
and towards rural PEC, MOH's paramedical training continues to be geared
towards hospital services -- with the result that staff are less willing,
and in any case, ill-equipped, to provide the community health interventions
required at the district level and below. To help address this situation,
MOB has established a Community Health Officer (CEO) training program at Bo
Paramedical Schooll, with the long-range intention of ensuring that all PRUs
1The Bo Paramedical School has been established with the assistance of the
European Economic Community and initial tehnical assistance from the Overseas
Davelopment Aid of the United Kingdom.



- 23 -
are headed by CEO's in place of nurse-dispensers. Moreover, to ensure
adequate support for the CHO it plans to develop a one-year Assistant
Community Health Officer (ACHO) program.
3.26       To help strengthen the CHO program and implement the ACHO
program, the project would support the expansion, furnishing and equipping
of classroom and dormitory space at Bo, and provide funds for training 30
ACHOs each year for two years. The faculty of Bo Paramedical School,
supplemented by staff from the provincial bospital and the senior
epidemilogists would teach the new cadre. Moreover technical assistance
would be provided to help introduce appropriate community health (including
drug usage and family planning) content into the formal curricula for
pre-service training of all categories of paramedicals. To help increase
the PBC orientation of health personnel, the project would also provide
short-term technical assistance to the PHC coordinating unit to develop a
field-based coutinuous program of in-service training, aimed primarily at
the district level and below. The national task force on in-service
training, witb the assistance of a consultant to be provided under the
project, would develop a consolidated in-service training plan.
3.27      While improved pre- and in-service training can be expected to
improve staff performance, other factors contributing to low staff morale
and, hence, effectiveness also require attention.  These include:  delays in
hiring of newly-trained workers; extremely low compensation levels; lack of
a defined career ladder; poor supervision and technical support; and poor
definition of roles and tasks, among others. Although action in some of
these areas goes beyond the scope of the present project, the project would
assist the Government to undertake a thorough review of existing problems
and develop recommendations for appropriate policy and procedural changes
through provision of operating costs and technical assistance. Based on
this review, a comprebensive plan would be developed for implementation in
the short- to medium-term. The issue of low compensation levels for public
servants, which goes beyond the health sector, cannot be fully addressed
within the proposed project. It is anticipated that the topic would be
approached in a comprehensive manner in the context of the planned
structural adjustment credit to Sierra Leone.
3.28      Health. Nutrition, and Family Planning Education.  An important
constraint to services utilization in the population, health and nutrition
sectors is the lack of awareness within the population of the types of
services offered and their potential role in furthering family well-being.
As an initial step in addressing this problem, a Government task force
(assisted by PPT-funding) undertook an inventory and analysis of current
efforts to increase awareness of and demand for services. The task force
concluded that ongoing activities were too scattered and sporadic and insuf-
ficiently targeted to appropriate population groups to have any significant
impact on attitudes. Moreover, it found that, in some instances,
word-of-mouth messages from outreach workers were inconsistent with those
disseminated througb the mass media, thereby damaging program credibility.
In the circumstances, the task force recommended that close attention be
paid to developing a coherent and coordinated effort in health, nutrition,



- 24 -
and family planning education, particularly in light of the growing emphasis
on the PHC approach, vhich relies heavily on promotive interventions in
improving healtb status.
3.29        To this end, the project would help develop the coordinating
capacity of CHEN (para.2.14) and the small Health Education unit within NOR
through support for staff training, office equipment and materials. In
addition, short-term technical assistance and funds for operating costs
would be provided to help central and regional health education staff (in
consultation with CHEN and NPC) to conduct a bencb-mark study of the efforts
of the 20 key agencies engaged in population, bealth and nutrition education
and develop a comprehensive plan of action. This plan vould serve as the
framework for the development of a community education campaign focused
around twelve key messages relating to preventive and promotive health care,
nutrition education, promotion of breast feeding and use of supplemental
food for children under five years of age, birth spacing and fertility
control. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the plan would be
submitted to IDA for its review not later than December 31, 1987 (para.
7.01g). The project would support the operating costs for the campaign
including production of required educational materials. The campaign would
be implemented by village health workers who would be trained under the
project by PHU staff. It is expected that the campaign would improve the
health consciousness of the comminity and increase the utilization of health
services. The technical assistance provided under the project would also
assist CHEN to develop a nutrition policy.
Fart C: Population Activities
3.30      This component aims to assist the Government to:  (a) strengthen
NPC's capacity for developing population policy, coordinating, monitoring,
and evaluating various population-related activities; and (b) support the
population activities of various NGOs.
3.31      Population Program Coordination.  While establishment of a
vertical population/family planning program would be undesirable and even
impossible under current budgetary constraints, there is, nonetheless, a
need for an institutional focus within the Government that is capable
of: (i) providing policy direction in the population area; (ii) motivating
sufficient interest in population issues among policy makers and community
leaders; and (iii) monitoring, coordinating and evaluating ongoing
activites. The establishment of the NPC partially addresses this need;
although the current low stature of the NPC in the government structure and
the veak institutional capacity of its Secretariat has limited its
effectiveness (para 2.24).
3.32      The project aims to help overcome this institutional constraint
and to strengthen the capability of NPC and its secretariat to advise the
Government on population issues, formulate policies, and coordinate existing
population programs including those implemented by the NGOs. The project,
in addition to incorporating family planning services into health services,
vould support the addition of three professional and three support staff to



- 25 -
the NPC Secretariat and provide the basic furniture, equipment, materials,
vehicles, and technical assistance needed to operate efficiently. In imple-
menting evaluation and monitoring activities, NPC would be assisted by the
Social Services Section of MODEP, whose regional staff are responsible for
coordinating and supporting population program activities at the provincial
level and below.
3.33      To enable NPC to increase population awareness among policymakers,
planners, and staff of relevant line ministries, the project would provide
funds for a series of training seminars and workshops and for the
development and production of informational materials on population-related
issues. Funds would also be provided for a small number of operations
research projects and program-oriented studies to be undertaken by appropri-
ate independent agencies (e.g., Fourab Bay University) and in support of
program development objectives. Inasmuch as the above activities must be
undertaken within the framework of a comprebensive population policy and
action plan if they are to be effective, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Government would, not later than December 31, 1986,
(a) submit to IDA for review a draft national population policy statement
and (b) carry out a study of the legal status, composition, structure, and
functions of NPC and its secretariat, including recommendations on how to
strengthen NPC and upgrade the position of its secretariat in the govern-
mental organizational structure (para. 7.01h). By July 31, 1987 the
Government would furnish a population action plan for TDA review (7.01i).
UNFPA is providing technical assistance and funds for operating costs
associated with the development of tine population policy and the action plan
(para 2.26).
3.34      NGOs' IEC Activities.  PHN services must be accompanied by demand-
generation efforts if utilization rates are to rise. This is particularly
important in family planning, where long-held socio-cultural beliefs and
traditions encourage couples to have many children. Thus, besides improved
family planning services, strong IEC efforts are also essential to achieve
increases in contraceptive prevalence. The integration of family planning
information into PHC and improvement of NPC's IEC coordination capacity will
partially address this issue. However, any large-scale family planning
demand-generation effort must involve the numerous NGOs who have already
developed considerable expertise in promoting family planning in Sierra
Leone, but whose activities are limited mostly to the Freetown area owing to
financial constraints.
3.35      To this end, the project aims to intensify and broaden the ongoing
IEC activities of the principal NGOs -- namely, the Planned Parenthood
Association and the Rome Economics Association -- by providing them with
vehicles, audiovisual equipment, and materials for developing new IEC
materials and supplies. To ensure that a common IEC message and strategy is
adopted and that the resources provided under the project are used
efficiently, the NGO Liaison Officer (provided under the project) would
coordinate these activities. Furthermore, the NGOs would work closely with
the NPC Secretariat and MOH's Health Education unit.



- 26 -
3.36      Population Education. In addition, the project would assist the
Government to complete the process initiated with UNFPA support to integrate
population content in the total curricula of both the formal education
system and adult education programs (para 2.26). Support would be provided
for this purpose to the Institute of Education, University of Sierra Leone
to develop appropriate syllabi and teaching kits, train teachers,
headmasters, supervisors and inspectors in population education and evaluate
teaching methodology, training programs and instructional materiais.
Broader evaluation of the IEC activities supported through this component,
including evaluation of their impact for overall program development, would
be carried out by the strengthened NPC Secretariat.



- 27 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimate
4.01           The total cost of the core projectl is estimated at US$ 5.7
million equivalent, net of duties and taxes. The project cost and the
foreign exchange component, given in Annex 1, Table 4.1, are summarized
belov.
Table IV.l: S _ary of Proiect Cost
: Totld
(iS iDlIar' 0M)    : Foreiw  8A w 
I  I  Foreign  Total  Pkcdh,r1e   Coats
A. SECrRAL 
1. Health boltcy RefoTn                            -      520.0   rflA    I on)     If
2. ratitutonal tevelopam
Ltdstry of lealch                              258.8  708.5  967.4    73         20
Sub-Totat Institutional Developmn                 258.8  70l.5  967.4    73         20
Sub-Totat SecoraL Support                             258.8  1.228-5  1.487.4    83     31
s. snmmuM HEAL'I AND FAMILY Pt"          Sl C ES
Upgradlii Facilities ml ad Ac                     329.5  483.0   812.5    59         17
aid (ar eptives Supply / DLstritbuim              107.6  821.1  928.7    SR         19
Staff Traixdrg ad Sipeivisaon                     236.3  269.0  505.3    53         la
HIalth. l&trittim and Family Plmjdj Fu rtIon      103.7  253.8  357.5    71          7
mcndtrl.g aid araluactjon                                _120.0  120.0   IM          2
Sub-Total Strtherdt Health and Family Flmxrir, SErviess  777.1  1.966.9 2.724.n    71   56
C. PULATION ACflVTLES
Natioal lbpulation Gmdsston                        21.2   8R.6   109.8    R1         2
R3pulItlon I4.a4 Support                          198..   88.6 287.0    31           6
Sub-Total Plbpuntkn Activltien                       219."  177.2  396.8    45          R
D. PIJEC1 PREPARAPI FACILrIY                          50.0  20z.0  250.0    RO          5
Total Belne Costa                                   1.305.6 3.552.6 4.858.2    73      100
physical Crntirgenles                                65.2  199.1  265.1    75          5
Price a,utirWenei                -199.9  398.3   fIl   67
Tocal Project Gc3ts                                 1.570.7 4.I50.7 '1.2.     73       118
1The total cost of the project, as appraised, is estimated at Le. 46.1
million or US$7.7 million. It was assumed at appraisal that co-financing of
about US$2 million would be available. Since the potential co-financiers
have not to date confirmed their participation in the project, the cost of
the project components which originally were assumed to be financed by the
other donors have been deleted. These include: (a) construction,
furnishing, and equipping of 18 new PHUs (US$1.0 million); (b) salaries for
the staff of the 18 PHUs (US$0.1 million); (c) research contracts (US$0.6
million); and (d) support to the population activities of the National
Population Census Commission and the Ministry of Social Welfare (US$0.3
milion). These components, however, would b:. implemented as soon as
additional financing becomes available.



- 28 -
4.02      Project costs are expressed in mid-1985 prices.  The contingency
allowance of US$0.9 million includes: (a) physical contingencies of lOZ on
the base cost for civil works, furniture, equipment, materials, vehicles and
operation and maintenance and (b) price contingencies (applied on base costs
plus physical contingencies) assume the following expected annual rates of
increase for international prices: 7% for 1986-87, 7.5Z for 1988, and 7.7%
for 1989. These rates were used for estimating price contingencies both for
local and foreign costs, on the assumption that periodic local currency
devaluations, estimated on a purchasing pover parity basis, vould compensate
for differences between projected US dollar inflation and local inflation
rates. Given the project's high foreign exchange component (73Z), it is
unlikely that the project cost vould be significantly affected should
devaluation of the Leone occur during the project period.
4.03      Cost estimates of civil works, whicb involve mainly renovation of
existing facilities, are based on similar contracts recently let. The
average cost for renovation of two medical stores buildings, the four
hospitals and Bo Paramedical School is US$ 51,000 per building;and the
renovation of 42 existing PRUs is estimated at about US$ 5,000 per unit.
Equipment, material and furniture costs are based on lists prepared by NOR,
with assistance from PPF- financed consultants. Equipment and materials
would be exempt from duties and taxes and such duties and taxes on building
materials have not been identified separately because they are negligible.
Technical assistance costs include salaries, allowances and airfares. On
average, unit costs for overseas fellowships amount to US$2,000 per manmonth
(inclusive of international travel). Local training costs are based on
existing tuition and stipend requirements and MOE estimates of costs for
group training activities.
B. Financins Plan
4.04      The total cost of the core project (US$ 5.7 million) would be
financed by IDA and the Government.   In view of the Government's severely
constrained budgetary situation it has been agreed that the Government's
contribution would not exceed 7% of the totel project cost. Based on early
expressions of interest in co-financing the project, it is anticipated that
external donor agencies, notably GTZ, USAID, and the Italian Government,
would contribute a total of up to US$ 2.0 million equivalent to finance the
other project activities which were appraised but not included in the core
project.
4.05      Proiect Operating Costs.  The proposed project is designed to keep
incremental operating costs to a minimum, concentrating on rehabilitating
and increasing the efficiency of the existing health institutions and rural
health infrastructure, while simwltaneously devising cost-containment
measures and budgetary policies which would enable the Government in the
long-run to finance the expansion of PHC nationwide. The project is
expected to generate (at its end period) an increment in annual recurrent
costs of Le 2.2 million (US$ 0.4 million), representing about 7Z of MOH's
1983/84 budget. This increment derives mainly from: salaries for additional



- 29 -
staff at NOR headquarters, and the NPC secretariat; training program
operating costs; and, building, equipment and vehicle operation and
maintenance and perishable supplies costs. Post-project annual recurrent
costs by project component and sub-component are given in Annex 1, Table
4.3. As PHUs and district hospitals to be renovated are fully staffed,
salaries for personnel at these facilities do not constitute a part of
incremental recurrent costs. Additionally, the cost of drugs for the three
project PEC districts have not been included as incremental recurrent costs
as their entire cost would be defrayed by user fees paid into the drugs
revolving fund to be established under the project (para 3.11). In this
context, the initial "seed stock" of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies to
be provided under the project has been viewed as an investment rather than a
recurrent cost.
4.06      Affordability.  The incremental recurrent costs at the end of the
project would be more than offset by budgetary resources freed up as a
result of cost containment and efficiency measures required under the
project. Of principal relevance in this regard is the requirement that a
30% reduction in employment of daily wage labor be achieved by 1989 (para
3.11). in line witb the recommendations of tne Public Expenditure Program.
In 1983/84, slightly over Le 8.0 million was spent on aaily wages (i.e., 35%
above budget estimates): thus, a 30% reduction would mean that at least Le
2.4 million would be available by 1989 for reallocation to support other
expenditures, presumably including project generated recurrent costs.
4.07   In addition, through the introduction of improved financial control
mechanisms under the project, it is anticipated that receipts of iser fees
from hospital in- and out-patients would increase significantly over the
project period and help defray operating costs. As mentioned earlier a
great proportion of user fees are unaccounted for and amodnt only to less
than Le 100,000 per annum. Based on current (albeit low) fee scales and
hospital utilization rates however, that figure can be expected to rise to
about Le 1.0 million as proper checks, continuous monitoring and auditing
are gradually instituted. In the circumstaaces, the net effect of the
proposed project would be to reduce rather than increase the burden on MOH's
recurrent budget and, as such, the project is clearly affordable. It is
estimated that with the full implementation of the cost containment and cost
recovery measures proposed in the project, about Le. 5.1 million would be
recovered from the cost of delivering services (as compared to annual
current co:t recovery of about Le 100,000) and about Le.2.4 million would be
saved with the proposed cost containment measures. This amount of Le. 7.5
million would represent about 20 percent of the expected 1989 total
recurrent expenditure of NOR. Assistance to the Government in supporting its
operating costs, however, would be required in the near-term, until cost
containment measures are fully instituted.
4.08      Renlicability.  The affordability analysis shows that the
incremental recurring cost implication of the project will not hinder the
replicability of the project at a national scale. However, there is a
concern about the Governuent-s ability to maintain a sufficient level of



- 30 -
investment to extend the PEC approach to the remaining six districts of the
country and about the adequacy of HOR's institutional capacity for managing
a nation-wide HC system. Addressing these concerns are the policy
development and resource mobilization studies and organization and
management analysis to be undertaken during the project period.
4.09      Preliminary findings from the health resource inventory, the
health manpower analysis and the health facilities utilization survey,
suggest ample scope for improving the efficiency of existing resources to
reduce demand for additional resources in the near-term.   Rationalization
of procurement practices, the introduction of cost-containment and
cost-recovery measures, and improved in-service training and supervision
could contribute to increased capacity of the implementing agency to
replicate the PEC approach nationwide. However, further assessment of
project replicability and sustainability will be made in the course of the
project implementation. With regard to nationwide expansion of population
activities, it is expected that international assistance, as has been the
case in other developing countries, would continue to be available once the
national policy is developed and family planning service delivery network is
expanded through the PHC approacb.
C. Procurement
4.10      All goods and sevices financed under the IDA credit would be
procured in accordance with IDA guidelines. Project procurement
arrangements are summarized in Annex 1, Table 4.4.
4.11      Contracts for the renovation of two Central ?edicpl Stores
buildings, the Bo r;amedical School and four hospitals totalling US$0.3
million would be too small (see para 4.03) and dispersed to actract foreign
bidders and would therefore be awarded on the basis of local competititve
bidding (LCB) procedures, which are acceptable to IDA. Renovation of about
42 PHUs would be undertaken iy the concerned villages through community
participation or force account under supervision by th' District Implemen-
tation Committee, according to a program acceptable to IDA.
4.12      Drugs, medical supplies, vehicles, equipment and materials,
(including those for the NGOs), valued at about US$ 1.5 million, would be
grouped to the extent practicable into bid packages est:mated to cost US$
50,000 equivalent or more and would be awarded on the basis of ICB in
accordance with IDA guidelines.  Local suppliers vould -- eligibleo to bid
and, in the evaluation of bids, would be eligible for a margin of preference
equal to 15% of the CIF costs of competing imports, or the prevailing
customs duty, whichever is lower. Furniture and standard office equipment
available at competitive prices locally, would be procured folloving local
competive bidding procedures. Items would be grouped to the extent
practicable to encourage competitive bidding and to permit bulk procure-
ment. Miscellaneous equipment and materials in packages not exceeding US$
5,000 equivalent, and subject to an aggregate total of US$ 0.1 million
equivalent, may be procured through prudent shopping. Selection and



- 31 -
appointment of technical assictance consultants would be carried out in
accordance with IDA guidelines. Fuel, operation and maintenance and
perishable supplies (about US$0.6 million) would be procured by local
shopping.
4.13      Prior IDA review would be required for all contracts to be awsrded
under ICB and all other contracts of US$ 50,000 equivalent or more. Sample
post-award reviews of contracts of less than US$ 50,000 equivalent wuuld be
carried out during project supervision missions.
D. Disbursements
4.14      The proposed credit would be disbursed against the following items
net of taxes:
Category I     90% of the cost of civil works (US$0.6 million);
Category II
(a)       10OZ of foreign expenditures and 85% of local
expenditures for equipment, vehicles, and materials
(US$0.7 million);
(b)       100% of foreign expenditures and 852 of local
expenditures for drugs and medical supplies
(US$1.2 million);
Category III   1002 of technical assistance and fellowships (US$1.4
million);
Category IV    100% of the cost of local training and recurrent cost
except for building/equipment maintenance and stipends
(US$0.8 million);
Category V     100% refunding of the project preparation advance
(US$0.3 million); and
Category VI    unallocated (US$0.3 million).
4.15      Disbursements for local training and recurrent cost (category 4)
would be made against statements of expenditure (S08). Documentation for
these items would not be submitted for review but would be retained by the
Government at one central location and vould be the subject of ar annual
audit by auditors acceptable to IDA. IDA would not accept reimbursement
applications fur less than US$60,000 equivalent. In addition, tLe documen-
tation should be readily available for review by IDA representatives during
project supervision.
4.16      In the absence of a country disbursement profile, the disbursement
schedule shown in Annex 1, Table 4.5 was based on standard disbursement



- 32 -
profile for West Africa Technical Assistance (Energy) projects. Given the
relatively advanced state of project preparation (para. 5.09), the estimated
disbursement schedule is considered reasonable and achievable. The
disbursement schedule would be reviewed at mid-term and amended, if
necessary (para. 5.06).
4.17      Special Account.  In order to ensure that project funds are
readily available as needed, a special account (in US$), operated by the
Project Implementation Committee, would be established in a commercial bank
in Freetown with an initial deposit of US$ 0.6 million equivalent,
corresponding to about 4 months of estimated project expenditures.
4.18      Local Advance Account.  In o.-der to ensure that the Government's
counterpart funding also would be available when needed, the Government
would establish a separate rvplenishable Local Advance Account in local
currency of about Le 0.2 million (US$ 0.03 million equivalent).
Establishing the Local Advance Account and depositing the initial amount of
Le 0.2 million is a condition of credit effectiveness (para 7.03c).
E. Accounts and Audit
4.19      NOE vould establish and maintain separate accounts for all project
expenditures, in accord ince with sound accounting practices. Project
accounts including statements of expenditures, would be audited annually by
auditors satisfactory to IDA and annual audit reports would be submitted to
IDA within six months of the end of the Government's fiscal year. Quarterly
reports on implementation progress would be submitted to IDA by the Project
Director folloving a mutually agreed upon format. Six months after the
closing date, the Government would submit a project completion report (PCR)
to IDA.
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Ortanization and Managemeut
5.01      In line with the project's focus oo strengthening the capacity of
existing institutions, no separate project management unit is envieaged for
the proposed project. Instead, the project would strengthen several units
in MOE and NPC to enable them to implement the project. A Project Steering
Comittee (PSC) has been establiahed to deal with broad policy matters,
oversee implementation, review performance, assure timely financial flow,
and advise the Bank of project progress. The PSC is chaired by the
Financial Secretary, and its members include the Development Secretary, the
Permanent Secretary for Health, the Chief Medical Officer, the Principal
Planning Officer of MODEP (who would represent NPC and act as Secretary),
and a representative of non-governmental organizations active in health and
family planning. The PSC would also administer a mid-term evaluation of the



- 33 -
project and spearhead the preparation of a follow-up project. The PSC would
meet twice a year.
5.02      A Project Implementation Committee (PIC), chaired by the Chief
Medical Officer, would coordinate project implementation, ensure continued
collaboration among units and agencies responsible for implementing various
project components, and monitor timely implementation of annual operation
plans. The membership of PIC includes the heads of the implementing units
for various project components, the chairpersons of the district-level PHC
implementation teams (para 5.04) and the head of the NPC secretariat.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Government would
maintain the PSC and the PIC in a form and with functions and staffing
satisfactory to IDA (para. 7.013).
5.03      The Chief Medical Officer, as Chairman of the PIC, has been
designated Project Director, and would be responsible for the execution of
the project. She would be assisted by the PBC coordinator, designated as
Project Manager, and his staff consisting of an operations officer, accounts
officer, training and evaluation officer, and NGO liaison officer. The
Project Manager and his staff would be responsible for project procurement,
disbursements and other administrative requirements. They would also drav
on the reorganized PMISU, the Audit and Accounts Section of the MOR, and the
NPC secretariat for additional support as required. To ensure that these
units are capable of providing appropriate support, they would be
strengthened by the assignment of additional full-time professional/
technical staff, who would, in addition to their broader responsibilities,
assist in the coordination and management of project activities.
5.04       For each project areas provided and District implementation teams
would be established for coordinating and implementating project activities.
The teams, headed by the Principal Medical Officer and the District Medical
Officer, respectively, would consist of existing health advisers, and
technical staff. The establishment of these teams would be a condition of
credit effectiveness (para 7.03d). The technical assistance services
included in the project would also assist in project implementation and thus
strengthen the project's overall management. The financial management
consultent wouid not only assist in improving overall financial control and
accounting, but also act as financial controller for the project.
B. Proiect Implementation and Honitorinf
5.05      The project would be implemented over a three year period (Annex
1, Table 5.1). The implementation of the project will begin with a Project
Launch Workshop (PLW) that will be prepared and presented by the Project
Unit of the Ministry of Health. The PLW will take place at an appropriate
date during the period following the project's approval by the IDA Executive
Directors and before the date of effectiveness. The PLW, a structured
project start up activit   will bring together the key staff members of the
implementing s-ad coordik.cing ministries and agencies to review the project
objectives a-< procedures and to discuss in detail the sequence of



- 34 -
implementation activities. The monitoring of the project's implementation
will be supported by Annual Project Implementation Review Workshops (PIRW)
to be prepared and presented by the Project Unit of the Ministry of Health.
The first PIRWa should take place on or near the first anniversary of the
(PLW) and each year thereafter until the project is completed. The PIRWe, a
structured project review activity, will bring together the same key staff
members of the implementing and coordinating ministries and agencies that
attended the PLW. The PIRW will review the progress of implementation
during the past year and discuss and plan in detail the coming years
activities. The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1989.
5.06      Mid-term Evaluation. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that a mid-term comprehensive evaluation of the project would be undertaken
jointly by IDA and the Government at the end of 18 months after credit
effectiveness (para 7.01j). About six man-months of technical assistance is
provided under the project to assist the PSC in the review. The review
would cover progress in health policy reforms, particularly on (a) the
recommended shifts in financial resource allocation, (b) cost recovery and
containment measures, including the increase in hospital user fees, and (c)
decentralization and integration of health services. The review would also
cover progress in the development of population and nutrition policies,
general project implementation and its disbursements. Additionally, it would
review the need for changes in project cost and scope or restructuring, if
co-financing becomes available or a radical change in the economic situation
in the country dictates such change.
5.07      Technical Assistance.  The project would rely, as much as
possible, on local consultants to provide specialist assistance for
effective implementation of various project components. The Government,
however, recognizes that certain critical skills required by the project are
not readily available in the country. Thus, a limited number of expatriate
consultants vould be required under the project and these are listed in
Annex I-Table 5.2. A total of 101.5 man-months of technical assistance (of
which about 60% is expected to be local consultants) are provided in the
project. The selection and appointment of consultants would be in
accordance with IDA guidelines.
5.08      Proiect Preparation Facility (PPF).  In November 1984 the Bank
approved an initial PPF advance of US$ 100,000 equivalent which was used to
(a) establish the PHC Coordinator's Office within the MOH; (b) complete an
inventory of health facilities in the country; (c) initiate development of
PHC operational plan, (d) begin an inventory of health and population IEC
activities and develop a plan for IEC development; (e) initiate development
of a drug management system; and (f) prepare a project proposal. A second
tranche was approved by the Bank in August, 1985 in the amount of US$150,000
equivalent to ensure sufficient advancement of project preparation by the
time of credit effectiveness. The major activities supported under the
second advance include: (a) completion of a review of financial management
(including recommendations for improvement); (b) development of a plan for
institution of coet recovery; (c) completion of studies concerning health
I



- 35 -
manpover and healtb system utilization; and (d) completion of an inventory
of IEC activities and resources and development of draft documents for
renovation and procurement contracts.
5.09      Status of Project Preparation.  Project preparation, facilitated
by the PPF advance and financial and technical assistance from other donor
agencies2, is considerably advanced, particularly with regard to drug
management and logistics inputs, and PEC development and financial
management. As mentioned above, the PSC and PIC have already been
established and the key project staff (project director, project manager,
financial controller and accountant) have already been designated. The draft
PEC Operational Manual and PEC Operational Plan have been completed. No
difficulties are foreseen in obtaining appropriate sites for the 18 PHUs.
5.10      Early start-up of project implementation facilitated by commencing
selected activities, such as staff training on drug logistics and accounting
procedures, appointment of key staff and consultants, and preparation of
plans and tender documents prior to credit effectiveness. These are being
funded under the second advance of the PPF.
VI . PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.01      Benefits.  Through its support for sectoral adjustment in health,
the project will help reorient the health system away from its present urban
bias and toward improved health services for the majority of the population
located in rural areas. In so doing, the project will increase the quality
and accessibility of health and family planning services, particularly to
mothers and children. The project would strengthen PHC services, particu-
larly NCR/family planning in three presently underserved districts with a
total population of 1.2 million. Through its support for population
efforts, it will help lay the foundation for the development of a national
population and family planning program, by increasing awareness of and
access to services in both urban and rural areas. Finally, its support for
the ongoing institution-building efforts in both health and population will
contribute to improved planning, policy implementation and donor coordina-
tion. By wage-labor expenditure reduction, increased user fee collection
from in-and out-patient hospitals and introduction of other cost-containment
and cost recovery measures, the project i3 expected to free up resources of
about Le.7.5 million for regular supply of essential drugs and improved
management and maintenance of the health program.
6.02      Risks.  As the proposed project would be the first Bank-financed
operation in the sector, there is a risk of delays in implementation.
However, project preparation activities, facilitated by PPF assistance, are
well advanced in all components and the Government has demonstrated strong
committment to the project's objectives and emphases. Moreover, the
2Donor agencies whose activities have facilitated project preparation include
Africare, GTZ, Pathfinder Fund, UNFPA, UNICEF, UShID and WRO.



- 36 -
addition of several higher-level staff to the key units concerned vith
project implementation and the provision of technical assistance to these
units should further minimize the risk of delays. In addition, an initial
project "launch" workshop is planned prior to effectiveness to familiarize
project staff with the project's scope and requirements, and a mid-term
comprehensive .eview will be undertaken jointly by IDA and the Government to
review any required mid-stream changes (para. 5.06).
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Assurances Obtained at Negzoiations
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) the results of the various policy studies and their
recommendations would be discussed with IDA by March
31, 1987 and the agreed recommendations would be incorporated
in the long-term health investment plan which would be
submitted to IDA for review by September 30, 1987 (para. 3.06);
(b) MOR's draft annual development plan and related recurrent
cost implications would be reviewed annually with IDA by April
of each lear of the project period (para. 3.06);
(c) the MOR would assign to PMISU not later than September 30,
1986 key incremental staff (para.3.08);
(d) the standard drug list, a procurement manual, and a plan
for drug procurement, storage, distribution, and safekeeping
would be finalized by December 31, 1986 and not later than March
31, 1987, the Government would begin the training of health
workers on drug logistics and prepate and furnish IDA a
prescription manual (para. 3.23);
(e) the Government shall carry out a study of the drug procure-
ment and pricing practices in the private sector and submit to IDA
by June 30, 1987 for review its proposals for improving these
practices (para. 3.23);
(f) the Government would maintain an escrow account in the Bank
of Sierra Leone for the money collected under the cost recovery
scheme and to allocate foreign exchange as needed for procurement
of esrential drugs, vaccines and medical supplies (para. 3.24);
(g) the Government vould prepare and furnish IDA not later than
December 31, 1987, a comprehensive plan for comm;;nity education
(para. 3.29);



- 37 -
(h) the Government shall submit a draft national population
policy statement for IDA review and comment and carry out a study
of the legal status, composition, structure, and functions of NPC
and its secretariat including recommendations recommendations of
measures to strengthen the NPC and upgrade its secretariat in the
in the governmental organizational structure (pars. 3.33);
(i) the Government shall not later than July 31, 1987 prepare and
furnish to IDA an action plan satisfactory to IDA for implementing
the national population policy (pars. 3.33);
(j) the Government shall maintain the Project Steering Co mittee
and the Project Implementation Committee in a form and with
functions and staffing satisfactory to rDA (para. 5.02).
(k) the Government shall undertake jointly with IDA a mid-term
comprehensive reviev of the project at the end of 18 months after
credit effectiveness (para. 5.06).
Conditions of Disbursement
7.02      (a)  Disbursements of credit funds for cost of civil works,
local training and recurrent cost after June 30 of each year of
the project period, starting June 30, 1987, would be contingent
upon the Government submitting evidence to IDA that the number of
"OR's daily wage employees have been reduced by lOX during the
preceding year (para.3.11);and
(b) Disbursements of drug expenditures shall be contingent upon
the Government's procurement of all essential drugs, vaccines,
and medical supplies for the public sector under ICB, except those
provided under a grant or tied credit basis by other donors
(para. 3.23).
Conditions of Effectiveness
7.03      The Government would:
(a) establish PNISU and assign *o it a Principal Health Planning
Officer (para.3.08);
(b) appoint additional staff for the PHC Coordination Unit,
provincial sud di.aLict health offices (pars. 3.13);
(c) establi_: a local advance account and deposit an initial
amount of Le 0.2 million (para 4.18); and
(d) estsblish Provincial and District Implementation Teams in
each of the project Provinces and Districts (para.5.04).



- 38 -
7.04      Subject to these conditions, the proposed project vould constitute
a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 4.6 million (or US$ 5.3 million
equivalent), at the standard variable rate.



- 39 -
ANNEX 1, T-2.1
SIERRA LEONE
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Comparative Health and Population Related Indicators
Sierra Leone       Sub-Saharan       Low Income
Africa           Economies a/
1965    1983      1965    1983       1965   1983
Crude Birth Rate               48       49       48       47         43     30
Crude Death Rate               33       27        22      18         17      11
Infant Mortality Rate         230      198       156     119        122     75
Child Dead Rate                69       54       35       23         19      9
Life Expectancy at Birth       32       38       42       48         49     59
Total Fertility Rate           --        6.5     --        6.6       --      4.0
Pop. Growth Rate                1.7      2.1       2.6     2.8        2.6    2.2
Daily Calorie Supply
as % of Requirements         --      85b/      --       91b/       --    105b/
a/   Countries with a per capita GNP of less than S400.00.
b/   Available figures are for 1982.
Source: The World Development Report k1985, The World Bank.



- 40 -
ANNEX 1, T-2.2
SIIER LEONE
EELT  AND POPULMlION PROJECT
Percentage Distribution of Communicable Diseases in Sierra Leone (Top Ten)
(Based on 119,764 Recorded Cases in 1979
Disease                 Frequency          Percentage Distribution
Malaria                        79.991                     66.8
Helminthiasis                  16.554                     13.8
Gonorrhoeal Infection          5,973                       5.0
Diarrhoeas                     5,612                       4.7
Measles                        4,102                       3.4
Schistosomiasis                1,674                       1.4
Pertussis                      1,424                       1.2
Chicken Pox                    1,408                       1.2
Onchocerciasis                 1,279                       1.1
Tetanus                          692                       0.6
Others                         1,055                       0.9
TOTAL                        119,764                     100



- 41 -
ANNEX 1, T-2.3
SIERRA LEONE
HEALTH AND POPIULAION PROJECT
Main Causes of Hospitalization among Adults,
Connaught Hospital, Dept. of Internal Medicine, 1980
In-patients          No. of
Rank               Disease                      No.        X           Deaths
1.      Hypertension and
Hypertensive Heart Diseases          273      15.06           30
2.      Malaria                               205      11.31           11
3.      Other forms of Heart Diseases         182      10.04           39
4.      Pneumonia                             150       8.27           28
5.      Ill defined conditions                128       7.06           10
6.      Amenia                                112       6.18           12
7.      Gastroenteritis                        92       5.07           17
8.      Cerebrovascular Diseases               80       4.41           22
9.      Diabetes                               78       4.30            7
10.      Hepatitis                              52       2.87           15
11.      Tuberculosis                           51       2.81            9
12.      Others                                410      22.62           43
Total                              1,813    100.00           243
Gonococcal infections, schistosomiasis, chickenpox, onchocerciasis and
other parasitic diseases are still counon in the country.



SIERRA LEONE
HALTH AND POPIaION PRW)ECT
Distribution of Health Facilities
Averge Distamc
Mdnlistrative             7 of Popu-          Primary level                  Secondary Level                    Tertiary Ievel              ran *aleth
Divisicw                 lation        Peripheral Health UIita/          listrict Hospitals              pec1ilized and Referral       Facility (KM).
Treatment  Dispen- Health    (bvt.  Nb. of  Non-   Fb. of   0bvt.  Nl. of  Non-  lb. of
Centers   saries  Centers            Beds  tbvt.    Beds               Beds  GCvt.   Beds
Sierra Leone             100          111       68      58         17    824       21    1,629      8    1,629      3       388            9.8
A. Eastern Province           31.4         45       16       10         3    164       10      671       1      118     -        -             8.4
Kailahun District        6.0         18        5       4          2     97        2      237      -        -      -       -
eni, iLstrict            9.4         20        6        2         -     -         4      224       1      118     -
KYo MDstrict            16.0          7        5       4          1     67        4      210      -        -      -       -
B.Northern  Prmine            34.6         34       24      26          5    348        4      241       1      131     3       388           11.7
BourbaiDistrict         8.0         2         7       7          1     43        2      117      -        -      1       125
Kanmia Dlstrict          4.9          4        6       4          1     49        -       -
Koina&W  District        $.5         8         2       3          1    102        -       -
brtLoko Ditrict         9.6          7        7       4          2    149        1      104      -        -      1       148
Ibtkolili District       6.6         13        2       8          -     -         1       20       1       31     1       315
C. Saruem  Prvino             19.5         31       11       17         5    218        1      212       1      178     -        -              10.3
Bo District              6.9         9         -       5          -     -         1      123       1      178     -       -
Bouthe District          2.8          5        3       2          1     44        1       64      -        -      -       -
byambs Dlstrict          6.1          5        7       7          3    125        1       25      -        -      -        -
Pjehum District          3.7         12        1       3          1    49         -       -       -        -      -       -
D. Istern Area                14.5          1       17        5         4     94        4       127      5    1,202     -                        3.0           M
Greater Freetown        13.0          1       10        3         4     94        4      127      4    1,076
Rural keas               1.5         -         7       2          -     -         -       -        1      126
a/  Includes 24 ncn-govermret dispensaries and 6 nc-goverrment health centers.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1, T-2.5
SIERRA LEONE
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Comparison of Drug Prices Paid Locally by Central
Medical Stores with World Market Generic Prices
Prices paid       Average world    Local
locally in US$    market price    Premium
Drug Item                   Packing     (Le 2.5 = US$1.0)        (US$)           %
Ampicillin caps 250 mg           1,000               78               26              200
Aspirin tabs 300 mg              1,000                4                2.50            60
Cloramphenicol caps 250 mg       1,000               36               16              125
Ferrous Sulphate tabs 200 mg   1,000                 14                4              250
Sulphadimidine tabs 500 mg       1,000               27               12              125
Paracetamol tabs 500 mg          1,000               12                5              140
Metronidazole tabs 200 mg        1,000               58                14             314
Chloroquine Phosphate tabs
150 mg base                    1,000               18               10               80
Tetracycline caps 250 mg         1,000               35                12             190
Source: Central Medical Store, Freetown
Procurement documents, local supplies
November 1983



- 44 -
ANNEX 1, T-3.1
SIERRA LEONE
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
List of Project Financed Studies and Dates of Completion
Title of Studies                      Responsible Agency       Dates of Completion
1. Logistics for Essential Drugs and
Vaccine Supply in Sierra Leone           MOH/UNICEF               December 1984
2.  Health Expenditure Analysis                 MOH/IBRD                March 1985
3.  Inventory of Health Resources               MOH/PHC                 April 1985
4. Inventory of Population Program
Efforts and IEC Activities               NPC/Task Force           April 1985
5. Financial Management, Cost-Recovery
and Cost-Containment Analysis            MOH/Consultant           June 1986
6.  Health Manpower and Training                MOW/Fora Ray
Evaluation                                 College                March 1986
7. Health Services and Facilities
Utilization                              MOH/Consultant           March 1986
8. Organization/Management Analysis
of the Ministry of Health                MOH/ Consultant          December 1986
9. Determinants of Infant and Child
Health and Mortality and Fertility
in Sierra Leone                          MOH/NPC/IBRD             December 1987
10. Drug Policy and Pricing Practices
in the Private Sector                    MOH/Consultant           June 1987
11.  Study of Legal Status, Composition,
Structure and Functions of the
Commissioner on Population and its
Secretariat                              NPC/Consultants          May 1987



- 45 -
ANNEX 1, T-3.2
SIERRA LEONE
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
List of Incremental Staff
Organizational Unit                      No. of Staff         Time of Recruitment
A.  Planning, Management Information
System Unit, MOH
1.  Principal Health Planning Officer             1                 June 30, 1986
2.  Senior Management Information Officer         1                 Sept. 30, 1986
3.  Computer Operation/System Analyst             1                 Sept. 30, 1986
4.  Secretary 1/                                  1                 Sept. 30, 1986
B.  Primary Health Care Coordinator's Office
1.  Program Operations Officer                    1                 June 1986
2.  Training and Evaluation Officer               1                 June 1986
3.  Accountant                                    1                 June 1986
4.  NGOs Liaison Officer                          1                 December 1986
5.  Administrative Officer                        1                 June 1986
6.  Sub-Accountant                                1                 June 1986
C. 1'rovincial Health Office
1.  Administrative Officer 1/                     3                 June 1986
D. District Health Office
1.  Medical Officer 1/                            1                 June 1986
E. National Population Commission Secretariat
1.  Demographer/Economist                         1                 June 1986
2.  Communication Specialist                      1                 December 1986
3.  Computer Programmer/Systems Analyst           1                 December 1986
4.  Statistical Assistants                        3                 December 1986
F. Health iducation Unit, MOH
1.  Health eduation Officer                       1                 June 1986
1/ Refers to redeployment of existing staff.



- 46 -
ANNPX 1, T-4.1
PACE 1 OF 7
SIER  LEN
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Project Components by Year
(US DOLLARS  '000)
Base Costs          Fortum  Ewhiha
86/U7  87/0  68/BY Total       z   hAM
zz"28m utaaman NM=m mamma..   mazma  nwm...
1. INWESTI7 C0STS
A. CIVIL iS                                            66.0       -    -  66.0    40.0   267.2
3. FUBIITURE EQIUIIWT  UEHICLES, *TERIILS
FUIIE  AN STAN=  EIUIFINT                            86.0   10.0 10.0  106.0    72.9    77.2
SPECIAL EIIUIN                                      227.0  100.0    -  327.0   100.0   327.0
YE1O.ES                                             465.0      -    -  465.0   100.0   465.0
ATERIALS                                            369.0  334.0    -  703.0    96.0   64.6
Total FURNTIK  EIUIPNIETP UEIMES, MTWIALS            1,147.0  444.0  10.0 1401*.    96.4  1,543.8
C. TEOICAL ASSISTUU
OVERSEAS CUNSWTMTA#S                                565.0  270.C 200.0 1,035.0   100.0  1,035.0
LOCAL COWIU.TAT                                       3.3      -    -    3.3       0.0      0.0
Sub-Total TEOHWW. AWSSSTICE                            568.3  270.0 200.0 1,033.3    99.7 1,035.0
D. FElLLDUSHIS
L04 TOM FELLNOPS                                     19.8   20.4  19.8   60.0   100.0    60.0
SNI T i   FELiJUIPS                                  59.O   12.0    -   71.0   100.0    71.0
Sub-Total FELLMIPS                                      78.1   32.4  19.8  131.0   100.0   131.0
L.  UM  TMININE ACTIVITES                              101.6   5.3 103.8  m2.         0.0      0.0
F. PMGECT MEP. FACILITY                                250.0      -    -  230.0    80.0   200.0
Total IsTE51NErT CsOS                                   2,813.7  834.7 333.6 3,992.1    79.8  34177.0
II. RECAIENT CMTS
A. INCRJIENTAL SALMIES                                 36.0   38.4  37.6  112.0      0.0      0.0
3. 3IHLDDINIEWIPIDT WEATIUN AND MINTDWICE              54.6   60.9 39.3  174.8    30.0    52.4
C. VuOE wonIh NO AINTENC                              119.9  127.0 123.4  370.3    70.0   259.2
D. PERISMILE SUPPLIES                                  35.1   36.2 35.1  106.5    60.0    63.9
E. STIPENDS                                               -   50.0 50.0  100.0       0.0     0.0
F. IUSINIB LLOIENS                                      4.1    4.3  4.1   12.5       0.0     0.0
Total  M T  COSTS                                         249.7  316.8 309.5  676.1    42.9   375.6
TOtal ILALIE COSTS                                       3,063.5 1.151.5 643.2 4685B.2    73.1  3S52.6
Phnical Continmncin                                     192.2   59.3  14.6  265.1    75.4   199.9
Prino Cmntinumci                                        245.7  190.2 162.2  59.1    66.6   39.3
Total PRO.ECT WSTS                                       3,501.3 1.400.1 820.0 5721.4    72.5 4r150.7
Fohrign Exdsnw                                        2,641.7 1,064.2 444.8 4,130.7    0.0     0.0



- 47 -
ANNEX 1, T-4.1
Page 2 of 7
SIlDRlA LMONIC
IHALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Project Components by Year
TotIs Includini Contiauicine   Totals Includini Coatinamies
(US DOLLARS '000)                 (USI '000)
U/87  87/11  99/B? Total      86/87   97/88 88/89 Total
A. SECTORS. SUMRT
1. EALTH POLICT REF3i                                          216.8  194.3 172.9  594.0    236.9  184.3 172.9  Z94.0
2. INSTITUTIONAL  VELOIIENT
NINISTRY O HEALTH                                           729.9  218.7 188.0 1,135.6    728.9  218.7 188.0 1I135.6
Su-Total INSTITUTIOAL DEIWLNPIEI                               729.9  210.7 1U.0 1,135.6    729.9  218.7 183.0 l.1'6.6
SO-Total SECTORA.L US                                             965.7  403.0 360.9 19729.6    965.7  403.0 360.? 19729.6
3. STiEI61ENllllCIU Tl NO FMIlLY  lWlIN SEIVICES
'J IIIB FACILITIES NO ACCESS                                   915.9  144.8 19.8  979.4    815.9  144.9  19.9  979.4
m  Sm  cNWRAETVES SUPPLt   DISTRI fTlh                         637.1  459.9 35.0 1,130.9    637.1  458.9 3n.0 1,130.9
STAFF TRINIIIII AO  SW VSICN                                   279.0  173.8 149.3  601.1    279.0  173.8 148.3  60t.1
IEALUI W INURITION I  FM. PLAEIIH   EWATIU                     260.4   79.4 82.7  422.6    260.4   79.4  92.7  472.b
NtOIITSRINS NM  EVALU4ATIN3                                        -   69.1  74.1  143.2         -   69.1  74.1  143.2
Stb-Total STTEIIN6 IEM.TN 411D FAILT PLMIING SERVICES           1,992.3  926.0 358.9 3,277.2  I,992.3  926.0 358.9 3.277.2
C. PILTTIO  ACTIVITIES
NbTIll  PI TII NI COMI!SSION                                    98.5   12.4  13.2  124.1      99.5   12.4  13.2  124.1
PUINTION PFMNK  9 FFI11T                                       194-8   59.8 87.0   30.5    194.9   58.9  97.0  340.5
Sub-Total PMUTIAiN ACTIVITIES                                     293.2   71.1 100.2  464.6    293.2   71.1 100.2  464.6
D. PUDJEC1 PREPMAIm   FACILIIY                                    250.0      -    -  250.0                            250.0
Total PROECT COSTS                                                3,501.3 1,400.1 820.0 5,721.4  3,501.3 1,400.1 920.0 5.721.4
---------- -  --- -----…  --- …--------…------------



- 48 -
ANNEX 1, T-4.1
Page 3 of 7
SIECRRA LEONE
REALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Summary Accounts Cost Su&mary
(USi DOLLARS '000)         (US$ '000)                   I Total
---- ------ 2 Forein   kw
Lowal Forein Total    Local Foevifn Total   ;xdcbg.   Colts
.. ..       sSasm  sw. . .. ._  inw..  SESS   S.*
1. IISTNEWIT COS
A. CNIL HIIEW                                           400.9  207.2  668.0   400.9   W.2  668.0             40      14
0. FINEITWE. EIIT. WEICLESP r1TERI1LS
FlUIllE AM  STND ERDIEIIIT                            28.7   77.2  106.0    2B.7   77.2  106.0            73       2
SI. E01IFIEIT                                            -  327.0  327.0         -  327.0  327.0         100       7
E9.CLES                                                  -  465.0  465.0         -  465.0  465.0         100      t0
NATIALS                                               29.4  674.6  703.0    28.4  674.6  703.0            S6      14
STtal FUINIlvE  EUIIN   JElICLES, AUIERILS               57.1 1,543.1 1,601.0    57.1 1,543.9 1,601.0       96       33
C. TECINIIUL 4JSISTiOE
Duga    ClILTIITS                                        - 1,035.0 1,035.0       - 1,035.0 1s035.0       1OD      21
LOCAL CITMLTW                                          3.3      -    3.3       3.3      _    ,.3           _       0
Stib-Ttal TiCISIIU  ASSISTIICE                            3.3 1,035.0 1P03.3      3.3 1,035.0 19038.3       100      21
3. FELL  PS
L0   TIIM FELUIII S                                      -   60.0   60.0         -   60.0   60.0         100       I
SNR TM  FEIUB   IIPS                                     -    71.0   7l.0        -   71.0   71.0         100       I
Sib-Tota FEBIPS                                             -  131.0  131.0        -   131.0  131.0         100       3
E.  6   114111116 ACIVITIES                             273.B      -  293.    293.         -  293.9          -        6
F. PICT  PREP. FACILM                                    50.0  200.0  250.0    50.0  200.0  250.0           9O        5
Towl IJK5TIEMT CamTS                                       905.0 3,177.0 3,932.1   905.0 3,177.0 3#92.1        90       92
II. EOETB COSTS
A. IIIWEITL SEMIEB                                     112.0      -  112.0   112.0        -  112.0           -       2
D. IILU     IINIENT WaTtIoN AN MINIEIWICE              122.4   52.4  174.8   122.4   52.4  174.3            30       4
C. WEI£ME WERTIE AO IINEWINCE                          111.1  259.2  370.3   111.1  259.2  370.3            70       S
D. FlSU1E  SW9LES                                       42.6   63.9  106.5    42.6    3.9  106.5            60       2
E. ST u                                               100.0      -  100.0   100.0        -   100.0          -       2
F. HIM U IIEl3l                                        12.5      -   12.5    12.5        -   12.5           -       0
Toeal IEOwT CamTS                                          500.6  375.6  376.1   500.6  375.6  876.1           43       19
lotal IAnINE COSTS                                        1,305.b 3,552.6 4,653.2  1,305.6 34552.6 4,5B.2       73      100
lical Cmuodumnin                                         65.2   1".9  265.1   6U.2  19.9  265.1             75        5
P'icin cmatiulu                                          19.9  399.3  598.1   199.9  398.3  59S.1            67       12
Totl PULJECT COSTS                                        1,70.7 4,150.7 5721.4  1,570.7 4,150.7 ;,721.4       73      l18
man;             -    _a   _an   _a    aaiin



- 49 -
ANNEC 1, T.4-1
Page 4 of 7
SIEIRA. LEONE
UEALTH AND POPUlATIOON PROJ5CT
Summary Accounts by Year
(US DOLLARS '000)
oae Costs           Fromis Enhil
B6;r   97/f1  9311N     Total  S   bUrt
...fl  c .. .t....*a-     -un      -
1. ISISTIENT COSTS
A. CIVIL as                                           668.0      -    -  6W.8       40.0   267.2
3. FIhITB, EOUIPEIII 1MES9    . ATERIALS
FtIInTE NO ST3I EUIIAEUN                            36.0   20.0 10.0  106.0    72.9    77.2
SFECIML EWET                                       227.0  200.0    -  327.0   100.0   327.0
UIIO5                                              465.0       -    -  465.0   100.0   465.0
SATlIMS                                            369.0  334.0    -  703.0    96.0   674.6
SToe l FUITIIIUE EOUtPWT WEHICES. MTERILS          19147.0  444.0  10.0 1.601.0    %.4  1,543.9
C. TEDISIC4L ASISTI
ess    sLT.mI                                      565.0  270.0 200.0 1-035S0    100.0  14015.0
LO CA   UIJTUITS                                     3.3       -    -    3.3      0.0      0.0
S-Tta  TECHIIC4L 4CStT5                               568.3  270.0 200.0 1.031.3    99.7  1,035.0
P. FELLImIPS
LJ  MM3I FELLIIPS                                    19.B   20.4  19.3   60.0   200.0    60.0
SHIT TENI FROIIPS                                   59.0   12.0    -   71.0   100.0    71.0
St-Total FELouPS                                       78.9   32.4  19.8  131.0   10.0   131.0
E. GM  TAl0    ITIVITIES                              101.6  11.3 103.1  293.8       0.0     0.0
F. FiROET FM. FACIUTY                                 250.0      -    -  250.0   83.0   2.0.0
Total 11EST10T COSTS                                   2.913.7  S34.7 333.6 3982.1    79.9  39177.0
It. O-T COSTS
a. IKENTS.L 5UIES                                     36.0   3S.4  37..  112.0      0.0     0.0
3. NJLDI/EUIPIEIIT WER1ATO1  AD MINTEINICE            54.6   60.9 59.3  174.8    30.0    52.4
C. VECLE   ETIEI AN NMINTEWaCE                       11?.9  127.0 123.4  370.3    70.0   259.2
0. PERIISULE SIPPLES                                  35.1   36.2 35.1  106.5    60.0    63.9
E. SI190S                                              -   50.0 50.0  100.0       0.0     0.0
F. QINI   ALL OULIES                                   4.1    4.3  4.1   12.5       0.0     0.0
Toutl EMD1 cIum                                          249.7  316.8 309.5  876.1    42.9   375.6
Tota ISE1    CUTS                                       3.063.5 1151.5 643.2 43551.2    73.1  3.552.4
PIusIcd  Cstismtius                                    192.2   51.3  14.6  245.1    75.4    1I.9
Pyes C"mntsuwin                                        245.7  190.2 162.2  591.2    66.6   39S.3
TotaI RILCT CISTS                                       3.501.3 1,400.1 820.0 5,721.4    72.5  4,150.7
_an _O_fs -    nav          umm
FoySs Ehnd                                           2.641.7 1064.2 444.3 4.150.7    0.0     0.0



SIERRA LEONE
ERAITH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Breakdown of Summary Acounts
(US DOLLARS '000)
lase costs                  Physical Cantantencies          Price Contiraetcies                 total fIntl. Cant.             Physical
------------------    -------------    .............    ----------C -------    ant. Iv,A
Local                           Local                          LOCal                               Local                      Price Cant.
(Cxcl,  Muies I            ror.  ([xcl. Duties I         For.  i(Ccil tbities I                     (Cxcl.  Duties I           an flwsical
For. Excii. Taxus)   taxes   Total    (xchi. Taxeu)  taxes   total  Cxc.  Ya4ts'  TP'es   Total  For. (%chi. taxeSI   Taxes   Total           Cant.
IN 5IPT9ENT COST
A. CIVIL WMS                                                     267.2   400.3         -    6. 0   26.?   40.1          -66.3   22.3   43.3           - I fl.        356.4   434.1         -   300.5          72.3
3. FURNITtMh EOQIPIET, WS4ICLESP MIYNIALS
FRNlIM   AN! STAUMI CIJIPIEN                                   77.2    23.7         - 106.0    7.7    2.9            -10.6    9.6    3.6           -12.2           93.5    35.2         -   (23.7          11.7
V1CIML EOUIPENT                                               327.00      -   -         327.0   32.7       -        -  32.7   35.90           -       35.9        395.5       -         -   35. 5          36.0
WHIOlS                                                        465.0       -         - 465.0   46.5         -         -46.5   39.1    0.0           -39.5          550.6     0.0         -  50. 6           50.1
MATCRINS                                                      674.6    29.4         - 703.0   67.5    2.9            -70.3   94.4    3.1           -07.4          926.4    34.3             me6. 7         79.2
----   --     - -- - - -- - - -- - -   - - - -- - -  -- - - -   - -  - - -  -- - - -- - -0 - -
9th-Total RENITItE.  UIUPIENT. YE1lCLESt rIATEIDIMS            1,543.9    57.1           1,601.0  154.4    5.7          -160.1  167.9    6.7             1 74.5    5,366.0    69.6         - 5935.5          576.0
UMDSE  OAElLTMTS                                            5050           -        -1l035.0        -      -         -     -  131.2       -        - 11.2       19166.2        -        -1I'66.2-
LOtSA  CU TATNIS                                                  -      3.3        -     3.3       -      -         -     -       -    0.3        - 0.3               -     3.6        -       .6-
9uh-Total TECUICS. AMSISTNMCI                                  1,035.0      3.3         - l031.3       -      -         -     -131.2    0.3            -131.5      1,166.2      3.6         - 1,169.3             -
P. FLLWMIPI
LOW  TIMt FELLOIIPS                                            60.0        -        -     60.0      -      -         -     -     9.3      -         -    .3        69.3        -         -    69.3             -
913T TO   FELLhUIUPS                                           72.0        -        -     71.0      -      -         -     -    6.3       -         -    .:         77.3       -         -    77.3             -
Suh-Total IELOW1IPS                                              131.0        -        -   131.0       -      -         -     - 15.6         -            1 5.6      146.6        -         - 146.6               -
E. GMU  IMIN1I5 ACTIVITIES                                            -   293,3         -   293.9      -            -     -               52.5         -52.5              -   346.3             36.3              -
F. FUSE? PUP. FACILITY                                           20.0    50.0           -   250.0      -       -        -     -       -      - -             -       200.0    50.0          - 250.3               -
Total IU4STENT CUTS                                               3,577.0   9050          - 3,93.1  131.1   45.3             226.9  337.0  102.7          -439.9      3,115.2   95.6           - 4.643.?         243.?
II. 5E351T COSTS
A. IIN IM.A SAAIMES                                                 -   112.0          -   112.0      -       -        -      -      - 20.0           - 0no              -   132.0         -   132.0             -
I. KhiLiU111/IUJ1.111TO   OFUATION An  MINTUWIc                  52.4   322.4          -   174.3    2.6    6.1         -    .7    9.6   23.1          -31.7           63.7   355,6         -   215.3          10.3
C. YWINEOPEWRATIONW  AIS    M NINTJ                             259.2   115.5          -   3703   53.0    5.6          -  3.5   42.2   20.3              63.1        334.4   337.5         -   451.9          25.5
I. PIRISMI  9191IT3                                              63.9    42.6          -   104.5    3.2    2.l             5.3   10.4    3.0          -  5.3          77.5    52.7         -   130.1           6.2                     9
C. 511F13                                         -   2~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~00.0  - 100.0  -  5.0         - 5.0         - 22.9           -22.9              - 121.9               1 21.9         61.1                       Q
Ft lAIN.  LLUaS                                                      -    12.5              12.5      -     0.6        - 0.6         -    2.3         - 2.3              -    15.5         -       .5          0.?
-  ------------   --                        -      ---     ------------   ---- -             -------------         -         -     --        _                               ,
Total ECLUIT  CUSTS                                                 375.6   500.6          -   976.3   13.91  19.4         -3612   63.2   97.             - 150.3        455.6   657.1         - 5072.7           44.3                     o 
Total                                                              3.552.6 1130.6           - 4.95182  199.9   65.2         -265.1  33.3 1 99.9            - 593.1      4,550.7 I.570.?         - 5721.4          293.5
i-a
----------    ---------------------------------------------------------------                             ------------ - -----1



- 51 -
ANNEX 1, T-4.1
Page 6 of 7
SIEUR   La=E
UKALTE MND POPUIATIGE PROJRCr
Summary Accounts by Year
kw Costs            roreiE  Excwoo
06197  87/98  88/  Total       z   Awmt
-_z-   =-= c=  ian_az_
1. IMESTNe   COSTS
A. CIVIL MS                                           66S.0      -    -  668.0    '0.0   267.2
1. FUIIlC,  IpEt VIUOES, NITElIALS
FUII1E AS STUI    E2IUT                             86.0   10.0 10.0  106.0   f2.9    77.2
SPECIWI EuUWfI                                     227.0  188.0    -  327.0   100.0   327.0
IEIICLES                                          O46.0       -    -  465.0   100.0   465.0
rATEIAL.S                                          369.0  334.0    -  703.0   96.0   674.6
S&-Tgtu1 RltIUIE,  .U     T   IEWNIOES, IrIITE.IALS  19147.0  444,0  10.0 1.6010    96.4 1,43.8
C. 1IC0 L eSsMi
OIER5S CIJ9TATS                                    s5.0  270.0 200.0 1p035.0   100.0  19035.0
LOCAL OhhNTUIS                                       3.3      -    -    3.3      0.0      0.0
TsoW  lEl0 1  ISSISM                                  568.3  270.0 200.0 1.031.3    9.7 1l035.0
3. FELLOWH1P
LIOIC      FaLOUl                                   19.9   20.4 19.8   60.0   100.0    60.0
gmE tlEI T EILousH                                 59.0   12.0    -   71.0   100.0    71.0
-Total FELWEPS                                         78.8   32.4 19.8  131.0   100.0   131.0
E.   r 1INI A1TJIT                                    101.6   1.3 1.3    3  293.9   0.0     0.0
F.  tOE  fE. FACILM                                   250.0      -    -  250.0    90.0   200.0
Totl DISTlENOSS                                        2T813.7  834.7 333.6 392.1    79.8 39177.0
II. rEON  CosTS
A. INCIMAL SlAIE                                     36.0   39.4 37.6  112.0      0.0     0.0
3. Ol WEIII'EI WERATIO An NAIIEM J                   54.6   60.9  Y.3  174.6    30.0    52.4
C. IIXOE WR ZA lMW MNTEME[                           1IM.   127.0 123.4  370.3    70.0   259.2
D. PERISHNIE SUIPPES                                  35.1   36.2 35.1  106.5    60.0    63.9
E. STIPE                                                 -   50.0 50.0  100.0      0.0     0.0
F. HJSINB MLLOICES                                     4.1    4.3  4.1   12.5      0.0     0.0
Totl RED T COS                                          249.7  316.8 0.5  876.1    42.9   375.6
Toal  EIE  COSMS                                        3,063.5 1,151.5 643.2 4u65.2    73.1  352-.6
PFbsical Camifift                                      192.2   S.3 14.6  265.1    75.4   199.9
Pries Coutiuinies                                      245.7  190.2 162.2  51.1    66.6   399.3
Total  AUECT COST                                       3,01.3 1400.1 620.60 57.4    72.5 49150.7
-wumxxx            M -  2 z=zX2_       --
Fofti* Exdhwi                                        29641.7 1064.2 444.3 4,150.7   0.0     0.0



- 52 -
ANNEX 1. T-4.1
Page 7 of 7
SImEA 
=LTM AND POPMATIOR PRJECT
Summary Account by Project Component
(US DOLLARS '000)
IIIU      .                                       12 5111111S         F BMW   ill £_Im SnInIS
MWLmOI                                  mhIuilIm- ---------------------------
EI.3  --------   0313    *Ii~1 IKI ITWF 33333. 111                   ------         lil----- ------              hica
om                 Glsrarrlnw;z C=MOTnE       AIInw W   EMrTKN T                                        M                t -inla
U.l.E     1i03mt  F.litl5   sm3     I          m _      *U-111E    911      t     tl3l  "Mm    910------
KM        NUEM    M  MU        t1313     WIMfig           ODITIU  E (3LI0I.311   (33553IN  59      FgIlLIII   1.4.1     2
a. aim~~~~                                       ~         ~~~~~~--  a-  _ _ 0.  .* -    se         -      ___ _                   -           -   44.   360 4.
C. M11111 mtmm. wiunhs. .111.-
31 E M  911101         931                          -             -         - -                      40.0    31.1          -          -      10.-          -       .    0      1.
31m       onARM                                     -          a.7      23.0           23.0          21.3     3*34         -        1.0      I.0           -    27.  36.0    2.7
URnS                                                -         m.0          .e          72.0          14.0 e   S.           -       14.0      2.0           -   415.0  30.0   41.5
lEitAL                                               -            -         -                        1n.o  io.   -                    -      M.0           -       0     .0   75.3
W-Tda3      31Ug~ 133I    , ERWin. U1A 3               -         J.2       259.0        n27.0          90.3   104.5          -       I9.0     333.0           -   .1       0 * 40.1
c. IEIM ,1I
l-       L1                                      320.0         17.e         -             -         103.0    40.0      ue.0         0.          -          -   0.       0.0      .0
-EA    jMIM1                                         -            -         -           1.*             -        -                    _                    -      3.3   6.0    0.0
W-Ts4z   13.m 40335                                1:10.0        010.0                     1 .3       31.0    10.0        120.0      10.0                        1 .03.3   0.0    0.0
LM Mm  _win.                                    -                                                                 _-  -  _0.0  -  -                         "-  .    .0    0.
am1  lT    ltM                                                 t7e          -           IUIIIIS.0       -                           e           -          -    71.    0.0    L.I
t-sa ID  111      5                                    -            .          -           3.0         40.0        -         -          -                     -    33.0   0.0    6.0
1.   _33A    eMIII                                     -          14.7         -           4.4         30.7    20D.          -          -     174.0           -   23.    0.0    0.0
F. Paul ". Fm                                                        -    -                 -             -        -         -                    -       200.0   23.0   0.0    0.e
T1,,  1131 3fll                                       320.0        531.9    7W.             47.7         31.0    104.1      120.0       79Me     27.0       200.0 I.33.1   3.7  2m.
1. r 313
A. IEsRPVI.                                           -          7.0          -             -           1.      10          -        11.0        -           -   312.0   0.0    0.
I.  _lftN lKM31PiT WIW Me   SINE                      -           1.0      25.0          27.0          9.3    1u.0          -        2.3         -           -   374.3   3.0    .7
C.  QUU     _T1U  M  SIIEE                            -         74.0       14.0          54.0           7.0     42.0        -        1.3         -           - 30.3   1.0    3
3. e 3lUA  1IE-                                              -              4.3             -            -      97.0        -        1.0         -           - 101.    1.0    3.3
E. ITIFIIII                                           -                       --                       0.0        -                              -- 30.0   3.0    5.0
F.    E  1                                            -          12.          -             -            -                         -                               12.5   5.0    0-.
htd    S         CM                                      -           .16      43.1    u      1.0         319.3    173.0        -        30.0        -           -   37.1   4.4   30.2
fugd 1n1z  cas                                          0.0         917.4     32.3          ne.7         10S.3   357.1       12.0        0.3     237.0        D.e0 4,0.2    3.5   23I1
PIm1 CAsUiw.                                            -          43.4      79.1          V7A          1.3      18.2         -        2.7     31.3            -   241.3   0.0    0.0
Mi, £mI     _ifu                                     74.0         121.3      3.9         114.7          71.9     44.       23.2       11.4      42.2          -      100.    4.0   2M.
lEa 91     53:                                         34.0        I.33.1     97a4        1.130.          403.1    4221      343.2      14.1     30.5        210.0 1.721.4   5.1  2na
A    _ A                 1.         _      .7    n.S    _   _4. t.__    _                            _          _       _
ruOg h,_                                            34.0          3.4       10.7        3.00.7         310.3    294.7     143.2       10.7     104.9       2eo.0  4.10.?   1.3  220.3



- 53 -
Annex LT-4.2
SIERRA LEONE
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Financing Plan
(in US million)
Components               IDA        Government     Total
Civil Works              0.6                       0.6
Furniture, Equipment
Vehicles and Materials 1.9                       1.9
Technical Assistance      1.2                      1.2
Fellowships              0.1                       0.1
Training                 0.4                       0.4
Recurrent Cost           0.8           0.4         1.2
PPF                      0.3                       0.3
Total                    5.3           0.4         5.7



- 54 -
ANNEX 1, T-4.3
SIERRA LEONE
ERALTR AND POPULATION PROJECr
(US$'OOO - Le'000)
Post-Project Annual Recurrent Cost
leone '000 (June 1985 prices)
Post Proj.
Total           Per Annum
Page                                                                               Investment Recurrent   Recurrent
1 .A Policy Developments and Reforn.
L) Organizational and financial management                                 2.520.00           -
2) Financial implications of manpover study (part PPF)                        120.00          _
3) Drug management policies. systems & site strategy                         954.00           -
4) Facility utilization study (PPF)                                             -
5) Population policy development                                             300.00 
6) Planning - epidemiological model & investment program                      360.00          -
TorAL                                                       4.254.00           -            -
2.B Institutional Developeents
81 Ministry of Health
3.    a) Central    (-PKC Coordination                                              506.80        627.42       209.14
(-Planning. Management, Inform. A Stats. Unit               1,615.70        579.60        193.20
(-Accounts - Financial Management                             350.20        246.90        82.30
(-Accounts - Internal Audit                                    10.00         69.00         23.00
(-Control Medical Store - ImpL. Systems & Train.              720.00          -            -
4.    b) Provincial (-PHC Coordination                                              274.50        545.60        181.80
(-Accounts a Internal Audit                                    54.10         56.70         18.90
S.    c) District   (-DMO b Staff Development                                       267.00        216.00        72.00
d) Peripheral Health Units development, including equipment                2.484.36         659.28       219.76
e) Village Level development                                                    -            24.00         8.00
TOTAL                                                       6.282.66      3.024.30    1,008.10
6.B2  Social Services Sector
a) Netional Population Commission - UNFPPA                                  1,560.00          -            -
b) Central Planning Unit, including project evaluation 6 plan              1,104.00          93.60        31.20
TOTAL                                                       2,664.00         93.60        31.20
7 .C Program Support
Cl Primary Health Care Activities
A) Upgrading factlities                                                    3.732.00         208.80       104.40
b) Drug supply and distribution - drug need stock                          3,792.00           -            -
8.                                       - building equipment & training          1,297.50        597.50       187.00
c) Staff training & supervision - building go school 6 Preservice            635.60         697.20       348.60
9.                                       - Inservice; District and above          1,636.00        458.80        174.00
10-   d) Health Nutrition and Family Plazning Education                             988.20      1,152.60       371.80
e) Monitoring nnd Evaluation                                                 870.00           -
TOTAL                                                      12,951.30      3,114.90       1,185.80
11.C2 Population Activities
Support to the Institute of Education, Planned Parenthood Assn..
Home Economieu Assn_, NPC Secretariat and to the Census Commission   4,440.00                73.80        24.60
CRAND TOTAL                                                30,591.96      6,306.60    "  ;"9.70



- 55 -
ANNEX 1. T-4.4
SIOERR   LOb
NALTI AIM POPUL&TION PROJECT
Procurement
(in US$ million)'
Procurement Method
Proiect Element               ICB       LCB      Other2    N.A.   Total Cost
A.  Civil Works                -          0.3       0.3       -      0.6
(0.3)     (0.3)             (0.6)
B. Furniture, Equipment,
Vehicles, Materials    1.5           0.3        0.1              1.9
(1.5)       (0.3)      (0.1)            (1.9)  C.
Technical Assistance      -           -             1.2       -      1.2
(   )  (   )    ~~(1.2)           (1.2)
D.  Fellowships                -           -        0.1       -      0.1
(0.1)            (0.1)
E.  Group Training             -          -         0.4       -      0.4
(0.4)            (0.4)
G.  PPF Refinancing            -           -         -       0.3     0.3
(0.3)   (0.3)  H.
Operating Costs           -           -             0.6      0.6     1.2
(0.6)   (0.2)   (0.8)
TOTALS                        1.5        0.6        2.7      0.9     5.7
(1.5)      (0.6)      (2.7)   (0.5)   (5.3)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective dmounts to be financed by
IDA.
Costs include physical and price contingencies.
2 Other means of procurement include prudent shopping, procurement of
technical assistance and fellovships, and training overheads.



- 56 -
Annex 1T Table 4.5
SIUDA^ LEONE
NEAT ASD POPULI&OE flOJKC
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in US millions)
Fiscal Year/   Disbursement          Cumulated       Cumulated       Undisbursed
Semester       Per Semester           Amount          Percent          Balance
FY87
December 1986 v/    0.50               0.50             9.4             4.80
June 1987            0.80              1.30            24.5             4.00
FY88
December 1987        0.80              2.10            39.6             3.2
June 1988            0.55              2.65            50.0             2.65
FY89
December 1988        0.75              3.40            64.1             1.90
June 1989 bJ         0.75              4.15            78.3             1.15
FY90
December 1989        0.75              4.90            92.5             0.40
June 1990 cJ         0.40              5.30           100.0             0.00
ad Expected date of effectiveness: July 1986
bj Expected date of project completion: June 1989.
cJ Expected closing date: June 1990.



- 57 -
ANNEX I, T-5.1
Page 1 of 4
SERA LOE
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Quarterly Implementation Schedule of Project Activities
(By Fiscal Year Quarters)
1985-86    1986-87   1987-88      1988-89
Pre-Project   Year 1    Year 2       Year 3
1 2 3 4    5 6 7 8  9 10 11 12  13 14 15 16
Project Preparation and Coordination
- Establishment of Project Steering.
Committee, Project Implementation
Committee and Designation of Key
Project Staff                                  X X X
Drafting of Primary Health Care Hand Book
and its production                           XX X X   X X
- Drafting of Primary Health Care
Operational Manual and its production        X X X X   X X
- Eonducting Health Manpower Training
Evaluation Stuydy                              X XX   X
- Conducting Health Services & Facility
Utilization Study                                X X   X
- Establishment of Pharmacuetical
Management Comoittee and Drug Revolving
Fund                                                X   X
- Signing of Agreement with AFRICARE for
developing drug management system                   X   X X
- Review of MOH's budget, Accounts
allocation and expenditure                     X X X
- Development of operational plan for
Cost-recovery and Drug revolving Fund
and adoption of Standard essential
drug list                                      XX X
- Developing training program and
conducting training of Act./Audit
Staff of MUH at central, provincial
and district levels                              X X   X XX



-58-                                ANNME 1. T-5.1
Page 2 of 4
Pre-ProJect   Year I    Year 2        Year 3
1 2 3 4   5 6 7 8  9 10 11 12 153 14 15 16
-  Rennovation of one Unit of Central
Medical Stores (CMS)                              X X   X
- Training of selected CMS and district
medical store staff                                 X   X  X X X
- Introduction of new drug managawent
system in three districts                           X   X X X X
- Establishment of Escrow Act for Drug
Revolving Fund                                      X
-  Establishment of Bank Act. for IDA
special Account                                     x   x
Civil Works
- Working Drawings 6 Contract Award for
rennovation of one OCS                            x x
- Development of Sketch plans and Bid
Documents for rennovation of 2 more
CMS buildings, 3 hospitals and 45 PHUS              X   X x
- Bidding and Contract award for
Rennovation work                                    x   x x x x  X  x
- Confirmation of Location and Sites
for construction of 18 PiUS                             x x
- Addition of Classroom and dormitory at
Bo Paramedical School                                     x x x
- Bid period and Contract award for
construction of PiUS and Bo
Paramedical School                                        x x x  x  x  x  x
Policy Reforms and Development
-  Development of essential drug Program               X x   x
- Development and adoption of Cost
Containment and cost-recovery
measures                                            X    X X X X



59                              ANNEX 1. T-5.l
Page 3 of 4
Pr.-Proiect   Year 1 _ Year 2         Year 3
1 2 3 4   5 67 8  9 10 11 12  13 14 15 16
- Appointment of Financial Consultant
and Controller                                      X   x   X      X  X X   X  X X X
- Appointment of 0&H Consultant to review
policy and O/M anomales                                X      X            X          X X
- Analysis of Health manpower and Health
Facility utilization studies for
policy recommendations                            X x    X
- Appointment of Conaultant for mid-term
review of project performance and for
development of long-term investment
plan                                                          X X          X          X X
Institutional Develogment
- Establishment and Strengthening of PHC
Coordinator's Office                         X X X X   X X
-  Appointment of incremental staff at PHC
Coordinator'a Office and at Provincial
and District levels                                 X   XX X
-  Training of Provincial and District
level staff in PUC/Family Plarning                    j X     X  IC     X  X          X  X
-  Reorganization of the PtISU                               X X
-  Appointment of Consultant and Incremental
Staff in PMISU                                            X X      X     X K          X  X
-  Appointment of Incremental Staff at NPC               X   X X
-  Training of Staff, Workshops and
Seminars on population                                       XX I  I X   X         X
-  Procurement of Computers, Office
equipment supplies and vehicles                     X   X X X X  X  X  X X  X
- Procurement of materials, equipment and
vehicles for NGOs (if necessary)                        X X X X



-60-                                ANWU 1. T-5.1
Page 4 of 4
Pre-Project   Year I    Year 2        Year 3
1 234              9101112  13 14 T  116
StrezUthening Basic Health and Family
Plauning Services
Uztension of PHC activities in 3 additonal
districts thru:
- Training of Health Staff at District,
and PHU levels in PHC, essential drug
Progrm  and Faily Planning                              K X X X         X  x   x  X
- Provision of essential drugs
contraceptive and  ±dical supply                        XX X X x   X X   X X  X  X  X
-  Introduction of Cost-recovery scheme                      X X X X   X X  X  X   X  X  X  X
- Production of operational manuals and
prescription manuals                                    X X X
-  Launching co umnlty education program                     X X X K   X X  X  X   X  X  X  X
-  Procurement of materials, equipment
and vehicles for f'eld operation staff                |        X X   X



-61-
ANNEX 1, T-5.2
SIERRA LEONE                        Pagc 1 of 2
H'3ALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
List of Technical Assistance Fellowships
Component/Speciality                      Recipient Agency/Unit   Manmonths  Total Cost
Estimate
in USS
A.l Health Policy Reforms
A.! ia) Organization and Management
ment Analysis                              MOH/Adm.             10         100,000
A.1 (b) Financial Management and
Resource Mobilization                     MOH/Fin.              36         360,000
A.1 (c) Long term Investment Planning
and Resource Allocation                    MOH/PIMSU             6          60,000
A.1 (d) Drug Policies and Pricing
Practices                                 MOH/CKS                2          20,000
A.2  Institutional Development for MOH
A.2 (a) Management Information System Dev.         MOH/PIMSU              6         60,000
A.2 (b) Health Statistics and Vital
Registration                              MOH/PIMSU              3          30,000
A.2 (c) Evaluation and Operational Research        MOH/PIMSU/PHC          4         40,000
B.  Strengthening Basic Health and Family
Planning Services
B.1 - Pharmaceutical Management and Logistics
Maintenance System                           MOH/CMS/Admin.        5          50,000
B.2 - IEC and Community Participation              MOH/HEd/CHEN           6         60,000
B.3 - Inservice Training in PHC                    MOH/PHC/Bo Inst.       4         40,000
B.4 - Curricula and Training Materials Dev.    .AOH/Bo Inst.              3.5       35,000
C.  Population Activities, Project Evaluation
and Project Preparation
- Population Policy/Program Development        MODEP/NPC             9          90,000
C.2 - Communication/Social Marketing and
IEC Materials Development                   MODEP/NPC/NGO          3          30,000
C.3 - Project Evalur-tion and Project
Preparation                                 MODEP/Soc. Sector    3            30,000
C.4 - Family Planning Performances Analysis        MODEP/NPC/Soc.
Sector         3          30,000
103.5    1,035,000



- 62 -
ANNEX 1, T-5.2
Page 2 of 2
List of Fellovships
Component/Speciality                       Recipient/Agency        _anmonths    TA. Est.
Cost in
USS
1. Health Planning (Epidemological
Modeling)                                 MOH/PIMSU                 3          6,000
2.  Management Information System             MOH/PIMSU                 3          6,000
3.  Health Statistics/Data Prccessing         MOH/PIMSU
M&E Staff at
Province and
District Levels          18         36,000
4. Long-term Fellowship in Public
Health                                    MOH/DMOS                 48         60,000
5.  Study Tours to observe PHC
Operations with successful Essential
Drug Program and Cost Recovery
Scheme                                   MOH/PHC/CMS                3          6,000
6. Monitoring and evaluation of
Population Program                        MODEP/Social Sector       3          6,000
78        120,000
Note: Local architectural consultancy of about 3 manmonths at a cost of about $3,300
in excluded from the above table.



- 63 -
,SNNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
SIERRA LEONE
UEAITR AND POPULATION PROJECT
Primary Health Care Strategy In Sierra Leone
Objective of PHC Program
Primary Health Care (PHC) is essential health care made universally
accessible to individuals and families in the community by means acceptable
to them, through their full participation and involvement, and at a cost
that the community and country can afford.  It forms an integral part both
of the country's health system of which it is the nucleus, and of the over-
all social and economic development of the community. The general objec-
tive of PHC is to reduce infant, childhood and maternal mortality rates and
also to improve the overall quality of life of the population.
Components of Primary Health Care
The following constitute eight components of PHC: (1) information and
education concerning health (health education); (2) promotion of food
supply and proper nutrition; (3) safe and adequate drinking water and basic
sanitation; (4) maternal and child health (MCH) includ'ng family planning;
(5) immunization against the major infectious diseases; (6) prevention and
cont ol of locally endemic diseases; (7) treatment of common diseases and
injuties; and (8) provision of essential drugs.
Strategy for Delivery of Health Care
It has been recognized by the Ministry of Health and other health care
providers in Sierra Leone that the present set up of the health care system
has failed to meet the health needs of the country's population, especlally
of those people living in the rural areas who constitute between 75 and ROZ
of the total population.
Steps are thus being taken to plan an alternative health care system
with the objective of extending services to every Sierra Leonean by the
year 2000, in consonance with the Alma Ata Declaration. In 1982, a series
of Provincial Seminar/Workshops were held throughout the country attended
by Senior Medical Officers, nurses, dispensers, senior officials from the
Ministries of Agriculture, Works, Education, Provincial Administration,
Development and Economic Planning, Energy and Power, Rural Development and
Social Welfare, NGOs and local Paramount Chiefs, etc. At these seminars/
workshops, strategies and guidelines recommended by an intersectoral Task
Force were discussed and studied. The proposals set out in this chapter
are primarily the outcome of the numerous deliberations of the PHC inter-
sectoral task force and the discussions and proposals arising from the
provincial seminars and workshops are also included.



- 64 -
A.4iNEX 2
Page 2 of 4
The Government of Sierra Leone has adopted the three tier approach for
the Implementation of PHC.
Village Level. The village health worker will provide the first level
of care, and he or she would be accessible within 1/2 - 1 mile of the
population serviced. The village health care service would be organized
and controlled primarily by the comnunity itself, and supported by the
national health system (of which it is an integral Part).
The planning and siting of each peripheral unit of health care wil be
based on both geographic factors related to accessibility as well as
population density. It has been Proposed that a population of 5nn should
be served by one (village) health unit. However, in regions whe-e
geographic and other factors make accessibility difficult the same number
of people would be served by two or more health units. The existing
medical units in peripheral localities are either maternity clinics or
treatment centers. In such locations where these medical units are in
existence, they will constitute the first level of care. These units are
normally staffed by Traditional Birth Attendants (TBAs), Maternal and Child
Health (MCH) Aides, and Endemic Disease Control Unit (EDCU) Assistants.
iThe Chiefdom Level. The Chiefdom level will be the second level of
Health care and it will consitute the first referral unit of the proposed
health care system. it should be accessible within 4-6 miles of the.
population served. Siting of the Chiefdom level health care unit, serving
a population of 10 to 20 thousand, will normally be the chiefdom head-
quarter town but, in chiefdoms whose headquarters are those other than the
largest towns, demograp:,ic and economic factors among others will dictate
the location of the health care unit.*
The District Level. The district health care unit will constitute the
third level of health care and will form the second referral unit in the
system. Existing health care services at all the districts will be
strengthened in order to provide the expected services and support for the
Lower levels of health care in the new system.*
Functions and services to be delivered by Health Workers at the Various
Levels
Although a Task Analysis Group is currently engaged in studies
relating to the health care functions and staff performances within the
health system of the Ministry of Health, it is however widely agreed that
th following group of functions should generally be performed at each
level:
* New Health Centers will be put up where these are not present and in
Chiefdoms where Health Centers are already in existence those will have
to be renovated and upgraded as is necessary.



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4
The Village Level:
The Village Health Worker would undertake:
- simple curative care for common conditions and symptoms
including referral for specific conditions to be specified;
- monitoring of child health and regular supervision of growth
and screening for signs of nutritional deficiencies;
- monitoring of maternal health and supervision of births;
- organization of village sanitation and assistance with
provision and maintenance of a safe and adequate drinking
water supply;
- simple recording and data collectton activities.
The Chiefdom Level - or First Referral Center by Chiefdom Level Staff.
- curative outpatient or ambulatorv care requiring more
skill than is available at village level i.e., diagnosis and
management of diseases and regimens including conditions for
referral to be specified. Where resources are available
this function could be supported by simple laboratory
services;
- maternal and child care including family planning,
nutritional surveillance and nutrition education, Dossiblv
supported by model demonstration kitchens and by food
supplementation when necessary;
- environmental sanitation services;
- communicable disease surveillance and follow up;
- data collection and use and health education;
- coordination through initiatives or support of development
activities which are related to health. These include for
example: agricultural, road-construction and educational
projects which contribute towards the overall development of
the community.
The District Level:
(a) Support services. The district level should provide a strong
supporting system for the lower levels care - village and chiefdom
levels.In addition to the functions listed under 1 and 2 above, the scoport
services include:



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 4
- administrative and managerial functions;
- training and supervision;
- distribution of drugs and supplies; and
- collection and use of data for health status monitoring and
evaluation.
(b) Referral facilities. The district level should provide referral
facilities at the district hospital for patients who cannot be adequately
treated at the lower levels of care. This referral svstem should Include
elements for ensuring feedback to the lower levels from the hospital when
patients are discharged especially for diseases and disease conditions
(e.g. follow-up of communicable and non-communicable diseases) for which
action wnuld be required at lower levels. It will be essential also to
have transport and ambulance facilities readily available at the district
level in order to ensure the carrying-out of these functions.



- 67 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 8
SIERRA LEONE
REALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Illustrative Drug Revolving Fund Syste.
Introduction
The technical assistance planned in the first year of the proposed
project will be used to formulate policies and to design systems, prepare
operating manuals, and set up central mechanisms both from the drug
management and financial viewpoint prior to implementation. The following
outline of the system is illustrative. It highlights some of the general
principles, and the need for further decisions before detailed systems can
be formulated.
The System
1.  Central Level/The Central Medical Store (C4S)
1.1 District stores will requistion drugs for their total requirements
distingusihing between hospital and other (peripheral health unit
-- PHU and Village Health Workers -- VHW's) requirements.
1.2 The CMS will place separate orders for each county within an
agreed procurement policy.
1.3 Deliveries will be received at central level in bulk for each
district and they will be immediately stored in the relevant
district's designated bay at the central store.
1.4 Cartons will only be unpacked at the central store as necessary to
check the delivery against the order. They will then be resealed
while awaiting trans-shipment to the county and ideally kept in
specially designed containers.
1.5 District bulk stocks will be delivered as soon as possible to the
district stores.
1.6 Decisions are needed on: the overall management and staffing of
the CMS; interim arrangements for the CMS before the revolving
fund is operative; the position of districts not in the project;
distribution logistics and management.
2. District Store and Below
2.1 Stocks received for the hospital will be separated from stocks for
other facilities. (It may be possible to transfer the hospital
stocks immediately to the hospital pharmacy.)



- 68 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 8
2.2  Each PHU and village health worker will have fixed stock levels
for each drug. Orders submitted by them to the county store will
be for the quantities required to replenish their stocks to the
agreed levels.
Example:                             Units      Unit Price     Total
Pill x  Initial Stock                1000         $ 0.10       $ 100
Sales                         400          0.10           40
Balance                       600        $ 0.10        $  60
The PHY VHW will reorder 400 pills having obtained a receipt for
$40. At any time there should be either pills and/or cash to the
value of $100.
2.3  It may be possible to supply VHW's and some small PHU's from
sub-stores based at the largest PHU's.
2.4  The stores management at district level will be under the control
of the district medical officer -- proposed redesignated staff
having specific responsibilities in managing the revolving fund.
2.5  Decisions are still needed on the location of district stores and
the involvement of staff at provincial and district level by
defining their job descriptions.
33.  A cardex or similar recording system will be installewd at all levels
so that at least the following information is available for each drug
and in summarized form for each facility.
3.1 Generic name
3.2  Units of issue
3.3  Stock on hand
3.4  Fully referenced receipts and issues details
3.5  Minimum stock reorder levels
3.6  Losses -- shrinkage, breakage, wastage and theft -  with
referencing to formal 'writing offf procedures.
3.7  Selling price (and CIF cost at NDSD level)
3.8  Expiry dates
3.9  Cash receipt references for issues
Additionally, controJled stationery will be designed for requisition-
ing, ordering, delivery and return of drugs as well as for the
accounting system.



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 8
4. The financial system will be closely coordinated with the drug
management system. The system must ensure drugs are only issued
against cash at all levels at the agreed selling price which wvl1 be
calculated and published by the accountant of the CMS and approved by
the Drug Management Team.
4.1 Central Medical Store
(a)  Ideally the cms will have autonomous accounting arrangements
including its own bank account. To the extent that this is
not possible, full accounting details willb e obtained from
the Hinistry of Finance and from within the CMS of those
costs :el!vant to the pricing of drugs:
-    Details of all purchases and payment for them
-    Landing costs (port charges and warehousing)
-    Consumables (statioaery, packaging, etc.)
-    Redistribution cost3 (transport.  This may be an additional
charge at district level is districts are to collect their
own drugs)
-    Full costs of shrinkage, breakage, spoilage, wastage at all
levels
-    Formal destruction of expired drugs.
(b) Accounting records will ensure adequate control and cross
referencing of issues to cash receipts and banking
(c) From the information on costs and income, selling prices will
be fixed based on a standard mark up which will be adjusted
from time to time taking into account the total costs listed
above plus an inflation factor related to future procure-
ment, (In 1984 in a similar project in Liberia, an initial
estimate of an adequate retail price was CIF cost plus
75.5%.)
4.2 At District Store Level
The store will send the cash required either with the order or on
delivery of the drugs. Issues will be made against selling price
lists accompanied by the cash -
(a) For the Hospital -- in their estimate of priority
requirements for the cash available.
('-) For other facilities and VHWs -- replenish standard stock
level. on a "topping up  basis.



- 70 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 8
4.3 Decisions are needed on the scope and amount of information
required from the MOF; the powers to be tra.asferred to the MOHSW
from the Ministry of Finance; the content of job descriptions for
financial staff; pricing policies; and banking arrangements.
5. Cash Systems
5.1 At Hospital Level, every effort will be made to separate the
duties of those involved with handling cash and those delivering
health care. It is envisaged that there will be one secure cash
office at the entrance to the hospital responsible for all cash
(i.e. sales of drugs and other fees for service). A prescription
from a doctor should be priced by the pharmacist. The patient
should then obtain a receipt from the cash office which will be
the phar-macist's authority to release the drugs. Sufficient
referencing and filing of prescription and copy receipts should be
available for audit.
5.2 At PHU and Village Level, the clinical and nursing staff will
inevitably have to deal with the financial aspects. Receipts
should be issued against the published price lists and files and
referencing should be conducive to subsequent auditing.



I'IlQ[OSj    .jPIATION    N  .JLITA~tAtlS(1t'   lAAKi,  *                       SIr'.IIA  LEONE
!L&IA TIVK 
lIEVEl. I      lEFVEl. 2      LEVEL 31
Nwi. iaf Mmi.
Peali                     Cenitral W'-dI-              Supiply  Iil     Detali 1
plherual    Dinlrt1 net tal Stiore                      Pi pe!II no
DealI  Ita   Stiae'/    I dier levels._A'   
Unite1        Naacfp.         I A, 2)       Neorder    I 2 .1
Monith  I  A A A A B till B t: C C C. C C C C                         4 4 nl         FIRS%T DE.IVFRY   UJAiLV  Or  MTVT. m'IIIl?0E1ONTS) IN 39W11 & lYl     QUARTMR Or FIRST IPROJEC'  YEAR
litin ihlly  ruilI"mella"   4 mi.  ai  LevelI I; 4 wmis  at Level 2 maid B mfis at Lairf! 3.
2     A A A    R H Itrc C a: e:r eC c C                      .  ,n          Olli mawpisl's  -citiuks aaseeif :I  1'v.'ix  I L 2.
I1       A A        It P C e? C C C C C C                    2 2 9          Twoo uaiilli's  lum-ks tumNi-i at ic'v.tn  1 A 2.
4           A A A AN B   B B    C C C C C P D P               1 4 5          Thr-ee iminths atm  im k asrmsvl  rmpptc-nisha.d fan.m Level 3; 3 a"e stocks rcc ur&'recI.
5              A AA          BB ac c C CcDDnD                I.' if          Fuiurmammili,s t4tcia'hswuse'miit  Ie.l    l&2.
6i                A A       BB8C CC C CD  DD                 22fli           Fivr nttflatIWtti-k uhieti t  l-cIs 112.
7                   A A A A N N B :1 C C r C C               4 4 !i          Sax wanit- InstOcks uso.1; rpiplm.aiie-11 lay Fm-them  ,            w3 m     frau  tvI y')   : A-i 11  nnr&r
iieilvmvm-ijei snnd furthier 3 me-s awe' g,a-dtreda.
s                                                                           CYCLE rONTINUrES ATlM 501 TOCKS9
S                                                                           SECNON  DEI,VERY  (IIAI.r OF TOTAL REOLIIRDFN?) IN 2ND & 3RD QUARTER OF SFlNP  PROJErT  YEAR
10                                                                           fYCLER CONTINIFES ON TOTAL STOCK
Noteast    I. A    Slths  am'qi-suia-m'di titm- oaae' month  In Vibi emis  maul- r-  r"a i-IA-lai  iti.-lm l, riitP5f AN11-o    ).
2. B    St iili ice reuirell faim- cane munIla at. Distr-ict Slit eerc  Fir niNatri I-c  IliasA'11:11  (:mm        riet  s.hortm AIAi  linIages  In partieular 'Jrugs) at level I.
3. C    St nc-ks rectaalrmi"l For canei mint h's siaplal y Foir Lovm'l I rigidi L'yve.l 2.
4. D      miti' month's siatlaly om  urdecr.
!e.      Time'  ct sni niFwl imae  knit iail ly will imi lmw  Fear- 12 teast lis mut*t'11-: . FIhlit  ha- 8 smut IAn  For Ithe whole system  at lAevel 3. 4 mantls supply  for
thle distract hospi tal andl 4 monthts supp-ly far Leve'l I aly
A".      All A rnsaial'is caf iltruga bn-twc'cn store'. (rear- e.snuplc- tlec' 3 mtiaitit itadl ivm'ramoa  frimt  lPvel 3 tc  lervols I & 2) will only  take- place qL!_c erh
fians Aeen poll].
7.       Tlime. Contravil Mm'tleeail Store will lanvc.' cnsha aiwi lsietle' ait AIlam' tim   e-veriy urdeir  is g.Iivemit.
it.       It  IN4 maiMtrlint mmmjci tlii  ormder-s tukalsoAwee A  At 1hmee'mmtAm     a-  it.. lis.'m-m*mI   Tia'e-t osus' oft en -t.l nyc ciuc to  O nnrance' fm-as 9m1rt.  Therefore'
:i to 4 uattlam ltans tae'e.maml Iswed betwe-en nride,a mail dlie.)tmry.
¶1.      11am' F rirt saraters shtould be-, spe'Ai: lee  fins  e'amch  fame-Iliy.                                                                                                                      o
Pt
'I ~ ~   ~ ~ c



WaEu tEOIIE
A*TJCIFAMEI TCIEA
Project Tear I                                           ProjeIt Tear 2                                          PrjecI Tear 3                                     fetal
................................................ .................. ---------------------- ----  ----- ---------    ..... . -------------- ... ------~- ---------- -----------1----- ----------------    ..................... ~~~~
Iit Str       2a   Atr      3rd Air       4th Oir        ist Str       2ad Sir l      rd SOr       4th  Mtr       lst Sir       ad  $i        3rd Sir       4th Sir
.................................. .........................................  .......... ............... ........... ... ......... ..... ...... ... ....... ... ........ .. .......... ... ......... .... ...... ....... ..... ............. ....... ........
kvq SeI Stetk hevisia
FIBS    s9ls rSat *t2,so l : p SliuOm                                                                       SEED
ISME       In s     Ird Olevier oI First Tesr                                                            113,500
T............................................... 
lAcoe  -1001 trod 411 barter                                                                                29,500        2s,soe        29,550        29S10       00        n,so     ,           nsue          29,ISW         2,1K5                  2SSilO
IS Additio   fla   at U    ,O " ONpA  : 3,000                              I                                                              SEED
Ie say Tad   artelr oI Slesed  Tear                                                                                                      34,000
lAcaes  - 1001 (rco 3rd barter                                                                                                                           9,000         9,eco         S000 a,,0                    9,000         9,000                 554,00
SECOlS    SS  Mils at 82,000 pa: I111,000                               j                                                                                           Sl'
ISSUE      is say Jrd   uarter of Seased  lir                            I                                                                                        118,000
....................................-- - -                                                                                                            . .. .. .. ..... .,!......,I
Im          -e 1O (ro   4    barter                                                                                                                                    9 ,500       29,500        2,"           7 9,500 n2,S00                       147,Nn
F1n1        3 IHsitals it  UCon   ec h: 1190,000                                                                          SCI
ISSUE      Is ii  4th ebatef of First Tear                               1,0,00N
leses - 100i        roe Ist berite   of First Tear                                                                         41,0O6        41,000        41,000        41,000         41.o0o        41.061        45,005        41.o00                31,606
SE=    J Hwitals at  1,  elackh  51,1 0 1                                                                                                                           SEE 
ISSUE     eI  sar 3rd barter of Sesod  Tear                                                                                                                       180,600
............................----                  ----                                                                                                ............... ...II.......;I
lxoes     -    IU rse  4th barter                                                         j                                                                          45,  0        415,0          4160          41,006        4100                  2251111.6
ISIlillI ICK                                                                   .                            29,106         74,13K        74,10o        E,J 3 ISa,o                 IS000         ISO,          ISm  |4,m       u,m,2,0
SEE sOCR umiislam                                                                             turns  inns                                             m ,m                                                                               _m
06



-73 -                                     NNEX 3
Page 7 of 8
Sil     on
Anticipated Inco e
1.        Tbe attached stateent shoms the details of the estimated inco.e
from the sale of drugs:
Project Year 1      4th Quarter                    $ 29,500
Project Year'z      lst Quarter     74,500
2nd Quarter     74,500
3rd Quarter     83,500
4th Quarter    158.000         390,500
ProJect Year 3      lIt Quarter    158,000
2nd Quarter    158,000   -
3rd Quarter    158,000
4th Quarter    158.000         632.000
Total Estimated income in project period:         1.062.000
Thereafter C632,000 plus inflation should be generated each year.
2.        The following assumptions have been made:
2.1 Seed stock provision will-be supplied to PHU's to a value of
$2,000 each and each hospital will receive $60,000 each.
2.2 The 59 dxisting PlU's will be supplied in two equal issues between
the 3rd quarter of the first project year through the 3rd quarter
of the second project year as set out on the statement.
2.3 Income will be collected and paid in fro, the quarter following
delivery of the seed stock.
2.4 l00S recovery of each is estimated in the stateaent.
2.5 No additional income has been estimated to cover charges 'or
other expense (e.g. landing costs, consumables, transport breakage
and watage asd expiry of drugs). In a similar project in Liberia
an on-cost of 75.5X for these expenses has been estimated.
2.6 It is estimated that economic supply and demand factors will
be favorable aa even with additional costs recharged, drugs should
still be cheaper than the private sector. The question of user
satisfaction and the credibility of health facilities is assumed
to improve thereby stimulating enough demand to optimize drug
sales.



ANNEX 3
74 -                                    Page 8 of 8
Conclusions
Although every effort will be made to ensure 100t recovery there
will inevitably be some losses particularly in the early stages of the
project when staff will still be learning the accounting and drug pricing
policies and procedures.
However, it is also envisaged that other costs will be recharged
at over 50 of the CIF Drug cost which will compensate for any losses.
A critical factor will be the level of utilization of the facilities which
will depend on user satisfaction.
It is suggested that for planning purposes taking account of
these points, the income generated during the project be estimated at $1
million. Thereafter $600,000 per annum plus inflation can be anticipated.



-75 -
ANNEX 4
SIERRA LEONE
UEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Documents Related to the Sector
A.1 The Futures Group, "Sierra Leone - The Effects of Population
Factors on Social and Economic Development", May 1985.
A.2 Ministry of Health, "Primary Health Care - National Action Plan",
June 1983.
A.3 National Population Commission, "Country Statement on Population",
a paper presented at the Second African Population Conference,
January 1984.
A.4 National Population Commission, "The Integration of Population
into Dcrelopment Planning", June 1985.
A.5 UNICEF, "The Health Situation Analysis", Sierra Leone, March 1985.
A.6 WHO, "Country Health Resource Utilization Review, Sierra Leone",
Auguat 1984.
B. Documents Related to the Project
B.1 Ministry of Health, Sierra Leone, "Population and Health Support
Services Project in Sierra Leone", Project Proposal, April 11,
1985.
B.2 Ministry of Health, Sierra Leone, "Essential Drugs Program," April
1984 Ministry ot Health (Dr. Belmont Williams), "The Health
Services in Sierra Leone", MOH, 1980-81.
B.3 I3RD, "Health Expenditure Analysis", Ministry of Health, Sierra
Leone, Mar'ch 1985.
B.4  UNICEF/IBRD, "Logistics for Essential Drugs and Vaccine Supply in
Sierra Leone", December 1984.
B.5  USAID, "Family Health Initiatives Project Proposal", May 1983.
B.6 Terms of Reference and Proposals for Studies.
B.7 Cost Recovery in Health Services in Sierra Leone.
B.8 Policy and Procedures for Medical Stores in Sierra Leone (by
AFRICARE, December 1985).
B.9 Preliminary Report on Health Manpower Study.
B.10 Preliminary report on Health Services and Facility Utilization
Studies.



WA.1H Ae  1aLt( PM=
arrzu or  0s orM."A Me iimm
] - r         j~~~m~aanzn____a
-~~~~~~                          ad~~~~~~~ ProJ setedaw
r-  ------           -                            [                                     1 -fi        -         .,
~. ~t          3*. ml.                      ThazPeet                   Sudahiau __Fil __                . __l OFdtSr                          _ 
_~J      _S9JE]_                                 ad Pr°pcta             ad PUd-               tItogS
~~~wi ~ ~    ~    wl
L   ___                            J  axteF "sotcel~L                                                           L~LJ               a
m; [p 4tra1  Ma     |         r office  d          nt UOlt    Udncipel |     OEr  lfk _ _  _ r    1
L    'cem Afe  rimSOU     wn                                          bt"
Lfm(LlevijC
_Ž-   1 _    .]mity .      -m-tt_
ME3 Qmttas I                3     dttus
IWd.l  j nt I | lE. |      k d  ad Cfttmu  ad 1  lbLIta;l  r       l un1 wtr
Pic aQwtt..
ad~~ ~    ~                                    J 1af a- *ma   I 1
IY Gmdtta. Owaltlnn as dwlt tn k,  S. 0-2
33*-. bid liad tnn weg ftt IaH tffdts  lchdt wil Ihm dfwt prtj.d mists



StEStA ILE
IIUALW Am PoFnWTIN PIIJCT
FInECT CRCWIZATIO
Chalrman    - Pinnedal Srcretry         - NW
_tlXber    - Deveop_t Secretary         - MM
CiSt     ttmeer                            - Chief MIWicul Officer      - MNI
TL°IIiItF              ]s--          ,      lti__er    - Pemrvwt Secintity          - 104
___ ____.                   Ne r       - Executive secretary
kbe r      -NW Repreenettive
_e___nnt                                                                                fSeretarY - (Social Services Sector    - MP
Serear    e__H ct lople_ritmtlon Cnvw  C_                                                  hatrn                     - CMD, MR
__ ____                      __   _                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prmanent Secretary  -mn
OerP/Y Cht-  rdicia 1 Ofitcer -1  fr
-__                   ___ _....L.     .t _ _trectnr.                          Services     - MN
___   PreoIe      ChahrmmnlProjleet Director                 Director. EDWJ              - IC
Social Services     ___ _ CjfinulJutjx   . _W O-lH                         __       1        Executti  Secretary        - NPC/iDEP
Sector                    -_    _j]__aimaan. Provincial lupleentation Ctttee
L       L_..... ._                                                 i _ --l    _ _   ncial Controller
FO1t                      Project Pnjer                           Senior Planemi  Officer - PIfiSU/M1H
I           [-__      PHG O-ordinator  -__  Pul               Prolect Coordinatnr - lmtutute of Ekcatioon
roller                __  _          __    V    i             Project Coordinator - Nae Ecoics A Medation
----__j 1                                                       Project Coordinstor - Planed Isrenthown  Federation
_   _  _ 11                                                - _7_127_   - 1  r  _   |  Prlry Health Care Coordinator - ler/Secretary
lonitarim  ]Amz           ona  Popultlon   Lhdcei I        e.IIAsiit                   d.Stat        jTlIrw.s!I _                                                                                      a
Eveluit.on Untt _  __        C   Secretriat       _                _                      Vital l  nfo. j       ijn' Jj
LPlng. Officer                      U aetleSfr.tr      telr   Syt.z                                         _.
Stdf      Stdf       Staf     Stdaf        TaIhn./kcmt          Ope rationa    [    Traildrg           M uLaison
atean    Etem SAttMrn  Nnrthern            I   Officer    I    I           flcer  I  Evaluation          Officer IcI
Area     Prence   Province  Province      I      --L_                  _J      L_ .                            J
Provincial bipleuentation     ProvinieAl lapleenitatinn     Provinctil Iplesntation
Tem  (Nrthi             L     Ter  (Eat)                   Trn_ (South)    J
r--JCTh    I                                             r 121   -
F'mhax9tii            ?ov*olt ii  Dist.     I.ma  D1             Ity inteDia    [i.DlatL       rPujehks mt
L_Ari nto r.r                                                                       I Tim -      Lrr -  Jn   n-r
1- PHIJS                 PHIS                                                                         M
MmRs"I                                             PHOS



IBRD 19459R
SIERRA   LEONE                                    r   .       .'
HEALTH AND POPULATION                                  u..
SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT                                  Alt'K.
o        N. Wqw,V,Ms                              Existing  and  Proposed                                       t, .Ai
o   Pow.nce Hodq.,ar                         Primary  Health  Care Programs                              i IIiIL             1
*   BaaolCPo                                                                                        '.:;                RItNI
a -      ct Soundw.e
- - Pror.* Bundeor,X.
-  - Iie.n.oti.onal BoUR           _-O        *._- NI
PrimarV Henith Cnre             *
by District:                  ri
EXISTING                                                                                      GU -  OLbINEA
PROPOSED 
1 B O M B  A  L I                  H      I  A  [I II ,   r1
G U                                            h N E A                  Proinc
r   ,fN-'oJ r   t   h    e    r   n             r    o       v    i  n    c    e
j    Kob       '          
.K A M B  I1A o  .  | - r
*                l                        \:   ,.  -.   ..   .  I                 -          ;
m<0F f~
POR~~~ r  .-  ;rK [1....
rlt(>fTERS~~~~~ -_                                               ,                  .....,- *n.s  
O j . ¢. ; ;;, .. .. ff ,                      ;_,
FREETCMN -  -                                                                                                      -
P  r o>~fiMAn  c e l
a. ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     B
Urban Distract Council         .~                                                 
r       v      r i                                             LI BE RI A
0  20  40                                      Ir'fl!'
o  ~ ~20   I       80      M       00
MILOTEOS
MAY 1966



