OFFICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1595 SLM
Development Credit Agreement
(Health and Population Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated     Z                         , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1695 SL
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           e      2,4       , 1986, between
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAC the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.
Section 1.02.   Unless the   context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) "Local Advance Account" means the account referred to
in Section 3.01 (f) of this Agreement;
(c)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated September 26, 1984,
November 16, 1984, July 2, 1985 and August 27, 1985 between the
Borrower and the Association;
(d) "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;


﻿-2-
(e) "PHC Coordinating Unit" means the Primary Health Care
Coordinating Unit of MOH;
(f) "NPC" means the Borrower's National Population Commis-
sion;
(g) "NGO" means a non-governmental organization in the
health care or population field selected by the Borrower with
the agreement of the Association for participation in project
activities; and
(h) "leone" or "Le" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01-. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to four million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 4,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
*(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges


﻿-3-
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the!
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1990 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time, to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1996, and ending March 1,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 2006 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative and public health and management practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreemeat between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
(c) The Borrower shall maintain the Project Steering Com-
mittee and the Project Implementation Committee in a form and
with functions and staffing satisfactory to the Association.
Further provisions relating to the Project Steering Committee,
the Project Implementation Committee as well as the District
Implementation Teams are set out in Part B of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall: (i) pursuant to Part A (3) of the
Project establish and thereafter maintain in MOH a Planning,
Management, Information and Statistics Unit (PMISU) in a form and
with functions and staffing satisfactory to the Association; and
(ii) assign to PMISU no later than September 30, 1986, a Senior
Management Information Officer, a Computer Operation/System
Analyst and a Secretary.
(e) The Borrower shall: (i) continue to maintain the PHC
Coordinating Unit in a form and with functions and staffing
satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) to that end assign
(A) to the PHC Coordinating Unit an operations officer, a train-
ing and evaluation officer and a liaison officer, and (B) to the
provincial health office and district health office respectively
an administrative officer and a medical officer.
(f) The Borrower shall: (i) open at a commercial bank and
thereafter maintain a local advance account to be used exclu-
sively for local expenditures to be made under the Project; (ii)
pay into the local advance account an initial amount of two


﻿-5-
hundred thousand leones (Le 200,000) (the initial amount); and
(iii) thereafter replenish the Local Advance Account as and when
required to ensure that on the first day of each calendar quarter
of eachlyear the Project is executed, an amount equal to at least
the ini' tial amount shall be available in that account.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and procurement of all essential drugs, vaccines
and medical supplies for the public sector to be financed from
the Borrower's own budgetary resources shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Not later than eighteen months after the
Effective Date the Borrower and the Association shall in a joint
review evaluate progress achieved in carrying out the Project
including the health policy reforms, progress in the implementa-
tion of cost containment and cost recovery measures (including
increased hospital user fees), development of population and
nutrition policies and the need for any changes in estimates of
Project costs and Project scope or structuring.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall with effect from fiscal
year 1986/1987 reduce the number of MOH's daily wage employees by
at least 10% yearly so that the Borrower shall effect a total
reduction of at least 30% by June 30, 1989 in the number of such
employees, as determined on December 31, 1985.
(b) The Borrower shall by June 30 in 1987 and in each
following year up to and including June 30, 1989 furnish the
Association with evidence satisfactory to the Association showing
that the Borrower has achieved the reduction in daily wage
employees required under paragraph (a) of this Section.
ZICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Special Account and the
Local Advance Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by indpendent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until     at  least  one  year   after  the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was   made,   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of


﻿-7-
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the establishment of PMISU and the assignment to PMISU
of a Principal Health Planning Officer;
(b) the assignment of the staff specified in Section
3.01 (e) of this Agreement to the PHC Coordinating Unit and to
the provincial health office and the district health office;
(c) the opening of the Local Advance Account and the pay-
ment of the initial amount pursuant to Section 3.01 (f) of this
Agreement; and
(d) the establishment, in each of the Borrower s districts
where the Project is carried out, of a District Implementation
Team,'satisfactory to the Association.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
The Financial Secretary
The Ministry of Finance
Freetown
Sierra Leone
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINFIN                               3363
Freetown
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
'yh  D  o u      S.     w&~l"a-
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  525,000        90%
(2)  (a) Furniture,              610,000  )
equipment,                      )
vehicles and                    )
materials                       )     100% of foreign
)     expenditures and
(b) Essential            -1,045,000  )     85% of local
drugs,                          )     expenditures
vaccines and                    )
medical                         )
supplies                        )
(31  Consu tants'             1,220,000        100%
servides and
fellowphips
(4) Local; training              695,000        100%
and recurrent
costs
(5) Refunding of                 225,000        Amor   due pur-
Project Prepara-                           sue   to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(6) Unallocated                  280,000
TOTAL                4,600,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "Recurrent costs of the Project" shall mean
the costs defined in the Annex to this Schedule, as modified from
tIme to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisiona of paragraph 1 above:
(i) no withdrawals shall be made after June 30, 1987
in respect of expenditures under Categories (1)
and (4) unless (except as the Association may
otherwise agree) the Borrower has furnished the
Association with evidence of reduction in daily
wage employees required under Section 3.04 (b) of
this Agreement; and
(ii) no   withdrawals  shall  be made   in  respect of
expenditures under Category (2) (b) unless the
Borrower has furnished to the Association with
every withdrawal application relating to such
expenditures evidence satisfactory to the Associa-
tion showing that the procurement of all essential
drugs, vaccines and medical supplies mentioned in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement is governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿. - 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
(Annex)
Project Recurrent Costs
Recurrent costs of the Project shall mean the following
costs:
(1)  Incremental salaries of MOH and NPC relating to the
following positions:
A.   Planning, Management Information System Unit, MOH
1.   Principal Health Planning Officer
2.   Senior Management Information Officer
3.   Computer Operation/System Analyst
4.   Secretary
B.   Primary Health Care Coordinator's Office
1.   Operations Officer
2.   Training and Evaluation Officer
3.   Accountant
4.   NGOs Liaison Officer
5.   Administrative Officer
6.   Sub-Accountant
C.   Provincial Health Office
Administrative Officer
D.   District Health Office
Medical Officer
E.   National Population Commission Secretariat
1.   Demographer/Economist
2.   Communication Specialist
3.   System Analyst
4.   Statistical Assistants
F.   Health Education Unit, MOH
Health Education Officer.


﻿- 12 -
(2) Vehicle operation and maintenance costs of MOH, NPC and
NGOs.
(3) Perishable medical supplies and office supplies.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) improvement of the
health sector through policy reforms and strengthening of MOH in
program planning, management, coordination and monitoring; (ii)
strengthening of basic health and family planning services,
particularly primary health care; and (iii) development of
population policy and programs to meet family planning needs.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Sectoral Support
1.   (a) Reorganization and administration of the Borrower's
health care delivery system.
(b) Revision of existing manpower policies, job descrip-
tions, deployment and training programs for the Borrower's health
care staff.
(c) Improvement of health expenditure and resource alloca-
tion (including cost containment and cost recovery measures),
existing budgeting, accounting and auditing practices, pharmaceu-
tical management and logistics practices (including supply and
distribution of drugs, vaccines and contraceptives) and utiliza-
tion of health services and facilities.
2.   Strengthening of MOH's planning, statistics and management
information system, including the establishment of a Planning,
Management Information and Statistics Unit (PMISU) and provision
to MOH of micro-computing and office equipment, materials and
vehicles, local and overseas fellowships for MOH staff and
operational research studies.
3.   Establishment of an effective system for accounts main-
tenance, audit and financial reporting, institution of appro-
priate cost-containment measures, and strengthening of cost
recovery measures.


﻿-14-
4.   Improvement of coordination and management of the Borrower's
primary health care program, including the strengthening of the
PHC Coordinating Unit, establishment within the PHC Coordinating
Unit of annual residences for physicians scheduled for overseas
public health fellowships, provision to the PHC Coordinating Unit
of vehicles, furniture, equipment and materials and production
for the use of MOH staff of a primary health care operational
manual satisfactory to the Association.
Part B:   Basic Health and Family Planning Services
1.   Extension of primary health care to the Kenema, Moyamba and
Tonkolili districts, including the rehabilitation and/or con-
struction and equipping of central medical stores warehouses,
district hospitals, peripheral health units and rehabilitation
and equipping of the referral hospital for Tonkolili and assign-
ment of paramedical staff to the peripheral health units.
2.   Improvements in drug supply and distribution including:
(A) development of a standard list of drugs, contraceptives and
medical supplies for use at health facilities; (B) introduction
of an improved system of record-keeping, storage, distribution
and supplies monitoring at the central medical stores and in the
Bo, Pujehun, Kenema, Moyamba, Tonkolili and Bombali districts;
(C) staff training in record-keeping and inventory management;
(D) production of a prescription manual for in-service train-
ing and use by health workers and a plan for the procurement,
storage, distribution and safekeeping of drugs, vaccines and
other health related items; and (E) establishment of a revolving
fund to ensure regular replenishment of drugs in six districts.
3.   Staff training including: (A) the      strengthening of   the
Borrower's community health officer training program and imple-
mentation of its one-year assistant community health officer
program; (B) expansion, furnishing and equipping of classroom and
dormitory space at Bo; (C) introduction of appropriate community
health (drug usage and family planning) content into the formal
curricula for training of paramedicals; and (D) development by
the PHC Coordinating Unit of a field-based in-service training
for district and lower level health workers and development of a
consolidated in-service training plan.
4.   Development of health, nutrition and family planning educa-
tion including: (A) training of staff of MOH's Health Education
and Nutrition Units, (B) provision to MOH of office equipment


﻿- 15 -
and materials to strengthen health, nutrition, maternal child
health and family planning education, and (C) a study of agencies
involved in population, health, nutrition and maternal child
health education and development of a comprehensive plan of
action to serve as the framework for the development of a com-
munity education campaign aimed at health care, nutrition educa-
tion, birth spacing and fertility control.
Part C:   Population Activities
1.   Strengthening  the   capacity  of  the  Borrower's  National
Population Commission (NPC) to develop population policy and
coordinate, monitor, evaluate and support population related
actiVities.
2.   Provision of additional professional and support staff,
basic furniture, equipment, materials and vehicles to the NPC
Secretariat.
3.   Training seminars and workshops for policy makers, planners
and staff of relevant ministries; development and production of
materials on population related issues; and the carrying out of
operations research projects and population program-oriented
studies by appropriate NGOs.
4.   Strenghthening the effectiveness of NGOs and provision of
necessary assistance to the NGOs.
5.   Development by the University of Sierra Leone's Institute of
Education of appropriate syllabuses and teaching kits; training
of teaching personnel in population education; and the evaluation
of training methodology, training programs and instructional
materials.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1989.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods (including all
essential drugs, vaccines and medical supplies for MOH and other
public sector institutions) shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May
1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for drugs, medical
supplies, vehicles, equipment and material shall be grouped in
bid packages estimated to cost an amount equivalent to $50,000 or
more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Sierra
Leone may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works and furniture and standard office equipment may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association. To the extent practicable such
furniture and equipment shall be grouped in bid packages in
amounts sufficient to encourage competitive bidding and permit
bulk procurement.
2.   Miscellaneous equipment and materials estimated to cost an
amount equivalent to $5,000 per contract (up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed an amount equivalent to $100,000), fuel and
perishable supplies and office supplies may all be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of price quotations solicited from
a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines,
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.


﻿-17-
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract to be awarded under
international competitive bidding procedures referred to in
Part A of this Section and each contract for goods or works esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out
of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of
said Appendix shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect
of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in


﻿- 18 -
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A:   General
1.   Standard List of Drugs, Prescription Manual and
Training of Health Workers
The Borrower shall: (i) not later than December 31, 1986
complete and furnish to the Association the standard list of
drugs, contraceptives and medical supplies and the plan for the
procurement, storage, distribution and safekeeping of drugs,
vaccines and other health related items required under Part B (2)
of the Project; and (ii) not later than March 31, 1987 (A) com-
mence the training of health workers on drug storage, distri-
bution and prescription, and (B) complete and furnish to the
Association the prescription manual required under said Part of
the Project.
2.   Policy Studies, Health Investment Plan and Annual
Development Plan
(a) The Borrower shall: (i) not later than March 31, 1987
furnish to the Association for its review and comments the
results and recommendations of the policy studies to be carried
out under Part A.1 and 2 of the Project; (ii) incorporate into a
long-term health investment plan recommendations of the studies
as shall be satisfactory to the Association; and (iii) not later
than September 30, 1987 furnish to the Association for its review
and comments the final draft of such investment plan.
(b)  The Borrower shall until the completion of the Project
furnish to the Association not later than April 30 each year for
the Association's review and comments a draft of the Borrower's
annual development plan with details of related . cost implica-
tions.
3.   Drug Procurement and Pricing Study
(a) The Borrower shall not later than June 30, 1987: (i)
carry out and furnish to the Association for its review and
comments a study of the drug procurement and pricing practices


﻿,0-
of the private sector in Sierra Leone; and (ii) furnish to the
Association proposals for improving such procurement and pricing
practices.
(b) The Borrower shall maintain an escrow account in the
Bank of Sierra Leone, to be used exclusively to purchase essen-
tial drugs, vaccines and medical supplies for distribution in the
six districts mentioned in Part B.2 of the Project.
4.   National Population Statement
(a)  The Borrower shall not later than December 31, 1986:
(i) prepare and furnish to the Association for its review and
comments a draft national population policy statement; and (ii)
carry out a review of the legal status, composition, structure
and functions of the National Population Commission and its
Secretariat, including recommendations as to measures which the
Borrower proposes to take to strengthen the National Population
Commission and upgrade the position of the Secretariat in the
government organizational structure.
(b) The Borrower shall not later than July 31, 1987 prepare
and furnish to the Association an action plan satisfactory to the
Association for implementing the Borrower's national population
policy.
5.   Plan for Community Education
The Borrower shall not later than December 31, 1987 pre-
pare and furnish to the Association for its review and comments
the comprehensive plan for community education required under
Part B (4) of the Project.
Part B:   Project Agencies
1.   Project Steering Committee (PSC)
PSC shall be concerned with broad policy matters, overall
supervision of project execution, review of project performance,
ensuring timely financial flow of funds for the Project, mid-
term evaluation of the Project and informing the Association of
progress of the Project. PSC shall be constituted as follows:-
Financial Secretary - Chairman
Development Secretary - Member


﻿- 21 -
Permanent Secretary for Health - Member
Chief Medical Officer - Member
A representative of NGOs - Member
Principal Planning Officer of Social Sector in
the Ministry of Development and Economic Planning
- Secretary
2.   Project Implementation Committee (PIC)
(a) PIC shall be responsible for the coordination of
Froject activities and ensuring continued collaboration among
units and agencies participating in the Project and for the
timely implementation of annual operation plans. PIC shall be
constituted by heads of project implementing units, chairpersons
of the District Implementation Teams and the head of the National
Population Commission. PIC's Chairman shall be the Chief Medical
Officer who shall also serve as the Project Director responsible
for the execution of the Project.
(b) The Project Director shall be assisted by the PHC
Coordinator and his staff who shall also serve as the Project
Manager. The Project Manager shall be responsible for project
procurement, disbursements and other project administrative
functions.
3.   District Implementation Teams (DITs)
DITs shall be responsible for coordinating and implementing
project activities in the project districts. A DIT shall be
headed by the Principal Medical Officer and shall have as members
the respective District Medical Officer, existing health advisers
and other technical staff.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 23 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agre:ement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, less the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to an amount equivalent to twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Asso-
ciation shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any


﻿-24-
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or ((i) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notic6 from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if tl e Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount  qual to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not /4 0eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


