Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15100
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2435-PH)
NOVEMBER 3, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Philippine Pesos (P)
l                         ~~~~~~~~Pesos pJer US$1
1985   1 1986  11987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
l 167  l  8.6     20    l 2.6     '1    l 21.7  l24.3  l27.5  l 25.5  l27
FISCAL YE.AR
Januarv 1 - December 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m) = 3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (kmi) = 0.62 miles (M.1i)
1 hectare (ha) = 10,000 square meters (sq.m.) or 2.47 acres (ac)
I linear meter (Im) = 1 meter (m)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BLGF               = Bureau of Local Government Finance
COA                = Co.mmission on Audit
CPO                = Central Project Office
DBM                = Department of Budget and Management
DILG               = Department of Interior and Local Government
DOF                = Department of Finance
DPWH               = Department of Public Works and Highways
[RA                = Internal Revenue Allotment
L&A                = Local Govermnent Academy
LGU                - Local Government Unit
MIDF               =  Municipal Development Fund
MDP                = Municipal Development Project
MLG                = Ministry of Local Government (now DELG)
Ml?                = Municipal Training Program
NEDA               = National Economic and Development Authority
PEAC               = Pre-aualification Evaluation and Awards Committee
PRENMIUNIEfD       = Program for Essential Municipal Infrastructure, Utilities, Maintenance
and Engineering Development
RCDP               =  Regional Cities Development Project
RPTA               = Real Property Tax Administration
RPU                = Real Property Tax Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Director-General
operations Evaluation                                                        November 3, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on the Philippines
Municipal Development Project (Loan 2435-PH)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Philippines: Municipal Development
Project (Loan 2435-PH, approved in FY84) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office,
with Part n prepared by the Borrower.
The Project was the first in a series of Bank-funded municipal development projects in the
Philippines. Its objectives centered on providing financing to local governments for infrastructure,
improving municipal services, and increasing local technical and administrative capacity. The Project was
designed to preclude mrany of the problems experienced in earlier urban projects in the Philippines: the roles,
functions and responsibilities of each of the implementing agencies were distinct and well-defined, with
minimal overlap. At appraisal, only 15 cities and municipalities were included in the Project, but by
loan closing 42 urban centers had received support from the project. The tax mapping component of
the Project met with mixed success. Total assessed values of real property increased by 37 percent,
but most local governments were not successful in realizing increased revenue. The Project's most
significant contribution to participating cities and municipalities was the provision of revenue-weating
markets, slaughterhouses, and bus terminals. Economic and political volatility was impossible to
anticipate and hindered implementation.
Overall, the project achieved its infrastructure financing and institutional objectives. It
succeeded in establishing a financial mechanism to provide local governments with direct access to
long-term, affordable financing through a Municipal Development Fund. It also established a special
unit to assist in the identification, preparation, and implementation of priority infrastructure projects.
The Municipal Development Project shows clearly that a demand-driven, competitive selection
process is more efficient and effective than the top-down, pre-selected beneficiary approach used under
previous Bank-assisted urban sector projects. It also dernonstrated that projects are more successful when
local governments assume responsibility for project identification, preparation, and implementation, and that
sub-project investment packages should address the most basic needs first.
The PCR provides a concise and adequate account of project experience and achievements.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory, its sustainability as likely, and its institutional
development as substantial. No audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by Francisco J. Aguirre-Sacasa
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIEPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2435-PH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paze No.
Preface ..............i
Evaluation Summary .............                           ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM TEHE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Project Identity                                  I
2. Background               .....                    ...I
3.  Project Objectives and Description                2
4.  Project Design and Organization                   4
5.  Project Implementation                            5
6. Project Results               ....8
7.  Project Sustainability    . . . .11
8.  Bank Perforance          ....12
9.   Borrower Perforrance     . . . .13
10.  Project Relationship    . . . .14
11.  Consultancy Services    . . . .15
12.  Project Documentation and Data                  15
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FORM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ............. 16
PART I: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.  Related Bank Loans and Credits  . . .19
2.  Project Timetable      .     .      .20
3. Disbursements          . . .20
4a.  Summary of Project Costs                        21
4b.  Summary of Project Financing ..                 22
5a.  Direct Benefits                                 23
5b.  Summary of Economic and Financial Impact.       26
6.  Status of Covenants     .     .     .27
7a.  Use of Bank Resources: Staff Inputs  . . .28
7b.  Use of Bank Resources: Missions                 28



I



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2435-PH)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) summarizes the implementation of the Municipal
Development Project (MDP), also known as PREMIUMED (Program for Essential Municipal
Infrastructure, Utilities, Maintenance and Engineering Development). Loan 2435-PH in the
amount of US$40.0 million was approved on June 5, 1984 and the loan agreement was signed on
August 10, 1984. However, the loan'did not become effective until February 21, 1985, three
months after the original effectiveness date due to delays in obtaining the legal opinion from the
Department of Justice.
The Loan Closing Date, originally June 30, 1991, was extended twice, each time by one
year. The final closing date was June 30, 1993. A cancellation of US$4.19 million occurred at the
time of final loan account closing. The last disbursement was made on November 12, 1993.
The PCR preparation mission took place in April, 1994. The PCR was jointly prepared by
the Infrastructure Operations Division of Country Department I of the East Asia and Pacific
Region (EAIIN) and the Borrower. It is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR),
the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, the Borrower's own records, correspondence between
the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.






i.
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2435-PH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.           The Municipal Development Project (MDP) was the first of the Bank-funded
series of Municipal Development Projects in the Philippines. Subsequent projects were MDP II
(Ln. 3146-PH) and MDP 1Il (Ln. 3455-PH), approved in 1989 and 1992, respectively. The
objectives of MDP were to assist local governments outside Metro Manila to provide infrastructure
and improve municipal services by:
a) establishing a mechanism to provide local governments with direct access to long-term
development finance on reasonable terms (the Municipal Development Fund or MDF);
b) establishing a permanent national-level technical intermediary (building on the existing
Central Project Office, organized in 1981 under MPWH, the former DPWH) to (i) assist
local govemrnments in identifying infiastructure investment priorities; (ii) evaluate project
proposals for financing; (iii) monitor and control the program; and (iv) act as a principal
liaison with the Bank and other extemal funding agencies in promoting urban service
improvements throughout the urban hierarchy;
c) strengthening local technical and financial capacity for project implementation and service
management through implementation of a broad based Municipal Training Program (the
MTP) and through organizational and fiscal reforms; and
d) improving local government fiscal performance, through the Real Property Tax
Administration program (RPTA).
2.           MDP distinguished itself from previous Bank-assisted projects in the urban sector
in the Philippines by means of a competitive, bottom-up process of self-selection of cities and
municipalities: qualified LGUs had to initiate and prepare investment proposals and agree to take
the necessary fiscal, administrative and managerial improvements in order to receive financing
through the Project. Other innovations that distinguished MDP included its commitment to reach
a greater number of urban centers, in all parts of the country, than were reached before, and its
relatively simple design.



111
Implementation Experience
3.           Implementation proceeded slower than anticipated, due in part to political
transition at the central Government level and the 'People's Revolution" in 1986. Implementation
picked up after local Governrment elections in 1988. The Project was completed, after two
extensions, in June 1993. The final cost amounted to $74.6 million, $42.6 million of which was
local cost and $32 million foreign exchange cost. Total loan funds utilized amounted to $35.8
million of the $40 million approved.
Results
4.           Overall, the first Municipal Development Project achieved its infrastructure and
institutional objectives. It succeeded in establishing a financial mechanism to provide local
Governments with direct access to long-term, affordable financing in the form of the MDF. In the
CPO, it established a technical intermediary to assist local Governments in the identification,
preparation and implementation of priority infrastructure projects. The Municipal Training
Program, supervised by the newly-created Local Government Academy (LGA) within the
Department of the Interior and Local Government (D[LG), achieved its objective of strengthening
local government capacity, particularly in finance and project management, but also in other areas
such as contract management, detailed engineering, construction supervision, infrastructure
maintenance and equipment management, and community mobilization. Eighty-one training
courses were held, covering 11 technical and managerial modules and benefiting over 3,800 local
government staff. The tax mapping component of the Project has had mixed success. Total
assessed values of real property tax units increased by 35%, but local governments on the whole
have not been successful at hamessing the expanded tax basis of their real property, for several
reasons, including: the difficulty of administering the real property tax; the reluctance of local
officials to enforce tax collection measures without being able to show significant improvements in the
provision of municipal services; and the decrease in the relative importance of the RPTA as a local
revenue source.
5.           At appraisal, only 15 cities and municipalities were identified and included in the
Project, but by loan closing 42 centers had availed themselves of loans to finance the expansion
and upgrading of their infrastructure projects.  But while MDP was conceived of as a
comprehensive project that would cover a wide range of local infrastructure and area
improvement needs, in the end, the Project's most significant contribution to participating cities and
municipalities was in the form of revenue-generating sub-projects, specifically markets, slaughterhouses
and bus terminals.
Sustainabilitv
6.           Sustainability of the sub-projects is likely. Preliminary economic rates of return
from selected project centers (Table Sb) suggest that net benefits from market, bus terminal and
slaughterhouse sub-projects on the whole are higher than thresholds established at appraisal.
Financial rates of return in most cases have been lower than estimated at appraisal, but have also
been positive. A constraint to sub-project sustainability could be the generally weak performance
to date of local govemments in infrastructure maintenance, but maintenance is being addressed in
MDP III under a separate project component. Another constraint is the reluctance so far of many



iv
local governments to improve real property tax collection efficiencies. BLGF/DOF staff have
agreed to start monitoring the RPTA' s progress in terms of actual revenue yields materialized.
7.           The sustainability of the Project's main mechanisms and institutions, the MDF,
CPO and LGA, is also likely. There has been a heavy demand for MDF's resources, resulting in
larger than expected accumulated second-generation funds. MDF has experienced relative success as a
long-term financial mechanism. DOF and DBM are currently taking concerted action to apply the IRA
intercept mechanism to recover delinquent loans (para. 5.8). The CPO has continuously upgraded the
slills of its staff in order to be better equipped to analyze LGUs' needs for sub-projects, particularly in
the context of their broader development. Continued strong demand on the part of LGUs for training
by the LGA under MTP has ensured the LGA's ongoing role in MDP mI. Training is being redesigned
to link it more directly to borrowers' needs and sub-project implementation. A Bank-supported
(Institutional Development Fund) study is currently underway that will examine the long-term
institutional arrangements for local government loan financing, particularly from private sources.
Findines and Lessons Learned
8.           Among the most important lessons of experience for the Municipal Development
Projects are the following:
a) A demand-driven, competitive selection process is more efficient and effective than the top-
down, pre-selected beneficiary approach used under previous Bank-assisted urban sector
projects.
b) Local governments should assume responsibility for project identification, preparation and
implementation, as this increases their commitment to a sub-project. But national agencies
should maintain a close, supportive role during sub-project preparation and execution. The
obligations and responsibilities of each participating agency should be well-defined in
advance, and have minimal overlap.
c) Sub-project investment packages should be limited to what can be prepared, evaluated and
completed over a three year period, which is the term of local governnent officials. They
should address the most basic needs first, and should be on a scale compatible with the
technical capacity and financial resources of the implementing local governments.
d) In order to increase the impact of the Municipal Development Projects on municipalities
and contribute to local capacity building, local government applicants should be made to
show the CPO a development plan, specifying how the suggested sub-projects contribute
to it, as a prerequisite for (further) borrowing.
e) Project centers with completed sub-projects should be required to set aside an agreed
amount of funds for maintenance, in a Maintenance Trust Fund.
f) Local government capacity and commitment must be demonstrated through adherence to
obligations, timely and prompt execution of project activities, and imposition of required
institutional and fiscal reforms as a prerequisite for subsequent, larger packages from the
NDF.






I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2435-PH)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM TEE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Proiect Identitv
Project name       Municipal Development Project
Loan No.     :     2435-PH
RVP Unit           East Asia and Pacific Region
Country            Philippines
Sector             Urban
2.    Background
2.1          The Philippines is one of the most rapidly urbanizing countries in East Asia From 1960
to 1990 the urban population increased from 17.9 million, or about 37.3% of the total population, to
29.5 million, almost half of the total population. Metro Manila, expected to grow to over 13 million
people by 2000, dominates the urban sector. But the medium-sized regional cities are also growing
rapidly --some with annual growth rates of over I10/-o and are home to an increasing proportion of the
urban population. These urban centers function as market, service and transportation centers to their
hinterlands and are often provincial capitals with govemment and educational facilities.
2.2          The Bank has assisted the Govemment of the Philippines in developing policies and
programs in the urban sector since 1976. Bank investments have been directed mainly at improving
municipal services and infrastructure, and encouraging the development of central and local-level
institutions, management and resource base. The first three urban development projects, the Manila
Urban Development Project (1282-PH), the Second Urban Development Project (1647-PH), and the
Third Urban Development Project (1821-PH), were comprehensive, multi-sector and multi-agency
projects which proved to be difficult to manage. The Regional Cities Development Project (2257-PH)
applied the comprehensive, multi-agency approach to the regional cities and was the first Bank project
to on-lend funds to local governments in the Philippines. The design of the RCDP was found to have
similar disadvantages as those of the previous three projects. It was top-down, with pre-selection of
project cities done by the national Government, which led the cities to consider the funds as an
entitlement. The design also proved too complex and rigid and the project too large relative to the
local governments' administrative and financial capabilities. As a result of all these factors, RCDP used
up a tremendous amount of Bank resources, particularly in the development stage (PCR, RCDP, June
30, 1994).



2
2.3          The Municipal Development Project (NDP), also known as PREhIIUMED
(Program for Essential Municipal Infrastructure, Utilities, Maintenance and Engineering
Development), became the first of a series of three municipal development projects to adopt a
different approach as a result of lessons learned from the previous urban projects. Subsequent projects
were MDP II (Ln. 3146-PH) and MDP III (Ln. 3455-PH), approved in 1989 and 1992,
respectively. This new approach entailed involvement on a more limited scale, in a narrower range of
sectors, with a shorter time horizon, and with a much larger number of local government units
(LGUs)'. MNDP had many of the same objectives as RCDP but, instead of that project's top-down
stnucture, it introduced a bottom-up design whereby local governments would have to apply and
compete for funds and technical advice.
3.    Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.1          Project objectives: MDP sought to help local governments outside Metro Manila
provide and upgrade their infrastructure and improve municipal services by:
a) establishing a mechanism to provide local governments with direct access to long-term
development finance on reasonable terms (the MDF);
b) establishing a permanent national-level technical intermediary (the CPO, originally
organized in 1981 under MPWH, the former DPWH) to (i) assist local governments in
identifying infrastructure investment priorities; (ii) evaluate project proposals for financing;
(iii) monitor and control the program; and (iv) act as a principal liaison with the Bank and
other external funding agencies in promoting urban service improvements throughout the
urban hierarchy;
c) strengthening local technical and financial capacity for project implementation and service
management through implementation of a broad based municipal training program (the
MTP) and through organizational and fiscal reforms; and
d) improving local government fiscal performance, through the Real Property Tax
Administration program (RPTA).
3.2          Project description: the Project consisted of the following components:
a) Urban Infrastructure: provision of secondary and tertiary drainage systems and
rehabilitation of pnrmary drainage systems together with shoreline protection; provision of
sanitation facilities in dense residential areas; improvement of solid waste disposal sites;
area improvements to squatter and slum communities; construction and rehabilitation of
road systems including implementation of traffic engineering measures; provision of bus
David Pasteur, Lending for Municipal Development in the Philippines: the
Institutional Impact of World Bank Projects 1976-1990, Institute of Local
Government Studies, University of Birmingham (UK), p. 106.



3
terminals; improvements in water distribution systems; and rehabilitation and construction
of markets and slaughterhouses.
b) Infrastructure and Equipment Maintenance: upgrading and procurement of equipment for
maintenance depots; and procurement of equipment for solid waste management, septic
tank emptying and infrastructure maintenance.
c) Tax Mapping: preparation and procurement of equipment for updating cadasters;
appraising properties; and improving records management and increasing actual
collections, under the Real Property Tax Administration program (RPTA).
d) Training: conducting training programs in the following areas: (i) municipal finance and
revenue administration; (ii) municipal enterprise management; (iii) planning and budgeting,
project development and contract management; (iv) municipal engineering maintenance,
under the Municipal Training Programn (M!P), and
e) Technical Assistance: consultant advisory services to assist project implernentation and
training, and studies directed principally at structural reforms to promote improvements in
local governments' budgeting and fiscal administration. This amounted to 516 man-months
of assistance (i) to the CPO through DPWH and DOF for project development; (ii) to DOF
and DBM for the review of a local government grants system and local budgeting
procedures; and (iii) to MLG for the study of training needs, resources and the
development of a national training program.
3.3          The total Project cost, including contingencies, taxes and duties, was estimated at
about US$68.7 million at appraisal. The Bank loan of $40.0 million was planned to finance the total
foreign exchange requirements ($32.2 million) including the front-end fee ($0.1 million) and about 21%
of local costs ($7.7 million). Part of the total loan proceeds ($11.8 million) was estimated to be retained
by central Government for financing tax mapping, training and consultant assistance and capitalized
front-end fee. The remaining Bank loan was expected to be passed on to MDF to finance projects
implemented by local governments.
3.4          The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) identified the following as the project risks:
a) the ability of the central Government to maintain its counterpart share of the Project in a
period of national economic and financial constraint;
b) the failure of the local governments to carry out the necessary financial reforms so that they
would not be able to generate counterpart funds during implementation or maintain
payrnents to the MDF after completion; and
c) the ability of the CPO to manage the Project considering the substantial increase in
management complexity during project implementation as more cities are brought into the
project stream.



4
4.    Proiect Desien and Organization
4.1          The Project was to have been implemented over a six year period, from July 1984 to
June 1990. DPWH was the lead agency for the Project, and Chair of a Project Steering Committee
consisting of Undersecretaries/Assistant Secretaries of the main implementing agencies, DPWH, DOF,
DILG, DBM and NEDA. The Steering Committee's tasks included providing policy guidance to the
CPO Director, reviewing the selection of cities, and appraising sub-projects. The CPO, which was
organized as a Project Office under DPWH (then MPWH) in 1981, was transformed into a technical
intermediary providing technical assistance, evaluating project proposals for financing, monitoring
project implementation and acting as liaison with the Bank. The MDF was set up under the DOF, as
the principal mechanism for channeling long-term loan finance for urban services to local governments,
and is supervised by the DOF's Bureau of Local Government Finance (BLGF). It was not meant to be
involved in technical approval or supervision, and acts on authorization from the CPO. Coordination
between the CPO and DOF/MDF is secured through the Steering Conmnittee, and through close
working relationships2. DOF manages and supervises the tax mapping project, and D[LG houses the
Local Government Academy (LGA), established in 1987 to implement the Municipal Training
Program (MTP).
4.2          MDP was designed to create a demand-driven, competitive environment for funds and
enable fund allocations to be adjusted and maximized on the basis of performance, capacity and
commitment of local governments. Qualified local governments had to apply for assistance and
needed to demonstrate their capability to prepare investment proposals and implement the
necessary fiscal, administrative and managerial improvements in order to receive financing. At the
local leveL sub-projects were proposed to the CPO by the Mayors and Sangguniang
Panglungsod/Bayan (Local Legislative Councils), which also established local Advisory Committees
composed of key councdi members prior to project implementation. Local Project Officers were
designated by mayors who, together with staff from existing local government departments, developed
investment proposals and managed the implementation of projects in the approved packages. As such,
the concemed local governments themselves -were responsible for the implementation of the sub-
projects: LGUs were not meant to be merely 'beneficiaries", but executing agencies. In order to assist
local governments in assuming more responsibility for planning, financing and implementation of local
services, one of the objectives of the Project was to upgrade technical skills at the local level.
4.3          The organizational structure of the Project was formalized through Presidential Decree
(PD) 1914, dated March 1984. The MDF was expected to become the channel for all local
government borrowing from official (bilateral and multilateral financial institution) sources. However,
the question of monitoring all foreign assistance to local governments arose during the drafting of PD
1914. As a result, the MDF was used as a channel for all official funding -grants as well as loans- to
local governments, thus making it more a disbursement mechanism than a fund.
4.4          MDP was designed to preclude many of the problems expenrenced in the earlier urban
projects in the Philippines, such as: complexity of institutional arrangements, multiplicity of institutions,
ambiguity in institutional roles and responsibdities and circuitous decision-making processes. The roles,
functions and responsibilities of each of the implementing agencies were distinct and well-defined, with
2 Pasteur, p. 57.



5
rninimal overlap. The fact that they had overlapping memberships in their respective policy-maling
bodies facilitated coordination of planning and implementation. No new departments or project offices
were established at the local level, unlike in earlier Bank-funded projects when new units were created
and superimposed over existing organizations.
4.5          The Project was implemented during a time of unusual political turbulence and
economic recession, when the central Government, from which local governments derived nearly half
of their revenues, was faced with serious budgetary problems.  Despite the instability and
macroeconomic difficulties in the Philippines at the time, the Project provided some local govermnents
with access to much needed funds and in so doing arrested the rapid deterioration of infrastructure and
municipal services that was occurring due to insufficient funds for operations and maintenance.
5.    Proiect Implementation
5.1          Critical Variances in Project Implementation: The loan was approved by the Board on
June 5, 1984 and signed on August 10, 1984. However, it did not become effective until February 21,
1985, three months later than the original target date, due to the delay in obtaining the legal opinion
from the Department of Justice. The Project was originally scheduled to be completed in June 1990
and closed in June 1991. The final loan closing date was June 30, 1993, after two extensions.
5.2          Start-up was slowed by political transition at the central Government level and the
'People's Revolution"in 1986. Tendering began only in the third quarter due to delays in the issuance
of Certification of Availability of Funds, and because budget funds for the national components in 1985
were not released until the end of the second quarter. Since the budget included funds for detaded
engineering as well, tendering and the start of construction were delayed until the fourth quarter.
5.3          Implementation was also much slower than anticipated at appraisal, for several reasons.
First, the recession in the Philippines brought about serious budgetary constraints at both the national
and local government levels. Local budgets in 1986 were smaller than expected because of the
Government's decision to postpone the regular increase in property assessments until 1988 and because
of lower than expected central Government budget transfers. Second, the change of govermnent
folowing the presidential elections in 1986 resulted in the replacement of senior officials of national
agencies with new officials who were not familiar with the Project. The change in government also
resulted in the replacement of mayors with Officers-in-Charge, some of whom criticaly reviewed
investment programs initiated by previous mayors, a process which took considerable time. Moreover,
the uncertainty of tenure of the Officers-in-Charge and the postponement of local elections made it
difficult for local government administrators to commit to the Project.
5.4          Implementation of MDP picked up only after the local elections in 1988. Thus, by
June 1991, the original loan closing date, actual disbursement was stiDl only $18.5 million or 511.6% of
the full loan amount of $40 million projected at appraisal (Table 3). However, all loan finds allocated
for sub-loans to local governments had been on-lent. By December 1992, the second loan closing date,
actual disbursement was $31 million or 86.6% of the loan. AD but 8 contracts being implemented by
local governments were completed at the end of 1992. A second extension was requested by the



6
Government --and approved-- to June 1993 to accommodate the completion of the remaining 8
contracts and additional tax mapping projects in 14 centers.
5.5          Tax Mapping (RPTA): The tax mapping component also got off to a slow start, with
only one center starting the prograrn in 1987 and an additional center implementing tax mapping in
1988. The delay was due primarily to the replacement of mayors during the change of govermnent in
1986 and the hiatus that followed during the period when local governments were administered by
Officers-in-Charge. However, by mid- 1990 implementation was underway in all project centers and, by
June 1992, 69 project centers had completed the program and 14 additional centers had begun
implementation during the same year. It was decided that the RPTA program would follow a regional-
based approach, whereby it would be applied eventually to all municipalities by region, irrespective of
whether MDP had investment projects there or not.
5.6          MDF: Initially, problems with  MDF  accounting  procedures slowed  down
implementation. The financial management, accounting and auditing systems of the MDF during its
*first years of operation were inadequate and proved a constraint to both monitoring and project
implementation. Corrective adjustments were subsequently made to streamline the operation of the
MDF, including the provision of an adequate number of qualified staff to handle the increased
magnitude of work as project implementation in the 42 centers reached its peak. One problem was
with MDF's billing and collection system. As of August 1993 overdue debt amortization amounted to
P41 million, and arrears as a percentage of total billings increased from about 8% in 1992 to 15% in
1993. One of the reasons cited for this was the poor comnunication between MDF and local debtor
governments. Local officials complained that blling statements from MDF were not being received.
As a result, local governments needed to pass supplernental budgets to correct differences in debt
service requirements before actual payments were made. Administration of the MDF is being
corrected in the successor project, MDP IIL with the restructuring of the DOF's Special Project
Management Service, which handles administration of sub-loan releases, billing and collections and the
RPTA program.
5.7          Another problem has been the continued delay in the submission of project audits to
the Bank. LGUs are required to submit Commission on Audit (COA) reports to the MDF via the CPO
by February of each year, covering sub-loan disbursements of the preceding year. The MDF then
evaluates and consolidates the COA reports and submits them to the Bank. Of the 42 LGUs which
participated in MDP, all but one has now submitted an audit report to the MDF. However, the LGUs
were very often behind schedule in completing their reports. This has not improved much with the
successor projects: MDP II COA reports for 1993 were only submitted to the Bank in May 1995.
5.8          The deterioration of collections was exacerbated by the temporary suspension of the
Intemal Revenue Allotment (IRA) intercept. Local governments had consented to the automatic
deduction of seriously overdue amounts from their quarterly IRA allocations (a transfer from the
central Government to the LGUs) by the MDF. When the responsibility for releasing IRA allocation
was transferred from DOF to DBM, however, questions regarding the legality of the use of the IRA
intercept were raised within DBM in the context of the implementation of the Local Government Code
starting in 1991. The use of the IRA intercept mechanism was suspended temporarily. However, since
then it was established that the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the Local Government Code
allow the use of the IRA intercept, provided that it is approved by the mayors and local councils of the



7
concerned debtor local government. DBM has resumed the use of the IRA intercept to cover
delinquent payments on MDF loans.
5.9          Training (MTP : The training component was delayed and did not start in earnest until
1990. Before that, only one training course had been conducted in 1988 and 4 in 1989. Beginning in
1990, eleven basic modules and two special courses were held under the auspices of the MTP for local
government staff from the project centers, namely: an orientation conference on the implementation
and management of the MDP; project development and preparation; municipal finance and revenue
administration; detailed engineering; construction supervision; contract management; public market
management; slaughterhouse management; bus terminal management; infrastructure maintenance and
equipment management; and community mobilization. The two special courses were a total quality
management/team building workshop and project completion preparation.
5.10         The delay in the implementation of the MTP was due to the following factors: (i) The
new administration of DILG which took over following the change of government in 1986 was initially
opposed to the Project and MITP was temporarily shelved. It was only during the second half of 1987
that MTP was reactivated and placed under the supervision of the newly-created LGA_ (ii) Although
the LGA was created in 1987, it took almost a year to appoint staff and set up administrative systems
and procedures, and almost two more years to bid out, evaluate, award and start contracts. (iii) The
LGA was under the direct supervision of the Secretary of the DILG, and most technical and
management decisions had to be referred to the Secretary or his designated officer. All administrative
and financial matters were also handled centrally at the DILG head office. This resulted in circuitous
administrative procedures which unduly delayed releases of funds, approval of contracts and payment
of contracts as well as decisions on technical matters such as training design and schedules.
5.11         In January 1993, the Bank requested that LGA eliminate the adniinistrative bottlenecks
which hampered training as a prerequisite for the continued implementation of MTP by LGA_ By mid-
1993, DILG had approved measures to eliminate administrative constraints and bottlenecks. A separate
Pre-qualification Evaluation and Awards Committee (PEAC) was created in LGA, and the LGA was
also given the status of a regional office to facilitate administrative processing. The MTP Operations
Manual was officially adopted by DILG.
5.12   /     General: Modifications in the methodology for beneficiary and project selection and
packaging expanded coverage and improved the speed of implementation. Under the initial set-up, the
CPO was deeply involved in project identification and project preparation. However, by transferring
the responsibility for such activities to local governments themselves, the CPO was able to concentrate
on a greater number of urban centers. Thus, the CPO was able to focus on the evaluation and appraisal
of investment proposals, processing of sub-project and sub-loan agreements, and monitoring of project
implementation.
5.13         Another modification which benefited the Project related to the system of budgeting
and fund releases. Initially the MDF budget was earmarked by city and project component, so that
funds could not be reallocated by CPO for any other centers. This slowed down the pace of project
implementation and tied down funds unnecessarily, particularly in cases where local governments were
unable to continue with the project, or else only on smaller scales than previously agreed. After
modification, funds were committed in lump sum amounts, thus enabling the CPO to reallocate funds
according to the progress of programs in each center.



8
5.14         Project Cost: Actual total cost of the Project arnounted to US$74.6 rillion, US$42.6
million of which was local cost and US$32 of which was the foreign exchange cost. The final cost
increased in peso terms due to a combination of actual inflation being higher than that projected at
appraisal, adjustments to project components, and a longer implementation period which resulted in
higher unit prices. The decrease in project cost in US dollar terms is due to the depreciation of the
peso, which dropped from P14 to the US dollar at appraisal to P27 to the US dollar by 1993.
5.15         Of the US$40 million original loan for MDP, only US$35.81 million was utilized. The
date of final disbursement was November 12, 1993. The undisbursed loan balance of US$4. 19 million
was requested for cancellation by the Borrower. As regards budget releases, an unutilized allotment
amounting to P142.3 million was reallocated to sub-projects of MDP m, based on a resolution
subsequently passed by the Policy Governing Board of the MDF.
6.    Proiect Results
6.1          Physical impact: In many cases, MDP financed the single largest investments ever
undertaken by the municipalities. It broadened the number of urban project sites of the Bank to 42
urban centers scattered in practically all regions of the country. In so doing, it created a further demand
for financial and technical assistance among as many as 200 other urbanizing centers in the country,
leading to the development of MDP m. However, xwhile there has been a willingness to borrow, local
govemments have adopted a conservative approach to loans, requesting financing primarily for
municipal market construction and rehabilitation and other revenue-generating projects, such as
slaughterhouses and bus terminals, at the cost of other investments. Markets provide clear revenue
streams to offset debt service requirements, and for elected officials they are also popular and politically
sound investments in the Philippines due to their frequent usage and important social function in local
communities3. Consequently, MDP did not end up financing as comprehensive an investment program
as originally planned. Many of the Project's wider objectives, including area improvements, water
supply, roads and drainage systems, were too large and comprehensive for local governments to
undertake, and ended up instead as national projects and grants.
6.2          MDP achieved its objectives of assisting local governments expand and upgrade urban
infrastructure. At appraisal, only 15 centers were identified and included in the Project. By loan
closing date, 42 urban centers had availed themselves of loans to finance the expansion and upgrading
of infrastructure and benefited from project grants from the national Government. One of the reasons
for the increase in local government borrowers was the willingness of mayors to borrow for revenue-
generating projects such as markets and public facilities.
a) Over 22 km of local roads and 66 kmn of natiorial roads were constructed, thereby
improving mobility and traffic flows within the project centers and increasing property
values.
3 Pasteur, p. 112.



9
b) Over 32 km of local and 67 km of national drainage systems helped to minimize flooding
and soil erosion and reduce damaze to property and public infrastructure, and resulted in
the reduction of the incidence of water-bome diseases due to decreased exposure to
stagnant storm water.
c) The 41 market sub-projects resulted in permanent stalls for more transient vendors, safer
and more properly-arranged facilities, reduction in congestion and traffic problems within
the market vicinity, more efficient distribution of goods and services, and overall
heightened business activity in the markets. Thirty-five of the market sub-projects involved
new construction and the remaining 6 involved rehabilitation of existing markets (see Table
5a). Of the 36 municipalities with market sub-projects, 6 did not raise any fees, and one
market is still not operational.
d) Five slaughterhouses were constructed and one rehabilitated, thereby helping to minimize
illegal and unhygienic backyard slaughtering and reducing health risks due to unhygienic
handling and processing of meat.
e) The construction of three bus terminals reduced traffic congestion on city roads, provided
convenient transfer facilities, improved commuter mobility and improved the revenue base
of local governments.
f) Two solid waste sub-projects expanded the area covered by improved garbage collection
and disposal systems, thereby reducing health risks to local residents.
g) One water supply sub-project rehabilitated and improved water distribution to a
satisfactory degree.
h) Over 47 km of shore protection was constructed to reduce damage to properties and
infrastructure by preventing soil erosion along the shoreGine.
6.3          With regard to enforcing maintenance the Project was less successful, however. The
Sub-project Agreement provided for the establishment of a Maintenance Trust Fund, which required
local governments to set aside agreed amounts for maintenance of municipal markets and
infrastructure. Despite this provision, LGUs failed to establish the Maintenance Trust Funds either
during or after project implementation. To accord the pervasive problem of poor maintenance more
priority, a separate maintenance component was included in MDP m. This maintenance program is
being carried out in selected LGUs on a pilot basis, and entails financial support in the form of central
Government grants through DPWH to help local governments assume annual maintenance costs, as
well as technical assistance and guidance by CPO to create a maintenance ethic and develop the
necessary skills.
6.4          Institutional impact:  MDP substantially achieved its objective of establshing an
institutional framework at the national level to assist local governments with the financing, preparation
and implementation of their investments, and with the coordination of assistance to LGUs. As the
heavy demand for MDF resources demonstrates, overall the MDF has had success as a mechanism to
provide local governments with direct access to long-term, affordable development finance, even
though it was originally set up as a revolving fund and ended up functioning primarily as a mechanism



l0
for disbursing funds (para. 4.3). The Project also succeeded in creating a technical intermediary, in the
form of the CPO, to assist local governments with the identification, preparation, implementation and
monitoring of priority infrastructure projects. Through the MTP, the Project was largely able to
achieve its third objective of strengthening local govemment capabilities in financial and project
management. The fourth objective, improving local government fiscal performance, has proved more
elusive, however. While MDF funds represent a significant source of capital financing for the
participating project centers, the local governnents have not been successful at mobilizing additional
local resources, especially real property taxes, as expected at appraisal.
6.5          MDP's institutions have helped LGUs to invest more wisely, through such mechanisms
as project appraisal, capital planning, engineering standards, environmental impact assessments, and
increased involvement of local residents in project selection. With regard to beneficiary participation,
the Project required that project cities and municipalities pass council resolutions approving increases in
market rental charges only after public hearings and consultations with vendors' associations and
before construction. In a few cases, market designs were modified in light of objections from potential
beneficiaries.
6.6          The training provided under the MTP (within LGA) in MDP, especially the contract
management and other technical modules, has proven to be very useful to local governments. Some
modules could have been made more relevant to specific MDP project requirements, such as the
module on project preparation. Training was undertaken primarily in the areas of project development
and preparation, detailed engineering design, construction supervision, contract management,
infrastructure maintenance and equipment management, financial management and municipal enterprise
management. It also included an orientation conference for the implementation and management of
MDP. Prior to the Project, technical and managerial expertise in local governments had been grossly
inadequate to cope with the growing challenges in the areas of infriastructure, basic services and urban
management. The MTP was able to conduct 81 training courses covering 11 modules and benefiting
3,897 local government staff not only from the 42 participating centers in MDP but also from centers
covered by the two succeeding municipal development projects, MDP II and MDP III.
6.7          The main weakness of the MTP were the administrative bottlenecks that hampered the
implementation of certain modules, for example the delays in obtaining administrative approval for
release of funds, which required some modules to be rescheduled. Another weakness was the lack of
adequate coordination between CPO and MTP in programming training.
6.8          By loan closing date, the RPTA program covered 85 local governments, and had
increased the total number of identified real property tax units (RPUs) by 3 5%, from 1.6 million to 2.16
million units. Total assessed values increased from P32.4 billion in 1988 to P44.3 billion in 1992,
representing an increase of 37%. Much of this growth was a result of discovering RPUs converted
from rural to urban land uses, which increased the number of properties and value of a given piece of
land. However, local governments have on the whole not been successful in harnessing the expanded
tax basis of their real property. This is due in part to inefficiency in processing a large number of
property records, most of which still has to be done manually. The real property tax proved to be
complicated to administer, as it required local governments to assess, bill and track payments of a large
number of tax payers. But another reason has been the reluctance on the part of local officials to
enforce tax collection measures without being able to show significant improvements in the provision
of municipal services. Furthernore, since the implementation of the Local Government Code in 1991,



11
the relative importance of the RPTA as a local revenue source has decreased. This is because the
overall assessment level of the RPTA has been substantially downgraded in the Local Government
Code, and because the expansion of the IRA has been proven to have substantial substitution effects on
local revenue mobiization efforts. Finally, the RPTA's regional-based approach, the aim of which was
eventually to carry out the program in every elizible municipality in the country, has proven to be a
mistake. The RPTA program should have concentrated instead on those municipalities with a growing
economy, population and property values, and should not have covered rural municipalities.
7.    Proiect Sustainability
7.1          Sustainabilitv of sub-projects: Sustainability of the sub-projects is likely. Preliminary
economic rates of return from selected project centers (Table Sb) suggest that net benefits from
market, bus terminal and slaughterhouse sub-projects in most cases are higher than thresholds
established at appraisal. Even though financial rates of return on the whole have been lower,
these are also positive. The performance of local governments in infrastructure maintenance has been
poor to date and could pose a constraint to future sustainability, but maintenance is being addressed
under MDP III through a separate program involving grants and technical assistance to improve
maintenance planning and implementation (para. 6.3). Another constraint is the inability or reluctance
of many local governments to improve real property tax collection efficiencies (para. 6.8), which limits
their financial capacity to expand and improve existing infrastructure. The progress of the RPTA has
not been fully monitored by the BLGF of the DOF in terms of higher collection efficiencies and actual
revenue yield, but in the context of the MDP's successor projects the BLGF has agreed to start
monitoring the RPTA's progress in terms of actual revenue yield materialized.
7.2          Sustainabilitv of MDP institutions: The MDF and CPO are likely to be sustainable,
provided that they are streamlined on an ongoing basis and better integrated. High demand for MDF
funds resulted in a much larger than expected number of LGUs receiving loans, with a consequent
great increase in MDF's accumulated repayments of interest and principal (the so-called 'second
generation funds'). The MDF has also experienced relative success as a long-term financial
mechanism: as of March 1995, its loan delinquency rate stood at 10% of total collectibles. Out of 42
participating LGUs, 16 were delinquent. DOF and DBM are currently taking concerted action to
apply the IRA intercept mechanism to recover delinquent loans (para. 5.8). MDP m has started
supporting the modification of MDF's administrative procedures and the hiring of additional qualified
staff as well as shifting the MDF's lending terms and conditions more toward prevailing market rates
in the Philippines, in an effort to streamline the mechanism. A Bank-supported (Institutional
Development Fund) study is currently underway that will examine the long-term institutional
arrangements for local government loan financing, particularly from private sources. The study will
propose a strategy for the next stage in the evolution of a municipal credit system in the Philippines.
7.3          The CPO has continuously upgraded the skills of its staff in order to better equip itself
to analyze LGUs' needs for sub-projects, particularly in the context of their broader development.
Under MDP III, the CPO and BLGF/DOF staff in charge of the MDF have begun to work more
closely together, with BLGF staff involving themselves more with CPO's appraisal activities and with
staff of both BLGF/DOF and CPO cooperating to determine loanable amounts for sub-projects and to
monitor the financial performance of borrowers.



12
7.4          Continued strong demand on the part of LGUs for training by the LGA under MTP
has ensured the LGA's ongoing role in MDP m. Training is being redesigned to link it more directly
to borrowers' needs and sub-project implementation.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1          The Bank's performance during project preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The
concept and design of MDP were appropriate and innovative, based as they were on the lessons and
experiences of earlier and ongoing Bank urban projects in the Philippines. The Bank was able to
design a more focused, achievable project which simplified the institutional arrangements for project
implementation and improved the approach and methodology for beneficiary and project selection.
8.2          The Bank performed very satisfactorily in supervising the Project, even though
supervision was complicated by the Project's three, distinct components --RPTA, MTP and the sub-
projects- which made supervising MDP almost like supervising three different projects. Some
noteworthy interventions as a result of Bank supervision were the following: (i) When the number of
active urban centers participating in the Project decreased due to problems in the early phases of
implementation, the Bank recommended that the Project be opened up to other centers, thus paving
the way for the participation of 42 centers compared to 15 at appraisal. (ii) The Bank worked with
DPWH to ensure a phased build-up of technical staff for the CPO, complemented by technical and
advisory support from consultants. It helped to ensure continuity and stability in the CPO during
several changes in administration by providing support and acquiring assurances of tenure for the
management and staff of the Project from new administrators. (iii) The Bank provided guidance in
correcting certain administrative procedures which unduly delayed project implementation, for instance
in the area of budgeting and fund releases (para. 5.13). (iv) The Bank helped to bring about procedural
improvements in the administrative system at DILG, which enabled the LGA to catch up with its
commitments to conduct the training courses required by the Project. (v) The Bank's supervision and
guidance also helped the MDF to develop the systems and procedures with which to manage the loan
funds more efficiently and effectively. (vi) Finally, the comparatively small Bank team, continuity at
task manager level (there was only one task manager from project identification to completion), and
the team's commitment to respecting project goals helped to focus and increase Bank effectiveness.
8.3          The most important lessons of experience for the Bank are:
a) A demand-driven, competitive project environment using a program approach to project
financing is a more efficient and effective methodology for project implementation than the
top-down, pre-selected beneficiary and project specific approach.
b) Beneficiary local governments perform better and show greater commitment to a project
when they are primarily responsible for project preparation, management and
implementation. Moreover, capacity build-up is maximized when local staff undertake
project preparation, management and implementation by themselves and within the
framework of existing local government organizations.



13
c) Investment packages should be lirmited to what can be prepared, evaluated and completed
over a three year period, which is the tern of local government officials. Additional funds
can be provided once initial packages have been completed. This ensures that funds
earrnarked for a particular center are fully used, and it also provides incentives to local
governments to speed up implementation. It also prevents funds from remaining idle and
being de-obligated in case succeeding administrations are not supportive of the Project.
d) Local goverm-nents tend to adopt a conservative approach to loans, requesting financing
primarily for revenue-generating sub-projects (such as municipal markets, bus terminals
and slaughterhouses) at the cost of other investments.
e) Project centers with completed sub-projects should be required to set aside an agreed
amount of funds for maintenance, in a Maintenance Trust Fund, to avoid the serious
deterioration of markets and infrastructure that affected LGUs in the past. A separate
maintenance program is currently being encouraged in MDP m.
f) A tax-mapping exercise is only useful in municipalities where the economy, population and
property values are growing, not in most rural municipalities where the marginal returns of
such a programn are too small.
g) Training modules should be more responsive to project requirements. Moreover, the
employment of contract trainers enables a far greater number of training courses to be
conducted than if training is implemented solely by regular training staff It also avoids the
need to set up a large training bureaucracy.
h) Most LGUs lack a comprehensive local development plan or a sound idea of the impact of
the sub-projects on the overall development of their municipalities. The absence of local
'inasterplans" is a serious concem even in the ongoing MDP III. In order to increase the
impact of the Municipal Development Projects on municipalities and contribute to local
capacity building, local government applicants should be made to show the CPO a
development plan as a prerequisite for (further) borrowing, and specify how the proposed
investments would relate to the plan.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1          The performance of the Borrower was, in generaL satisfactory. Despite serious
political, economic and budgetary problems facing the country during most of the period of project
implementation, the Borrower was able to provide the necessary financial, managerial and technical
resources required to pursue the Project to its conclusion and achieve stated objeccives.
9.2          The main strength of the Borrower was the quality of its staff. The directors of the
CPO and MDF were instrumental in steering MDP through the difficult and critical start-up period,
which coincided with the height of the political turbulence and economic recession of the 1 980s. The
directors were experienced administrators who had appropriate expertise and a clear understanding of
the local administrative and political culture as a result of their involvement in earlier urban



14
development projects. The Borrower, though initially constrained by budgetary limitations and
Governrnent rules governing hiring of new staff, was also able to recruit qualified technical and project
management staff and contract foreign and local consultants specializing in fields where Government
staff were weak.
9.3          The weakest area of the Borrower was its delays in submitting audit reports and
collecting arrears from debtor local governments.
9.4          The main lessons of expenrence for the Borrower are:
a) While it is better for local govemments to assume responsibility for project identification,
preparation and implementation, national agencies should provide beneficiary local
governments with well-defined technical assistance and maintain a close, supportive role
during project preparation and execution.
b) Procedural issues should be promptly addressed and resolved to ensure timely execution of
project activities. These issues could be identified and discussed in regular reviews
involving all concemed agencies
c) The obligations and responsibilities of each participating agency should be well-defined in
advance, and have minial overlap.
d) Investment packages should address the most basic needs first, and should be on a scale
compatible with the technical capacity and financial resources of the beneficiary local
governments which are to implement them. Investment packages must consist of projects
which are "doable" given the limitations and capacity of beneficiary local governments.
Local government capacity and commitment must be demonstrated through adherence to
obligations, timely and prompt execution of project activities, and imposition of required
institutional and fiscal reforns as a prerequisite for subsequent, larger packages from the
MNDF.
10.   Proiect Relationshin
10.1         The Bank-Borrower relationship was very good, despite occasional disagreements
over project approach and methodology, management style, perceptions of priorities, and procedural
adjustments. The good working relationship was possible because the main actors in the Project, both
on the Bank and Borrower side, worked well together on the previous Bank-funded urban projects
over the last decade. Continuity in the assignment of mission leadership on the Bank side also helped
to maintain an effective relationship. Thus, mutual respect and acceptance had developed over time
which helped to foster a cooperative and supportive relationship between the Bank and the Borrower
on MDP.



15
11.   Consultancv Services
11.1         Consultants played an important role in the Project. When the MDP was
conceptualized and designed, the CPO had no technical staff. A project such as MDP required the
CPO to be staffed by senior professionals who could oversee investment programs in the local
governments. But Government pay scales and regulations made it difficult for the CPO to hire the
necessary staff As a result, consultants were hired using technical assistance funds from the Third
Urban Development project and RCDP loans to assist the Government in preparing the Project. The
CPO was staffed by consultants who filled positions usually reserved or occupied by Government
personnel. Even the Project Director was a consultant hired by the Borrower to perform project
management functions on its behalf.
11.2         Consultant performance was satisfactory.  During project implementation, the
consultants provided technical expertse to local governments in project identification and investment
packaging, evaluation of investment proposals and supervision of project preparation and
implementation. At the local level consultants were hired to prepare detailed engineering designs of
approved projects. Consultants hired during the implementation phase provided the necessary
experise to achieve tight construction supervision of local projects and ensured the quality of
construction and timely completion of projects. Consultants in training design, training delivery and
training evaluation were important contributors to the development and implementation of the MTP.
Contract trainers performed sufficiently well and were able to complete a number of training courses
over a short period of time. The employrnent of contract trainers enabled a far greater number of
t-aining courses to be conducted that otherwise would not have been conducted if training were
implemented solely by the MIP/LGA
12.   Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1        The Loan Agreement was quite adequate and appropriate for achieving project
objectives in the key institutional and financial areas. The SAR provided a useful framework for both
the Bank and DPWH, DOF and DILG for review of project implementation. Project documents,
particularly supervision mission aide-memoires, were adequate and provide a concise, complete and
chronological record of the Project. Only MTP (LGA/DILG) provided draft project completion
reports for the Project.



16
PART n1: PROJECT REVTEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Adequacv and Accuracv of Factual Infornation Contained in Part m
1.           The statistical informnation contained in Part m of the PCR was thoroughly discussed
with the implementing agencies. The DPWH-CPO, as the lead implementing agency, provided detailed
information which became the basis for Tables 3-6.
B.    Adeuuacv and Accuracy of Anallsis Contained in Part I
2.           Project Design and Organization: The PCR states that MDP created a demand-driven,
competitive environment for funds. Hence, with similar projects in the future, LGUs in the 19
economically depressed provinces covered by the Presidential Council for Countryside Development
should be given priority in the selection of -project centers.  These provinces have insufficient
employment opportunities, resulting in their depopulation. Without financial help and guidance, these
depressed areas will have limited success in catching up with the rest of the country.
3.           Project Implementation: The PCR states (para. 4.5) that 'the Project provided some
local governments with access to much-needed funds and in so doing arrested the rapid deterioration of
infrastructure and municipal services...." Such rapid deterioration was because insufficient funds had
been provided for operations and maintenance. Most of the markets proposed for financing under the
Project were in very poor condition and considered health hazards due to inadequate maintenance in
the past. The Sub-project Agreement provided for the establishment of a Maintenance Trust Fund and
required local governments to set aside an agreed amount for maintenance. Despite this provision,
LGUs failed to establish maintenance trust funds-either during or after project implementation. Centers
with completed projects should be required to set aside a minimum amount of funds in the Trust Fund
for all completed projects. A separate maintenance component has been included in MDP III.
4.           The slow pace of implementation of local sub-projects (paras. 5.2-5.3) was also caused
by a budget ceiling imposed by the central Govermnent. Budget proposals were usually reduced to
conform with the budget ceiling. Because of this, CPO could only accommodate a imirted number of
projects per year for implementation. Regarding the replacement of Mayors with Officers-in-Charge in
1986, some newly installed Officers-in-Charge fully supported projects endorsed by former Mayors,
especially in cases where these same Mayors were insisting that the projects continue.
5.           MTP: Participants from qualifying centers were invited to attend the training modules.
With the changes in local administration, some local staff who were previously trained were replaced
with new recruits, who were also invited to attend the training courses. The design of the training
component should take into account participants' different needs.
6.           Project Sustainabilitv:  The Borrower agrees with the PCR's conclusion that a
constraint to project sustainability is the LGUs' performance in infrastructure maintenance. Experience



17
has shown that there is a critical need to ensure that the completed facilities continue to perform their
intended functions, and that the LGUs need to be reminded by the CPO (and through monitoring by
the BLGF/DOF) that adequate funds for operation and maintenance need to be set aside for this
purpose.
7.           General: The transfer of responsibility for project identification and preparation from
the CPO to local governments was in line with MDP's objective of strengthening local technical
capacity in project development. CPO developed guidelines for project identification and preparation,
and training courses were conducted to reinforce those guidelines. The guidelines facilitated CPO's
appraisal functions but were developed primarily to ensure that projects were selected for their
development impact rather than for their political benefit.
C.    Evaluation of Bank Performance and Lessons Learned
8.           The Borrower notes that the Bank did its best in supervising the Project. The Bank
conducted field visits to check implementation, and when several project centers encountered problems
with their contractors during the last year of implementation, the Bank arranged a visit to the centers to
help resolve the conflict.
9.           Significant lessons for the Bank are:
a) The prograrn approach to project financing, and the bottom-up design, are more
appropriate models for development assistance to local governments than the top-down
approach, since LGUs are the direct beneficiaries and implementers of the assistance.
b) A demand-driven, competitive project errvironment serves as an effective stimulus for local
governments to prove their capability to prepare investment proposals and implement the
necessary fiscal, administrative and managerial improvements in order to merit financing.
c) Training modules should be made more responsive to project requirements, which could
include present and future local governance.
d) A shorter time frame for project implementation results in a more rational prioritization of
projects, and in projects that are more beneficial to the locality. It also guarantees project
execution on schedule and within the terms of local political leaders.
e) Proposed investments should be able to relate to the overall development vision of
municipalities and their Local Development Plans.
D.    Proiect Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower
10.          The Bank-Borrower relationship was very effective. On the Bank side there was a
consistency in rnission leadership from appraisal to completion. While there were differences over



18
some policies, both parties saw to it that the resolution of conflicts was satisfactory to both sides and to
the benefit of the Project. More evidently, the cooperation between Bank and Borrower has been
sustained under MDP II and MDP m, in spite of changes in management on both sides.



19
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS AND CREDITS
--LANCREQ1T N.:.:AME.            PURPOSE.A- PPROVED .STATUS..                     - COM i
Manila Urban          Upgrade Tondo Foreshore & Phase I May 27,1976 Complete PCR issued; PPAR no.
Development Project    of Dagat-Dagatan serviced site                         7092 dated Jan.,1988
(1282-PH)             project
Second Urban          Extend service sites and upgrading to Dec.21,1978 Complete PCR issued; PPAR no.
Development Project   regional cities.                                        7092 dated Jan.,1988.
(Ln. 1647-PH)
Third Urban           Expand slum upgrading in Metro     Mar.5,1980  Complete PCR no. 7897 issued
Development Project    Manila.                                                July 14, 1986.
(Ln. 1821-PH)
Urban Engineering     Assist in preparation of the Regional  Dec.8,1981  Complete PCR no. 7009 issued
Project (Ln.2067-PH)    Cities Development and Second                         November 16,1987.
Central Visayas Regional Projects.
Regional Cities       Stimulate economic decentralization  Mar.31,1983 Complete PCR no. 14330 issued
Development Project    by improving basic social                              Apr. 13, 1995. PPAR
(Ln. 2257-PH)         infrastructure, and strengthening                       under preparation
municipal institutions to manage
urban facilities.
Second Municipal      Continue development of the       Dec.14,1989  Active  Closing date is
Development Project    municipal development program                          December 31,1996.
(Ln.3146-PH)          begun under MDP.
Housing Sector Project  Improve institutional and policy  Jun.24,1988  Partially Closing date was June
(Ln 29T4-PH)          framework to promote efficiency and           Cancelled 30,1994.
redirect new housing to lower income
groups.
Third Municipal       Continue municipal development    Mar.31,1992  Active  Closing Date is June 30,
Development Project    program begun under MDP and MDP                        1999.
(Ln. 3455-PH)         11



20
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Stage of Project Cycle                 Date Planned       Revised Date        Actual Date
Preparation                                 N/A                N/A             Feb. 1983
Appraisal Mission                           N/A                N/A           Aug. 18,1983
Loan Negotiations                           N/A                N/A             Apr. 1984
Board Approval                              N/A                N/A           Jun. 5, 1984
Loan Signature                              N/A                N/A           Aug. 10, 1984
Loan Effectiveness                       Dec. 1984             N/A           Feb. 21, 1985
Loan Closing                           Jun. 30, 1991      Dec. 30, 1992      Jun. 30, 1993
Table 3: DISBURSEMENTS (USS Million)
194 1985 1986 1987 1968 1989 1990  1991  1992 1993 1994   TOTAL
Appraisal Estimate   3.00 3.60 6.40 6.80 9.20 7.00 4.00  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A    40.00
Actual              0.00 3.08 1.38 1.78 0.50 2.21  2.38  12.66 7.00  4.92  -0.1    35.81
Cumulative Total    0.00 3.08 4.48 6.24 6.74 8.95 11.33 23.99 30.99 35.91 35.81   35.81
Date of Final Disbursement: November 12, 1993



Table 4a: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
ADpraisal Estimate                                Actual
Pesos                 USS                    Pesos                  US$
(Million)            (Million)               (Million)             (Million)
Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign Total    Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign Total Forex as %
of Total
Urban Infrastructure
Urban Services         165.6  119.9  285.5  11.8   8.6   20.4        447.9  324.3  772.2  19.4   14.0  33.4       42
Markets and Public
Facilities            59.9   30.8   90.7   4.3    2.2   6.5        370.5  190.8  561.3  16.3   8.4   24.7        34
Traffic and Transport  42.8   28.6   71.4   3.1    2.0   5.1         4.1    26.7   66.8   1.7    1.2   2.9        40
Land Acquisition        7.4            7.4    0.5    0.0   0.5        0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0         0
Maintenance              19.6   45.8   65.4   1.4    3.3   4.7         7.6   17.7   25.3   0.3    0.8   1.1         70
Tax Mapping              19.6   29.4   49.0   1.4   2.1   3.5          53.7   80.5   134.2  2.4    3.7   6.1        60      H
Training                 19.0   28.6   47.6   1.4    2.0   3.4         23.4   35.1   58.5   0.9    1.4   2.3        60
Technical Assistance     22.2   33.2   55.4   1.6    2.4   4.0         37.4   56.0   93.4   1.6   2.5   4.1         60
BASE COST               356.1  316.3  672.4  25.4   22.6  48.0
Physical contingencies a/  13.4   12.0   25.6   1.0   0.9   1.8
Price contingencies a/  140.1  124.2  264.3  10.0   8.9   18.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST b/ 509.6  452.3  961.9  36.5   32.2  68.7          980.6  731.1  1711.7  42.6   32.0  74.1
Front-end fee on Bank   -      1.4    1.4     -     0.1   0.1         -     1.4    1.4      -     0.1   0.1
Loan
TOTAL FINANCING         509.6  453.7  963.3  36.5   32.3  68.8       980.6  732.5  1713.1  42.6  32.1   74.2
a/ Physical contingencies were calculated to be about 4% and price contingencies about 38% of total base costs plus physical contingencies
bl Total project costs include taxes and duties amounting to US$2 million



Table 4b: Summary of Proiect Financina (US$ Million)
Component               Total Cost              Bank Loan                      Counterpart Funding
Central                 Local
Actual   Appraisal      Actual   Appraisal      Actual   Appraisal      Actual   Appraisal
National                     22.8       28.5           0         0           22.8       28.5           0          0
Local                        33.4       33.6         28.2       26.2           0         0            5.2        7.4
Tax Mapping                   4.1        6.1          3.6       3.5           0.2        1.2          0.3        1.3
Training                      3.6       2.3           3.3        1.9          0.1        0.3          0.2        0
Technical Assistance          4.8       4.1           4.8       4.1            0         0             0          0
Front-end Fee                 0.1       0.1           0.1       0.1            0         0             0          0
Total                        68.8       74.6          40        35.9         23.1        30           5.7        8.7



Table Sa: DIRECT BENEFITS
;.  S  l-r                                                                                                 ;                             1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......  ........
.- .-.,.   .:   . ,   ......... :;.     ...:. ,.........-....1
Area upgrading                            3 areas             6 are*   Iniiiw  e                   d a  cading to
beftte dandard of Uvin
*   Reduce sankatlon related diseases
*   Increase land value
*   Enhance devebprnent in the area
Bus terminal rehabilitation and construction  2 units        3 units              *   Faciltate comrmuter mobility             *   Reduced traffic congestion resulting from
*   Reduce transportation fare if the terminal Is In a  unregulated parking on road sides
strategic location                       *   Minimized traffic hazards arising from
*   Improve terminal administration and revenue   unregulated pick-up and dislodging of
collecton                                    passengers
. Encourage development and business activity
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  h__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   In   the   area
Provision of secondary and tertiary drainage  9,997.6 Lm     32.163.7 km          *   Minimize flooding and prevent soil erosion  .   Minimized presence of water-borne diseases
systems and rehabilitation of primary drainage                                    *   Reduce damage to fives, property,            (Already-completed projects in the northem
systems 11                                                                            Infrastructure and utlities                   part of the country were affected by the
*   Help Increase land and property values In the  eruption of Mt Pinatubo and the 1990
affected areas                               earthquake)
*   Reduce maintenance cost of properties,
infrastructure and utilities in the affected areas
* Enhance business activity
*   Reduce stagnant stormwater and, by extension,
Incidence of water-borne diseases
Market rehabilitation and construction    Rehabilitation of 18   8 units rehabiliated   *   Hasten the development of LGUs as  *   Structurally sound and convenient facilities
units                                       commercial trading centers                   established in the markets
35 new units        *   Improve market administration and revenue    *   Congestion and traffic problems within the
Construction of 18   constructed           collection                                    market vicinity satisfactorily reduced
units                                  .   Improve sanitation, circulation and venilation In *   Transient vendors given permanent stalls
I unit unfinished       markets                                       (Some LGUs were not able to implement new
.   Increase r.arket capacity to meet demand for  fees, so their income targets were
stabls                                       unattainable.Some vendors refuse to use new
a   Provide comfort and convenience to vendors    markets because of new fees)
and customers
a   Reduce congestion on adiacent streets
Motorpool buiddings and equipment rehabilitation  Rehabititation of 2    2 buidins and 1 unit .   Decrease deterioration of vehicles and
and construction                          buildhigs and of 12   of equpmient          maitenance and constructon equIpment
units of equipnt   rehabilitated       *   Improve maintenance capacity
Construction of 5  1 buil    contructed
bL*k^P



road systems 1/                                                   resurfaced                popultion                                   *   improved traffic fbw
Resurfacing of 5,660                      .   Reduce vehicle operatlng and maintenance    *   Enhanced mobiithy of local population (Already
Im wilh right-of-way   3,941 Im resurfaced    costs and travel tIme                            completed projects in the northern porlion of
with rIght-of-way    .   Increase land value                              the counlry were affected by the eruption of Mt.
. Improve traffic flow and minimize traffic        Pinatubo and the 1990 earthquake. Delays in
congestion                                      implementation of some road projects were due
_________________                                      t~~~~~~~~~~~~o problems with right-of-way).
Slaughlerhouse rehabilitation and construction,   Rehabilitation of18    1 unit rehabilitated  .   Improve slaughterhouse capacity    I
and acquisition of equipment                 units                                     *   Improve slaughterhouse administration and
S units constructed      revenue collection
Construction of 2                         .   MinIizWe illegal and unhygienic backyard
units               6 units acquired (at      slaughteRing
P19,21 3m)           .   Reduce diseases resulting from improper
AcquIsition ol110                             handling and processlng of meat
units                ________________________________
Solid waste management: site development,    Develc4ment of       38.427.5 sqm         .   Improve present garbage collection and      .   Garbage collection and disposal system
acquisition of equipment to expand solid waste   188, 000 sqm     dev/eloped                disposal system                                 Improved, over an exlended area 
management and consultancy contract                                                    *   Reduce health risk tl population and improve                                                   4
assistance                                   Acquisition of 35    19 units acquIred (at     environmental conditions
units               p34,1 84m)
4 contracts         5 contracts (at
_________ ________ ________ ________P4,927m              )__               _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _   _ _  _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _
Water supply rehabilitation and new construction  1 contract each for   1 contract for  .   Improve water supply distribution,          *   Water distribution satisfactorily improved
rehabililation and  rehabililation and        administration and revenue collection
construction        construction (total
iES   .,.,.;:;i~~~~~~~~~~~l"...'f0, :: .:....:0S j'                                                                                            ;.E:Si; ii ;fi:;.:;,; '"-'  .;i' :'.."   ...
Bridge construcion                          Maintenance ol 247.8 209.1 Im maintained   *   Improve accessibility to bridges
Im of bridges of5660_*   Reduce maintenance and repair costsedmobilityoflcalpopulation(Alrea
Provision of secondary and tertiary drainage  247 068.1 Im       67,425.6 Im           *   Minimize flooding and prevent soil erosion
systems and rehabilitation of primary drainage                                         .   Reduce damage to lives, property,
systems 11                                                                                 Infrastructure and utlitdies
*   Help increase land and property values in the
affected areas
.   Reduce maintenance cost of properties,
Infrastructure end utlioies in the affected areas
*   Enhance business actIvity
*   Reduc, stagn2nfMstormwalerlant tnherd, by extensin
ts6undt_ cIence o water-borne dses



"rOect Oomvint               .Physica lagt                                            P~cd B                                    Acual 
Resurfacing/rehabilitation and construction of    60,556.0 Im  65,482.9 Im of roads  *   Increase and Improve mobility of local
road systems 1/                                                constructed              populatlon
a   Reduce vehicle opetatng and maintenarce
1170.6 Im rehabilitated  cods and travel time
a   Increas, land values
209.80 km unfinished  *   Improve traffic flow and minimize traffic
t;a  gestli on
Shoreline protection 1/                    47,644 Im           47,198 Im           *   Prevent soil erosion along the shoreline
*   Reduce damage to lives. property,
Infrastructure and utilities
*   Help Increase and and propeuty values in
affected areas
1/ Unit o measurement is in 'Ihear meters' (Im). 1lm. = tm.
Ln



26
Table 5b: Summary of Economic and Financial Impact of Selected Suborojects
Appraisal                       Actual
FIRR            ERR            FIRR            ERR
BUTUAN CITY
Markets                           46.2%           11.3%          15.0%           19.0%
Bus Terminals                     27.6%           18.2%          14.0%           10.0%
Slaughterhouse                    34.7%           9.8%           13.0%           16.0%
BAUAN, BATANGAS
Markets                           13.0%           10.0%          32.4%           10.0%
GUIUAN, EASTERN SAMAR
Markets                           37.9%           10.0%          11.0%           7.0%
SAN FERNANDO, LA UNION
Markets                           36.1%           10.3%          14.0%           12.0%
SAN JOSE CITY, NUEVA ECIJA
Markets                           34.1%           10.2%          17.0%           12.0%
SAN PABLO CITY, LAGUNA
Roads                              N/A            89.1%            N/A           49.9%



27
Table 6: Status of Covenants (as of April 30,1995)
Loan Agreement                 Covenant                 Current Status
Sect. 2.03   The Borrower shall fumish: (1) Sub-project   In compliance
Appraisal Report; (2) Sub-project and Sub-loan
Agreements; (3) Evidence that funds are
available to carry out the projects in
accordance with the pian, in presenting a sub-
loan for Bank approval.
Sect. 3.0    The Borrower shall:
(a) & (b) fumish necessary information and   In compliance
submit quarterly reports
(c) submit a Completion Report within six    In compliance
months of the closing date.
Sect. 3.06   The Borrower shall maintain the Central  Consolidated CY 1993 project
Project Office and the Municipal Development audit outstanding
Fund (with staff, resources and functions
satisfactory to the Bank).
Sect. 4.01   The Borrower shall maintain sound accounting Partially complied with.
practices, separate accounts and submit audit Accounts and accounting pracices
reports within six months after the end of each acceptable, but audit reports not
year (includes S.O.E. clause).         submitted in timely fashion.
Consolidated CYI 993 project audit
outstanding.
Sect. 4.03.    The Borrower shall cause the facilities and    CPO to monitor maintenance
goods provided through the project to be  activities in project center.
adequately maintained.
Schedule 5    The Bank and the Borrower will annually  In compliance
review the interest rate to be applied to new
sub-loans beginning May 1, 1985.



Table 7a: Use of Bank Resources-Total Staff Inputs
Preappraisal       Appraisal        Negotiations       Supervision           PCR               Total
Staffweeks (up to FY95)      30.5               .45               9.1               84.3               9.1               178
Table 7b: Use of Bank Resources-Missions             I
Stage of Project Cycle      Dates        Number of Staff  Specializations 1/                    ProblEms/Status
Preparation        Feb/Mar, 1983           4
Appraisal           Aug. 1983             4                 A
Supervision                                                 '
I             Oct 7-30, 1984          2                A,C
11          Mar 31 -Apr 13, 1985      2                A,C
III           Jan 8-27, 1986          2                 A,C        Rising political instability; changes in city administrations; local elections
I 4imminpnt
IV            Nov 1-15, 1986           3                 A         Erosion of project cities and investment programs; slow start for RPTA    tc
V             Mar 16-20, 1987         3                 A,D       Infrastructure component delayed; weak local government finance
VI            Jan 19-24, 1988          1                 B         Delay in receipt of project accounts; financial statements inadequate
VIl           Jul 12-19, 1988          5                 A         DPWH reorganization, staff morale low
Vill           Nov 3-5, 1988           1                  F
IX          Aug 29-Sep 21,1989         1                 A         MTP delayed; increase in project cities starting to tax CPO
X           Feb 25-Mar 24, 1990       2                 A,C        Shortfall of loan funds; poor quality of work by contactors;
arrears in interest payments; delayed project audits
Xl             Oct 1-19, 1990          2                A,C        Contract awards delayed; inefficiency in managing Special Account in
Central Bank
XII         Jul 27-Aug 14, 1992        2                A,C        Slow release of Bank loan funds due to cash release ceilings of DBM
XiII           Nov 16-Dec 12,          3                A,B,C,      Second extension of loan closing date, to June 30, 1993
1992
XIV          Jul 20-Aug 13, 1993       3                A,B,C
XV             Apr 4-22, 1994          3               A,B,E
11 Key to specializations:
A= Economist
B= Financial Analyst
C= Engineer
D= Auditor
E= Urban Specialist
F= Consultant/Other












IMAGING
Report No:       15100
Type: PCR



