Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5027-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOIMENT PROJECT
May 10, 1984
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
Urban and Water Supply Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               =    Peso (P)
US$1                        -    P 14.0
Pesos 1                     -    US$ 0.0714
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Meter (m)                 =    3.28 feet (ft)
I square meter (sq m)       =    10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 kilometer (km)            =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare                   =    10,000 square meters (sq m)
or 2.47 acres (ac)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEO            -   City Engineer's Office
COA            -   Commission on Audit
CPDO           -   Municipal Planning and Development Officer
CPDS           -   City Planning and Development Staff
CPO            -   Central Project Office
GOP            -   Government of Philippines
LPO            -   Local Project Officer
LWUA           -   Local W4ater Utilities Administration
MDF            -   Municipal Development Fund
MRS            -   Ministry of Human Settlements
MLG            -   Ministry of Local Government
MOF            -   Ministry of Finance
MPWH           -   Ministry of Public Works and Highways
NEDA           -   National Economic Development Authority
OBM            -   Office of Budget and Management
RCDP           -   Regional Cities Development Project
Sangguniang
Panglunsod   -   Local elected council



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES: MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE URBAN SECTOR                  /
A.  Urban Development in the Philippines ..................         1
B.  Bank Sector Lending Strategy, Rationale for Bank
Involvement and Past Experience ............ ..........       3
II. THE MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A.  Genesis and Objectives ....................... ......... .      4
B.  Institutional Structure and Procedures        ................  5
C.  Institutional Functions and Organization ...........  ....    11
TII. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Components .      ........... ......................    17
B.  Cost Estimates        ........      ....00000.........9   20
C.  Financing Plan ................ ....................  .....    21
D.  Project Implementation .............................. ...    22
E.  Procurement ..... .. ...... .........................  .....    22
F.  Disbursements ......... ... .................  ...........    24
G.  Accounts and Audit      .. .................... ......    25
H.  Supervision and Project Reporting ......................    25
IV. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A.  Financial Condition of Project Cities ..................    26
B.  Cost Recovery .............. .. ......... .................    26
C.  Municipal Finances ................... ..... ... ................. .    27
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.  Project Benefits... . ...................................    29
B.  Urban Poverty Impact .................. ............ . .... .    30
C.  Environmental Impact ........... ......... ..... ...........    31
D.  Risks ............................................. ................    31
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....................    32
This report is based on findings of the preappraisal and appraisal missions
which visited the Philippines in March 1983 and September 1983 respectivelv.
The missions consisted of Messrs. Stuart Whitehead, (Mission Chief), David
G. Williams, Yoshine Uchimura (AEPUW), John Comings and Marcos Mendonca
(Consultants). Elisabeth Hellman and Rose Paratore assisted in the prepara-
tion of this report.
This document has a restriced distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Annexes
1. The Project cities appraised by the Bank
2. Detailed cost estimates by city and component for cities appraised
by the Bank
3. Municipal Financial Analysis for Cities Appraised by the Bank
4. MDF Fund Flows
5. Training Program
6. Monitoring Indicators
7. Implementation and Disbursements
Table 1 - Project Implementation Schedule
Table 2 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan
8. CPO Staffing Schedule
9. Summary of Economic Analysis
Table I - Summary of Economic Evaluation
Table 2 - Summary of Economic Rates of Return
10. Urban Poverty Impact
11. Technical Assistance. Brief Terms of Reference
12. List of Documents on Project File.
Supporting Charts ar.d Tables
Chart 1: General Project Organization Structure
Chart 2: Central Program Office
Chart 3: City-level Organization
MAPS
Location of project cities



- iii -
PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiaries:     Municipalities and cities in the Philippines
Amount:            $40.0 million equivalent (including the capitalized front-
end fee)
Terms:             20 years, inzluding 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:   The equivalent of $28.2 million of the loan proceeds would
be relent by the Government through the Municipal Develop-
ment Fund (MDF) to the project cities, at 14% for 20 years,
including 5 years grace. These terms would be reviewed
annually and any adjustments would be applicable only to
the new cities applying for subloans from the MDF. The
loan balance (excluding the capitilized front-end fee of
$0.1 million) would be provided to various Government
agencies as budgetary allocations. The Government will
absorb all the standard financed charges and fees on the
entire Bank loan in addition to the interest rate
variations and the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:     The proposed project would assist local governments provide
infrastructure and municipal services to a growing urban
population by: (a) establishing a revolving fund, the MDF,
to provide local governments with direct access to long-
term development finance; (b) establishing a national-level
technical intermediary to assist local governments identify
investment priorities, evaluate project proposals for
financing through the MDF and act as a liaison with natio-
nal and external funding agencies; and (c) strengthening
the local technical and financial capacity for project
implementation and service management through a training
program and organizational and fiscal reform. The project
includes financing for: (i) basic infrastructure including
improvements to sanitation, drainage, slum areas, solid
wastes management, roads, traffic management and bus
terminals, and construction and upgrading of markets and
slaughterhouses; (ii) infrastructure maintenance opera-
tions; (iii) natior. wide tax mapping; (iv) training
program; and (v) technical assistance for project implemen-
tation and structural reform studies. The project's main



- iv -
risks are related to timely availability of central govern-
ment counterpart funds, fiscal weaknesses at the city
level, and staffing and management in the technical inter-
mediary. The Government's commitment to the project and
the flexibility in the project to reduce investment pro-
grams in individual cities in line with financial
constraints, provision of technical assistance, commitment
to fiscal reform by the local governments and sanctions to
be applied to nonperforming cities by the Ministry of
Finance are, however, expected to minimize these risks.



v
Estimated Cost:
Local   Foreign    Total
…__-$ million-
(a) Urban infrastructure            19.7    12.8       32.5
(b) Maintenance                      1.4     3.2        4.6
(c) Tax Mapping                      1.4      2.1       3.5
(d) Training                         1.4      2.0       3.4
(e) Technical Assistance             1.6      2.4       4.0
Base cost                    25.5    22.5       48.0
Physical contingencies               1.0      0.8       1.8
Price contingencies                 10.0      8.9      18.9
Total Project Cost /a             36.5    32.2       68.7
Front-end fee on Bank loan            -       0.1       0.1
Total Financing Required          36.5    32.3       68.8
Financing Plan:
Bank loan                            7.7    32.3       40.0
Government                          23.1      -        23.1
Project cities                       5.7       -        5.7
Total                            36.5    32.3       68.8
Estimated
Disbujrsements       Bank FY        1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
Annual          4.2   5.2   6.8   8.0   8.4   6.0   1.4
Cumulative     4.2   9.4  16.2  24.2  32.6  38.6  40.0
Rate of Return:        18-24Z weighted ERR for the six project cities
appraised./b
Staff Appraisal
Report:              No. 5027-PH, dated May 10, 1984
Map:                   IBRD-17775
/a Includes taxes and duties amounting to $2.0 million.
7E; All project components would have an ERR. above the opportunity cost of
capital except thnose with a significant health factor where a slightly
lower ERR would be acceptable.



I. THE URBAN SECTOR
A.  Urban Development in the Philippines
Urbanization Trends
1.01      The Philippines is one of the rapidly urbanizing countries in East
Asia.  From 1960 to 1980 the urban population more than doubled to reach
15.3 million or about 31% of the total population.  If the current demographic
trends continue, almost nalf of population growth within the next 20 years
will take place in or move to the nation's cities. By the year 2000, Metro
Manila is projected to grow to over 13 million people and by its sheer size
will continue to dominate the urban sector. However, medium sized regional
cities are growing rapidly, some with growth rate of over 10%, and will
comprise an increasing portion of the urban population. These cities, most
with population between 10,000 and 100,000, function as market, service and
transportation centers to their hinterlands and are often provincial capitals
with government and education facilities. Around 32% of the urban population
have incomes below the absolute poverty threshold, estimated at P 3,431 ($245)
per capita in 1983. While the poor comprise a significant portion of the
population in all urban areas, including Metro-Manila, urban poverty is
especially pronounced in the Visayas, northeastern Luzon and eastern Mindanao.
1.02      The Government has invested in major inter-urban infrastructure,
such as roads, sea and airports, which have spurred economic development in
the regional centers, but investments in infrastructure and services within
the cities have lagged mainly due to lack of funds. In many towns and cities
only half the population has access to safe water supplies, and only a quarter
to sanitary toilets. Lack of adequate drainage systems is so extensive that
severe flooding occurs regularly in most cities causing economic disruption,
accelerating the deterioration of infrastructure and compounding the problems
of poor sanitation. Systems for solid wastes management are either non-
existent or seriously deficient in coverage. Even public service facilities
which do exist are inefficiently managed and poorly maintained, particularly
public markets and slaughterhouses. These regional cities appear to be good
candidates as the generators of economic growth if their basic services could
be improved to levels adequate to attract and retain industry, trade and a
more skilled population.
Sector Organization
1.03      The government structure in the Philippines is centralized with
national government selectively delegating power to lower levels - provinces,
cities, municipalities and barangays (neighborhoods). At the local government
level, provinces historically have not been strong political or administrative
entities and most local administration has come from the 1,484 municipalities
into which the provinces are fully subdivided. All areas in the Philippines
are incorporated, and municipalities contain both urban and rural areas.
There are, in addition, 60 chartered cities which are more highly urbanized
than municipalities though also containing rural areas. The local governments
(both city and municipalities) are headed by Mayors who are elected officials



- 2 -
(except in Metro-Manila) and who are responsible to locally elected councils
(Sangguniang Panlungsod). All local governments have authority to set and
collect charges and taxes, prepare budgets, hire staff and invest in and
manage local services and enterprises. While all local government officials
report to the Mayor, the Treasurer and Assessor are appointed and directed by
the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Local governments employ city engineers to
implement their locally financed programs, although in many larger cities and
municipalities the Ministry of Public Works and Highways (MPWH) also has its
engineers located at the local level to implement infrastructure financed from
the MPWH budget. In addition to the construction, operation and maintenance
of local roads, bridges, drainage and solid wastes management, local govern-
ments are responsible for the provision of education and health facilities for
which they receive some central government finance. Economic enterprises run
by local governments include public markets and slaughterhouses with fees and
rents being charged to lessees. Water supply is administered by autonomous
local Water Districts which charge user fees to cover operation and mainte-
nance costs and debt service. Local governments hire and pay for their own
staff except for teachers' salaries which are paid by the central government's
allocation for education.
1.04      In the central government, the Ministry of Local Government (MLG) is
concerned with the jurisdictions and changes in status of local governments
and their political relations with the national government. The MOF, through
its Bureau of Local Government Finance, oversees the distribution of central
government support grants and the financial management and revenue operations
of local governments. The Office of Budget and Management (OBM) reviews local
budgets to ensure they are in accordance with statutory requirements, while
the Commission on Audit (COA) is responsible for auditing the financial
records of local governments. The Ministry of Human Settlements (MHS) is
responsible for reviewing the land use plans prepared by local governments.
Loan funds are available from the Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA)
for projects requested by the autonomous Water Districts set up at the local
level.  The MPWH prepares and executes the larger urban road, drainage and
flood control projects which are designated as 'national' infrastructure.
Finally, local governments also prepare capital investment plans for review by
the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA), and these plans are
now beginning to be incorporated into the Regional Development Investment
Programs.
Local Government Finance
1.05      Although local governments are expected to rrovide a variety of
urban services, their finances are generally weak ?'! inadequate. During
1978-82, local government expenditures increased at 15X p.a. while inflation
averaged 14% and population growth 3.6% implying a decrease in expenditures
per capita in real terms. Recurrent costs account for around 90% of these
expenditures, so that capital investments, especially major works, were
deferred as funds were used to meet day-to-day needs. Furthermore, local
government's reliance on central government grants increased from 32% of
expenditures in 1978 to 40% in 1982. However, it is unlikely that local
governments would in the future receive the same degree of Central Government
support, given severe domestic resource constraints. The Government



recognizes that local governments would in future have to generate
considerably more resources if they are to provide adequate ser'ices to their
growing populations.
1.06      There is considerable potential to increase revenues from local tax
and non-tax sources. Property and business taxes together with fees and
charges on markets and slaughterhouses constitute the principal local revenue
base, and have potential for substantial increases. Gross sales for business
tax purposes are under-reported and collection is weak while fees and rents on
municipal markets and slaughterhouses are well below the economic rent. Pro-
perty tax records in most of the cities have not been systematically up-dated
so that many properties are not properly drawn, classified and assessed nor
their current owner identified. Maintenance of records, filing and other
administrative tasks for the most part are done manually. MOF has embarked
upon a national program to increase city revenues by updating tax records
through tax mapping and modernization of records management and administrative
procedures. Where fiscal cadasters have been completed and computerized
accounts established, as in several cities in Metro Manila, revenues lhave
increased by around 50%. The Bank is supporting MOF's efforts through techni-
cal assistance for improving records management under the Regional Cities
Development Project (Loan 2257-PH) ard financing for tax mapping under the
proposed project.
B. Bank Sector Lending Strategy, Rationale for Bank
Involvement and Past Experience
1.07      Since 1976 the Bank has assisted Government to develop policies and
programs in the sector emphasizing low-cost solutions, with a focus on the
urban poor. To date, nine projects have been approved for a total of $451
million. In Metro Manila the chief focus has been to upgrade unserved areas,
and expand the supply of serviced land. More recently, the emphasis has
broadened to include provision of economic infrastructure and services in
regional cities. Within the sector, Bank investments have been concentrated
in the following areas: (i) providing shelter to low income households both
through upgrading slum areas and building new sites and services; (ii)
improving the supply and distribution of city-wide water systems to affordable
standards with full cost recovery to enable the water enterprises to become
financially viable, and providing low-cost human waste and waste-water dis-
posal systems to unserved areas; and (iii) improving municipal infrastructure
to strengthen the economic potential and performance of key regional cities.
1.08      In addition to financing these basic service programs, the Bank has
emphasized the need for institutional and management improvements in four key
areas: (i) strengthening metropolitan management in Metro-Manila through the
development of intersectoral planning and capital budgeting and efficient
financial management; (ii) establishing intermediaries for urban development;
(iii) building the capabilities of local governments to implement and manage
basic service programs, strengthen local enterprises, and improve collection
and management of local revenues; and (iv) emphasizing coordination among
central agencies especially on the area of shelter policy, budgeting, finance
and regional development policy.



- 4 -
1.09      Experience to date of the projects under implementation has shown
that, while start-up has been slow, they have generally achieved both physical
and institutional objectives, and are providing a sound basis upon which to
expand the Government's urban program. Favorable features of the shelter
portion of the first three projects to date include: (a) positive beneficiary
response to the programs; and (b) the willingness of families to invest large
sums in upgrading their dwellings (especially after tenure is assured). The
provision of secondary and tertiary infrastructure to provide basic urban
services to the urban poor in Metro Manila under the third urban project is
off to a good start. While there is a clear demand for these programs, dis-
bursements actual implementation and have been slow. The principal
difficulties with the urban projects to date have been: (a) slow start-up,
mainly due to land acquisition problems; (b) less than satisfactory contractor
performance and construction supervision by implementing agencies on some
components, in the first two projects resulting in cost overruns and delayed
completion; and (c) lagging collections from shelter beneficiaries due to
uncompleted works and absence of appropriate mechanisms and enforcement.
1.10      Future Bank lending in the sector will continue to build on the
basic approach developed under the first four urban projects to provide basic
urban services and shelter at affordable costs. However, greater emphasis
will be placed on improving urban management, institution building, increased
resource mobilization, and on supporting cost recovery measures. The develop-
ment of national level intermediaries to channel funds and technical assist-
ance to local governments for planning, management and finance would need to
be pursued. It is also recognized that design and implementation of local
service projects by central agencies had often proved slow and led to lack of
interest at the local level. In accordance with the government strategy for
decentralization, an increased proportion of lending would be devoted to
assisting cities and regions outside of Metro Manila. The proposed project
address the difficulties experienced under ongoing urban projects through
measures aimed at strengthening the management and staffing of the project
cities, and supporting the establishment of a central intermediary for
municipal development.
II. THE MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A. Genesis and Objectives
2.01      From 1981, the Government and Bank missions have discussed expanding
urban services among various towns and cities outside Metro-Manila. It was
recognized that design and implementation of local service projects by central
agencies had often proved slow and led to lack of interest at the local level,
and there was a need to make local governments more responsible for planning,
financing and implementing their local services. Experience in earlier urban
projects had defined the range of services which were broadly needed, and it
was felt that by using simple low-cost design standards, most local govern-
ments were capable of implementing their own infrastructure projects. A
,Central Project Office (CPO) under MPWH was organized in 1981 to mobilize and
assist local governments as they prepared their project proposals, and



- 5 -
subsequently to evaluate their investment programs and prepare an initial
package for Bank assistance. The CPO organized several workshops for a broad
range of central and local officials. At the workshops local needs and
priorities were discussed and the project concepts evolved. Local officials
were all eager for an opportunity to expand their operations and were willing
to take active steps to raise local revenues if financing could be made
available. It was clear that a competitive environment for funds and techni-
cal advice would avoid complacency arising from a mechanJstic selection
process independent of local commitment and that clear criteria were needed
for local officials to formulate their development programs. This process
resulted in a programatic approach to municipal development embodied in the
proposed project.
2.02      The proposed project would support the Government's effort to
develop an institutional framework to finance local government-sponsored
investment programs. The objective of the project is to assist the local
governments provide infrastructure and improved municipal services by:
(a) establishing a mechanism to provide local governments with direct
access to long-term development finance on reasonable terms;
(b) establishing a permanent national-level technical intermediary to
Ci) assist local governments in identifying infrastructure invest-
ment priorities; (ii) evaluate project proposals for financing;
(iii) monitor and control the program; (iv) act as a principal
liaison with the Bank and other external funding agencies in promo-
ting urban service improvements throughout the urban hierarchy; and
Cc) strengthening local technical and financial capacity for project
implementation and service management through implementation of a
broad based municipal training program and through organizational
and fiscal reforms.
B. Institutional Structure and Procedures
General Structure (see Chart 1)
2.03      The main elements consist of the Central Project Office (CPO),
established by MPWH, which provides technical assistance to local governments
to prepare investment programs, and the Municipal Development Fund (MDF), a



- 6 -
loan account administered by the Treasury Bureau, MOF.I/  The CPO appraises
the local governments' investment proposals and monitors implementation under
the guidance of a Steering Committee composed of27inisterial-level representa-
tives from key national Ministries.  Subprojects- approved by the Steering
Committee would be eligible for financing from the MDF and from project grant
funds through the MPWH. The organization and functions of the CPO, Steering
Committee and MDF are presented in detail in Section C. Once the development
program has been approved by the Steering Committee, a subproject agreement
would be signed between the city and the Steering Committee outlining the
obligations of the city, MPWH, CPO and other implementing agencies, and a
subloan agreement signed between the city and the MOF outlining both parties'
obligations with respect to the MDF loan. At the city level subprojects are
proposed to the CPO by the Mayor and Sangguniang Panglunsod which also
establishes a local Advisory Committee of key council members prior to project
implementation. The mayor designates the Local Project Officer (LPO), who,
with staff of the existing city departments, is responsible for developing
feasible investment proposals for consideration by the Mayor and Advisory
Committee, and general management of the subproject which is implemented by
the various city departments. No new departments or units are established at
the city level.
City Eligibility and Selection
2.04      If a city or municipality wishes to obtain funds through the MDF, it
must prepare an investment program, and if necessary, hire staff and undertake
fiscal reforms. It must demonstrate continued performance to targets agreed
with the CPO through the preparation and appraisal stages (para. 2.05) before
its selection is confirmed. If performance lags, its place is taken by
another, more committed local government. A pool of 160 urban centers which
are eligible were identified by the CPO based on criteria approved by the
Steering Committee. All towns with populations below 10,000 and those which
were not actively growing were excluded from the program as being not suffi-
ciently urban. The 17 local governments of Metro-Manila were excluded from
the first phase of the program in view of its regional development thrust.
1/   Alternative institutional arrangements considered were (a) establishment
of a new financial institution; and (b) utilizing an existing development
bank. However, these alternatives were not considered appropriate. The
Government was rightly reluctant at this time to establish a new separate
institution. Moreover, a development bank could not provide the close
coordination required among central government ministries which are
involved in implementation in the cities and tc which the cities have
legal responsibilities for reporting.
2/   The following terminology will be used in the report.  Individual invest-
ments in a city, such as markets, roads, etc., will be referred to as
(project) components.  Subproject will be used to describe a group of
components in an individual city to be financed through the proposed Bank
project.



- 7 -
Finally, in order to initiate discussions with a manageable group of cities
from the pool, they were prioritized on the basis of (i) low per capita
incomes and extent of bad environmental conditions; (ii) surveyed service
deficiencies; (iii) having a significant economic function in their region;
and (iv) capability and willingness to prepare, finance, implement and main-
tain an investment program within the guidelines established by the CPO.
Following successful project implementation by a city, it is eligible to
return to the pool to seek further assistance. Confirmation was obtained-
during negotiations on these criteria for city eligibility.
The Local Project Cycle
2.05      With an increasing number of cities expected to apply for loans, a
major concera of the CPO is to manage the timing and stages of preparation so
that they are capable and ready to undertake their activities, and for the CPO
to be in a position to provide the appropriate assistance and review. The
process of development is therefore organized into clear phases of activity,
each phase ending with a milestone commitment by the city and the CPO. The
guidelines and criteria for preparation of individual project components have
been developed in particular detail to relate to each of these main phases.
The training activities will also use and relate to these phases and
guidelines.
(a) Prequalification. Following orientation, towns and cities are pre-
qualified by (i) endorsement of the project by resolution of the
Mayor and Sangguniang; Cii) deployment of a project preparation
staff together with an operating budget; and (iii) approval of a
package of fiscal and management reforms which is acceptable to the
CPO as being required for effective project executlo:. and to support
debt to be incurred.
(b) Prefeasibility. With technical assistance from CPO, the city staff
undertakes an assessment of needs and constraints and prepares a
structure plan with defined sectoral priorities. Following review
by the CPO, the city prepares project concept plans with rough
costs, formulates a revenue strategy, determines staffing and
organizational arrangements and an operational budget.
(c) Preparation and Appraisal. Following approval by CPO of structure
and concept plans, local and MPWH staff undertake physical survey
work and preliminary designs, economic justification and financial
feasibility analysis. Cities initiate steps to implement the reve-
nue strategy and establish subproject accounts and a municipal
financial monitoring system. The CPO then appraises the subproject
using the criteria established (para. 2.06) and recommends its
findings in an appraisal report to the Steering Committee. The CPO
then prepares a Subproject Agreement (para. 2.08) which is endorsed
by the Steering Committee and the city, and a Subloan Agreement
(para. 2.10) which is signed by the MOF and the city. Until its
Subproject Agreement is signed by the Steering Committee, any city
which is not performing according to Its agreement with the CPO is
liable to be substituted by another from the pool which is perform-



-8-
ing better. The CPO's appraisal report for each city and draft
Subproject and Subloan Agreements will be sent to the Bank for
review and comment before final approval by the Steering
Committee. This was agreed during negotiations.
(d) Implementation. Following signature of the Subproject Agreement by
the Steering Committee, local government and MPWH staff jointly
prepare detailed engineering designs and tender documents. Imple-
mentation is divided into two parts: national components and local
components. Those areas, such as trunk roads and major drainage,
which have traditionally been the responsibility of the central
government would be implemented by the MPH using central government
budget funds, while the remaining areas which have been the respon-
sibility of the local governments would be implemented by the cities
with their own funds and MDF loan. Pre/post-qualification, Bid and
Award Committees are established and contracts are let and super-
vised directly by local governments for local components and by MEWH
for national components. ICB procurement of equipment needed for
several cities will be managed on behalf of the cities by CPO. The
CPO monitors the physical and financial performance of the project,
submits regular reports to the Steering Committee and, where neces-
sary, advises remedial action by the central ministries.
To date 15 cities have undertaken the process through steps (a) and tb) and
six cities through step Cc). However it will be critical that the CPO and the
MOF insist on and monitor the revenue action program to which the cities have
committed themselves (para. 2.11). If the revenue increases are not realised,
the city project components will have to be cut back, or rescheduled
(para. 5.09).
Appraisal Criteria
2.06      The CPO, with Bank assistance, has developed criteria which form a
common basis for a city to develop its investment programs, the CPO to conduct
its appraisal, and the Steering Committee to approve financial assistance for
the city. A city's request for financing is evaluated on its consistency with
the project's objectives and technical, economic, financial and administrative
feasibility. Details on the financial and economic evaluation criteria are
discussed in Chapters IV and V. The key features of the criteria are as
follows:
(a) Program Content. The city's investment program should emerge from a
needs and resources assessment and should also emphasize
(i) addressing basic needs in environmental sanitation, particularly
those of the low income groups, (ii) improving city efficiency with
economic infrastructure and management actions, (iii) strengthening
economic enterprises under the city's control, and (iv) dealing with
the worst deficiencies in the existing urban area first through
rehabilitation, management and maintenance programs, before consi-
dering infrastructure for city expansion. Individual components
should be evaluated to determine whether proposed investments were
the most efficient use of funds based on economic rates of return



- 9 -
(Annex 9, Table 1). Revenue-generating municipal enterprises should
at least be self-financing so that revenues cover operating costs
and debt-service obligations;
(b) Program Scale and Phasing should be guided by (i) the city's techni-
cal and administrative capacity including assistance which the
district or city offices of the MPWH is willing to commit, to imple-
ment and maintain the investments; (ii) the city should contribute
at least IO of the cost of local components from its own funds;
(iii) the city's revenue net of operating, and maintenance
expenditures should not fall below 1.2 times the city's debt service
obligations; and (iv) the proportion of nationj} components should
not exceed 40% of a city's investment program.-
2.07      In order to meet the above criteria, the cities will need to under-
take specific measures, such as the preparation tcgether with the local MPWH
office, of a satisfactory implementation and monitoring plan, including
provision of suitably qualified staff. Furthermore, the city will need to
undertake fiscal measures to increase revenues and reduce expenditures to
satisfy municipal enterprise financial performance, the counterpart fund and
debt service criteria. The Subproject and Subloan Agreements (paras. 2.08-
2.11) will clearly specify the necessary measures to be taken by the cities.
Confirmation was obtained during negotiations on the criteria for appraising
the cities' programs.
Subproject Agreements and Subloan Agreements
2.08      The Subproject Agreement between each city and the Steering
Committee is required (i) to define the content, timing and conditions of the
subprojects for which the city is requesting financial assistance, and as a
basis to define the MPWH national components and formulate the Subloan
Agreement with the MDF; and (ii) as a monitoring device to record project
performance in physical implementation and financial and fiscal management,
for use by the city, HPWH, MOF and MLG. These parties would endorse the
Subproject Agreement and agree to confer to adjust timetables when slippage
occurs.
2.09      The Subproject Agreement is the principal item resulting from the
CPO appraisal of a city's investment program. It would comprise standard
tables of key information, supplemented by a location plan showing each compo-
nent, a brief project description, and a list of conditions for project imple-
mentation. Each table is filled at appraisal, indicating physical and
financial amounts and identifying target points or decision reviews. Blank
3/   This limit is imposed (a) to ensure that central government funds are
used efficiently, (b) no one city obtains a disproportionate amount of
central grant finance, and (c) the necessary balance of government coun-
terpart funds is maintained in proportion to the Bank loan.



- 10 -
lines are left below each item for the cities to fill in the actual perform-
ance. Copies of these tables would be re-submitted regularly by the cities to
the CPO to monitor performance. The tables include: (i) implementation bar
chart and schedule, showing phasing of preparation, construction, and imple-
mentation of each phase of each component, with expected physical volumes;
(ii) disbursement schedule indicating project disbursements for each component
(national and local), and financing source; (iii) cumulative list of contracts
showing expenditures, time and extent of variations authorized, by quarter;
(iv) schedule indicating projected city revenues from each source; (v) rolling
4-year city budget indicating capital, maintenance, administration expendi-
tures, debt-service commitments, and projected income, subdivided by source;
(vi) staffing schedule for implementation of the development program and staff
assignment to task forces and activities; and, (vii) procedures for procure-
ment and contract bidding, award and payment.
2.10      The Subproject Agreements contain a number of specific requirements
relating to the conditions in each city. These may include: (i) requirements
for land acquisition before funds are released for physical works; (ii) veri-
fication of survey by MPIWH before drainage and flood protection components are
implemented; (iii) establishment of tenure and payment agreements regarding
area improvements between residents, landowners and city; (iv) linkages and
conditions in timing between different infrastructure components, and between
the implementing agencies; (v) a maintenance operations plan and establishment
of an equipment renewal fund; and (vi) requirements for technical assistance
and training. A draft model Subproject Agreement was reviewed during
negotiations.
2.11      A Subloan Agreement would be prepared by the CPO and signed between
each city and the M4OF to define the terms and conditions of a subloan from the
IIDF. In addition to specifying the amount and terms of subloan to each local
government, with breakdown into (a) civil works, (b) equipment, and (c) tech-
nical assistance, plus schedules for draw-down and repayments, the Subloan
Agreements would contain a number of standard clauses. First, the city will
commit to a schedule of repayments to the MDF for funds withdrawn with no
penalty for early repayment. Repayments to the MDF will take priority over
payments related to any agreements the city enters into following the signing
of the Subloan Agreement. The city must refer any proposed new agreements to
the CPO, for their information and provide evidence that sufficient income is
available to meet any new commitments. The Bank will be informed of any new
loans by the local Governments exceeding 25% of existing loan commitments.
Second, the local government will limit its borrowing from all sources during
the subproject period so that total net yearly revenues from all sources
(including local taxes, rents, fees, charges and central government grants)
less operating costs and maintenance expenditures, will not fall below
1.2 times yearly debt service liabilities to all creditors. In the case of
non-compliance with subloan conditions, MOF reserves the right to review
future subloan availments from the MDF and to attach central government grants
to the city to recover any outstanding debts. Third, the city will commit to
a program and timetable for improvements in revenue yields from property and
business taxes identifying specific tax rates, and disbursements from the MDF
will be linked to an action program. Fourth, the city will establish, imple-
ment and maintain a service costing system and pricing policy to ensure that



- 11 -
municipal enterprises are operated as financially viable undertakings. The
local governments will review annually the rents, fees and charges under this
pricing policy to recover the costs of operations and maintenance, administra-
tive costs, and the amortization of capital costs. Fifth, the city will main-
tain separate subproject accounts and operate an escrow account which would
hold the city's financial contributions and subloan repayments for the
project. Sufficient payments would be made into the account over the grace
period to accommodate the capital repayment requirements when they become
due. Separate accounts also to be established for each revenue-earning enter-
prise. All subproject accounts will be audited annually. During
negotiations, the above points were confirmed and a draft model Subloan
Agreement reviewed.
C. Institutional Functions and Organization
The Steering Committee
2.12      The Steering Committee, which was established in 1980 (i) provides
policy guidance to the CPO Director and assistance for any matters requiring
high level intervention; (ii) reviews the selection of cities proposed for
financing through the MDF; (iii) reviews CPO appraisals, signs Subproject
Agreements with the cities, approves draft Subloan Agreements between MOF and
the cities; and (iv) endorses the consolidated annual program budget to
Government for inclusion of the cities' national components in the MPWH
infrastructure budget. The Steering Committee is composed of representatives,
at deputy or assistant ministerial level, of MLG (Chairman), MPWH, HOF, OBM
and N§A.
Central Project Office
2.13      The main functions of the CPO are to:  (i) pre-qualify cities to
receive funds and assistance; (ii) assist cities to develop their overall
investment programs and the fiscal measures required to meet their development
proposals; (iii) appraise subprojects proposed by cities for approval of the
Steering Committee; (iv) advise cities on problems of implementation,
facilitate links with national agencies and monitor cities' physical and
financial performance; (v) organize training programs for city staff; (vi)
prepare annual budget and cash flow requirements including those for the MDF
and monitor flow of funds; and (vii) evaluate impact of programs.
2.14      The CPO was organized in 1981 and was designated as an MPWH Project
Office on August 18, 1983. It has worked in a positive and collaborative
style with the cities but has also been firm where city programs or perform-
ance were inadequate. Most cities have modified their initial programs and
two cities have been dropped for non-performance, and replaced by three
others. The CPO has developed technical and financial guidelines and provided
the necessary assistance to the cities. The internal organization of the CPO
at present consists of three groups of staff which report to the Director.
These are (i) the technical staff (engineers, planners and financial analysts,
who assess and evaluate the cities' development activities); (ii) city coordi-
nators seconded from the MLG who research information on the cities and



- 12 -
perform a liaison function between the technical staff and the city officials;
and (iii) training staff who have established the training requirements and
are now running training courses for city officials.  These 7rious technical
and management activities have been assisted by consultants.-  So far these
arrangements have worked well to bring the cities through the appraisal
phase. However, the work-load will expand to include the supervision of the
implementation and monitoring phase of the cities already approved, assisting
new cities entering the program, implementing the training program and
scheduling, programming and budgeting and liaison with the MDF. This expan-
sion of activities will require an evolution in the internal organization of
the CPO and greater emphasis on internal coordination and programming.
2.15      There will be several area team divisions, the number increasing as
the portfolio of cities increases, an administrative division, a training
division, and a program and finance staff, reporting to the Executive Director
(Chart 2). An important feature of the management approach is the regular
meetings of all the divisions and offices, chaired by the Director. Progress,
common problems, review of the area divisions' city appraisals, and selection
of future cities would be undertaken in these meetings. These arrangements
were discussed during appraisal and confirmed during negotiations and would be
put in place as new functions and workload buildup. They are expected to be
in full operation by end-1984.
Ca) The Program Staff will assist in executing operational policies;
maintaining liaison with key central Ministries and international
agencies; monitoring overall program schedules, budgets and project
-    disbursements, programming loan advances from the MDF, and arranging
legal documentation.
Cb) The Financial Evaluation section will be staffed by experienced
persons in municipal finance seconded from the Bureau of Local
Government Finance, MOF. They would guide the financial analysts in
the area divisions, evaluate the cities' proposed financial pro-
grams, and perform their regular MOF functions by evaluating city
financial management and advising MOF on sanctions in the cases of
non-performance.
(c) The Area Divisions will be organized around geographic regions and
would each be responsible for a portfolio of 4-6 cities. They will
Ci) provide the central information needed by the cities, (ii) pro-
vide assistance to the cities in each stage of developing their
investment programs from planning and concept development through
implementation, to maintenance and operations including fiscal and
financial management as well as engineering aspects, (iii) appraise
the cities' investment proposals and prepare appraisal reports and
4/   Consultants Cowi-Consult (Denmark) and Gilmore, Hankey, Kirke and
Partners (UK) are financed under technical assistance in the Third Urban
Development Project (Loan 1821-PH).



- 13 -
draft Subproject and Subloan Agreements, (iv) consolidate and
evaluate the monitoring reports prepared by the cities, and tv) pro-
vide consolidated information on existing and future project
expenditures and on fiscal performance to the Program Staff. Each
division will consist of a group of technical specialists, the core
individuals being area engineers and area coordinator/liaison, each
pair being responsible for 2-3 cities. Additional staff with skills
in planning, finance and maintenance engineering will also be
icLluded in each division.
Cd) The Training Division will manage programs for training city staff,
concentrating on those cities which need to strengthen their capa-
bilities to undertake physical improvement programs. Each training
module has its own training coordinator and technical staff respons-
ible for analyzing the needs of the target group; defining institu-
tional objectives; scheduling training courses and monitoring the
impact in terms of improved operational performance. The programs
will draw on the existing capabilities of trainers and resource
persons of other institutions including national agencies such as
MLG, MPWH, NEDA, the Development Academy of the Philippines, etc.,
and local governments, and to a lesser extent from the CPO
operational staff, to provide courses and training materials.
Ce) The Administrative and Operational Support Division will provide the
services for the internal administration of the CPO.
2.16      Local and expatriate consultants who will assist the CPO will work
with the staff of the relevant divisions and report to the division heads.
Consultants assisting in the executive staff will report to the Executive
Director.
2.17      At appraisal the CPO had 19 professional/technical and 17 adminis-
trative support staff, plus expatriate consultant assistance. There is an
immediate need to expand technical staff to cope with the projected work-
load. To date 6 cities have been fully appraised and a further 9 cities are
due for appraisal during 1984 and 1985. Before the MDF becomes operational,
the financial management and monitoring systems in the CPO must be established
and the Program staff put in place. A total of 45 technical staff is esti-
mated to be needed by end 1984 (Annex 8). The schedule for staffing of the
CPO was confirmed during negotiations. The immediate staffing requirements of
CPO were discussed at appraisal and subsequently the Government (i) hired
three additional infrastructure engineers, two municipal financial analysts
and two project financial analysts, (ii) arranged for a senior municipal
financial analyst to be seconded to the CPO from the MOF, and (iii) negotiated
consultant contracts for a financial economist, a sanitary engineer, a
maintenance engineer and an infrastructure/drainage engineer. Hiring of these
staff and consultants were a condition of negotiations. The MPWH formal
designation of the CPO (para. 2.14) will assist in offering higher pay for
staff; but if suitably qualified staff can still not be obtained, the Govern-
ment will hire local staff as consultants to allow higher pay to attract
qualified staff and ensure an adequate capability. It was agreed at negotia-
tions that the CPO would be adequately staffed and funded and confirmation was
obtained during negotiations of structure and staffing.



- 14 -
Municipal Development Fund
2.18      The principles and procedures concerning the MDF were discussed
extensively between the Government and the Bank at pre-appraisal and
appraisal. It was felt that it should become the principal mechanism for
long-term loan finance available for urban services to all eligible local
governments. To enable the fund to grow, become self-sustaining, and minimize
pressure on the budget, it should revolve, so that repayments from local
governments would be re-invested to expand the overall program. The proposed
Bank loan and later possibly government and other foreign funds would be
invested as seed grants, and the Government would be responsible for payment
of all finance charges and principal on the Bank loan. In the long-term the
MDF might intermediate in the domestic capital market, although prospects for
this in the current environment are not clear. The viability of the fund has
not, therefore, been based on these assumptions.
2.19      The MDF was considered to be best located in the MOF which is
responsible for policy and review of local government finances and appointment
of local financial officers. However, the MDF staff in MOF will be primarily
responsible for disbursement and administration of the subloan accounts and
the responsibility of project evaluation and monitoring of implementation will
be with CPO. Coordination between CPO and MOF will be assured through MOF
representation on the Steering Committee that oversees CPO operations
(para. 2.12). Furthermore, the Financial Evaluation Section in CPO which
evaluates the cities' financial capabilities and recommends sanctions in cases
of non-compliance with sub-loan agreements would be staffed by municipal
finance specialists seconded from the Special Projects Unit recently estab-
lished in the Bureau of Local Government Finance, MOF (see Chart 1). This
unit, which has 25 positions currently under recruitment, will strengthen the
supervision and monitoring capability of MOF for all local governments,
particularly in relation to revenue administration in cities involved in major
investment program. The structure, procedures and staffing for the MDF have
been reviewed and are satisfactory to the Bank. On March 29, 1984, the
Government formally established the MDF in the Treasury Bureau, MOF, under
Presidential Decree 1914 fulfilling a condition of negotiations.
2.20      The terms of the MDF subloans to the cities are interest rate of 14Z
p.a. on withdrawals from their balance, maturities up to 20 years, including 5
years grace. The lending rate was derived on the basis of the cities'
financial ability and the Bank's interest rate, with a margin to reflect the
front-end fee, commitment charge and foreign exchange risk, and is in keeping
with the emerging policy for cities to bear increasing financial responsibil-
ity for their programs. In contrast, past investments of this type included
in the project were to a large extent financed from central government
grants. The interest rate is projected to be positive in real terms and would
be reviewed annually in light of changing economic and financial environment
and adjusted for future subloans to cities to be appraised, though once
approved, the rate would be kept constant for the life of the subloan. Thcse
re-lending arrangements are justified in view of the need to avoid administra-
tive complications and facilitate the cities financial planning efforts.
Other subloan conditions relating to subloan accounts, future borrowing
limitations, etc., will be reflected in clauses in the Subloan Agreements and



- 15 -
are presented in para. 2.11. Detailed procedures to transfer the proceeds of
the Bank loan to the fund and the operating procedures for the fund will be
contained in a Memorandum of Agreement, among MOF, OBM, MLG, MPWH and NEDA.
Draft implementing guidelines for MDF were reviewed during negotiations and
the signing of the Memorandum of Agreement is a condition of effectiveness.
2.21      The initial capital for the MDF provided under the proposed Bank loan
would amount to P 395 million ($28.2 million) through the project implementation
period. Annex 4 indicates the fund flow for the MDF based on the projected
activity under the project whereby funds will be committed over 1984-86. The
projections assume that in 1987 the MDF will commit P 100 million which will be
disbursed over a four-year period at the current loan terms. These annual com-
mitments are assumed to increase by 15% per annum after 1988. Under this
scenario, additional loans of around P 150 million will be required by 1994.
Payment of interest and repayments of subloans by the cities are estimated to
increase their share in total sources of funds from 44Z of total sources in 1988
to 70% in 1994. This level of assistance is based on an assumed capability of
CPO to appraise five cities per year on average. On this basis about 50 cities
would be assisted between 1985 and 1994, affecting roughly four million people.
Organization and Management at the Local Level
2.22      The CPO has discussed and agreed with each local government its
overall infrastructure development priorities and the need for the major share
of city development funds to be earmarked for this project. Since about 80% of
each city's infrastructure development and maintenance program will come under
the project, the existing local government organizational structure will be used
to the maximum extent possible rather than superimposing a separate project
office at the city level, although some adjustments are proposed to improve
internal communication and a more active development orientation. In general,
the cities have demonstrated good engineering design capability, many having
quickly prepared full working drawings, although investment program conceptu-
alization needed strengthening through advice from the CPO. The staffing of the
six appraised cities was reviewed and considered adequate for project prepara-
tion, and supervision of implementation except for survey teams who will be
hired locally as required. Where municipal engineering capability is weak,
arrangements have been made for secondment of MPWH district engineers to work
with the local engineer. There is, in general, some overstaffing in administra-
tive and clerical positions, and each city is reviewing the potential for
redeploying staff after they undergo training. However, management and profes-
sional skills are still needed, and a program of recruitment is being devised by
MLG which would fit with the training program to be established under the
project (see Annex 5).
2.23      The structure of the key local government offices for the project in
each city is shown in Chart 3. This structure is already in place in the six
appraised cities. The Local Project Officer (LPO) is the key local official who
would be responsible for the overall management of the subproject in each
city. He will report to the Mayor and receive policy guidance from the local
Advisory Board, and be the principal link with the CPO. If the project is to
provide a vehicle to improve development planning and coordination of opera-
tional activities, the City Planning and Development Staff (CPDS) needs to be



- 16 -
strengthened and should be prominently involved in the overall management of
the project. Whenever possible the City Planning Development Officer (CPDO)
will therefore be designated as the LPO. In some cases, it is preferable to
designate the City Engineer with this responsibility. In the few instances
where the need for a large long-term development program does not exist, and
the CPDO and City/Municipal Engineer lack adequate experience, the district
engineer (MPWH) would be designated as LPO. All local governments appear
agreeable to these arrangements.
2.24      The existing functions of the CPDS would be strengthened to focus
on:
(a)  Policy development, analysis of needs, priorities, location of
development, concept plans.  Development of project feasibility
studies with assistance of the City Engineer's Office, and prepara-
tion of the city investment programs and studies with advice from
the City Treasurer's office, for submission to the LPO;
(b)  Programming and Budgeting.  Scheduling and coordination of indi-
vidual project components (with inputs from the Treasurer's and
Engineer's offices); identification of staff requirements, projec-
tions of expenditures; and advice to City Treasurer's Office of
contract disbursements and funding required from the MDF; and
(c)  Monitoring, Evaluation and Information.  Supervision of physical and
financial progress reported by implementing officers, evaluation of
corrective actions and limited evaluation of the impact of project
components, and development of a management information system for
planning land development and infrastructure projects.
2.25      The City Engineer's Office (CEO) will have the primary responsibil-
ity for implementing physical infrastructure works from preliminary design,
survey, and detailed design, through contracting and supervision. Generally,
the City Engineer is appointed by MPWH and supervises assistant city engineers
responsible for national components, local components, and maintenance. In
larger cities, however, there are often two separate offices dealing with
national and local components respectively. To avoid duplication of activi-
ties, and to ensure adequate synchronization of implementation, the staff will
be combined into task forces to work on functional areas - (i) roads and
drains, (ii) buildings, and (iii) maintenance and solid wastes - which will
continue after the major physical works are completed. Each task force would
be headed by a divisional engineer reporting to the City Engineer. For
national components the District/Regional Officer of MPWH will provide
technical oversight of implementation. The task force for area improvement is
under the city's Community Development Office since the key work involves
establishing agreements on tenure and payments between the landowners and the
community, and the residents' lease payments to the city for infrastructure.
Assistance on engineering designs and implementation will be provided by the
CEO.
2.26      The generally poor management of markets and slaughterhouses will be
improved by taking these functions from the Treasurer's Office to form a new



- 17 -
professionally managed Department for Local Enterprises. This is a require-
ment under the revised Local Government Code. Collection of rents and charges
would, however, remain under the Treasurer's Department which would establish
separate accounts for each enterprise.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Components
3.01      Following the preparation process for city investment programs
(para. 2.05), some 15 cities are now in the course of project preparation, and
further groups will be reviewed by the CPO during 1984 and 1985. The proposed
project is expected to finance this first group of about 15 cities, depending
on their progress and commitment. During September 1983, the Bank and the CPO
jointly appraised all components in six cities which were in the most advanced
stage of preparation (see Annexes 1 and 2). In total, components in these
cities constitute over 50% of the physical works to be financed under the
proposed project. Based on this appraisal, criteria for subproject eligi-
bility and evaluation of the technical, financial and administrative feasibil-
ity and economic justification were finalized (para. 2.06) and will be used to
evaluate all components in other project cities. The composition of the
investment programs in all project cities as outlined in paras. 3.03 and 3.04
is based on the programs in the six cities appraised. The final composition
of the project will therefore vary as the remaining cities are appraised. The
urban infrastructure and maintenance components comprise both national and
local components. Subproject and Subloan Agreements are expected to be signed
for the first s4x cities following confirmation of the draft of these
agreements with the Bank at negotiations (paras. 2.08 through 2.11). During
negotiations, it was agreed that the signing of Subproject and Subloan
Agreements satisfactory to the Bank for at least four project cities, is a
condition of effectiveness 3f the loan.
3.02      The proposed project consists of (a) Urban Infrastructure,
(b) Infrastructure and equipment maintenance, (c) Tax mapping, (d) Training,
and (e) Technical Assistance.
3.03      Urban Infrastructure.  In accordance with the emphasis on basic
services, the greater part of the municipal investments would be directed at
improvements in urban services such as sanitation, including provision of
secondary and tertiary drainage systems and rehabilitation of primary drainage
systems together with shoreline protection and other flood control measures,
and provision of sanitation facilities in dense residential areas and equip-
ment to provide improved septic tank emptying service. Dump sites would be
improved and equipment procured to expand solid wastes management. In several
cities, area improvements to squatter and slum communities would be undertaken
by the local government and communities to provide a low level of essential
services (para. 4.04). While water supply forms an important part of each
city's investment program, it would be largely financed through LWUA which has
this responsibility and is the beneficiary to two Bank loans. Municipal
enterprises such as markets and slaughterhouses represent important economic



- 18 -
facilities for project cities and their hinterlands. The project would
rehabilitate and/or construct facilities to meet effective demand from these
growing communities. Almost all cities require rehabilitation of their road
systems which, through lack of maintenance, have seriously deteriorated.
Principal road links would be constructed, widened and/or resurfaced. In
addition traffic engineering measures would be implemented in some cities to
improve traffic flows particularly in the central business districts. To
further relieve congestion and improve intercity passenger transport, bus
terminal facilities are to be provided in about five cities.
3.04      Infrastructure and Equipment Maintenance.  Maintenance depots would
be upgraded and equipped in all project cities to ensure adequate servicing of
the pool of vehicles and infrastructure maintenance equipment for the whole
city. The maintenance operation would be significantly expanded by equipment
to be procured under the project for solid wastes management, septic tank
emptying and infrastructure maintenance particularly for roads and drains.
3.05      Tax Mapping.  The proposed tax mapping component would support MOF's
ongoing national program to strengthen municipal finances (para. 1.06) and
would include equipment and preparation costs for updating cadasters, apprais-
ing properties, improving records management and increasing actual
collections. The tax mapping would focus on the urban areas of the local
governments first, and is expected to cover about 180,000 parcels per year
over a four-year implementation period.
3.06      Training.  The project would strengthen and expand training programs
managed through the CPO and designed to equip local officials and technical
staff with skills and techniques in the operational aspects of their -espec-
tive jobs. Performance based training programs have been designed around
identified skills requirements in (a) municipal finance and revenue admini-
stration; (b) municipal enterprise management; (c) planning and budgeting,
project development and contract management; and (d) municipal engineering
maintenance. Each of these programs addresses day to day operational activi-
ties. They would provide training initially for about 780 staff in the
project cities, together with other regional cities including Bacolod, Cebu,
Cagayan de Oro, Ilo-Ilo and Davao, and local governments in Metro Manila wgre
large-scale development programs are being initiated with Bank assistance_
The training programs would eventually extend to the remaining 140 or so
economically important towns and cities. Total throughput of trainees during
the project implementation period is estimated at about 4,300, including
retraining of which about 40% would be managers and supervisors, 40% would be
technical staff and about 20% would be local executives and elected represen-
tatives. The component would include equipment, and consultant and personnel
costs to develop training materials and the costs of running the training
programs. Annex 5 discusses the training in detail.
5/   Third Urban Development Project (Loan 1821-PH) and Regional Cities
Development Project (Loan 2257-PH).



- 19 -
3.07      Technical Assistance.  Technical assistance would include consultant
advisory services to assist project implementation and training, and studies
directed principally at structural reforms to allow improvements in local
governments' budgeting and fiscal administration. It would total 516 man-
months of assistance (200 foreign and 316 local) and comprise:
(a)  ProJect Development:  to the CPO through MPWII and MOF to (i) assist
in monitoring project implementation; (ii) continue project prepara-
tion, review and approval of the second tranche of cities; (.ii)
provide assistance to the CPO training division; (iv) give assis-
tance to the cities and CPO to implement low-cost sanitation
solutions and city specific technical studies; and (v) review,
monitor and evaluate cities' financial performance and revenue
improvement programs.
(b) Review of the local government grants system, and local budgeting
procedures: Local governments have become increasingly dependent on
financial transfers from central government. The MOF therefore
wishes to review its central grants policy, and identify feasible
improvements in the allocation procedures to encourage local
governments to increase local revenue generation and rationalize
service and investment planning at the local level. Recently, the
responsibilities for defining the policies and procedures and
reviewing the local governments' budgets, has been transferred from
MOF to OBM. It is an opportune time to review the feasibility of
improving internal financial management at the local level to
(i) distinguish between recurrent operational outlays and capital
outlays in the budget and the viability of an equipment renewals
fund; (ii) introduce a service-based costing system; and
(iii) develop a system for multi-year rolling programs and bud-
gets. The study overall would be handled by MOF and OBM, the
consultants reporting to a steering committee comprising MOF, OBM
and MLG.
(c) Study of Training Needs, Resources, and Development of a National
Training Program. The Government wishes to see the training
activities initiated under the project become a permanent feature.
At present, training for local government officials among existing
organizations is fragmented and not operationally focused. The
Government proposes to work towards the establishment of a national
program to coordinate and guide these training efforts. The study
would review the skill levels of local staff, analyse training needs
and the resources available for delivering training. Following the
review, the study would identify the appropriate functional role of
the program in relation to other training agencies, operational
policies, procedures, cost and financing, and the timing of its
establishment. The study would be directed by MLG and report to a
committee composed of the relevant government and academic institu-
tions (Annex 5).
Terms of Reference and costs of technical assistance are outlined in Annex 11.



- 20 -
B. Cost Estimates
3.08      The total project cost, including contingencies and taxes and duties
is estimated at about US$68.7 million (Table 3.1). The foreign exchange
component is about 47% of project cost or about $32.2 million. The identifi-
able taxes and duties are estimated at $2.0 million. Cost estimates for the
six cities appraised by the Bank are based on preliminary engineering designs
and on final engineering designs for the components which are to be imple-
mented in 1984 and 1985. Final engineerin- designs for the components
scheduled for implementation later in each city, will be completed by end
1985. For the remaining cities which are expected to comprise the subsequent
phases and are yet to be appraised, the costs were estimated based on target
investment levels and and preliminary engineering completed to date. The
costs for tax mapping at P 62 per parcel and an expected output of 180,000
parcels per year are based on the cost incurred to date under the ongoing MOF
program. Physical contingencies of 10% have been allowed on civil works in
the six appraised cities. Price contingencies are included at 20% for 1984,
12Z for 1985, 10% for 1986 and 7% tthereafter on local costs and at 3.5X in
1984, 8X in 1985, 9Z in 1986-88, 7.5Z in 1989 and 6% in 1990 on foreign
costs. Base costs are expressed in April 1984 prices. Detailed cost
estimates for the six cities appraised are given in Annex 2.
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS a/
Foreign
P million                 $ million           exchange as
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total       X of total
Urban Infrastructure
Urban services              165.6   119.9    285.5    11.8      8.6    20.4         42
Markets and public
facilities                 59.9    30.8      90.7     4.3     2.2      6.5        34
Traffic and transport        42.8    28.6      71.4     3.1      2.0     5.1        40
Land                          7.4      -        7.4     0.5      -       0.5         0
Maintenance                    19.6    45.8      65.4     1.4      3.2     4.6        70
Tax mapping                    19.6    29.4      49.u     1.4      2.1     3.5        60
Training                       19.0    28.6      47.6     1.4      2.0     3.4        60
Technical assistance           22.2    33.2      55.4     1.6      2.4     4.0        60
Base Cost                     356.1   316.3    672.4    25.5    22.5    48.0          47
Physical contingencies b/   13.4    11.8       25.2     1.0     0.8      1.8        47
Price contingencies b/      14U.1   124.2    264.3    10.0      8.9    18.9         47
Total Project Cost c/         509.6   452.3    961.9    36.5    32.2    68.7          47
Front-end fee on Bank loan    -       1.4       1.4      -      0.1      0.1
Total Financing Required      509.6   453.7    963.3    36.5    32.3    68.8
a/   Detailed costs are available in Annex 2.
b/   Physical contingencies are about 4% and price contingencies about 38% of total base
costs plus physical contingencies.
c/   Costs include taxes and duties amounting to $2 million.



- 21 -
C. Financing Plan
3.09      The proposed Bank loan of $40.0 million would finance the total for-
eign exchange requirements ($32.3 million) including the front-end fee
($0.1 million) and about 21% of local costs ($7.7 million). Local cost
financing is justified because of severe domestic revenue constraints. The
Bank loan would be made to the Government of the Philippines (GOP) for a
period of 20 years including five years grace at the standard variable inter-
est rate. Part ($11.8 million) of the total loan proceeds would be retained
by central government for financing tax mapping, training and consultant
assistance proposed under the project and the capitalized front-end fee. The
remaining Bank loan ($28.2 million) would be passed on to the MDF to finance
projects implemented by local governments. The loan repayment by the local
governments would be held by the MDF for making further loans to local govern-
ments (para. 2.18). Confirmation was obtained during negotiations that the
GOP will be responsible for payment of the commitment fee, interest and repay-
ment of the total Bank loan, including funds passed on to the cities through
the MDF.
3.10      Counterpart funds would be provided (a) by Central Government to
finance national infrastructure components ($22.8 million) to be implemented
by MPWH, and for training activities and technical assistance requirements
($0.1 million) through the CPO and for part of the tax mapping ($0.2 million)
through the MOF; and (b) by local government ($5.7 million) for local compon-
ents, training and tax mapping. As an incentive for good performance for good
performance, part of the local contribution for tax mapping would be reim-
bursed by MOP, to those local governments which completed their tax mapping
and collections to agreed quality and quantity targets.
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN ($ million)
Total                      Counterpart funds
Components                   cost       Bank loan       Central    Local
National                    22.8           -            22.8         -
Local                       33.4         28.2             -         5.2
Tax mapping                  4.1          3.6            0.2        0.3
Training                     3.6          3.3            0.1        0.2
Technical assistance         4.8          4.8             -          -
Front-end fee                0.1          0.1             -          -
Total                  68.8         40.0           23.1        5.7
3.11      This financing plan reflects Government's proposal that the Bank
loan be used primarily to finance the M4DF together with the tax mapping,
training and technical assistance components. This arrangement is expected to
facilitate the provision of counterpart funds since MPWH's contribution can be



- 22 -
consolidated into a single account in MPWH's National Infrastructure Fund. On
this basis no disbursement would be made out of the Bank loan against national
infrastructure components. This raises the question of whether implementation
of these national components, particularly for flood protection, drainage and
road improvements, would be well synchronized with local road and drainage
works proposed. To address this, the scope, location and timing of these
components would form part of the Subproject Agreement between each city and
the Steering Committee which includes a representative of MPWI, the ministry
responsible for implementing the national components. The full requirement
for 1984 has been allocated for national components within the MPWH's 1984
budget and necessary allocations for the 1985 budget were reviewed during
negotiations. Confirmation was obtained at negotiations that adequate
provision will be made for national components in a timely manner.
D.  Project Implementation
3.12      The project would be implemented over a span of approximately six
years from July 1984 through June 1990. Since there is adequate engineering
capability at the city level and very little land would be acquired, this
estimate is considered conservative. The CPO expects implementation to be
faster than assumed here. The initial group of 6 cities appraised by the Bank
will commence implementation first. Detailed engineering for the first two
years construction is completed in these cities. The remaining cities will
start implementation as their respective subprojects receive approval from the
Steering Committee. Given the integrated nature of the project and the need
for close working relationships between local staff and MPWH district staff,
and for work programs of local and CPO staff to be synchronized, implementa-
tion activities have been specified for each element of the project cycle in
each city appraised. The physical works will be implemented by the cities and
MPW1, the tax mapping by MOF, the training by the CPO and the studies by the
MOF, OBM and MLG. The CPO will coordinate all these activities and provide
consolidated monitoring reports for the Steering Committee and the Bank
(para. 3.20). A workshop for participating project cities and central
agencies' staff will be organized by the CPO at the start of each city's
project. Annex 7 illustrates the consolidated implementation schedule by city
groups.
E. Procurement
3.13      Procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in the table
below:



- 23 -
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT OVERVIEW
($ millions)
Type of Procurement
Project                ICB      LCB     Other             N.A.         Total
cost
Civil works            -        47.6       2.0              1.1         50.7
(21.8)     (1.0)                        (22.8)
Vehicles and
Equipment           5.6        1.1       0.5               -           7.2
(5.6)     (0.8)     (0.4)                          (6.8)
Tax mapping            -          -        2.6               -            2.6
(2.4)                         (2.4)
Training               -          -        3.4               _            3*4
(3.1)                         (3.1)
Technical
assistance           -          -        4.8               -           4.8
-                  (4.8)                         (4.8)
Total                                                              68.7
(39.9)
Note:     Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank loan. Land acquisition ($1.1 million) is included under N.A.
3.14      The overall project is estimated to require about $50.7 million in
civil works and about $7.2 million in equipment and vehicles. For civil
works, over 100 separate subprojects would be spread around 15 cities over a
four to five year period and would represent many small contracts, the largest
of which is estimated at $0.9 million. Past experience has indicated that
foreign firms have not been interested in bidding for these types of works
because of the scattered project sites, the large number of contracts of short
duration, and competition from the relatively well-established local contract-
ing industry. These works will therefore be procured from prequalified con-
tractors through LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank which would allow
participation by foreign contractors. The only exceptions will be rehabilita-
tion of markets and minor traffic engineering improvements (totalling about $2
million and each costing less than $50,000) which would be undertaken by force
account because of the need to work around existing operations. Equipment and
vehicles for maintenance, solid wastes management and tax mapping totalling
about $5.6 million would be procured through ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines on behalf of the cities and MOF by the CPO grouping them into
suitable packages of $200,000 or more. In bid evaluation, a margin equal to
15% of the c.i.f. bid price of imported goods, or the actual customs duties
and taxes, whichever is less, will be allowed for domestic manufacturers.
Contracts of less than $200,000 for maintenance tools and small miscellaneous
equipment for training and tax mapping (about $1.1 million) would be purchased



- 24 -
through LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. For equipment of less than
$50,000 per contract, prudent shopping up to $0.5 million would be
permitted. Consultants' services for training and technical assistance would
be obtained in accordance with Bank guidelines for use of consultants. For
tax mapping, the MOF would enter into a service contract with each local
government and pay the city according to performance on each stage of the z,ut-
put specified in the contract. The MOF will also contract with the Bureau of
Lands to provide adapted surveys where necessary.
3.15      All bidding packages for civil works estimated to cost over P10 mil-
lion ($0.7 million) and all equipment contracts under ICB will be subject to
the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation. Based on the six cities
appraised by the Bank, it is estimated that 20% of the total value of civil
works contracts and over 75% of equipment contracts would be covered. On that
basis, between 15 to 20 contracts amounting to about $15 million would be sub-
ject to Bank's prior review. This is considered reasonable based on
experience with another MPWR project office under the Third Urban Project
(Loan 1821-PH). Bank supervision mission will conduct random post review of
the remaining contracts.
F. Disbursements
3.16      Bank funds would be disbursed against civil works and equipment con-
tracts on project components implemented by local governments and financed
from the NDF and against Tax Mapping, Training and Technical Assistance
carried out by the central government. During negotiations, it was agreed
that a special account ($3 million) will be established to expedite disburse-
ments as a condition of effectiveness. Initially, subloan advances for each
city's two quarters' disbursement requirements will be advanced from the MDF
to a local subproject account to be established in each project city. Addi-
tional funds would then be advanced to meet the third qluarter's disbursement
requirements on the basis of certification by the CPO of expenditures in the
first quarter, and so on. As subloan advances are made from the MDF to the
city, quarterly reimbursements would be sought from the Bank, based on the
consolidated statements of expenditures from the local governments for earlier
quarters' disbursements. Detailed documentation supporting the statements of
expenses, including supervision reports by CPO and certification of works and
disbursements by MPWH, would be retained by CPO for review by Bank supervision
missions.
3.17      Disburg7ments would be made against:  (a) 100% for subloans funded
through the 1MDF,-  (b) for equipment for tax mapping and training - 100% of
foreign costs (CIF) if directly imported; 100% of ex-factory costs if locally
manufactured but procured under ICB; and 65% if locally procured; (c) for
consultants' services - 100% of total costs; and (d) 90% of expenditures for
training and tax mapping based on contracts with implementing institutions or
6/   MDF will finance up to a maximum of 90% of local project costs (para.
2.06).



- 25 -
agencies for training and with cities for tax mapping. Disbursements regards
(a) and (d) would be supported by statements of expenditure. The estimated
schedule of disbursements from the Bank loan is shown in Annex 7, Table 2.
The disbursement profile, which is generally in line with the country sector
profile, is considered conservative in view of the facts that virtually no
land acquisition is required, the project is not dependent on the performance
of a sole implementing agency, the individual cities have budgeted from their
own funds to start their projects in 1984, and the Bank loan would be dis-
bursed to the MDF in advance of contract payment, thereby reducing reimburse-
ment delays and OBM authorization would not be required for release of MDF
funds to the cities. The proposed loan would be disbursed over a six and a
half period, July 1984 to December 1990 with a closing date of June 30,
1991. No disbursements will be made retroactively.
G. Accounts and Audits
3.18      Each project city will be responsible for maintaining detailed pro-
ject accounts for both local and national components. For revenue-generating
components including markets, slaughterhouses, bus terminals, and area impro-
venents, satisfactory capital and operating accounting systems have been
approved by the Commission on Audit (COA) for operation in each city. The CPO
will maintain accounts for the equipment procured on behalf of the cities, and
accounts for the training and technical assistance for which it is respons-
ible. The MOF will account for the tax mapping and technical assistance for
which it is responsible, and the MLG for the accounts of the training study.
The CPO will consolidate all accounts annually in a single project account for
monitoring and audit purposes. These arrangements were confirmed during
negotiations.
3.19      Audits.  As the Government auditor, COA undertakes audits of all
public agencies including the project accounts in both the national and city
levels. Confirmation was obtained during negotiations on these arrangements
and that a separate opinion on expenditures made against statements of expen-
ditures will be furnished to the Bank annually which confirms that claimed
expenditures were used for the purposes for which they were provided. These
arrangements are satisfactory to the Bank.
H. Supervision and Project Reporting
3.20      With a broad multicomponent project such as this, effective monitor-
ing is essential if implementation problems are to be identified e.rly and
corrective action taken on a timely basis. The CPO will be the key entity to
which all reports from the implementing agencies will be channelled. The Bank
will deal with the CPO and not directly with the project cities. The basis of
the CPO monitoring will be the individual city's Subproject and Subloan Agree-
ments which include schedules and tables showing projected physical progress
and financial expenditures, revenue projections by source, key financial
ratios and staffing scheme (see paras 2.08 through 2.11 and Annex 6). Actual
performance will then be measured regularly at both the city level by the LPO
in conjunction with the CPDS, and for the program overall by the field staff



- 26 -
in the Area Divisions and Program staff of the CPO. Reports will be sent from
all implementing entities to the CPO on a quarterly basis. The CPO will sub-
mit consolidated quarterly progress reports to the Bank and a yearly report
which analyzes and evaluates the whole project. These arrangements were
confirmed during negotiations. The CPO will prepare the project completion
report.
IV. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Financial Condition of Project Cities
4.01      The criteria guiding the CPO appraisal and the expected financial
performance of each city in relation to its proposed investment program, are
set out in Chapter II. Financial conditions of the six cities in the first
phase were reviewed by the Bank and the CPO during appraisal and their
financial data is presented in Annex 3. The project cities show a similar
trend compared to the national picture outlined in Chapter I. Generally,
central government transfers and local expenditures have increased while
growth in local revenue generation has lagged. Between 1979 and 1982, the
ratio of locally generated revenues to recurrent expenditures dropped in all
cities, except in Bisilig where it has remained around 80X and Cabanatuan
where the ratio actually increased. At the same time the share of central
governmcnt grants in total revenues increased in all cities except
Cabanatuan. During the present period of national budgetary constraints,
continuing rapid increases in central government grants are clearly not sus-
tainable. On the other hand, the project will result in a significant
increase in the project cities' investment programs. For example, in Butuan,
investments during the project period (1985-88) are projected to be about
double that during 1980-84, in Naga 5 times and in Bislig 20 times. In order
to generate the necessary counterpart funds and meet future debt service
requirements, the project cities will need to: (i) ensure cost recovery on
revenue generating components, and (ii) increase local revenue and reduce
unnecessary expenditures through improved administration and maintenance.
E. Cost Recovery
4.02      Municipal Enterprises.  Rents and fees for markets and slaughter-
houses and bus terminals will be set to cover at least recurrent costs of
operation and maintenance and debt service requirements. For markets, this
policy will apply to the market system as a whole in each city. In the
cities, appraised by the Bank, rents have increased on average 14% p.a. over
the last four years. However, many registered stallholders sublet their
stalls illegally at considerably higher rents which are more in line with
other retail space. Local executives therefore feel that significant
increases are feasible, and haire agreed to the principle that rents will be
increased to the required level by the time market improvements under the pro-
ject are completed and will be kept under review and revised as necessary.
Where these increases are expected to be significant (up to 100% increase in
some cases), the cities have started to gradually raise rents. For slaughter-
houses, local governments would continue to minimize operating costs by the



- 27 -
use of private butchers employed directly by owners of cattle and poultry.
Local administrators in the cities appraised by the Bdak have agreed to set
fees to cover and operation, maintenance and debt service costs. For bus
terminals, which are proposed in two of the cities appraised, leases will be
negotiated with consortia of bus operators. The terminals serve primarily a
traffic management function and except in one city, consist only of
hardstanding space. Leases are therefore low and an approximately 2% increase
in the average ticket price for intercity passengers would cover debt service
on capital outlays and recurrent administrative expenses.
4.03      With regard to area improvement works, investment will be recovered
through charges levied on beneficiary communities. Where regularization of
tenure is required, this will be arranged directly between the communities and
landowners as a precondition to physical improvements. The agreement would be
either outright purchase of the land by the communities or long-term leases
where payments would be set close to existing levels prior to improvement.
Once an agreement is reached, the community group and city will discuss
details of the improvement works including fees which would be based primarily
on affordability and charged to beneficiaries. The community would designate
persons responsible for fee collection. This system has been in use in other
area improvement schemes in the Philippines and relieves the local government
of the financial burden of land acquisition. Satisfactory arrangements have
been agreed in the cities appraised by the Bank and similar arrangements will
be made in area improvements undertaken in subsequent phases.
4.04      For solid wastes management, each project city currently levies a
fee on commercial and industrial establishments as part of the annual business
licensing process, which will be continued under the project. The cost of
residential services will be collected from cross-subsidies from commercial
and industrial charges and from general revenues since it would be adminis-
tratively inefficient to levy small direct charges. For sanitation services,
which will consist principally of septic tank cleanout upon request of the
user, a service charge will be applied. Since the principal objective of
these components will be to improve environmental conditions it will be unrea-
listic to expect fees to cover more than half the costs. For the limited
water supply components, the capital costs would be recovered by the local
water district.
4.05      The costs of municipal roads, municipal drainage and maintenance
would be recovered by city from general tax revenue. The national road, major
drainage and flood protection would be financed through the MPWH budget
(para. 3.16). For the six cities appraised by the Bank, approximately 48% of
local components would be recovered directly from beneficiaries and the re-
maining 52% from general revenues.
C. Municipal Finances
4.06      Considerable potential exists to implement sufficient increases in
local taxes and charges, together with savings in operation and staff costs to
support a significant increase in local development programs. For property
taxes, revenues could be increased through more effective collection from the



- 28 -
existing tax base. In most project cities, fiscal cadasters are incomplete
and arrears average between 40% to 55% each year. In order to enhance city
resources, the mayors have agreed to take measures to update cadasters and
modernize tax records management as part of MOF's nationwide program to
strengthen municipal finances (para. 1.06). These measures would also include
enforcement of collection such as linking renewal of business licenses to
payment of municipal taxes. The action to be taken and revenue targets will
be incorporated in the Subloan Agreement between the city and the MOF
(para. 2.11). Tax mappng contracts between MOF and the local governments
would allow for part of the local contributions to be reimbursed by MOF upon
successful completion by the cities of the mapping and subsequent collections
to agreed quality and targets.
4.07      During project preparation, a review was undertaken of the cost-
effectiveness of maintenance operations of project cities. In most cases it
was found that high yearly costs are incurred due to (i) poor condition of
existing infrastructure, (ii) lack of a preventive repair program which
results in extensive periodic rehabilitation, (iii) inadequate equipment and
repair facilities, (iv) inefficient use of staff and equipment and lack of an
overall maintenance inventory, schedule and budget, and (v) lack of suitably
trained staff or an appropriate training program. Under the project, invest-
ments in maintenance equipment and repair facilities will be made and mainte-
nance planning, management and training will be improved. Improvements in
infrastructure operations and maintenance following the project is expected to
result in savings of 12-15%. These are reflected in the city revenue projec-
tions set out in Annex 3. Project cities will be required to develop a main-
tenance operations plan which would: (a) ensure that facilities developed
under the project are adequately maintained; (b) upgrade maintenance of exist-
ing infrastructure; and (c) make adequate provision for repair and replacement
of road maintenance, solid wastes and sanitation equipment.
4.08      Success of the projected revenue performance of project cities will
depend largely on improved administrative performance by respective city
Treasury and Assessment staff. In each city, task forces have been estab-
lished to set revenue targets and monitor performance in rationalizing
business classifications; improving records management; collecting delinquent
taxes; and, as a cost control measure, reviewing staffing needs overall. In
order to strengthen the review power of the local governments over financial
performance, the task forces will be chaired by the respective city Mayors.
Representation by the MOF Regional Director will formalize the status of these
task forces and maintain the supervisory involvement of MOF.
4.09      The city financial projections for the six cities appraised by the
Bank (Annex 3) indicate that, with the possible exception of Butuan, implemen-
tation of the revenue reforms and expenditure reductions will be essential if
the project cities are to "afford" the proposed program, i.e., come up with
the necessary counterpart funds during construction and meet debt service.
The incremental revenues from reform are estimated to range from about 17Z of
local revenues between 1984-92 in Naga to 52% in Cabanatuan. Given the cur-
rent uncertain economic situation, the cities financial performance will need
to be monitored closely and adjustments (both in terms of revenue reforms and
program reductions) made where necessary. The revenue reforms and maintenance



- 29 -
program will be specified in Sub-project and Subloan Agreements. The finan-
cial staff in CPO together with MOF staff will monitor city performance
through the quarterly progress reports, city audits and visits and in cases of
gross non-compliance will take punitive action such as suspension of
disbursements of loan funds or reductions in central government transfers.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5.01      The project would have a positive economic and social impact on the
project cities and the surrounding rural areas by alleviating infrastructure
deficiencies and strengthening the cities as regional commerce, administration
and transportation centers. The project would also have a significant insti-
tutional impact on the urban sector in the Philippines by establishing a
mechanism to assist cities plan sound investment programs and provide the
necessary financing to implement them.
5.02      With the growth of the rural economies and the development of inter-
urban transportation linkages, the importance of the regional cities as
commerce and administration centers have increased (para. 1.03). In most
cities, provision of municipal infrastructure and services could not keep up
with increased demand which constrained growth and led to deteriorating living
standards in these cities. For example, the lack of drainage facilities have
prevented city development and/or resulted in residents (mainly low income
families) living in areas subject to flooding during the rainy season. The
drainage and flood protection components would result in a reduction in damage
to private property and municipal infrastructure and open up areas for further
development. In slum areas, water for drinking and washing is inadequate,
toilets generally unsanitary, and drainage for waste water practically
nonexistent. Access is usually through small alleys, narrow footpaths and
footbridges. The area improvement and sanitation component would provide
communal water standpipes, communal toilets (or individual pour-flush toilets)
and working facilities and would improve drainage and access, which would lead
to better living standards and reduced health risks for the residents in these
slums.
5.03      The markets and slaughterhouses in the project cities are generally
old and in poor condition, lacking adequate space, equipment and proper
drainage and sanitation facilities. The renovation of markets and slaughter-
houses would not only increase capacity but also have significant health
impact through hygienic handling of meat and other foodstuffs. Since the
markets serve people from adjacent rural communities (who both sell their
agricultural products and purchase goods), the benefits are not restricted
solely to the urban residents.
5.04      The number of vehicles has been increasing with the growth of these
cities and together with the lack of adequate maintenance in the past has led
to deteriorating road conditions and worsening traffic flows, especially in
the central business district. The widening of roads, surfacing and other



- 30 -
improvements carried out through the transportation components are expected to
relieve congestion aad improve traffic flows within the project cities. The
bus terminals would provide more convenient transfer facilities for passenger
and, in some cities, relieve traffic congestion where existing terminals are
inadequate resulting in buses and jeepneys clogging nearby streets. Market
renovations are also expected to have traffic benefits since at present stalls
overflow from the markets into the surrounding streets, worsening the conges-
tion around the markets.
5.05      A significant institutional benefit of the project is the establish-
ment of a mechanism to provide long-term financing of city initiated develop-
ment projects. Furthermore, by making these funds available, the project
would be able to introduce a more systematic and rational method of planning
investments at the city level. Uncertainty over the availability of funds had
made planning over a multi-year period difficult, and many investment deci-
sions were made on an ad hoc basis. However, in this project the components
were identified and selected after a thorough review of the cities deficien-
cies and projected needs, technical alternatives to determine the least cost
solution, availability of funds and the cost and benefits of individual
investment proposals (para. 2.05).  In most cities, some components, espe-
cially major road construction and drainage works, were dropped or reduced in
scale and redesigned as a result of these reviews.
5.06      The CPO, in its appraisal of each city program will obtain the
economic rate of return (ERR) to determine the feasibility of individual
investment proposals. Where the individual components are inter-related,
these would be combined into a single investment for economic evaluation. The
ERR would not be calculated for those components where the benefits are
primarily health related and difficult to quantify, such as solid wastes
management and sanitation. Furthermore, the ERR would not be obtained for
minor works below a predetermined cut-off point. The opportunity cost of
capital in the Philippines is currently estimated to be around 13%. Those
investments with an ERR of below 13% would be rejected, except those with a
significant health factor, such as the slaughterhouse, where the minimum ERR
was set at 10%. The method of benefit measurement, evaluation cut-off points
and the minimum ERR by type of investment and ERR are presented in Annex 9.
For the cities appraised by the Bank, the weighted average ERR for each city
as a whole (covering 52% to 83% of a city's +7vestment program) ranged from
18% in Butuan to 24% in Cabanatuan and Naga.-
B. Urban Poverty Impact
5.07      The project is expected to hive a significant urban poverty impact
since the incidence of poverty is higher in the smaller regional cities. The
urban poor with incomes below the poverty threshold of P 3,431 ($245) per
capita per annum in 1983 are estimated to account from about 35% of the
population in Cabanatuan to around 60% in Bislig and Butuan. The area
7/   Based on CPO appraisal reports and reviewed by the Bank.



- 31 -
improvement and sanitation components are designed specifically to meet the
needs of the urban poverty group, and it is estimated that an average 75% of
the beneficiaries are the urban poor. While the remaining components are not
specifically designed to meet the needs of the urban poor but designed to
improve overall municipal infrastructure and service deficiencies, the urban
poor are expected to benefit since they tend to dwell in areas where urban
services are inadequate (e.g., areas prone to flooding). The poverty impact
of the remaining components was assumed to be the city average. The poverty
impact by city is presented in Annex 10. Of the six cities reviewed during
appraisal, approximately P 225 million ($16 million) or 51% of project cost is
estimated to benefit the urban poverty group.
C. Environmental Impact
5.08      The project is expected to have a substantial positive environmental
impact.  Nine project components - water supply, sanitation, drainage, area
improvement, markets, slaughterhouses, solid wastes management, and city wide
maintenance are designed principally to improve environmental conditons,
especially water quality, and reduce disease risks in the project cities.
Flood control will reduce incidence of flooding and shore protection will
reduce erosion. The city street, road maintenance and traffic management
components should collectively contribute to improving traffic flow, reducing
accidents and result in a positive though limited improvement in air quality
through reduced vehicle emissions.
D. Risks
5.09      There are three risks, two of which concern financial matters.  The
first relates to the ability of the central government to maintain its
counterpart share of the project in a period of national economic and finan-
cial constraint. GOP's counterpart would be primarily used to finance the
national components of the cities' infrastructure programs. A schedule of
disbursements by MPWR for these components in each city would be included in
the Subproject Agreements (para. 2.09) and budget requirements for each year
reported to and endorsed by the Steering Committee (para. 2.12). The require-
ments for 1984 have been allocated by MPWH in their budget (para. 3.11). If
these disbursements could not be maintained, the program could continue,
either at a smaller scale by omitting somE of the components, or by extending
the period of implementation. This would not necessarily jeopardize the econ-
omic justification since a city's investment program typically would consist
of discreet components where a postponement in implementation in one would not
delay completion of other.
5.10      The second risk is the failure of the local governments to carry out
the necessary financial reforms so that they would not be able to generate
counterpart funds during implementation or maintain payments to the MDF after
completion. Furthermore the commitment to raise revenues must be a continuing
one, to transcend possible changes in municipal administrations. To minimize
this risk: (i) local governments are required to formulate a financial plan,



- 32 -
agreed with the Steering Committee, and to demonstrate improvements in
revenues before a loan is made from the MDF, (para. 2.05(c)); (ii) city task
forces on fiscal and administrative performance, chaired by the Mayor, will be
supervised by the Financial Evaluation Unit in the CPO and the new Special
Projects Unit in the MOF created to promote and supervise local financial
performance (para. 2.15(b)); (iii) local enterprise departments will be
established in all the project cities prior to loan availment to improve
financial management (para. 2.26); (iv) tax mapping will be accelerated, and
the tax rolls completed (para. 4.06); and (v) the MOF is committed to apply
financial sanctions against defaulting project cities through cessation of
disbursements on their loan and attachment of central government grants
(paras. 2.11 and 2.19). The cities will also be required to maintain an
escrow account where funds required for loan repayment would be built up and
held (para. 2.11). In the case where cities face a shortfall in resources
during implementation due to the uncertain economic situation, the program can
be cutback to a smaller scale in line with the availability of funds as
discussed above for central government fund shortfalls.
5.11      The management capability of the CPO constitutes the third risk.
The unit, headed by an experienced Director has performed well over the past
two years in preparing this project. However, the management complexity will
increase as the cities commence implementation and as a further set of cities
are identified and brought into the stream. Substantial strengthening of the
CPO is required at middle management levels as the organization grows. The
recent designation of the CPO as a Central Project Office of the MPWH will
assist in offering improved levels of pay and benefits. In addition, some key
positions will be offered on a local consultancy basis to attract a suitable
level of staff. The improvements in CPO's internal organization arrangements,
hiring of key professional staff and assistance from consultants agreed during
negotiations will help to minimize this risk (para. 2.17).
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      The following conditions for negotiations were satisfied:
(a) hiring of additional staff and consultant assistance for the CPO:
(para. 2.17); and
(b) establishment of the MDF (para. 2.19).
6.02      Confirmation was obtainel from the Government during loan
negotiations regarding:
(a) the criteria for city eligibility and the appraisal of project
cities by the CPO (paris. 2.04, 2.06 and 2.07);
(b) schedule for reorganization and staffing of CPO (paras. 2.15 and
2.17);



- 33 -
(c) payment of the commitment fee, interest and repayment of the total
Bank loan by GOP including funds passed on to the cities through the
MDF (para. 3.09);
(d) timely provision of counterpart funds for national components of the
project (para. 3.11);
(e) maintenance of detailed project accounts by project cities and
central government agencies and consolidation of these accounts
annually by CPO (para. 3.18);
(f) annual financial audit of project accounts by COA including a
separate opinion on expenditures made against statements of
expenditures, confirming that claimed expenditures were used for the
purposes for which they were provided (para. 3.19); and
(g) submission of quarterly and yearly progress reports by CPO (para.
3.20).
6.03      Agreement was reached at negotiations:
(a) that the CPO's appraisal report for each city and draft Subproject
and Subloan Agreements be sent to the Bank for review and comment
before final approval by the Steering Committee (para. 2.05(c)); and
(b) on draft model Subproject and Subloan Agreements (paras. 2.10 and
2.11).
6.04      The following will be conditions of effectiveness:
(a) signing of a Memorandum of Agreement among MOF, MLG, OBM, MPWH and
NEDA on MDF operating procedures (para. 2.20);
(b) signing of Subproject and Subloan Agreements satisfactory to the
Bank, for at least four project cities (para. 3.01); and
(c) establishing a special account (para. 3.16).
6.05      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable
for a Bank loan of $40.0 million to the Republic of the Philippines for
20 years, including 5 years of grace at standard variable interest rate.



- 34 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT
Description Of Project Cities AppraiseL By The Bank
1.        Cabanatuan  The city is located in Nueva Ecija Province, in Region
III, 116 km north of Manila, with an urban population of 76,000 in 1980 grow-
ing at 4% p.a. It is the prime economic, industrial and institutional center
of the province, providing regional service, processing, and transport func-
tions for its rich agricultural hinterland. It is bordered by two large
rivers, and its priorities are to reduce flooding, improve the sanitation/
drainage system, area upgrading in publicly-owned lands, improvements to solid
wastes management, roads and infrastructure maintenance, and rehabilitation
and extension of the public market and slaughterhouse.
2.        Naga  The city lies in Region V in the central part of Camarines Sur
Province, and in 1980 had an urban population of about 90,000, growing at 4Z
p.a. It is the main commercial, trading, transport and education center for
the province and portions of adjacent provinces which are based mainly on
farming. It is a flat, inland city bisected by two major rivers - the Naga
and the Bicol, which, together with poor local drainage, give rise to exten-
sive flooding including the central business district and major market. The
rivers are the subject of extensive upstream irrigation and flood-control
projects which, however, tend to increase periodic flooding in the city.
There are several high-density barangays with severe environmental problems.
The city priorities are to improve flood control and drainage, solid wastes
management, area upgrading, and city-wide maintenance. The most effective
direct economic benefit would be to build the new slaughterhouse in order to
process the large number of animals presently transported to Manila for lack
of adequate local facilities.
3.        Bislig  The municipality is located in Surigao del Sur Province in
Region XI beside Bislig Bay. The 1980 census indicated an urban population of
68,000 growing at 12% p.a. The town is situated in a remote mountainous aLid
forested area and grew principally to house the workforce of PICOP, the large
papermiil adjacent to the town, and related logging activities. Urban growth
has slackened recently but is expected to pick up on completion of a nearby
power station. The town also has an active local market which is constrained
through lack of space and facilities, and a small fishing industry. Nearly
90% of the town's infrastructure is of earth roads, and the lack of local
drainage gives rise to schistosomiasis. There is an extensive squatter
population on land reclaimed from the sea by deposition of the paper mill
wastes. Apart from water supply, every urban service is badly needed,
including local roads and drainage, sanitation, solid wastes management,
maintenance and area upgrading. Direct economic improvements include rehabil-
itation and expansion of the market and slaughterhouses.
4.        Butuan  The city is situated in Agusan del Norte Province,
Region X. It has a local airport and a small river port and lies on flat land



- 35 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 2
beside the Agusan river. It has a vibrant local economy being the center of
trade, commerce and transport for the neighboring municipalities and pro-
vinces, and a processing center for forest and agricultural products. The
urban population in 1980 was 66,000 and growing at 5% p.a. The city is
affected periodically with flooding from the Agusan River, which may increase
through upstream flood control and irrigation projects presently being planned
which also affect the port and adjacent industries. The Bank has requested
the Government to review the project with a view to precisely determine the
impact and cost to the city and to propose solutions to ameliorate the
potential flooding of the city. Priorities for urban services include
improvements in drainage, sanitation facilities, solid wastes management and
maintenance, and extensions to the bus terminal, market and slaughterhouse.
5.        Tacloban  The city is the capital of Leyte Province in Region
VIII. Its urban population in 1980 was 92,000 growing at 7.5X p.a. It is the
principal seaport of the eastern Visayas and also has a local airport. It is
the main center for services to the agricultural hinterland and also for
communications, commerce, and tourism in the region. Local roads and public
buildings have been improved in recent years, but the city's growth is
constrained by an encircling ridge of hills which are creating high density
slum and squatter areas between the sea and the hills. This can be relieved
by improvements to these areas and by a new road to cross the ridge to the
plain beyond. Priorities for improvement include the road link noted above,
drainage and flood control, upgrading of slum areas, solid wastes and infra-
structure maintenance, expansion of the market and slaughterhouse and
relocation of the bus terminal.
6.        Tuguegarao  The municipality is located in the south of Cagayan
Province in Region II. The 1980 urban population was 64,000 growing at 3.3%
p.a. It is the provincial capital and educational, commercial and institu-
tional center with agriculture providing the economic base in the surrounding
region. The city center is threatened by erosion from the Cagayan River. In
addition to flood control, improvements are needed to local roads and drain-
age, sanitation to slum areas, solid wastes management, and maintenance, and
expansion of the slaughterhouse.
7.        The location and population characteristics of all the project
cities are shown on Table 1, Annex 1 and on Map IBRD 17775.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cities
1980      Growth
urban      rate
Center                  Province                 Region   population   % p.a.
Luzon
Dagupan               Pangasinan                  I        95,900      4.3
Enrile /a             Cagayan                    II         4,300      4.0
* Tuguegarao            Cagayan                    II         64,000     3.3
* Cabanatuan            Nueva Ecija               III        76,000      4.0
Masinloc              Zambales                  III         10,000     3.1
Naga                  Camarines Sur               V        86,400      4.0
Daet                  Camarines Norte             V        28,900      3.2
Visayas
Pulupandan            Negros Occidental          VI         14,300     3.1
* Tacloban              Leyte                    VIII        91,800      7.5
Mindanao
Dipolog               Zamboanga del Norte        IX B      30,000      5.0
* Bislig                Surigao del Sur            XI        68,000    12.0
* Butuan                Agusan del Norte            X        65,400      5.0
Gen. Santos           South Cotabato             XI        94,200      8.5
Cotabato              Maguindanao               XII        75,200    11.2
Palawan
Puerto Princesa       Palawan                    IV A      24,300      6.2
Total in 1980       828,700
Total by 1989     1,234,900      4.5
* Cities appraised by the Bank.
/a Although population is below the minimum criteria, city included being
adjacent to and economically part of Tuguegarao.



PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES-CITY OF BISLIG
(P MILLION)
COST BY CATEGORY                                COST BY AGENCY
…--      -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -   - -   - -  -   -  --  -     -  --  -  -  -  --           -  -  -  -
BISLIG     M125       CIVIL  EQUIP-    BASE   DSN I   SUB-    LAND   CONTINGENCIES   TOTAL             CITY    MPWH
COMPONENT             WORKS    MENT    COST    SPUN   TOTAL             PHYS   PRICE    COST
-- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -      ...............
A.URBAN SERVICES           16.85    1.72   18.57    1.40   19.97    0.00    1.69    6.22  27,87            15.28   12,59
WATER SUPPLY              0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    000 000 0°00    0 .00    0 .'°    °'00           0.
SEWERAGE/SANITATION      2.51    0.00    2.51    0.20   2.71    0.00    0.25    0,91    3.86             3.88
FLOOD CONTROL             6.37    0.00    6.37    0.51    6.88   0.00    0.64    1.53   9.05                      9.05
NATIONAL DRAINAGE         2.38    0.00    2.38    O.19    2.57    0.00    0.24    0.74    3,54                    3. 4
LOCAL DRAINAGE            3.24    0.00    3.24    0.26    3.50   0.00    0.32    1.28   5.10              5.10
AREA IMPROVEMENT          1.39    0,00    1.39   0.11    1.50   0.00    0.14    0.71    2.35              2.35
SOLID WASTES              0.96    1,72    2.68    0.13    2,81    0,00   0.10    1.05   3.95              3.95
FIRE SERVICES             0.00   0,00    0,00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00              0.00
B.PUBLIC FACILITIES         9.73   0.14    9.87    0.78   10.65   0.00    0,97    2.02   13.64             13.64    0,00
MARKETS-NEW               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0,00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0'00             0.00
MARKETS-REHAB             8.19    0.00    8.19    0.66   8.85    0.00    0,82    1,64   11.31            11.31
SLAUGHTERHOUSE            1.54   0.14    1.68    0.13    1.81    0.00    0.15    0.37    2.34             2.34
C. TRAFFIC I TRANSPORT      8.51    0.00   8.51    0.68    9.19    0.00    0.85    2.91   12,95             8.85   4.11
…,                                   …
NATIONAL ROADS            2,85    0.00    2.85    0.23    3.08    0.00    0.29    0.74    4.11                    4.11
LOCAL ROADS               4.40    0.00    4.40    0.35   4.75    0.00    0.44    1.62   6.81              6.81
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00               0.60
BUS TERMINALS             1.26    0.00    1.26   0.10    1.36   0.00    0.13    0.55    2,04              2.04
D.iAINTENANCE              2.60    6,P1    9,41    0.41    9.82    0.11    0.26    2,63   12.82            12.82   0.00
TOTAL                  37.69    8.67   46.36    3.28   49.64    0.11    3.77   13.77   67.29           50.59   16.70
46.3i          49.64                           67.29                   67,2
---- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---



PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPKENT PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES-CITY OF BUTUAN
(P MILLION)
COST BY CATEGORY                                   COST BY AGENCY
BUTUAN      M125        CIVIL  EGUIP-    BASE   DSN I    SUB-    LAND   CONTINGENCIES   TOTAL               CITY    MPUH
COMPONENT               WORKS    MENT    COST    SPUN   TOTAL              PHYS   PRICE    COST
A.URBAN SERVICES            13.18    1.61   14.79    1.10   15.89    0.09    1.32    5.57   22.87              15.97    6.90
WATER SUPPLY               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00               0.00
SEWERAGE/SANITATION        4.01    0.00    4.01    0.32    4.33    0.05    0,40    2.02    6.80               6.80
FLOOD CONTROL              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00                        0.00
NATIONAL DRAINAGE          4,45    0.00    4.45    0.36    4.81    0.00    0.45    1.65    6.90                        6,90
LOCAL DRAINAGE             3,70    0.00    3.70    0.30    4.00    0.00    0.37    1.36    5.72               5.72
AREA IMPROVEMENT           0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00               0.00
SOLID WASTES               1.02    1.61    2.63    0.13    2.76    0.04    0.10    0.55    3.45               3.45
FIRE SERVICES              0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00               0.00
B.PUBLIC FACILITIES         10.89    0.50   11,39    0,89   12.28    0.00    1,09    2.80   16.17              16.17    0.00
MARKETS-NEW                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00               0,00
MARKETS-REHAB              9.06    0.00    9.06    0.72    9.78    0.00    0,91    2,38   13.07              13.07
SLAUGHTERHOUSE             1.83    0.50    2.33    0.16    2.49    0,00    0.18    0.43    3,10               3.10
oD
C. TRAFFIC I TRANSPORT       3.46    0.00    3.46    0.28    3.74    0.00    0.35    1.03    5.11               5.11    0.00
. ~ ~ ..   .. ._- -  - -    - -                      - -     - -              - -     - -
NATIONAL ROADS             0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00                        0.00
LOCAL ROADS                0.00    0.00    0.00    000    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00                0.00
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00               0.00
BUS TERMINALS              3.46    0.00    3.46    0.28    3.74    0.00    0,35    1.03    5,11               5.11
D.MAINTENANCE                2.19    3.64    5,83    0.28    6.11    0.00    0.22    1.04    7.38               7.38    0.00
…....                          …                              _
TOTAL                    29.72    5.75   35.47    2,55   38.02    0.09    2.97   10.45   51.53              44.63    6.90
…----                                  …                               _ -
35.47           38.02                             51.53                    51,53
…-----------------------------------                                       ------------------------



PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES-CITY OF CABANATUAN
(P KILLION)
COST BY CATEGORY                                 COST BY AGENCY
CABANATUAN  H125 *    CIVIL  EQUIP-    BASE   DSN &   SUB-    LAND   CONTINGENCIES   TOTAL               CITY    MPWH
COMPONENT              WORKS    MENT    COST    SPYN   TOTAL             PHYS   PRICE    COST
A.URBAN SERVICES           50.97    0,86   51,83    4.10   55.93    3.20    5.10   23.52   B7#75            29.13   58.62
WATER SUPPLY              0.00    0. 00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            0.00
SEWERAGE/SANITATION       1.13    0.00    1.13    0,09    1.22    0.00    0.11    0.26    1.60             1.60
FLOOD CONTROL            31.96    0.00   31,96    2,56   34,52    2.77    3.20   14.93   55,42                    55.42
NATIONAL DRAINAOE         2.09    0,00    2.09    0,17    2.26    0.00    0,21    0.74    3.20                     3.20
LOCAL DRAINAGE            9,.7    0,00    9.97    0.80   10.77    0.43    1.00    4.89   17.09            17.09
AREA IMPROVEMENT          4.83    0.00    4.83    0,39    5.22    0.00    0,48    2.31    8,01             8.01
SOLID WASTES              0.99    0.86    1,85    0.11    1,96    0.00    0,10    0.38    2,43             2.43
FIRE SERVICES             A.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0.00             0.00
B,PUBLIC FACILITIES         8.35    0,00    8.35    0.67    9,02    0,00    0,84    1.86   11.71            11.71    0.00
MARKETS-HEW               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00             0.00
MARKETS-REHAB             7.95    0.00    7,95    0.64    8,59    0.00    0.80    1B80   11.18            11.18
SLAUGHTERHOUSE            0.40    0.00    0.40    0.03    0.43    0.00    0.04    0.06    0.54             0.54
C. TRAFFIC a TRANSPORT      4,80    0.00    4.80    0,38    5,18    0.10    0.48    1,21    6,98             0.89    6.09
NATIONAL ROADS            4.23    0.00    4.23    0.34    4,57    0,00    0.42    1,10    6,09                      6.09
LOCAL ROADS               0.57    0.00    0.57    0.05    0.62    0.10    0.06    0.11    0.89             0.89
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT        0000     0       .00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00             0.00
BUS TERMINALS             0.00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0000  00 00    0.00    0.00    0,00              0.00
D.MAINTENANCE               2,38    7,66   10,04    0,42   10,46    0.00    0.24    2.49   13,19            13.19   0,00
TOTAL                   66.50    8.52   75.02    5,58   80,60    3,30    6.65   29.08  119,63            54.91   64.71
75.02           80,60                           119,63                  119,63
,-- --- -  --- -- --- -,- - -- --.--  -- -- --- -- --- -- --- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -.



PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES-CITY OF NAGA
(P MILLION)
COST BY CATEGORY                                   COST BY AGENCY
NAGA        M125        CIVIL  EQUIP-    BASE   OSN I    SUB-    LAND   CONTINGENCIES   TOTAL               CITY    MPWH
COMPONENT               WORKS    MENT    COST    SPVN   TOTAL              PHYS   PRICE    COST
A.URBAN SERVICES            38.33    0,11   38.44    3,07   41.51    0.00    3.83   14,52   59,87              39.19   20.68
WATER SUF'PLY              0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0.0O    0.00               0.00
SEWERAGE/SANITATION       O0O0    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00                0.00
FLOOD CONTROL              O.O0    0.00    0,00    0,00    0.00    0,00    0,00    0.00    0,00                        0.00
NATIONAL DRAINAGE         13.45    0.00   13.45    1.08   14,53    0.00    1.35    4,81   20.68                       20,68
LOCAL DRAINAGE            21.08    0.00   21.08    1.69   22.77    0.00    2.11    8.34   33.22              33,22
AREA IMPROVEMENT           1,90    0,00    1.90    0.15    2.05    0.00    0.19    0.98    3.22               3.22
SOLID WASTES               1.90    0.11    2,01    0.16    2.17    0.00    0.19    0.39    2.75               2.75
FIRE SERVICES              0.00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00               0.00
8BPUBLIC FACILITIES          3.87    0.49    4.36    0.32    4.68    0.00    0.39    0.63    5.70               5,70    0.00
MARKETS-NEW                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00               0.00
MARKETS-REHAB              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00               0.00
SLAUGHTERHOUSE             3.87    0.49    4,36    0.32    4.68    0.00    0.39    0.63    5,70               5.70
C. TRAFFIC I TRANSPORT       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00               0.00    0.00
NATIONAL ROADS             0.00    0,00    0.00    0,00    0.00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0.00                        0.00
LOCAL ROADS                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00               0.00
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00    0.00               0.00
BUS TERMINALS              0.00       0.00     0.00    0.00    0,00    0.00              0000                 0.00
D.MAINTENANCE                4.82    6.11   10.93    0.57   11.50    0.00    0.48    2.60   14.58              14.58    0.00
TOTAL                    47.02    6.71   53.73    3.96   57.69    0.00    4.70   17.75   80.14              59.47   20.68
53.73           57,69                             80.14                    80.14
…-- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --      - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -



PHILIPPINES
HUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES-CITY OF TACLOBAN
(P MILLION)
COST BY CATEGORY                                 COST BY AGENCY
TACLOBAN    M125       CIVIL  EQUIP-    BASE   DSN I   SUB-    LAND   CONTINGENCIES   TOTAL              CITY    MPWH
COMPONENT              WORKS    MENT    COST    SPVN   TOTAL             PHYS   PRICE    COST
A,URBAN SERVICES           21.21    0,73   21,94    1.72   23.66    0.52    2.12    7.84   34.14            17,89   16.24
WATER SUPPLY              0.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0,00    0,00    0,00    0.00             0.00
SEWERAGE/SANITATION       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0.0O    0.00             0.00
FLOOD CONTROL             7.13    0.00    7.13    0.57    7.70    0.00    0,71    2.42   10,84                     10,84
NATIONAL DRAINAGE         3,50    0.00    3,50    0.28    3,78    0.00    0,35    1.28    5,41                     5.41
LOCAL DRAINAGE            2.35    0.00    2.35    0.l9    2.54    0.00    0.24    0.88    3.66             3,66
AREA IMPROVEMENT          6.70    0.00    6,70    0.54    7,24    0.00    0,67    2.92   10,83            10,83
SOLID WASTES              1,53    0,73    2.26    0.14    2.40    0.52    0,15    0.33    3.41             3,41
FIRE SERVICES             0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    0,00    0.00    0.00             0.00
B.PUBLIC FACILITIES         3,37    0.31    3.68    0,28    3.96    0.00    0,34    0.76    5,06             5,06    0,00
MARKETS-NEW               0.00    0.00    0,00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00             0,00
MARKETS-REHAB             2,63    0.00    2,63    0.21    2.84    0.00    0.26    0,60    3.70              3,70
SLAUGHTERHOUSE            0,74    0.31    1,05    0.07    1,12    0.00    0.07    0.17    1,36              1.36
C. TRAFFIC I TRANSPORT     15,10    0.00   15,10    1,21   16,31    1.07    1.51    6.04   24.93              4,97   19,?6
NATIONAL ROADS           11,97    0.00   11.97    0,96   12.93    1,07    1,20    4.77   19,96                     19.96
LOCAL ROADS               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00             0.00
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00    0,00             0.00
BUS TERMINALS             3.13    0.00    3,13    0,25    3,38    0.00    0,31    1,27    4,97              4,97
D.MAINTENANCE               1,46    3.16    4,62    0.21    4,83    0.22    0.15    0.89    6,09             6,09    0,00
TOTAL                   41.14    4.20   45,34    3.42   48,76    1,81    4.11   15.53   70,21            34,01   36,21
45,34           48.76                           70,21                    70,21
-- - - -- - - - -- - - -   .                                             _ -- - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - -



FHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES-CITY OF TUGUEGARAO
(P MILLION)
COST BY CATEGORY                                  COST BY AGENCY
TUGUEGARAD  i125       CIVIL  EQUIP-    BASE   DSN S    SUB-    LAND   CONTINGENCIES   TOTAL                CITY    MPWH
COMPONENT              WORKS    KENT    COST    SPVN   TOTAL              PHYS   PRICE    COST
A.URBAN SERVICES            20.43    0,86   21.29    1,66   22.95    0.01    2.04    8,64   33.65               5.21   28.44
WATER SUPPLY               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00    0,00    0.00               00oo
SEWERAGE/SANITATION        0.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00               0,00
FLOOD CONTROL             17.66    0,00   17.66    1,41   19.07    0.00    1.77    7.60   28,44                      28.44
NATIONAL DRAINAGE          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    d.OO    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00                       0.00
LOCAL DRAINAGE             0.00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00               0,00
AREA IMPROVEMENT           1.62    0.00    1.62    0,13    1.75    0.00    0.16    0.60    2.52               2.52
SOLID WASTES               1.00    0.86    1.86    0.11    1.97    0.01    0.10    0.41    2.49               2.49
FIRE SERVICES              0.15    0.00    0,15    0.01    0.16    0.00    0.02    0,02    0.20               0.20
B.PUBLIC FACILITIES          1,86    o.0o    1,94    0.15    2.09    j.18    0.19    0.52    2.98               2.98    0,00
MARKETS-NEW                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00 O .GO    0.00    0.00                 0.00
MARKETS-REHAB              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00 0000                  0.00
SLAUGHTERHOUSE             1.86    0.08    1.94    0.15    2.09    0.18    0.19    0.52    2.98               2.98
C. TRAFFIC S TRANSPORT       4.95    0.00    4.95    0,40    5.35    0.00    0.50    1.99    7.83               7.83    0.00
NATIONAL ROADS             0,00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00                       0.00
LOCAL ROADS                4.08    0.00    4.08    0.33    4.41    0.00    0.41    1.74    6.55               6,55
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT         0.42    0.00    0.42    0.03    0.45    0.00    0.04    0.18    0.67               0.67
BUS TERMINALS              0.45    0,00    0.45    0.04    0.49    0,00    0.05    0.07    0.61               0.61
D,NAINTENANCE                2.24    2.81    5.05    0.26    5.31    0.23    0.22    0.97    6.74               6.74    0.00
TOTAL                    29.48    3.75   33.23    2.47   35.70    0.42    2.95   12.12   51i19              22.75   28.44
33.23           35.70                            51.19                    51,19
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - -  ------------------



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
PHILIPPINES
Municipal Finance Projections
Basic Assumptions
1.   Local revenue projections (before revenue reforms) were based on the
assumption of continued past trends. However, for property taxes which
showed a marked increase between 1979-82 (e.g., 53X p.a. in Cabanatuan,
39% p.a. in Tuguegarao, etc.), the national average for 1979-82, 15%, was
used.
2.   The CPO and city officials conducted a review of each city's finances,
discussed the specific measures to be taken to increase local revenues
(i.e., tax mapping, improved registration and information management,
rent and fee increases, etc.) and estimated the total local revenue
(including the impact of the reform measures) for the city for each
year. The incremental amount attributable to the revenue reforms were
obtained by subtracting the projected trend of local revenues (discussed
in Section 1 above) from the total projected local revenues.
3.   The growth in Government grants were assumed to drop compared to past
growth rates which averaged from 22% to 34% between 1979 and 82. For the
projections, it is assumed that annual growth rates would not exceed 14%
for municipalities (Bislig and Tuguegarao) and 10% for cities for 1983-
88, dropping to 10% and 5% for 1988-92, based in discussions with MOF
officials. This distinction has been made in light of the cities'
stronger revenue base and the Government requirement that municipalities
share their revenues with the province.
4.   Operational costs were assumed to increase at 13% p.a., the national
average for 1979-82. While the rate is lower than that experienced in
most of the project cities during the same period, the assumption is
considered reasonable since the project cities expenditures increased
significantly during this period in line with increasing Government
grants and a drop in expenditure growth can be expected with the slow
growth of government grants.
5.   Operation and maintenance cost savings are based on engineer's estimates
of savings from the maintenance component. The incremental maintenance
cost of the newly constructed project components were subtracted to
obtain net cost savings.



PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REVENUE PROJECTIONSICITY OF BISLIG
'PESOS MILLION)
ACTUAL                                            PROJECTED
1979    19E0    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
A,REVENUES
LOCAL REVENUES                    2.45    3,21    3,44    4,19    4.73    5,33    5.96    6.67    7.46    8.36    9.48   10,77   12.23   13,89
REVENUE REFORMS (1)                                                         0.92    1,97    3,56    3,74    3.75    4.83    5.32    5.85    6.43
GOVERNMENT GRANTS                 0,88    0.96    1.04    1,99    2.24    2.55    2,91    3,32    3.78    4.31    4.74    5.21    5.74    6.31
3.33    4.17    4.48    6,18    6.97    8,80   10,84   13.55   14.98   16.42   1?.06   21,30   23.81   26.63
D .EXPENDITURES
OPERATIONAL COSTS                 3,07    3,48    4.28    5.31    5,44    6.15    6.95    7.85    8.87   10.03   11.33   12,80   14.47   16.35
(LESS) NET ODh COST SAVINGS (2)                                               0.41    0.00   -0.64   -0,71   -0.78   -0.86   -0.94   -1.03   -1.14
DEBT SERVICE: EXISTING LOANS      0.06    0.03    0,03    0,03    0,03    0,03    0,03    0,00    0.00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00
MDF LOAN                                                     0.14    0,90    2,39    3,70    4,89    6,56    6,56    6,56    6,56
3,13    3,51    4.30    5.34    5,47    6,73    7,88    9,60   11.86   14.14   17.03   18.42   19.99   21.77
RECURRENT SURPLUS (DEFICIT)        0.19    0.66    0.17    0,84    1,50    2,07    2,96    3,95    3,12    2,28    2.03    2.88    3.82    4.87
C.CAPITAL OUTLAYS
ONGOING                           1.24    0.44    0,54    0,74    0.49    0,32    0.35    0,38    0,41    0.44    1.62    2.30    3.06    3,89
PROJECT                                                                     3,50   10,94   15,41    8.56   12,18    0.00
1.24    0,44    0,54    0.74    0.49    3,82   11,29   15.79    8,97   12.6?    1.62    2.30    3.06    3.89
D.BORROWINGS
ONGOING                           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0o00    0.00
HDF                                                                         2.07    8.77   12.43    6.32   10.68    0.00
0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    2.07    8.77   12.43    6.32   10.68    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                -1,05    0,22   -0.37    0.10    1.01    0,31    0.44    0.59    0.47    0,34    0,41    0,58    0,76    0,97
==- := ...... ::::2=2= = := . .....=   = ==   =Cs:_   ==-C  ..zz .,.Cz  .22  :z_C  .Cz . . .._. _.                           =_C=   ==-===
BALANCE CARRIED FORWARD          -1,05   -0,83   -1,20   -1.10   -0.09    0,22    0.66    1.25    1.72    2.06    2,47    3.04    3.81    4.78
RATIOS!
LOCAL/TOTAL REVENUES               0.74    0,77    0,77    0,68    0.68    0,71    0.73    0.76    0.75    0.74    0,75    0.76    0.76    0.76
LOCAL REVENUES/RECURRENT
EXPENDITURES         0.78    0.91    0,80    0.78    0.86    0.93    1.01    1,07    0.94    0,86    0,84    0,87    0.90    0,?3
NET REVENUE/DEBT SERVICE (3)       4,22   26t46    7.58   28,97   50,93   12,84    4.17    2,65    1.84    1.47    1,31    1.44    1.58    1.74
…--             -     -    -    -     -    -    -   -    -     -    -    -    -     -    -    -    -   -     -    -    -    -     -   -     -    -
NOTES!1.ADDITIONAL REVENUES FROM IMPROVED TAX COLLECTION AND OTHER REVENUE REFORMS.
2.ADDITIONAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS OF THE HDF FINANCED INVESTMENTS LESS CITY-WIDE SAVINGS IN MAINTENANCE COSTS RESULTING
FROM THE PROJECT'S MAINTENANCE IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM,
3o(TOTAL REVENUES - OPERATING COSTS)/(DEBT SERVICE).



PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REVENUE PROJECTIONS:CITY OF BUTUAN
(PESOS MILLION)
ACTUAL                                            PROJECTED
…,
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
A.REVENUES
LOCAL REVENUES                    6.84    8.20    9.10   10,03   12.92   14.15   15.51   17.03   18.69   20.60   23.02   25.74   28.81)  32.24
REVENUE REFORHS (1)                                                         0,37    1.43    2.71    3.51    4.24    5.67    6,24    6.86    7.55
GOVERNMENT GRANTS                 7,31   10.28   11.66   17.40   19,72   21.10   22.57   24.15   25.84   27.65   29.03   30,49   32.01   33.61
… …                                                                                  _
14,15   18.49   20.76   27.43   32.63   35.62   39.51   43.89   48.04   52,49   57.72   62.47   67.67   73.40
B.EXPENDITURES
OPERATIONAL COSTS                 8.24   11.69   13.99   15,84   18.90   21.36   24.14   27.28   30.82   34,83   39.36   44.47   50.26   56,79
(LESS) NET 0IH COST SAVINGS (2)                                               0,03    0.00    0.00   -0.75   -0.91   -1.19   -1,30   -1.43   -1.58
DEBT SERVICE! EXISTING LOANS      0.85    0,79    0.42    0.00    0.68    0,68    0.68    0.68    0.68    0.68    0.68    0.00    0.00    0.00
MDF LOAN                                                     0.00    0.38    1.96    3.34    3.63    4.03    4.03    4.03    4.03
9.09   12.48   14.41   15.84   19,58   22.07   25.19   29.91   34.09   38.22   42.89   47.20   52,85   59.24
RECURRENT SURPLUS (DEFICIT)        5.06    6.00    6.35   11,59   13.05   13.54   14.32   13.98   13.95   14.27   14.84   15.26   14.82   14.15
::::=:====::e:=_-:==::=:  --==   =: z: e:::    ::====: ===   === CZ=             ==:s:=====              =:_z== %=mm=     ==mm=   ::=Zzz
C.CAPITAL OUTLAYS
ONGOING                           3.42    5.25    7.71   10.49   13.05   12.92    6.23    6.98    7.76   11.98   13.84   11,45   11.11   10.61
PROJECT                                                                     0.00   12.03   22,82    7.29    2.49    0.00
…-- -    -- -   - --     - ---   -- --    --- -    -- -   - --     - ---   -- --   --- -     -- -   - --     - --
3.42    5.25    7.71   10.49   13.05   12.92   18.25   29.80   15.05   14.48   13.84   11.45   11.11   10.61
D.DORROWINGS
ONGOING                           0.17    0.00    0.00    0.83    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
MDF                                                                         0.00    5.36   17.22    2.49    1,64    0.00
0.17    0.00    0.00    0.83    0.00    0.00    5.36   17.22    2.49    1.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                 1.81    0.75   -1,36    1.93    0.00    0.62    1.43    1,40    1.40    1.43    1.00    3.82    3.70    3.54
=az=zm=mzm=zz=zuzz    ====   =====   =====   zr==== =====  -Z===  _-zz =====   == === ,,=,,,=,==   ===,,  ,,,==   ====
BALANCE CARRIED FORWARD           1.81    2.56    1.20    3.13    3.13    3.76    5.19    6.59    7,98    9.41   10.41   14.22   17.93   21.46
RATIOS!
LOCAL/TOTAL REVENUES               0.48    0.44    0.44    0.37    0.40    0.41    0.43    0.45    0.46    0.47    0.50    0.51    0.53    0.54
LOCAL REVENUES/RECURRENT
EXPENDITURES         0.75    0.66    0.63    0.63    0.66    0.66    0.67    0.66    0,65    0.65    0.67    0.68    0.67    0.67                      U'
NET REVENUE/DEBT SERVICE (3)       6.98    8.59   16.30    0.00   20.19   20.92   14.56    6.30    4.47    4.31    4.15    4.78    4.67    4.51
…-- - - -- - - - - -- - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - -- - - - - -- - - - -
NOTES:1.ADDITIONAL REVENUES FROM IMPROVED TAX COLLECTION AND OTHER REVENUE REFORMS,
2,ADDITIONAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREHENTS OF THE MDF FINANCED INVESTMENTS LESS CITY-WIDE SAVINGS IN MAINTENANCE COSTS RESULTING
FROM THE PROJECT'S MAINTENANCE IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.
3.(TOTAL REVENUES - OPERATING COSTS)/(DEBT SERVICE).



PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REVENUE PROJECTIONiS-CITY OF CABANATUAN
(PESOS MILLION)
…--    -  -  - -   - -  -  - -  -  -  -  - -  -  - -  - -   -  - -  -  - -  - -   -  - -  -  - -  -  -  -  - -  - -  -  -  -  -  - -  - -  -  - -   -
ACTUAL                                            PROJECTED
…-                -  .…_
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
A.REVENUES
LOCAL REVENUES                    0.00    3.60    6.44   10.29    9.22   10,09   10.95   12.90   13.94   15.55   17.35   19.36   21.62   24,15
REVENUE REFORMS (1)                                                         2.58    3.97    4,82    6.00    7.47   10.76   12,05   13,50   15.13
GOVERNMENT GRANTS                 0.00    5.88   11.15   10.13   10.77   11.85   13.03   14.33   15.77   17.35   18.21   19.12   20.08   21.08
0,00    9,48   17.59   20,42   19.99   24.52   27.95   32.05   35,71   40.37   46.32   50.53   55,19   60.36
B EXPENDITURES
OPERATIONAL COSTS                 0,00    7.66   12.76   14.52   17.30   19.55   22.09   24.96   28.21   31.87   36.02   40,70   45.99   51.97
(LESS) NET OtM COST SAVINGS (2)                                               0,51    0.00   -0.72   -0.55   -1.49   -1,89   -2.07   -2.28   -2.51
DEBT SERVICE! EXISTING LOANS      0.00        0. 00  .§00    0.00    0.24    0.24    0.99    1.18    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.00    0.00    0.00
NOF LOAN                                                     0.00    0.65    2,14    3.69    5.22    7.03    7.03    7,03    7.03
0,00    7.66   12.76   14.52   17.54   20.30   23.73   27.57   32.29   36.55   42.10   45.66   50,74   56,49
RECURRENT SURPLUS (DEFICIT)        0.00    1.82    4.83    5,90    2.45    4.22    4.22    4.49    3.41    3.81    4.22    4.88    4.46    3.87
C.CAPITAL OUTLAYS
ONGOING                           0.00    0.47    1.29    1,68    2.45    0.98    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.01    3.80    4.39    4.01    3.48
PROJECT                                                                     0.00   12.69   15.58   12.87   13.77    0.00
0.00    0.47    1.29    1.68    2.45    0.98   12.69   15.58   12.87   14.78    3.80    4.39    4.01    3.48
D#BORROWINGS
ONGOING                           0.00    0.00    0.12    0.00    0,00    4.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
MDF                                                                         0.00    9.31   11,99   10.14   11.73    0.00
0,00    0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00    4.00   10.31   11.99   10.14   11.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                 0.00    1.35    3,66    4.22    0.00    7.24    1.84    0.90    0.68    0.76    0.42    0.49    0.45    0.39
BALANCE CARRIED FORWARD           0.00    1.35    5.01    9.23    9.23   16.47   18.31   19.21   19.89   20.65   21.08   21.56   22.01   22.40
RATIOS:
LOCAL/TOTAL REVENUES               0.00    0.38    0.37    0.50    0.46    0.52    0.53    0.55    0.56    0.57    0.61    0.62    0.64    0.65
LOCAL REVENUES/RECURRENT
EXPENDITURES         0.00    0.47    0.50    0.71    0.53    0.62    0.63    0.64    0.62    0.63    0.67    0.69    0.69    0.70
NET REVENUE/DEBT SERVICE (3)       0.00    0,00    0.00    0.00   11.21   18.58    3.57    2.35    1.74    1.62    1.53    1.69    1.63    1.55
…--        -   -   -   -   -   -   -    -  -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -     -   -  -  -   -    -   -   -  -   -    -    -  -  -    -   -   -
NOTES:1,ADDITIONAL REVENUES FRON IMPROVED TAX COLLECTION AND OTHER REVENUE REFORMS.
2.ADDITIONAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE REOUIRENENTS OF THE NDF FINANCED INVESTMENTS LESS CITY-WIDE SAVINGS IN MAINTENANCE COSTS RESULTING
FROM THE PROJECT'S MAINTENANCE IMPROVENENT PROGRAM.
3.(TOTAL REVENUES - OPERATING COSTS)/(DEBT SERVICE).



PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPhENT PROJECT
REVENUE PROJECTIONS-CITY OF NAGA
(PESOS MILLION)
ACTUAL                                             PROJECTED
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    !989    1990    1991    1992
A,REVENUES
LOCAL REVENUES                     6.08    7.33    8.31    8.58    9.41   10.15   11.13   12.11   13.52   14.92   16.73   18.77   21.08   23.68
REVENUE REFORMS (1)                                                           0,34    0.96    1.49    1.76    3,39    3,36    3.80    4.30    4.87
GOVERNMENT GRANTS                  3,29    4.47    5,25    6.78    7.52    8.27    9.10   10.01   11.01   12.11   12,72   13.36   14,02   14.72
9.37   11.79   13.56   15.36   16,93   18.76   21.19   23.61   26.29   30.42   32.81   35.93   39,41   43.27
B.EXPENDITURES
OPERATIONAL COSTS                  7.57   10.70   11.47   10.59   11.97   13.53   15,28   17.27   19.52   22.05   24.92   28.16   31.82   35.96
(LESS) NET OIM COST SAVINGS (2)                                                 1.96    1.02   -1,04   -1.15   -1.36   -1.42   -1.56   -1,72   -1.89
DEBT SERVICE: EXISTING LOANS       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.85    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00
MDF LOAN                                                       0.07    0.96    2.53    3.90    5.57    7.69    7,69    7,69    7.69
…---_                                       …                                                           _         _
7.57   10.70   11.47   11.44   12,02   15.60   17,31   18,81   22.31   26.32   31.24   34.2?   37.80   41.76
RECURRENT SURPLUS (DEFICIT)         1.80    1.09    2.09    3,92    4.91    3.16    3,88    4.80    3.98    4.11    1.57    1.64    1.61    1.51
C.CAPITAL OUTLAYS
ONGOING                            0.70    2.95    2,62    2.30    2.00    2.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    2.72    . 33    1.39    1.37    1.29
PROJECT                                                                       1.64   15.11   14.63   12.44   15.65    0.00
0.70    2.95    2.62    2.30    2.00    3,64   15.11   14.63   12.44   18.37    1.33    1.3?    1,37    1.29
D,BORRORINGS
ON60ING                            0.15    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
NDF                                                                           0.95   11.82   10.55    9.06   14.88    0,00
0.15    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.95   11.82   10.55    9.06   14.88    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                  1.25   -1.86   -0.48    1.62    2.91    0.47    0.58    0.72    0.60    0.62    0.23    0.25    0,24    0.23
:::::::::::…:::::               --:=   -… - -       -    =: : 2…=:   :=:==   :::::   :::::   :            =::   :==:   =====   =:…:   -==…
BALANCE CARRIED FORWARD            1.25   -0.61   -1.10    0.52    3.43    3.90    4.49    5.21    5.80    6.42    6,65    6.90    7,14    7.37
RATIOS!
LOCAL/TOTAL REVENUES                0.65    0.62    0.61    0.56    0.56    0.56    0.57    0.58    0,58    0.60    0.61    0.63    0.64    0.66                       l I
LOCAL REVENUES/RECURRENT
EXPENDITURES         0.80    0.68    0.72    0.75    0,78    0.67    0.70    0.72    0.68    0.70    0,64    0.66    0.67    0.68
NET REVENUE/DEBT SERVICE (3)        0.00    0.00    0.00    5.61   99.18   28.14    4.84    2.87    2.01    1.73    1.20    1.21    1.21    1.20                         w
….....                                                                         … _                            _        _  _ _-__
NOTERI1.ADDITIONAL REVENUES FROM IMPROVED TAX COLLECTION AND OTHER REVENUE REFORMS.
2.ADDITIONAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS OF THE MDF FINANCED INVESTMENTS LESS CITY-WIDE SAVINGS IN MAINTENANCE COSTS RESULTING
FROM THE PROJECT'S KAINTENANCE IMfROVEMENT PROGRAN.
3.(TOTAL REVENUES - OPERATING COSTS)/(DEBT SERVICE).



PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REVENUE PROJECTIONS-CITY OF TACLOBAN
(PESOS MILLION)
hCTUAL                                             PROJECTED
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
A.REVENUES
LOCAL REVENUES                     6.89    8.11    8.90    9.85   11.00   12.06   13,26   14.76   16.27   18,10   20.27   22.72   25,48   28,58
REVENIUE REFORMS (1)                                                         2.18    3.74    5,05    5,69    6.94    7.22    8,22    9.36   10.67
GOVERNKENT GRANTS                  3,52    4,62    5.41    7.77    8,37    9,21   10.13   11,14   12,25   13,48   14.15   14.86   15,60   16,38
10,41   12,73   14.31   17.62   19,37   23,45   27,13   30,95   34.21   38.52   41,64   45.80   50.45   55.64
B.EXPENDITURES
OPERATIONAL COSTS                  8.09    9.61   11,54   14.94   16.26   18,37   20,76   23,46   26,51   29.96   33,85   38.25   43.23   48.85
(LESS) NET OIN COST SAVINGS (2)                                                0.87    1.82    1,60    0,73    0,69    0.64    0.70    0.77    0.85
DEBT SERVICE! EXISTING LOANS        0,80       0.80     0,80    0,80    0.99    0.99    0.99    0,99    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
NDF LOAN                                                      0.00    0,47    1,46    2,47    3,03    3,58    3,58    3,58    3,58
8.89   10,41   12,34   15,74   17.25   20.23   24,05   27,51   29,72   33.67   38.07   42,53   47,57   53.27
RECURRENT SURPLUS (DEFICIT)         1.52    2,32       97    1,88    2.12    3,21    3.08    3,44    4,50    4.,85    3.58    3,27    2.87    2.37
::~~~~~~~~~zs   ::-::-=::.-:.-.: ====a        =     ==== :=a== =====c   =a=--=   ZCC           2.m zz          C=:=- -=  _-===zz_   ===_C                     0
C.CAPITAL OUTLAYS
ONGOING                            1.52    2.36    1.97    1.88    2.12    2.02    0,00    0,00    0,00    1,45    3.04    2,78    2,44    2,01
PROJECT                                                                      0,00    9,40   10,23   10.98    3,39    0.00
1.52    2.36    1,97    1,88    2,12    2,02    9.40   10.23   10.98    4.84    3.04    2,78    2,44    2.01
DoBORROWINGS
ONGOING                            00oo    00oo    0.00    0.°0    0.00    0.°°    °§°    0°00    00.00    0.00    0.00
MDF                                                                          0.00    6.78    7.31    7.16    0,72    0,00
0,00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    6.78    7,31    7,16    0.72    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                 -0,01   -0,04    0.00    0,00    0,00    1,20    0,46    0.52    0.67    0.73    0,54    0,49    0.43    0.36
::  :::  ::: xmC:                M.-:==   == :-   ::=:: 21-2 :: .zC_ : ::I:. C=   ac= =:=               C       =cz    =_xz   _-=        ===z_  = = ,x
BALANCE CARRIED FORWARD           -0,01   -0,04   -0,04   -0.05   -0.04    1.15    1.62    2.13    2,81    3.53    4,07    4,56    4.99    5.35
RATIOS'!F
LOCAL/TOTAL REVENUES                0.66    0.64    0.62    0.56    0,57    0.61    0,63    0,64    0,64    0,65    0,66    0.68    0,69    0,71
LOCAL REVENUES/RECURRENT
EXPENDITURES         0,77    0,78    0,72    0.63    0,64    0.70    0.71    0.72    0,74    0.74    0,72    0.73    0.73    0.74 
NET REVENUE/DEBT SERVICE (3)        2.89    3.91    3,46    3,35    3,14    4.25    3.10    2.40    2.82    2,60    2,00    1.91    1.80    1.66                      i..i
NOTES:1.ADDITIONAL REVENUES FROM IMPROVED T'X COLLECTION AND OTHER REVENUE REFORMS.
2.ADDITIONAL OPERATiON AND MAINTENANL REQUIREMENTS OF THE MDF FINANCED IN"ESTMENTS LESS CITY-WIDE SAVINGS IN MAINTENANCE COSTS RESULTING
FROM THE PROJECT'S MAINTENANCE IHPh... MEEHT PROGRAM,
3.(TOTAL REVENUES - OPERATING COSTS)/tDEBT SERVICE).



PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REVENUE PROJECTIONS-CITY OF TUGUEGARAO
(PESOS MILLION)
ACTUAL                                           PROJECTED
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
A ,RE VENUES
LOCAL REVENUES                    2.53    3.55    3.04    3.91    4.68    5.17    7.30    8.43    9,28   10.03   11.09   12.25   13.53   14.96
REVENUE REFORMS (1)                                                         1.41    0o91    1.29    1.48    2,16    2.03    2,27    2,54    2,84
GOVERNMENT GRANTS                 0,51    0.64    0.76    1,02    1,15    1,23    1.32    1,42    1.53    1.64    1.77    1.91    2,05    2.21
3.04    4.19    3.81    4.93    5,83    7.81    9.53   11,14   12,29   13.83   14.89   16,43   18.13   20,01
B.EXPENDITURES
OPERATIONAL COSTS                 2.34    3,49    2.38    3.97    4,74    5.21    5.74    6,31    6.94    7.63    8,40    9.24   10.16   11.18
(LESS) NET OIM COST SAVINGS (2)                                               0.11    0,79    0.89    0,01   -1.13   -1,36   -1.49   -1.64   -1.80
DEBT SERVICEI EXISTING LOANS      0.42    0.43    0.48    0.48    0.48    0.48    1.2        1.29    1,3     1.39    1.39    1.39    1.39    1.39
SEF LOAN                                                     0.00    0.32    1.25    2,07    2,23    2.54    2.54    2.54    2,54
2.76    3.92    2.86    4.45    5,22    5,80    8,13    9.74   10,40   10.13   10.97   11,68   12,45   13,31
RECURRENT SURPLUS (DEFICIT)        0.28    0.27    0.95    0.48    0.61    2.01    1.40    1.41    1,89    3.71    3.92    4.75    5.68    6.71
=====.S .   ==   . = ==  =  ==   =  ===   := =                _ =        .       :    :::::    ::                  :   =: cc=  mamu
C.CAPITAL OUTLAYS
ONGOING                           0.48    0.27    0.94    0,49    0,62   11,67    0.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    3.33    4.04    4,82    5,70
PROJECT                                                                     0,00    5,73    9.92    4,58    2.52    0.00
0.48    0.27    0.94    0.49    0.62   11,67    5.73    9.92    4.58    2,52    3.33    4.04    4.82    5.70
D#BORROWINGS
ONGOING                           0.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    0.00   10.48    0.00    0,00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
HDF                                                                         0.00    4.54    8,72    2,98   -0,63    0,00
0,00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00   10.48    4.54    8.72    2,98   -0.63    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                -0.20    0.00    0,01   -0.01   -0.01    0,82    0.21    0,21    0,28    0,56    0.59    0,71    0.85    1,01
-::::::::: ::-::       ~==-==   =:::=       ::   :::Z_  --.a :ms-   _:ZC    :C.   ==-= =    ==CC    C2a     ===    22=        . = =  = -==
BALANCE CARRIED FORWARD          -0.20   -0.20   -0.19   -0.20   -0.21    0.61    0.82    1.03    1,31    1.87    2.46    3,17    4.02    5.03
RATIOS',
LOCAL/TOTAL REVENUES               0,83    0.85    0.80    0,79    0.80    0.84    0.86    V.87    0.88    0.88    0.88    0.88    0.89    0,89
LOCAL REVENUES/RECURRENT           0-0 9
EXPENDITURES        0.92    0.91    1,06    0.88    0,90    1,13    1,01    1,00    1.03    1,20    1.20    1.24    1,29    1.34
NET REVENUE/DEBT SERVICE (3)       1,67    1.63    2.97    2.00    2,27    5,18    1,87    1,55    1.55    2.02    2,00    2.21    2.44    2.71
… -----------------------------------------------------------------   ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
NOTESU.ADDITIONAL REVENUES FROM IMPROVED TAX COLLECTION AND OTHER REVENUE REFORMS,
2.ADDITIONAL OPER.ATION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS OF THE MDF FINANCED INVESTHENTS LESS CITY-WIDE SAVINGS IN MAINTENANCE COSTS RESULTING
FROM THE PROJECT'S MAINTE4ANCE IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.
3.(TOTAL REVENUES - OPERATING COSTS)/(DEBT SERVICE).



PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT FUND CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS
(IN MILLION fESOS)
1984     1985      1986     1987      1988     1989      1990      1991     1992      1993      1994
A. ANNUAL COMMITMENTS <1)
PROPOSED PROJECT             256.03    55,51    83,26
SUBSEQUENT PHASES                                          100.00   115.00   132.25   152.09   174,90   201.14   231.31   254.44
B. CASH FLOWS
SOURCES
SURPLUS BROUGHT FORWARD         0.00    10.00    14.98    30.80    58.18    89.85   114.01    99.48    70.99    41.29    46.84
PROPOSED IBRD LOAN             37.78    48,73    84.30    78.22    81.91    50.57    13.28         0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00 
PAYMENT BY CITIES OF
PRINCIPAL I INTEREST           0.00     4.98    15.82    27,38    39.17    51,40    69,87    85.74    94.86   103,43   120.46
ADDITIONAL LOANS                0.00     0900      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    15.56    63.26    72.05
TOTAL SOURCES          37.78    63.71   115,11   136.40   179.26   191.82   197,16   185,22   181.40   207.98   239,35
--- - - - - -- -         -      - - -   - -  -     - - -    - - -     -  - -   - - -      - - -   ....  ..     . .   -----
APPLICATIONS <2>
ADHINISTRATION Q3>              0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      6.61      7.60     8,75    10,06    11.57    12.72
LOAN ADVANCES                  27.78    48.73    84.30    78.22    89.41    71.20    90.08   105.49   130,06   149,57   172,01
lOTAL APPLICATIONS    27.78    48.73    84,30    78.22    89.41    77.81    97.68   114.23   140.12   161,14   184,73
SURPLUS CARRIED FORWARD          10.00    14.98    30.80    58.18    89.85   114.01    99,48    70.99    41,29    46.84    54.62
NOTE: 1. DISBURSEMENTS OF COMNITED FUNDS ARE ASSUMED TO START THE FOLLOWING YEAR: E.G. FUNDS COMMITED DURINC 1984 WILL BE DIS-                                      I
BUk!-ED FRUH 1985 ONWAkRDS.
2. REPAYMENT OF BANK AND' OTHER LOANS ARE ASSUMED TO BE MADE BY THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FOR THE MDF INDEPENDANT OF REPAY-
MENTS TO THE FUND BY THE CITIES.
3, INITIALLY LOAN ADMINISTRATION COSTS OF THE CPO AND MHF WILL BE FUNDED THROUGH THE MPWH (FOR CPO) AND HOF (FOR HDF)
BUDGETS. FOR THE PROJECTIONS IT 1S ASSUMED THAT AFTER 5 IEARS ADMINISTRATION COSTS WILL BE FUNDED FROM MDF REVENUES.
ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS ARE ASSUMED TO BE 5% OF ANNUAL COMMITMENTS.



- 51 -                              ANNEX 5
Page i
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training Program
Background
1.        LGocal governments are increasingly expected  to provide infra-
structure and basic services to respond to the rapid economic and population
growth in urban areas, yet there is a lack of capable managerial and technical
staff in local governments to deal with this growth. One reason for this
situation is the historic paucity of development programs planned and imple-
mented by local governments, partly because of their lack of access to
long-term development finance. The other, and related reason, is the lack of
appropriate training programs for local government officials. The bulk of
training has been directed to staff in central government agencies and has
often been associated with foreign-assisted loans focussing on these national
agencies.  The result is that (i) the specific needs for local officials have
been neglected; (ii) the training has often been linked only to the narrow
needs of a project and has not continued after project completions; and (iii)
the training has tended to be too sectoral and specialized for use by local
governments.
2.   -   The training designed and implemented for local government officials
is summarized in the table below:
Total local
participants
trained
Institutions involved      Areas of training              (No.)    C%)      Duration
Civil Service Academy   Development managers'
(CSC 1979-present)      training                           364       4      3 weeks
Provincial Development  Real Property Tax Adminis-                          Range from
Assistance Program      tration, Equipment Ooerations                       5 days to
(PDAP) MLG (1980-81)    and Maintenance, Rural Roads                        12 weeks
Improvement, Structural Sur-
vey, Water Resource Develop-
ment, Community Organization
Human Resource Development,
Rural Entrepreneural Develop-
ment, etc.                       7,509     84
PDAP/BLG/MLG            Development Administrator's
(1978-81)               Training Program                    80    0.9       12 weeks
Local Goverment         Local Administration and
Center, University of   Development Program                956      11      12 weeks
Philippines (1968-81)
Institute of Environ-   Special Course in Urban/             18    0.2      6 months
mental Planning         Regional Planning
(1968-81)
TOTAL                                               8,927    100



- 52 -                              ANNEX 5
Page 2
The PDAP/MLG program which trained the largest number of local technical staff
has been discontinued on the conclusion of USAID assistance. The other pro-
grams have focussed on executive level management. Evaluation of these
courses has indicated that while much of the material taught is valuable, they
have tended to deal with broad management consideration rather than with the
technical requirements of local government functions. The courses have also
dealt more with rural and community development activities and less with urban
management matters. Due to financial uncertainties the courses have often
been under-funded and have not been integrated wth the career development of
local officials. They have also not approached the scale of training
required. Nevertheless, some of the course materials and the experienced
teachers could provide a valuable resource for a training program focussed on
the long-term needs of municipal administrators and technicians concerned with
provision and maintenance of urban infrastructure, services and municipal
enterprises, and the financial management of local government.
Training under the Project
3.        Approach.  The key ministries concerned with training local
government officials (MLG, MOF, MPWH and The Civil Service Commission) wish to
improve the relevance, scope and coordination of training for urban management
and to establish it on a regular basis with reliable funding, and linked to
the career development of local officials. To address these concerns the
project would:
(a) strengthen the training division within the CPO to design training
modules for the key urban management needs which have been
identified and for the relevant levels of local government staff.
The training division would organize courses on these modules,
linked initially to the needs and timing of the 15 project cities
and subsequently expanding to further cities wishing to enter the
municipal development program. The training would be an integral
requirement for cities applying for development finance from the
MOF. The training division staff would be primarily course
designers, coordinators and evaluators. Although they may deliver
some of the training themselves, they would call mainlv on the
existing training organizations, and to a lesser extent on the CPO
staff and consultants, to deliver the training.
(b) develop and implement training modules. The CPO training division
focuses on training for (i) decision makers - in particular the
mayor and Sangguniang members, in order for them to understand the
goals objectives and procedures for municipal development programs
and methods they can incorporate in their city administrations;
(ii) supervisors and administrators - these people are the heads of
the various city departments and agencies and training would focus
on the specific policies and techniques to implement improvements in
their spheres of activity and also allow them to understand how
their activities fit with other areas; and (iii) technicians wh.,
work in the various departments and agencies and who need training
in specific skills to carry out operations. Within the context,
four modules, each consisting of various courses have been
identified for priority implementation (see para. 4).



- 53 -                              ANNEX 5
Page 3
(c) provide an adequate source of finance. The Government has already
established a trust account with P 1.5 million to initiate this
training, but substantially more will be required to fund the
investment and development costs of training (see below). Following
the initial investment costs, the recurrent and direct training
costs would be financed through local government fees for training
their staff on specific programs, (presently set at P 200 per
trainee), which should produce sufficient funds to continue a
reasonable level of training effort for the capacity built into the
project.
(d) undertake a study of Training Needs, Resources and Requirements for
a National Training Program.  The CPO training division noted above
is intended to initiate training in the project cities and to
develop operational experience. However the training needs extend
beyond the project and a more permanent and broader thrust will be
required. The study would review the skill levels of local staff,
analyse training needs and the professional resources available for
delivering training. Following this review, the study would inves-
tigate the functional role of a training organization in relation to
the scope and demand for training in urban management, its relation-
ship with other training agencies, its operational policies and
procedure, its financing, and the timing of its establishment. It
would also review and propose how training can be incorporated into
the career and incentive structure of local government administra-
tion. It is expected that the CPO training division would form the
core of the new organization. The study would be directed by the
MLG and assisted by an Advisory Committee composed of the relevant
government and academic agencies involved in training.
4.        The priority subjects which municipal officials need to improve
their capabilities have been organized into appropriate modules to form short
(2 to 4 days) and medium (7-21 days) courses:
Module 1. Program development and management. This will focus on
an orientation, relationships and processing of a municipal
development program and be of primary interest to policy-makers and
department heads.
Module 2. Project management. This will stress methods to identify
needs, develop relevant data, prioritize programs, develop simple
plans, budget, design, implement and evaluate infrastructure
programs. This module would mainly apply to department heads and
key staff especially in the planning, engineering, and budget
divisions.
Module 3. Municipal finance, revenue administration and municipal
enterprise management. This module is principally directed at heads
and staff of city treasurer, assessors and municipal enterprise
departments.



- 54 -                               ANNEX 5
Page 4
Module 4. Infrastructure and equipment maintenance and solid wastes
management. This would involve both the planning and logistics of
these services for the department managers and also workshop
practice and operations for technicians.
5.        The first two of these modules has been designed and three training
sessions implemented by the CPO. The remaining modules are expected to be
designed by March 1984 and an evaluation of the training courses of the first
two modules will be made by that date. Estimates of the total minimum number
of staff who would be trained in each category during the project period are
as follows:
Development      RCDP /a       Metro-
projects        project        Manila        Others
(15 cities)    (4 cities)   (estimates) (140 cities)
Decision-makers /b              75              20            34          700
Supervisors and
Administrations /c          150              40            51        1,400
Technicians /d                 300              80            30        1,400
Total                     525             140          115         3,500
/a   Bacolod, Cagayan de Oro, Ilo-Ilo and Davao included in the Regional
Cities Development Project (Loan 2257-PH).
/b   One mayor and two Sangguniang members per city, except Metro-Manila (MM).
/c   Heads of five major departments except MM and one assistant per city.
/d   Two staff from each major department, except MM.
Costs and Financing
6.        The following are categories of costs involved with the training
under the project:
(a)  Investment and Development Costs.  These are one time costs that are
required to produce the capacity to train. This includes civil
works, equipment, design of training modules and design of training
materials.
(b) Recurrent costs. These are the costs of maintaining that training
capacity including staff salaries, office rent, utilities and
vehicle costs.
(c) Direct training costs. These are the actual costs of each training
program. This includes travel, trainer fees, lodging, food,
materials, etc.



- 55 -                              ANNEX 5
Page 5
Cost             1983    1984    1985      1986      1987    1988      Total
--- (P million) ----- … --
Investment         -       1.8     2.0      0.6       0.0       -        4.4
Development       0.4      1.9     1.7      1.2       0.8      0.9       6.9
Recurrent         0.3      2.0     4.3      4.7       5.3      5.5      22.1
Direct            0.5      3.9     4.5      5.9       6.3      6.9      28.0
Total        1.2     9.6    12.5      12.4      12.4     13.3      61.4
7.        The financing of the training program would be from four sources:
The Government of the Philippines, the training fee contribution and partici-
pants expenses by local governments, Bank loan for Regional Cities Development
Pruject (RCDP) and the Bank loan for this project.
Source             1983    1984    1985      1986      1987    1988      Total
…====-----…-   (P million) -- - ----
GOP                 0.3    4.9      0.6       0.4       0.4     0.5        7.1
Training fee /a      -      0.2     0.6       0.8       0.8     0.8         3.2
WB-RCDP             0.9    4.5       -         -         -       -          5.4
WB-municipal
dev. project       -      -      11.3      11.2      11.2    12.0       43.7
Total             1.2    9.6    12.5       12.4      12.4    13.3       61.4
/a  In addition to this training fee, the local governments will pay trans-
portation and other costs related to the training activity.



JAVR 6
Table I
UICIPA.L DSSLOPnT PmSOJT
Project Nestearing Sceodules
Type                             0bjectlees                        I.E mntiom required             FrequIeny          Node/reporting requiremecte
A. City WW    to CFO
C.) iViiiml pror      To ensure that necesary eteon are    HDontoring table. and schedule fro-   Q0urterly          Presrtm. term prepared by city and
reas               being taken In the easters to  sure   Subproject Agreement (Co  pares.                       IIRI a*d sent to CO.
smooth ieplementation of construe-     2.0B to 2.10 for content).
tiou.
(b) Financial         To ensure that (a) the necessary       Monltoring tables and schedule ftc.   Quarterly        Progress forn prepared by city cud
loal counterpart funds would be        Subloas An resant (see Para. 2.11                      M1 and sent to cO.
budgeted mad made available for i_     for contest).
plemetation; tb) oeceacry fiscal
measure. would be taken in a timly
m_ser to strengthen city fiance
and masure debt serwvcing of HOF
debt.
(e) rid eluation      To sensre precedures are properly      PfAC /- bid ward evaluation.            Ac prnDesssd   PAC a*rd evaluation.
folleind.
B. Other Central
ASenles- to CO
Studies through    Physiael and finsced progrees for      Conultant a fIindig. funds             Bianual        Consultants' repnrt-  _qy of
Mr. Sc             co_molidated snnal reports.            expended.                                              funds eznpded  uditor's reports
(annual).
C. QO to Other Cetral
Agenies
HDF cah floes     To ensur that the echeduled fundu      Account foe each cit, *and overall     Quarterly       Finscial statements
are delil-red to the   1, frm  NVt    ISD account.                            Assually       Auditors' reporta.
to the citie and free cittie to
D. Qo to Usk
Ta) GO evaluation      To ensure that subsequent city pro-    Appraisa report inolving:              C^ee by ce   CPO apprai_a report and   bprnject
nd Steering        grams and NWD loasm (Chich the Sank    (a) D_eriptlon of the project co,    (i.e. . for       and *ubloa egewt  or any other
Coaittee           did not directly apprciae) meat the        ponents and preject costs,         eab city)       doetu_tstio  prepard by cGO fer
approval of NDF    sank's criteria for leuding.           (b) Financing plan and mlyei- of                       subdisoana to Steerigw Ceitte  for
lears                                                         city's capability of providineg                    approwlAuith aeceseary tebhnlc-l
necessary cmterpart funda                        information is Ammerea. if not it-
(Includin  recomnded fiseal                       eluded in main rapert).
c) Implementation schedule (project
mnsget/_eslati  of techbi-
c-l capability (includilg _si-
temncnt).
Cb) Progress Deport-   To ensure that neceary actiona are   Subproject mad Subloan Agreeent          Quarterly      Consolidated  _qaw by CO of over-
inx                being taken to e re _oeoth loplr    feor  with cities and reporta from                       all progras blightin  of hey
_met-tin. of the project (nel. con-   central ageunds.                                        Imulementntia insues (if an. saS
struction. flnancial parformanee.      ti) Actions taken to date.                            propowed actio) sad finnelg m_
traning, technical assistance.         (b) ger action  to bh taken on next                   mry (prowge   from seb city cam ha
etc.)                                      quarte rnl  mnntbs.                               attached am eaness).
Ic) Sary of diabursmments to date   Annually          Sinmary report.
from IW nationel copeent- and
Projected fiancing/dlabursmment
requir-ent- for nact 12 soothe.
Cc) Audits             To ensure that loan funds bave be      Audited financial *tetent of proj-   Anully           Auditor'a report.
utilized for puepoe  etated and        ect sceeunts.
establish financial status of proj-
ect eoq.onanta.
-  Prpoetqualification. bid and award  dmittee.



- 57 -
ANNEX 7
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Activities            1984       1985      1986       1987      1988      1989       :990
Phase I cities/a     _
-__q         __  ___-1  --1-  I_____
Phase 2 cities          .__.._.._.._
Phase 3 cities                   ...
ICB procurement                              Phase 1                -            3
['equipment                                 -------|               _4__        _ ._
vehicles)                   l
Technical assis-         _
tance /b
CPO advisors
Other studies
Tax mapping /b             _                     _
Training /b                   l                   l   __     I               _
/a   See Annex 1, Table 1 for the six cities approved by the Bank.
/b   Technical assistance, tax mapping and training activities during 1984 funded under
the Regional Cities Development Project.
Legend
Detailed engineering .........
Bidding & procurement    …
Implementation
Note:   Apparent overlapping of activities caused by aggregating separate construction
contracts



- 58-                             ANNEX 7
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(in US$ million)
Cumulative    Cumulative   Country profile /a
Semester ending    Disbursement   disbursement         (Z)             (Z)
Dec. 31, 1984           3.0              3.0             8                1
June 30, 1985           1.2              4.2            11                3
Dec. 31, 1985           2.4              6.6            17                8
June 30, 1986           2.8              9.4            24               15
Dec. 31, 1986           3.6             13.0            33               22
June 30, 1987           3.2             16.2            41               28
Dec. 31, 1987           3.6             19.8            50               37
June 30, 1988           4.4             24.2            61               47
Dec. 31, 1989           4.8             29.0            73               58
June 30, 1989           3.6             32.6            82               66
Dec. 31, 1989           3.4             36.0            90               74
June 30, 1990           2.6             38.6            97               82
Dec. 31, 1990           1.4             40.0           100               89
Closing date: June 30, 1991.
/a For all urban and water supply projects in the Philippines.



- 59 -
ANNEX 8
PHILIPPINES
HUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CPO Staffing (Technical Levels) and Technical Advisor Requirements
Total number of technical staff requlred
Exlstlng                    End 19
Organizational division 6 staff skills    (appraisal)
Operational Divisions
I. Area Tean Dlvision Heads                    0                           2
Area Engineers                            5                           8
Area Liaison/Coordinators                 6                           8
Municipal Financial Analyst               0                           2
Proj. Financial Analyst/Economist         2                           4
Physical Planners                         1                           1
Haintenance Engineers                     1                           1
Subtotal                                     15                          26
(plus draftsmen 6-8)
II. Administrative Division
Head                                      0                           1
Assistant                                 2                           1
III. ProRram Staff
Programliiii & Budgeting
Head                                      0                           1
Assistant                                 1                           1
Information/External Relations
Head                                      0                           1
Assistant                                 1                           1
Report Writer/editor                      0                           1
Researchers                               0                           1
Legal
Lawyer                                    0                           1
Subtotal                                      2                           9
Financial Evaluation Head
(from HOF)                                0                           1
Assistants (from HOF)                     0                           2
Subtotal                                      0                           2
IV. Traini
He-adl-                                   0                           1
Course Coordinators                       1                           2
Training Technicians                      1                           3
Training Evaluation                       0                           1
-Admin. Head                               0                           0
Admin. Assistant                          0                           1
Subtotal                                     2                           8
Total Staff                                 19                          45
V. Technical Advisors (from January 1, 1984 to December 31, 1986)
Total mn
1984/a    1985       1986     < 1B m  < 30 a
Senior Engineer/Planner          1      -                                 9       15
Financial Analyst/Economist    I                                         18      36
Municipal Finance Advisor        1       -                                9       15
Sanitary Engineer                1                                       18      36
Maintenance Engineer             1      -                                 9       14
Training Advisor                 1                                      18       36
Management Systems Specialist  1             -         -                  3        6
Total                        7                                        84     158
/a    Funded under the Regional Cities            Consultant
Development Project                        contract
(Loan 2257-PH)                              review



- 60 -
ANNEX 9
Table I
PHILIPPINES
NUICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sumary of Economic Evaluation Criteria
Cutoff point /a   Minimua ERR /b
Component                   Major benefite                          Benefit mea-urem-nt           (P million3-          (Z)
1.  Drainage and       Reduction in dmage to private property,          Increase In rental value of         2.5             13
Flood Control    roads and other iafrauLructure.                   the land.
Openning up of new areas for future city
developeent and more efficient land use.
2.  Sewerage and       Improved environment and reduced health          Not quantified; primarily           N.A.            N.A.
Sanitation        risks (through upgrading of speptic tank         health related.
emptying servicee. etc.)
3.  Area Improve-      Better living standards and reduced health    Increase in rental value of            2.0             10
ment              riska to alum residents (through provision    housing and land.
of counal stendpipes for water, toLlet,
drainage, acceas, etc.)
4.  Solid tmate       Ilproved sanitary conditions within the           Not quantified, primarily           N.A.            N.A.
Collection        city (through reduced informal dumping).         health related.
5.  NMrkete            Reduction in congestion and euieting and         Rental chargee at their             1.5             10
projected capacity conetrainta which would    market value.
benefit both city and rural reeidents who
sell and chop in theae markets.
Health improvements (through the provision
of proper drainage, toilete and other eani-
tation facilities).
6.  Slaughterhoucen  Increase in capacity to meet exieting and          User charges at their               1.5             10
future demand.                                  mrket value.
Health improvemente (through the prowimion
of proper drainage, toilets and other
sanitation fecilitiea).
7.  Tranaportation    Relleve congeetion and iuprove traffic            Vehicle operating cost and          2.5             10
flovs in the citie.                              passenger time savinga.
B.  Bua terminals      More convenient tranafer faciittiee for          User charges at their                1.5            13
passengere.                                      market value.
Relieving of congestion where busee and
jeepneys overflow into the etreets due to
inedequate facilitie
/a Minimm cutoff pointe are expreased in base costs in April 1984 prices. Theee levele were determined based on the com-
ponenta in the six cities appraised by the Bank and are designed to cover the major components under the project. The
amounts would be updated periodically.  A  the progrm  expands to include more cittes, the appropriateneee of the current
cutoff levels will be reviewed and neceseary adjustments made.
/b heed on the opportunity coat of capital, eatilated at 13.52. For those components where significant nonquantifiable
benefits (e.g. health) exist, a lower minimum return (IDO) we used.



- 61 -
Mb 9
TAULE 2
PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SMMY OF ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
(IN PERCENT)
DISLIG     DUTUAN CABANATIAN         NAG    TACODAN  TUUEGARAD
1. DINAGE                                    27          27         25          26           8           -
2. FLOOD CONTROL                             24           -          -           -          18          21
3. ARAUPGRADING                               * t                    29          t          23           *
4. MRKETS                                    13          12          15          -          14           -
5. SLAUGHTERHOUSES                            *          10          t          24           *          10
6. TRANSPORTATION                            23           -         24           -          29           -
1. DU TERMINALS                               *          19          -           -          19           8
PERCENT OF BASE COST EWLUATED           65          61          83          72         71          52
NEIGHTEB AVAGE ERR            21          18          24          24          23         20
NOTE: * = ERR NOT OBTAINED  ECUSE INVESTM     MOTS MERE BELON  THE CUTOFF POINT.



PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
URBAN POVERTY IMPACT
…----------------------------------------------------   -------------------------------------------------------------------------------.-
DISLIG            BUTUAN          CABANATUAN            NAGA           TACLOBAN         TUGUEGARAO
....  ......       ----------          ~  ~~----- ---------
POVERTY INVEST- POVERTY INVEST- POVERTY INVEST- POVERTY INVEST- POVERTY INVEST- POVERTY INVEST-
IMPACT    MENT   IMPACT     MENT   IMPACT     MENT   IMPACT    MENT   IMPACT      MENT   IMPACT    MENT
t%)   (P NIL)    (2)    (P MIL)    (X)   (P MIL)    (%)   (P MIL)    (%)    (P HIL)    (X)    (P MIL)
WATER SUPPLY                      60    0.00       60     0,00       35    0.00        50      0.00      55    0.00        50    0,00
SEWERAGE I SANITATION            60    3.88        60    6.80        35      1.60      50    0.00        55    0.00        50    0.00
FLOOD CONTROL                     60    9.05       60    0.00        35    55.42       50    0.00        55    10.84       50    28.44
DRAINAGE                          60    8.64       60    12.62       35   20,29        50    53.90       55     9,07       50    0.00
AREA IMPROVEMENT                  75    2.35       75    0.00        75     80,1       75    3.22        75    10i83       75    2.52
SOLID WASTE                      60      3.95      60    3.45        35    2.43        50    2.75.       55    3,41        50    2.49
FIRE SERVICES                    60    0.00        60    0.00        35    0.00        50    0.00        55     0.00       50    0.20
or.
MARKETS                           60    11.31      60    13.07       35    11.18       50      0.00      55    3.70        50    0.00
SLAUGHTERHOUSE                    60    2.34       60     3.10       35    0.54        50     5,70       55      1,36      50     2,98
ROADS                             60    10.92      60      0.00      35    6.98         50    0,00        55    19,96      50    6.55
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT                60    0.00       60      0.00      35    0.00        50      0.00      55    0.00        50     0,67
BUS TERMINALS                    60    2.04        60    5.11        35    0.00        50    0.00        55     4.97       50    0.61
MAINTENANCE                       60    12.82      60     7,38       35    13.19       50    14.58       55    6.09        50    6.74
TOTAL                67.30             51.53            119.64             80.15             70.23             51.20
POVERTY IMPACTI AMOUNTS                 40.73             30.92             45.08             40.88             40.79            26.23
X                          61               60                38                51                58                51
OVERALL IMPACT! AMOUNTS       224,63
%  51.05
…---- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- -- -- - --- -- -- -- - - - - - - - -- - - -- -- - --- -- --- - --



- 63 -                            ANNEX 11
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
Technical Assistance, Brief Terms of Reference
A. Advisory Services for Project Development
(i) Executing Agency:
Ministry of Public Works and Highways
Base Cost:         $2,800,000
Objectives:        To assist the CPO in (i) advising cities in project
implementation, (ii) assisting cities evaluate city
investments programs for the next tranche of cities,
(iii) assisting the CPO Director, area divisions,
training division, program and municipal finance staff,
and establishing a management information and monitor-
ing system, (iv) assisting the cities and CPO implement
low-cost sanitation solutions, and (v) supplementing
in-house CPO staff. The component includes funds for
occasional city specific technical studies.
Duration:          About 36 months (January 1984-December 1986).  For
1984, funds would be drawn from RCDP until the proposed
project is made effective, when RCDP will be
reimbursed.
Staffing:          Consultant assistance 358 man-months (158 foreign, 200
local).
(ii) Executing Agency:
Ministry of Finance
Base Cost:   $300,000
Objective:   To hire experienced ex-municipal Treasurers to be
seconded to the CFO to advise on and evaluate the
cities; financees and revenue improvement programs.
Duration:    About 48 months (January 1985 - December 1988).  RCDP
funds would be used until 1985.
Staffing:    Consultant assistance, 80 man-months local.



-64 -                              ANNEX 11
Page 2
B. Review of the Local Government Grants System, and Local Financial
Management and Budgeting Procedures
Executing Agency: Ministry of Finance and Office of Budget and Management
with study reporting to Steering Committee including
MOF, OBM, MLG.
Base Cost:          $364,000
Objectives:         (i) To review the composition, implementation and
effects on local governments of the grants from central
government, and propose feasible improvements in their
design and allocation to encourage local governments to
increase local revenue generation and rationalize their
service and investment planning; (ii) review the
process and procedures of local budgeting and propose
improvements to plan and program formulation and
necessary adjustments to the format and procedures of
the local budget; (iii) review the format of financial
statements to improve classification between recurrent
and capital expenditures, and review and propose a
service pricing and costing system which can be used by
local governments for planning and budgeting purposes,
and ways to ensure adequate funds for maintenance, such
as an equipment renewals fund.
Duration:          About 14 months (January 1985-March 1986).
Staffing:          Consultant assistance - 40 man-months (24 foreign,
16 local).
C. Study of Training Needs, Resources and Requirements for a National
Training Program
Executing Agency:  Ministry of Local C-overnment study reporting to MLG
assisted by an Advisory Committeic of key government and
academic institutions.
Base Cost:          $300,000.
Objectives:        Review skill levels of local government staff, identify
and analyze training needs, evaluate the professional
resources available to deliver the appropriate training
and evaluate the scope and scale of training required.
Review the training materials in use by the CPO train-
ing division and advise on appropriate adjustment.
Evaluate incentives and disincentives and propose
adjustment to local government hiring, remuneration,
examination and staff res?:onsibilities to make the
training more effective. Following this review,



-65-                              ANNEX ii
Page 3
identify the appropriate role of a national training
program in relation to other training agencies, its
operational policies, procedures, cost and possible
financing, and the timing of its establishment.
Duration:          18 months (February 1985-August 1986)
Staffing:          Consultant assistance - 38 man-months (18 foreign,
20 local).



- 66 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Documents on Project File
A.   Selected Reports and Studies
1.   Municipal Services and Engineering Infrastructure.  Basic needs
mission. A. Williams, GHK consultants. September 1979.
2.   Philippine Cities.  Characteristics, city selection.  CPO and GHK
consultants. September 1980.
3.   PREMIUMED.  Concept, Objectives and Scope.  CPO and consultants.
November 1981.
4.   PREMIUMED.  Project preparation reports No. 1.
(a) Summary of Findings, Issues, Recommendations
(b) Summary of commitments by local governments during first workshop
conference Sept. 6-10, 1982. CPO and consultants.
5.  PREMIUMED.  Financial Sector.  Loan repayment manual CPO.  April 1982.
6.   PREMIUMED.  Guidelines on feasibility studies and preliminary
engineering. Volumes on water supply, sanitation, storm drainage, solid
waste management, roads, markets, slaughterhouses. Project preparation
guideline on cost estimating. By CPO and consultants. September 1982.
7.   Proposed Training Program and Municipal Management Training Institute.
December 6, 1982. By CPO and consultants.
8.   City Reports for 15 centers, prepared by each city with assistance from
CPO and consultants for pre-appraisal, December 1982, including:
(a) main city report, maps, structure plan
(b) separate sector reports on water supply, sewerage/sanitation,
drainage and flood control, fire service, solid wastes, maintenance
slaughterhouses, markets, bus terminals and traffic management
(c) financial review
(d) institutional review.
9.   City reports for appraisal, for 6 cities, prepared by each city with
assistance from cPo and consultants, for Appraisal, September 1983.
uDJect matter as item 8.



- 67 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2
B. Prolect File Working Papers
1. Financial Analysis Reports and working papers.
2. Economic Analysis Reports and working papers.
3. Ministry Order formally establishing the CPO. August 18, 1983.
4. Papers on area upgrading, and on Butuan city development.
5. Presidential Reveue No. 1914 establishing the MDF.
6. Draft Standard Sub-Project and Sub-Loan Agreements.
7. Draft Implementing Guidelines for MDF.



PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
General Program Organization Structure
MLG                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NECA
jA C|t              |g                                                         1uSteedg Commit   |  of
ROCUOffiSAI.                                                                                      cnyirrveutDm.ntout)  Inone                                 a
CB Pror    l                                                                                                 Pcgm JL
!ffce                                                             b 'epoing
Reporn to Ftoect
+- -- - O mftA, conct CmCncattcna
O=RegtflRpring   Un
-t-- ReoV f or PRoectun
Wold Bork-25725



- 69 -
CHART 2
PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart of Central Program Office
Steedng Comrmifee                     t UOF
Uaison witnfh
Uoison wlth    ii      Pw=mr/Sudcae                   th
RCP.CVUP& &                                     wb                           i  Ua                      Flnonckl uot
r    MLG.                                           Bm  Reloflons                                                (MOF Statl)
L
L       TraiTn gHead                                                                   A     eo  I              Adrnin. Heoo
f   _               .g              ~~~~~~~~~~~~AT. 4  D. Head          CihV I
l        _               ~~~~~~                                           ~        ~~Head  2  CP-O Accocunts
_   _                                                                ~~                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 CPO Pewnnme
3-6              4                  CPO Budiget
Couse Coord  t                                                                   6
Adm[rL    C cc         2                            C3ilb      Citeso
cc           3                             im
Eval. COOrsL
Conrilbutdos to Traning                                            Technical Staff
Modules an Controc.IPWt                                      Aa Enginees
raw BOsis                                                    Alea Coordnators/LcLason
Municioi ,Finnce Anlysis
MPFU/I MOF. MLG. NEDA                                        Poject inonce/Economists
DAP. UP. ect. Consultant                                     Planners
L                          Mantenance Engineers
World Bink-25726



PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ChytLevel OrganizatIon
CPO         l                   I         o
City Plrming & D bpewnent_ 
OMe (CPOS)                       LP.O.
(Local
MoE<tang                    Planing& aoef)ct
EvokiatSon    RGwj            Project        Ofcr
wiforom      & B ting        Fasbilny_y
Ctas Foreau     1tyEgner                                                                             1nnntyLC 
| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ip wah                                                m9|Cnb      Dvlopren                          Entl'm o
Tosk Force  Trust Fund                     Roods &                           A~~~~~~~~Tas  oc 
-|  Tauk Face  1        -|1tnJf hnd             l          4          _  _       |con_ Ta  Foce
Valuatobn                         &Ati  &                                                            OBusldrns  Other  I                 hter
(4Arso Immaovnt)                    D  aburrnt                                                           A  ct tMtbsm                       house  
ActHm                            Acthertl                        Wintenonce                                                          N L|WAW
Sai SohWfe                                                         Estat Mangmn
Rhg Ueng                                                                                                               OtI ne
----KeKy Cormunication Unes                                                                                               |        lcti
World Bor*-25727



IBRD 1777
IU6     CLIASSIFICATIONOFI PROVINCIS                 120-                                                 12                                             DECEMBER 1Ub3
IlY (ttX;RAPIIICAL RfGIONS                                                                        PHILIPPINES
NCR AONALATV WSTERNAVISAEAS                                                              MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I IlocoSNorte          -"* Aklan                                                           LOCATION  OF PROJECT  CITIES
- Abra                  IY Capiz
20'        Mountai               ;0 Inloilo                                                                   *         First Phase Project Cities                         20
L. Union               TN CtNTRALVIdea l°0                                                                   Subsequent Phose Project Cities
Banquet          VI] CENTRAL VISAYAS
4:,' Cebui
Panas,man             43 Neros Oriental                                                                     Roads
|1 CAGAAYAN VALLEY          44 Bohol
HI B41n's S" 5quuor                                                                                           Roilaoys
1' Caavan         VIII l-ASTERNVISAYAS
10 KolingeApAVaoa     ;'1; NornhemrnSrur                                                                    Provincial Boundaries
1 Isabela                4  Samar
1: llugo                 'It EasternSaanr                                 Aparr.                               Regional Boundaries
1.J Nu ty Viscayv       4' Levis                                                                                n               u
14 Quwino               '.O Southern Leyve         Loaog                  it                                   International Bound ris
111 CENTRALLUZON        I X WES]'ERN MINUANAO
t'. Nusa Ecij.           ' Zanboanga del Norte              Dn                                                                                       N
it, Tarlac               ' Zaboang del Sur                        EnL,      ueroo
- Zanibals ', Basilan n                                        J
Parpanqa                '-: Sulu
Bulacan                 1 Twitlei                           toc               II
a1 tztaan            X  NORTIIkRN Ml%NDANA0                                 0logon
IV  SOIJTIII-R  TALtALIK; ~ Surigao del Norie  Son                       1
IV  SOLTIuRN TAoAnl(l           Carniguin        Fernando
0   ~ ~ ~ ~ 'IAgusan del NJorte   a    d
_IO   C.nat                Minamis Oriental                    00                                          a    50 K SI       150  200   250   300
C:t Mdooeeld l        5I SarnoOteidental                                                      KILOMETERS
16,     .4   Laquna                                                                                                  _    _   _ M__ ___"_ _u O cciden ta__l_______|
B.ta ngasla           6!   DsoBukudrion                       .,                                    MILES.
M. BIrInr.3e          *,:. Aeuan del Sur                      S00 '5                                                                             200
MindoroOrrwntal   Xl lATlERNk.% MINDANAO                    JANILA
.3 Mindoro Occ:identar   l- Srsgao del SurI
- RoCn,lon             I,*iL Dnao Oriental    ClAr                     uon
jiPalewan              6 Daeao                 Angl.         
tii D°aso del Sun         SI 
V        s111(1.               SwornthCoalbato OlPngapoo
l Cansarines Nante   Xi  - '  A.ltA%ON                                 L
J., Carrarines Sun'           IA  ~IXAA                             AIL
- Catarkduanes        fill Lanao del Norte
AlbaV                -b' Lnao del Sur                          SI   b
I"SOr%oqon                North Colabato           ~           ,       P   ia
1 Mashate                  Maquindanao
Sultan Kudirat                 Zapo                                  3'
,-  ootangos      \   o Nogo
Colopan *                    Pu,
--     'K.        egas~~~~pi
Son        IV                                     Allen
12*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~37
-12                                                                            ' r'                                         >4'')                                           12--
/t   ~      ~     Roa                       VII C   bX
Joloban
O  Puerto                                      CwntaDn ;d/ !  /                                 o
(I)  Princewo                                                     Iurg
IZanubonga             X I            n         Dovooo
0.1
,,in PAAM          ui ON                                                           Basilan
PHILIPPINES                                 Jobo
-'                    vISArAs                                           0                                                       Gen-
PALAWAV                                                                                                               Sonaos
Mt/CANAGA
tSUr4t I .5
"-tAsiA                                                                                                                                                                   1
N~ON  t A12,0                                                                                 12,4                                                     12|8



