Document of
The World Bank
:F1     3
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLYFO 
Report No. P-3817-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US $40.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 15, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               =    Peso (P)
US$1                        =    P 14.0
Pesos 1                     =    US$ 0.0714
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
COA            -   Commission on Audit
CPO            -   Central Project Office
LWUA           -   Local Water Utilities Administration
MDF            -   Municipal Development Fund
MHS            -   Ministry of Human Settlements
MLG            -   Ministry of Local Government
MOF            -   Ministry of Finance
MPWH           -   Ministry of Public Works and Highways
NEDA           -   National Economic and Development Authority
OBM            -   Office of Budget and Management
Sangguniang
Panglunsod   -   Local Elected Council
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiaries:      Municipalities and cities in the Philippines
Amount:             $40.0 million equivalent (including the capitalized front-
end fee)
Terms:              20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:   The equivalent of $28.2 million of the loan proceeds would
be relent by the Government through the Municipal
Development Fund (MDF) to the project cities, at 14% for
20 years, including 5 years grace. These terms would be
reviewed annually and any adjustments would be applicable
only to the new cities applying for subloans from the
MDF. The loan balance (excluding the capitilized front-end
fee of $0.1 million) would be provided to various
Government agencies as budgetary allocations. The
Government will absorb all the standard financial charges
and fees on the entire Bank loan in addition to the
interest rate variations and the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:      The proposed project would assist local governments in
providing infrastructure and municipal services to a
growing urban population by: (a) establishing a revolving
fund, the MDF, to provide local governments with direct
access to long-term development finance; (b) establishing a
national-level technical intermediary to assist local
governments identify investment priorities, evaluate
project proposals for financing through the MDF and act as
a liaison with national and external funding agencies; and
(c) strengthening the local technical and financial
capacity for project implementation and service management
through a training program and organizational and fiscal
reforms. The project includes financing for: (i) basic
infrastructure including improvements for sanitation,
drainage, slum areas, solid wastes management, roads,
traffic management and bus terminals, and construction and
upgrading of markets and slaughterhouses; (ii) infrastruc-
ture maintenance operations; (iii) nation-wide tax mapping;
(iv) training program; and (v) technical assistance for
project implementation and structural reform studies.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
The project's main risks are related to timely availability
of central government counterpart funds, fiscal weaknesses
at the city level, and staffing and management in the
technical intermediary. The Government's commitment to the
project and the flexibility in the project to reduce
investment programs in individual cities in line with
financial constraints, provision of technical assistance,
commitment to fiscal reform by the local governments and
sanctions to be applied to nonperforming cities by the
Ministry of Finance are, however, expected to minimize
these risks.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:
Local   Foreign    Total
-------$ million-------…
(a) Urban infrastructure             19.7    12.8        32.5
(b) Maintenance                       1.4      3.2        4.6
(c) Tax Mapping                       1.4      2.1        3.5
(d) Training                          1.4      2.0        3.4
(e) Technical Assistance              1.6      2.4        4.0
Base cost                     25.5    22.5       48.0
Physical contingencies                1.0      0.8        1.8
Price contingencies                  10.0      8.9       18.9
Total Project Cost /a              36.5    32.2        68.7
Front-end fee on Bank loan             -       0.1        0.1
Total Financing Required           36.5    32.3        68.8
Financing Plan:
Bank loan                             7.7    32.3        40.0
Government                           23.1       -        23.1
Project cities                        5.7       -         5.7
Total                             36.5    32.3        68.8
Estimated
Disbursements         Bank FY        1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
Annual          4.2   5.2   6.8   8.0   8.4   6.0   1.4
Cumulative      4.2   9.4  16.2  24.2  32.6  38.6  40.0
Rate of Return:         18-24% weighted ERR for the six project cites
appraised./b
Staff Appraisal
Report:               No. 5027-PH, dated May 10, 1984
Map:                    IBRD-17775
/a   Includes taxes and duties amounting to $2.0 million.
75; All project components would have an ERR above the opportunity cost of
capital except those with a significant health factor where a slightly
lower ERR would be acceptable.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $40.0 million, inclu-
ding the capitalized front-end fee of $0.1 million, to help finance a muncipal
development project. The loan would be repaid over 20 years, including five
years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The equivalent of
$28.2 million of the loan proceeds would be relent by the Government through
the Municipal Development Fund (MDF) to the project cities, at 14% for
20 years, including five years of grace. These terms would be reviewed
annually and any adjustments would be applicable only to the new cities
applying for subloans from the MDF. The loan balance (excluding the capita-
lized front-end fee of $0.1 million) would be provided to various Government
agencies as budgetary allocations. The Government will absorb all the
standard financial charges and fees on the entire Bank loan as well as the
interest rate variations and the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1
2.        An economic report, entitled "The Philippines:  Selected Issues for
the 1983-1987 Plan Period" (No. 3861-PH) was distributed to the Executive
Directors under Sec. M82-542, dated June 16, 1982. A special report, "Aspects
of Poverty in the Philippines: A Review and Assessment" (No. 2984-PH), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on December 1, 1980 under Sec. M80-919.
Country data are given in Annex 1.
Performance in the 1970s
3.        During the 1970s, the Philippines followed a much more dynamic,
growth-oriented development strategy than in earlier decades. The growth rate
of GDP rose from 5.1% in the 1960s to 6.2% in the 1970s, a rate well above
that of lower middle-income oil importers (5.4%) but lower than that of com-
parable Asian countries. Expansion of the agricultural sector was rapid at
about 4.5% p.a. during the decade.  Manufacturing industry, growing at the
same rate as GNP, did not play a leading role in the Philippines' economic
development. Although manufactured exports grew dramatically, the greater
part of the sector remained oriented to the domestic market and was affected
by severe inefficiencies.
1/   This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Fifth Highway Project which was distributed to
the Executive Directors on April 30, 1984.



-2-
4.        Although economic performance was relatively good in the 1970s,
structural weaknesses in the economy held it back below its full potential.
GDP growth was achieved at a high investment cost - the incremental
capital/output ratio (ICOR) was about 35% higher than those of comparable
Asian countries. Although inherently capital-intensive infrastructure invest-
ments explain part of the higlh ICOR, inefficiency of industrial investment was
the more important cause. Inappropriate trade, industrial, financial, and
exchange rate policies designed to foster import substitution, provided high
protection for domestic manufacturers, and led to investments in activities in
which the Philippines did not have a clear comparative advantage. External
borrowing and imports expanded rapidly while traditi.onal exports and domestic
resource mobilization lagged. This resulted in a chronic shortage of foreign
exchange and increasing external debt.
5.        Despite satisfactory aggregate growth during the 1970s, the inci-
dence of poverty remained around 40%, income distribution continued to be
skewed, and regional disparities remained pronounced. The incidence of
poverty reached 60-70% in the least developed regions. Large numbers of
people, especially in the rural areas, still suffer from malnutrition and
lack safe water, basic education, and health facilities.  An increasingly
unfavorable man/land ratio, the resulting expansion of cultivation into
marginal lands, limited employment opportunities in the industrial sector, and
the sharp deterioration in the external terms of trade put downward pressure
on real incomes. Although the Government instituted several programs to
improve directly living conditions of the poor, most of these were implemented
on any significant scale only during the last few years and will require
several years to achieve a marked impact.
6-        Growth of productive employment, particularly in the industrial
sector, has lagged behind the rapid expansion of the labor force, and consid-
erable underemployment exists. During the 1970s the agriculture and service
sectors had to absorb an excessively high proportion of new entrants to the
labor force. Manufacturing employment stagnated in the first half of the
decade, and picked up only slightly thereafter as labor-intensive export pro-
duction grew. Overseas employment, especially in the Middle East, increased
rapidly, providing a temporary income opportunity.
7.        Population growth in the Philippines was reduced from 3% in the
1960s to 2.5% in the early 1980s. There are indications, however, that it may
have levelled off prematurely at that level. Thus, rapid population growth
continues to strain available land resources, aggravate already serious
employment and poverty problems, and burden the public budget with a high
growth in demand for basic public services. The Philippines has a family
planning program which expanded rapidly during the 1970s, however, participa-
tion in the program is still low by East Asian standards.
Structural Problems and Adjustment
8.        The structural weaknesses of the Philippine economy have become more
apparent in recent years as unfavorable world economic conditions have exacer-
bated the balance of payments, debt, and resource mobilization problems. In
the late 1970s, the country's terms of trade deteriorated sharply due to oil



- 3 -
price increases, accelerated international inflation, and depressed prices for
major export commodities.  The continued heavy reliance on export earnings
from a few primary products (coconuts, sugar, copper, and timber) kept the
Philippines extremely vulnerable to international commodity price fluctua-
tions, while continued high dependence on imported oil further aggravated the
balance of p-,ments problem.
9.        Excessive protection and an artificially low cost of capital led to
low efficiency of investment and stagnant employment in industries producing
for the domestic market. The industrial sector remained a net burden on the
balance of payments; although manufactured exports grew rapidly, their net
foreign exchange earnings were limited due to a high import content. Export
promotion measures induced rapid growth in nontraditional manufactured
exports, e.g., garments, electronics and handicrafts, from $50 million in 1970
to $2.4 billion in 1982. However, export expansion was concentrated on a few
items, and backward linkages were limited by high cost and low quality of
domestic inputs. As part of an adjustment program supported by SAL lending,
the Government has initiated major policy reforms designed to move towards an
industrial structure utilizing more effectively the country's comparative
advantage with respect to labor cost and raw material availability and which
is internationally competitive. The program includes a major tariff reform, a
liberalization of import controls, a realignment of industrial incentives and
improved export incentives. The implementation of the program has been good,
despite the international recession, which has hampered the adjustment process
in the manufacturing sector and slowed down the growth rate from around 4% in
1980-81 to an estimated 1% in 1982-83.
10.       Financial Sector.  Although well developed, the Philippine financial
sector has not performed adequately in raising private sector savings and pro-
viding investment financing.  Among the main reasons have been the level and
structure of interest rates which were not geared to mobilize sufficient sav-
ings and encourage longer maturities; their low level contributed to rela
tively inefficient and capital-intensive investment. Further, the Central
Bank's rediscounting scheme frequently resulted in encouraging over investment
in some sectors while others were relatively neglected. In 1981, the Govern-
ment introduced far-reaching financial policy changes. The banking system was
given greater flexibility, interest rates were deregulated, and the Central
Bank was given a stronger position in its role as "lender-of--last-resort", all
of which produced positive real interest rates (for the first time since 1978)
and a significant increase in domestic savings. Government-owned lending
institutions have made less progress as a result of insufficient autonomy in
the selection of their portfolios plus a depressed domestic economy, loan
collection rates continue to be very low and substantial government budgetary
support is required.  Rehabilitation of several government-owned institutions
is necessary to reduce strains on the budget and to continue important
development banking operations.
11.       Agriculture and Rural Development.  While the performance of the
agricultural sector was satisfactory during the 1970s, some policy problems
still remain unresolved. The Philippines, once a major importer of rice,
eliminated rice deficits in the late 1970s and expanded fish and meat produc-
tion. There is, however, a need for further diversification and promotion of



-4-
commercial crops to improve the balance of payments position either through
expansion of agricultural exports or through efficient import substitution.
Trade policies in the Philippines have discriminated against agriculture.
Pricing and exchange rate policies have also had a negative impact on incomes
in the agricultural sector. The institutional framework for agricultural
policy formulation and implementation suffers from serious fragmentation.
Overall, there is a need to deal directly with the problem of the rural poor,
particularly farmers engaged in rainfed agriculture, coconut growers,
municipal fishermen, and landless sugar workers. Increasingly, investment
programs will have to be directed towards rainfed agriculture and include
innovative approaches to reaching smallholder farmers.
12.       Energy.  Since the 1973-74 oil price increase, the Philippines has
made a considerable effort to reduce its dependence on imported oil. Through
a combination of pricing, taxation, and conservation measures, the government
exerted downward pressure on commercial energy consumption. Steps to increase
and diversify domestic energy supply i.e., the development of hydroelectric,
geothermal, nuclear and coal based power sources, have contributed to reducing
import dependence. Limited domestic petroleum production also began in
1979. However, due to the long gestation period of energy projects, domestic
energy production still constituted only 32% of total commercial energy supply
in 1982. In response to the second oil crisis, the Government included in its
adjustment program policy measures for the energy sector which aim at further
reducing the country's dependence on oil imports through improving the effi-
ciency of energy use and increasing the share of domestic sources to nearly
50% of commercial energy supply by 1987. Pricing policy will continue to
support conservation and revenue objectives.
13.       Public Sector Resource Management.  The management of public sector
resources has been a chronic problem in the Philippines, which has been fur-
ther aggravated by the current recession. The fiscal stress generated by the
growing imbalance between public investment and public sector resource
mobilization has manifested itself in a number of ways. Government current
expenditures (exclusive of interest payments) have been reduced to only 9% of
GNP, as compared to an average of 14% of GNP in middle-income developing
countries. Implementation of projects has been stretched over longer periods
of time than is economically efficient. The overall public sector deficit has
become excessively high and has threatened the stability of the economy,
particularly in 1981-1982. A rapidly rising level of public investment and an
unsatisfactory financial performance of public corporations contributed
towards increasing the fiscal deficit despite a reduction of recurrent expen-
ditures. In 1982 the public sector deficit, which traditionally had been
relatively small, increased to 5.7% of GNP.
14.       As a short-term response, the Government is now implementing a fis-
cal austerity program designed to reduce the national budgetary deficit to
manageable levels. The Government has reduced equity contributions and
investment programs and enacted revenue measures which will improve the cur-
rent imbalance. However, to improve the medium-term outlook for public
finances, structural problems of the system need to be addressed.



- 5-
The Current Economic Situation
15.       The economic situation of the Philippines has deteriorated serious-
ly in the last three years. The global recession, with low commodity prices,
high interest rates on external borrowing, and an increasingly unfavorable
trading climate has stifled economic growth, slowed down export arowth,
depressed domestic demand and private investment activity and aggravated the
fiscal and balance of payments problems. Real GDP growth fell to 3.8% in 1981
to an estimated 2.9% in 1982 and is estimated to have been only about 1% in
1983.
16.       During 1979-82, the terms of trade deteriorated, through a combina-
tion of higher import prices, particularly for petroleum, and declining or
stable prices for many primary exports, such as sugar, copper and copra
products. Since 1981, the volume of exports has leveled off, reflecting the
stagnation in the world's economy and a serious drought which reduced agricul-
tural exports. Despite the severe external situation, the Government launched
a major increase in its investment program in 1979, designed to make up for
deficiencies in domestic infrastructure, expand industry, and reduce the
dependence on imported petroleum. As a result the public sector investment
program rose from less than 6% of GNP in 1979 to 9% by 1982. At the same
time, public sector resource mobilization declined, producing a large and
growing government budgetary deficit. This deficit was covered in large part
by foreign borrowings; in 1982, foreign borrowing financed 70% of the Govern-
ment's deficit and over 50% of the deficit of the public corporations.
17.       The impact of all these factors has been a growing balance of
payments deficit and an increasingly difficult debt service burden. The
current account deficit rose from $2.1 billion in 1980, to $3.4 billion in
1982 (8% of GDP) and $2.7 billion in 1983. The total debt service ratio,
including interest on short-term debt, increased from 21% in 1980 to 38% in
1982. During 1983, with growing economic problems, a mounting debt burden and
major debt problems in other developing countries, foreign banks began reduc-
ing their exposure in the Philippines. The Government increasingly was forced
to resort to increased short-term borrowings to finance the balance of pay-
ments gap, which further exacerbated the debt service problem. While the
terms of trade improved in 1983 a severe drought reduced agricultural exports,
and overall export earnings fell. By the middle of 1983 it became clear that
the Government would not be able to meet the target under the IMF Standby of
reducing the overall deficit in the balance of payments from $1.2 billion to
$600 million. In fact, for the first three quarters of the year, the overall
deficit had already reached $1.3 billion. The situation was further exacer-
bated by political disruptions, a flight of capital out of the country, and a
cessation of short-term lines of credit from the commercial banks. In October
1983, the Government announced a 90-day moratorium on debt repayments, a
further 21% devaluation of the peso, and new controls over the allocation of
foreign exchange for imports. Substantial reductions were made in the invest-
ment program, and some new tax measures were announced. As a result of these
austerity measures, the national government deficit was reduced to 1.7% of GNP
in 1983, compared with 4.2% in the previous year. However, because of the
poor performance of the public corporations, the overall public sector deficit
remained large at 4.5% of GNP (compared to 5.7% in 1982).



- A -
18.       Discussions with the IMF on a new standby agreement began i.n June
1983, as were discussions with the commercial banks on a debt rescheduling.
The agreement with the IMF has been delayed by problems involving the accuracy
of some of the basic data, and a sudden increase in the money supply during
the last quarter of the year, which threatened to undercut the agreed tar-
gets. The rapid growth of the money supply reflected Government attempts to
provide assistance to several commercial banks which were facing financial
difficulties because of depressed economic conditions.  As a result, money
supply increased 32% between September and December of 1983, and the consumer
price index increased by 15%.  Negotiations with the IMF are continuing, and
it is expected that once a new program is finalized it will be followed by
debt reschedulings with the official and private creditors. In the meantime,
private creditors have agreed to addi.tional extensions of the debt moratorium.
Medium-Term Prospects
19.       The medium-term outlook for the Philippines remains difficult.  Even
with a successful completion of the IMF Standby Agreement and debt resche-
duling, there will be a need to make further cuts in government spending and
to reduce imports.  Except for those new i.nflows likely to come as part of the
debt rescheduling exercise, the country is faced with little or no access to
fresh private capital flows. As a consequence, the current account balance
will need to be reduced from $2.7 billion in 1983 to $1.5 billion in 1984.
Even if export volume growth of 6% can be attained, it will be necessary to
reduce the real level of imports by 18%. To meet the fiscal targets agreed
with the IMF, the Government will have to either increase taxes or reduce
government spending, or some combination of both. The overall result of
constrained imports and government spending will be deflationary, resulting
probably in negative growth in output during 1984, and increased unemploy-
ment. The unemployment problem is already severe, as several plants requiring
substantial amounts of imported materials, such as automobile assembly, have
had to close. Increased unemployment will make the problem of a sustained
recovery more difficult.
20.       A period of low growth is likely to be sustained for several years
after 1984 as well, particularly as the impact of current reductions in the
investment program begin to be felt. The length of thi.s period of slow
growth, stabilization be felt, and adjustment can be shortened somewhat if the
Government can take the necessary measures to accelerate exports, increase
public and private savings, and use investment resources as efficiently as
possible. The present crisis has increased the Government's awareness of the
severity of the problems and increased it's willingness to adopt the policies
necessary to correct the situati.on. In the longer term, the combination of
increased external assistance and Government actions should permit a
resumption of growth close to the historical average of 6-7%.  The country
remains creditworthy, therefore, for new Bank borrowing on conventional
terms.  Local cost financing for some projects continues to be justified
particularly in the aftermath of the current recession when the country faces
an exceptionally tight resource position.



- 7 -
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 2/
21.       As of March 31, 1984 the Philippines had received 93 Bank loans (of
which two wer- on Third Window terms) amounting to $3,906.0 million and six
IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. IFC investments totalled $159.8 mil-
lion. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed and outstanding,
excluding short-term debt, is currently about 14%, and its share in total debt
service is about 13%. These ratios are expected to be about 19% and 16%,
respectively, by 1988.3/ Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank
loans, and IFC investments as of March 31, 1984.
22.       Bank Group lending to the Philippines expanded from an average of
about $90 million per year in FY71-75 to an average of $459 million in
FY79-83. Although the Bank has financed projects in virtually all sectors of
the economy, particular emphasis has been given to agriculture, which has
accounted for almost one-third of total Bank/IDA lending. Lending for
industry, transportation, power, and social sectors followed in declining
order of size.
23.       In agriculture, lending initially focussed on expanding the irriga-
tion system, credit programs, and other services to support rice production.
More recently, efforts have been made to diversify agricultural production
through loans for tree-crops, livestock, fisheries, and integrated rural
development projects. Agriculture and rural development will continue to
account for the largest share of lending, with emphasis on food production,
poverty alleviation, policy reform and institutional building.
24.       In the industrial and financial sectors, lending has supported
policy reforms under the Government's structural adjustment program.
Structural adjustment lending in 1980 and 1983 ($502.3 million, total) has
supported a series of reforms of the tariff structure, the system of indus-
trial incentives, energy pricing, and other important measures. An Industrial
Finance Loan sought to bring about improvements in financial sector policies
and introduced a new institutional concept to broaden the reach of Bank
lending by channelling loans through an "apex" unit in the Central Bank. In
addition, the Bank has continued to provide financial support and technical
assistance to small and medium industries.
25.       In the energy sector, sector work and the structural adjustment pro-
gram initiated under SAL II provide the basis for future lending operations.
While previous Bank lending focussed on the power subsector, the Bank now
2/   This Section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Fifth Highway Project which was distributed to
the Executive Directors on April 30, 1984.
3/   These projections are subject to revision following a debt rescheduling
which is anticipated to take place later this year.



- 8 -
seeks to support a broader range of activities; in addition to recent energy
exploration loans, the Bank plans to continue assisting the accelerated
development of geothermal and coal, power generation and transmission, energy
conservation, and rural electrification.
26.       By and large implementation of Bank-financed projects in the
Philippines has been satisfactory. Disbursements, however, have been slower
than anticipated, particularly in the last three years. The disbursement
ratio (amount disbursed during the fiscal year as compared to the total undis-
bursed at the beginning of the fiscal year) declined from 18.7% in FY79 to
14.2% in FY83 41 The East Asia Regional average was 20.0% and the Bank-wide
average was 20.8% in FY83;5/ the comparable ratios for Tha;and and Morocco
were 16.9% and 13.7% respectively in the same fiscal year.-   Implementation
problems increased in the last few years, reflecting in part problems caused
by inflation, tight budget constraints, and changes in the scope of the Bank's
lending operations (a substantial increase in the number of projects, new
areas of lending, emphasis on institution-building, and efforts to reach spe-
cific target groups and deprived regions). In recognition of growing imple-
mentation problems, the Government and the Bank have instituted a process of
joint Country Implementation Reviews. Five reviews have been held since May
1980 and will be continued on a regular basis. A Special Action Program (SAP)
for the Philippines was designed to assist the Government in implementing high
priority projects which have been affected by the current shortage of counter-
part funds. Under the Bank's SAP, selected projects have benefitted from
increased cost sharing and disbursement ratios, the establishment of special
accounts and in some cases, supplementary financing. These actions have
facilitated project implementation and resulted in substantial improvements in
disbursement performance.
27.       This will be the fifth loan, including two supplemental loans, to
the Philippines to be presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year.
An export development project and an agriculture sector inputs loan have been
appraised and are scheduled for Board presentation in the coming months.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Urbanization Trends
28.       The Philippines is one of the rapidly urbanizing countries in East
Asia. From 1960 to 1980 the urban population more than doubled to reach
4/   Excludes disbursements under the first and Second Structural Adjustment
Loan. If included, the ratio increases to 21.6%.
5/   Regional and Bank-wide figures also exclude disbursements under SALs.
6/   Thailand and Morocco are useful as comparators as they have similar per
capita income levels and Bank Group lending programs. Figures also
exclude SALs.



- 9 -
15.3 million or about 31% of the total population. If the current demographic
trends continue, almost half of population growth within the next 20 years
will take place in the nation's cities. By the year 2,000, Metro Manila is
projected to grow to over 13 million people and by its sheer size will conti-
nue to dominate the urban sector. However, medium sized regional cities are
growing rapidly, some witlh growth rate of over 10%, and will comnrise an
increasing portion of the urban population. These cities, most with popula-
tion between 10,000 and 100,000, function as market, service and transporta-
tion centers to their hinterlands and are often provincial capitals with
government and education facilities. Around 32% of the urban population have
incomes below the absolute poverty threshold, estimated at P 3,431 ($245) per
capita in 1983. While the poor comprise a significant portion of the popula-
tion in all urban areas, including Metro-Manila, urban poverty is especially
pronounced in the Visayas, northeastern Luzon and eastern Mindanao.
29.       The Government has invested in major inter-urban infrastructure,
such as roads, sea and airports, which have spurred economic development in
the regional centers, but investments in infrastructure and services within
the cities have lagged mainly due to lack of funds. In many towns and cities
only half the population has access to safe water supplies, and only a quarter
to sanitary toilets. Lack of adequate drainage systems is so extensive that
severe flooding occurs regularly in most cities causing economic disruption,
accelerating the deterioration of infrastructure and compounding the problems
of poor sanitation. Systems for solid wastes management are either nonexis-
tent or seriously deficient in coverage. Even public service facilities which
do exist are inefficiently managed and poorly maintained, particularly public
markets and slaughterhouses. These regional cities appear to be good candi-
dates as the generators of economic growth if their basic services could be
improved to levels adequate to attract and retain industry, trade and a more
skilled population.
Sector Organization
30.       The government structure in the Philippines is centralized with
national government selectively delegating power to lower levels - provinces,
cities, municipalities and barangays (neighborhoods). At the local government
level, provinces historically have not been strong political or administrative
entities and most local administrations have come from the 1,484 municipal-
ities into which the provinces are fully subdivided. All areas in the
Philippines are incorporated and municipalities contain both urban and rural
areas.  There are, in addition, 60 chartered cities which are more highly
urbanized than municipalities, though also containing rural areas. The local
governments (both cities and municipalities) are headed by Mayors who are
elected officials (except in Metro-Manila) and who are responsible to locally
elected councils (Sangguniang Panglunsod). All local governments have
authority to set (within a prescribed ceiling) and collect charges and taxes,
prepare budgets, hire staff and invest in and manage local services and
enterprises. While all local government officials report to the Mayor, the
Treasurer and the Assessor are appointed and directed by the Ministry of
Finance (MOF). Local governments employ city engineers to implement their
locally financed programs, although in many larger cities and municipalities
the Ministry of Public Works and Highways (MPWH) also has its engineers



- 10 -
located at the local level to implement infrastructure financed from the MPWH
budget. In addition to the construction, operation and maintenance of local
roads, bridges, drainage and solid wastes systems, local governments are
responsible for the provision of education and health facilities for which
they receive some central government finance. Economic enterprises run by
local governments include public markets and slaughterhouses with fees and
rents being charged to lessees. Water supply is administered by autonomous
local Water Districts which charge user fees to cover operation and mainten-
ance costs and debt service. Local governments hire and pay for their own
staff except for teachers' salaries which are paid by the central government's
allocation for education.
31.       In the central government, the Ministry of Local Government (MLG) is
concerned with the jurisdictions and changes in status of local governments
and their political relations with the national government. The MOF, through
its Bureau of Local Government Finance, oversees the distribution of central
government support grants, and the financial management and revenue operations
of local governments. The Office of Budget and Management (OBM) reviews local
budgets to ensure they are in accordance with statutory requirements, while
the Commission on Audit (COA) is responsible for auditing the financial
records of local governments. The Ministry of Human Settlements (MHS) is
responsible for reviewing the land use plans prepared by local governments.
Loan funds are available from the Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA)
to finance projects requested by the autonomous Water Districts set up at the
local level. The MPWH prepares and executes the larger urban road, drainage
and flood control projects which are designated as 'national' infrastruc-
ture. Finally, local governments also prepare capital investment plans for
review by the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA), and these
plans are now beginning to be incorporated into the Regional Development
Investment Programs.
Local Government Finance
32.       Although local governments are expected to provide a variety of
urban services, their finances are generally weak and inadequate. During
1978-82, local government expenditures increased at 15% p.a. while inflation
averaged 14% and population growth 3.6% implying a decrease in expenditures
per capita in real terms. Recurrent costs account for around 90% of these
expenditures, so that capital investments, especially major works, were defer-
red as funds were used to meet day to day needs. Furthermore, local govern-
ment's reliance on central government grants increased from 32% of expendi-
tures in 1978 to 40% in 1982. However, it is unlikely that local governments
would in the future receive the same degree of central government support,
given severe domestic resource constraints. The Government recognizes that
local governments would in future have to generate considerably more resources
if they are to provide adequate services to their growing populations.
33.       There is considerable potential to increase revenues from local tax
and non-tax sources. Property and business taxes together with fees and
charges on markets and slaughterhouses constitute the principal local revenue
base, and have potential forsubstantial increases. Gross sales for business
tax purposes are under-reported and collection is weak while fees and rents on



- 11 -
municipal markets and slaughterhouses are well below the economic rent.
Property tax records in most of the cities have not been systematically
updated so that many properties are not properly drawn, classified and
assessed nor their current owner identified. Maintenance of records, filing
and other administrative tasks for the most part are done manually. MOF has
embarked upon a national program to increase city revenues by updating tax
records through tax mapping and modernization of records management and
administrative procedures. Where fiscal cadasters have been completed and
computerized accounts established, as in several cities in Metro Manila,
revenues have increased by around 50%. The Bank is supporting MOF's efforts
through technical assistance for improving records management under the
Regional Cities Development Project (Loan 2257-PH) and financing for tax
mapping under the proposed project.
Bank Sector Lending Strategy, Rationale for Bank Involvement and Past
Experience
34.       Since 1976 the Bank has assisted Government to develop policies and
programs in the sector emphasizing low-cost solutions, with a focus on the
urban poor. To date, nine projects have been approved for a total of $451
million. In Metro Manila the chief focus has been to upgrade unserved areas,
and expand the supply of serviced land. More recently, the emphasis has
broadened to include provision of economic infrastructure and services in
regional cities. Within the sector, Bank investments have been concentrated
in the following areas: (i) providing shelter to low income households both
through upgrading slum areas and building new sites and services;
(ii) improving the supply and distribution of city-wide water systems to
affordable standards with full cost recovery to enable the water enterprises
to become financially viable, and providing low-cost human waste and waste-
water disposal systems to unserved areas; and (iii) improving municipal
infrastructure to strengthen the economic potential and performance of key
regional cities.
35.       In addition to financing these basic service programs, the Bank has
emphasized the need for institutional and management improvements in four key
areas: (i) strengthening metropolitan management in Metro-Manila through the
development of intersectoral planning and capital budgeting and efficient
financial management; (ii) establishing intermediaries for urban development;
(iii) building the capabilities of local governments to implement and manage
basic service programs, strengthen local enterprises, and improve collection
and management of local revenues; and (iv) emphasizing coordination among
central agencies especially on the area of shelter policy, budgeting, finance
and regional development policy.
36.       Experience to date of the projects under implementation has shown
that, while start-up has been slow, they have generally achieved both physical
and institutional objectives, and are providing a sound basis upon which to
expand the Government's urban program. Favorable features of the shelter
portion of the first three projects to date include: (a) positive beneficiary
response to the programs and (b) the willingness of families to invest large
sums in upgrading their dwellings (especially after tenure is assured). The
provision of secondary and tertiary infrastructure to provide basic urban



- 12 -
services to the urban poor in Metro Manila under the third urban project is
off to a good start. While there is a clear demand for these programs, actual
implementation and disbursements have been slow. The principal difficulties
with the urban projects to date have been: (a) slow start-up, mainly due to
land acquisition problems; (b) less than satisfactory contractor performance
and construction supervision by implementing agencies on some components in
the first two projects, resulting in cost overruns and delayed completion; and
(c) lagging collections from shelter beneficiaries due to uncompleted works
and absence of appropriate mechanisms and enforcement.
37.       Future Bank lending in the sector will continue to build on the
basic approach developed under the first four urban projects to provide basic
urban services and shelter at affordable costs. However, greater emphasis
will be placed on improving urban management, institution building, increased
resource mobilization, and on supporting cost recovery measures. The develop-
ment of national level intermediaries to channel funds and technical
assistance to local governments for planning, management and finance would
need to be pursued. It is also recognized that design and implementation of
local service projects by central agencies had often proved slow and led to
lack of interest at the local level. In accordance with the government
strategy for decentralization, an increased proportion of lending would be
devoted to assisting cities and regions outside of Metro Manila. The proposed
project addresses the difficulties experienced under ongoing urban projects
through measures aimed at strengthening the management and staffing of the
project cities and supporting the establishment of a central intermediary for
municipal development.
IV. THE PROJECT
Genesis and Objectives
38.       From 1980, the Government and the Bank have been discussing the need
to expand urban services among various cities outside of Metro Manila. It was
recognized that design and implementation of local service projects by central
agencies had often proved slow and led to inertia at the local level, and that
there was a need to make local governments more responsible for planning,
financing and implementing their local services. Experience in earlier urban
projects had defined the range of services which were broadly needed and it
was felt that by using simple low-cost design standards, most local govern-
ments were capable of implementing their own infrastructure projects. A
Central Project Office (CPO) under MPWR was organized in 1981 to mobilize and
assist local governments as they prepared their development proposals, and
subsequently to evaluate their programs and prepare an initial package for
Bank assistance. The CPO arranged several workshops for a broad range of
central and local officials. At these workshops local needs and priorities
were discussed and the project concepts evolved. Local officials were all
eager for an opportunity to expand their operations and were willing to take
active steps to raise local revenues if financing could be made available. It
was clear that a competitive environment for funds and technical advice was
needed to avoid complacency arising from a mechanistic selection process
independent of local commitment and that clear criteria were needed for local



- 13 -
officials to formulate their development programs.  This process resulted in a
programmatic approach to the municipal development embodied in the proposed
project.
39.       The CPO identified a pool of 160 cities with populations over 10,000
for participation in the project. Of these, some 15 cities werr selected to
receive initial assistance based on an agreed criteria of their regional
economic functions, existing environmental and infrastructure deficiencies,
poverty, and most importantly, willingness to undertake necessary measures to
strengthen financial and implementation capacity. Feasibility studies for
these cities were carried out with consultant assistance during the period
June 1982 to July 1983. The CPO and the Bank jointly appraised in August 1983
a first tranche of six cities, representing over 50% of the physical works.
Other cities would be included in the project after appraisal by the CPO. The
Bank will review the CPO appraisal reports and the related draft legal
documents prior to their approval for inclusion in the project (Section 2.03
of the draft Loan Agreement). A Staff Appraisal Report, No. 5027-PH is being
distributed separately. Supplementary data is provided in Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington from April 17 to 18.  The Government
delegation was led by H. E. Benjamin Romualdez, Philippine Ambassador to the
United States.
40.       The main objective of the Government's municipal development
program, of which this project is a part, is to assist the local governments
in providing infrastructure and improved municipal services to a growing urban
population by: (a) assisting local governments in expanding and upgrading
urban infrastructure; (b) establishing mechanisms for local government access
to long-term financial resources; (c) strengthening local government capabili-
ties in financial and project management; and (d) improving local government
fiscal performance.
Program Structure and Organization
41.       The main elements of the project are the CPO and the Municipal
Development Fund (MDF), a loan account administered by y7e MOF.7/  The CPO
assists local government to prepare project components,- appraises the local
7/   Alternative institutional arrangements considered were: (a) establishment
t               of a new financial institution; and (b) utilizing an existing development
bank as a conduit. However, these alternative were not deemed appropri-
ate. The government was rightly reluctant at this time to establish a
new seperate institution. Moreover a development bank could not provide
the close coordination required among central government ministries which
are involved in implementation in the cities and to which the cities have
legal responsibilities for reporting.
8/   Individual investments in a city, such as markets, roads, etc., will be
referred to as "project component." "Subproject" will be used to
describe a group of components in an individual city to be financed
through the proposed Bank supported project.



- 14 -
governments' investment proposals and monitors implementation under the
guidance of a Steering Committee composed of ministerial-level representatives
from MLG (chairman), MOF, MPWH, OBM and NEDA. Subprojects approved by the
Steering Committee would be eligible for financing from the MDF, and from
grant funds through the MPWH. Once a subproject has been approved by the
Steering Committee, a Subproject Agreement would be signed between the city
and the Steering Committee outlining the obligations of the city, MPWH, CPO
and other implementing agencies, and a Subloan Agreement signed between the
city and the MOF outlining both parties' obligations with respect to the MDF
loan. Draft model Subloan and Subproject Agreements were reviewed during
negotiations. The signing of final agreements satisfactory to the Bank, for
at least four cities, is a condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01 (c) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
42.       Implementation will be divided into two parts:  national components
and local components. Those areas, such as trunk roads and major drainage,
which have traditionally been the responsibility of the central government
would be implemented by the MPWH with central government budget funds, while
the remaining areas which have been the responsibility of the local govern-
ments would be implemented by the cities with their own funds and the MDF
loans. At the city level, project components are proposed to the CPO by the
Mayor and Sangguniang Panglunsod who would also establish a local Advisory
Committe of key council members prior to project implementation. The Mayor
designates a Local Project Officer, who is responsible for developing feasible
investment proposals for consideration by the Mayor and Advisory Committee,
and controlling the general management of the subproject. The City Engineer
is responsible for physical implementation. The city's capacity to implement
and subsequently maintain its investments is one of the criteria used in
determining the size of subloans from the MDF.
43.       The city eligibility and appraisal criteria were reviewed and agreed
during appraisal and are as follows:
(a) city eligibility: population above 10,000; serving a regional
economic function; significant environmental and infrastructure
deficiencies; high incidence of poverty; and most importantly
willingness to take necessary measures to increase revenues and
rationalize expenditures; and
(b) appraisal criteria: (i) program content - consistency with
program's emphasis on basic needs of the urban poor, improving
economic efficiency and low cost alternatives; technical and
administrative feasibility; and economic rates of return; and (ii)
program scale - city contribution to local component costs and share
in total city program; and city ability to service debt.
These criteria were confirmed during negotiations (Section 2.03 of the draft
Loan Agreement). The financial and economic criteria are further discussed in
paras. 55 and 56 below.



- 15 -
44.       The CPO and Steering Committee are already in place and have been res-
ponsible for project preparation to date. However, as the cities currently under
preparation move into implementation and new cities enter the program, the CPO
will require an estimated 26 professional staff in addition to the 19 in place at
appraisal. Currently the CPO is divided into technical, city liason and training
staff who rep-rt directly to the Director. However, its workload will expand in
the future to include supervision of implementation and monitoring of approved
subloans, assistance to new cities entering the program, implementation of the
training programs, programming and budgetting, and liaison with the MDF. This
expansion of activities will require CPO to evolve into: (i) four area
*          divisions, each dealing with a portfolio of cities; (ii) a program staff to
monitor progress, prepare budgets, and order MDF fund releases; (iii) a financial
evaluation section to evaluate cities' financial performance and advise MDF on
sanctions in the case of nonperformance; (iv) a training division; and (v) an
internal administration division. It was agreed that CPO would be adequately
staffed and funded (Section 3.06 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement) and
confirmation was obtained at negotiations on a schedule for the revised
organizational structure and staffing. The MDF was established in the
Treasury Bureau, MOF, by Presidential Decree in March 1984. The MDF's role
would be limited to administering subloans. The MDF was considered best
located in the MOF which is responsible for policy and review of local
government finances and appointment of local financial officers. The
financial evaluation and monitoring will be carried out by financial staff
(seconded from MOF) within CPO as part of overall subproject appraisal and
supervision. Draft implementing guidelines for the MDF were reviewed during
negotiations and signing of a Memorandum of Agreement among MLG, MOF, OBM,
MPWH and NEDA on operating procedures of the MDF is a condition of
effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of draft Loan Agreement).
Project Components
45.       The proposed project would be implemented over six years from July
1984 to June 1990 and would consist of basic infrastructure improvements in
approximately 15 cities. Infrastructure to be financed would include:
(i) provision of secondary and tertiary drainage systems and rehabilitation of
primary drainage systems together with shoreline protection and other flood
control measures; (ii) provision of communal sanitation facilities;
(iii) solid wastes management; (iv) area improvements for squatter and slum
communities; (v) construction and rehabilitation of markets and
slaughterhouses; (vi) construction and rehabilitation of road systems and
traffic engineering measures to improve traffic flows particularly in the
central business districts; and (vii) construction of bus terminals to further
relieve congestion and improve inter-city passenger transport. While water
supply forms an important part of each city's development program, it would be
largely financed through LWUA which is responsible for the development of
water facilities in cities and municipalities outside Metro Manila. LWUA is
the beneficiary of two Bank loans. The composition of subprojects and level
of investment would vary from city to city. Given the importance of
maintenance, the project would upgrade maintenance depots by providing
vehicles and equipment for solid wastes management, septic tank emptying and
road and drain maintenance.



- 16 -
46.       The proposed project would also assist the central government in up-
grading the technical and administrative capability of local governments and
strengthening their revenue base through a tax mapping program, training and
technical assistance. The proposed project would expand MOF's ongoing
national program to enhance local government revenues through provision of
equipment and financing for updating cadasters, property appraisal, improved
records management and better collection. Training programs designed to equip
local officials and technical staff with skills and techniques in the
operational aspects of their respective jobs would be carried out by the
CPO. These programs would focus on: (i) municipal finance and revenue
administration; (ii) municipal enterprise management; (iii) planning and
budgeting, project development and contract management; and (iv) municipal
engineering maintenance. The project would also include consultant advisory
services totalling 516 man-months (200 foreign and 316 local) to assist: (i)
the CPO and MOF in overall program management, project monitoring, implementa-
tion and appraisal of subsequent phases; (ii) the MOF and OBM to review the
local government grants system, and local financial management and budgeting
procedures; and (iii) the MLG to study training needs.
Project Costs and Financing
47.       The total project cost, including contingencies and taxes and duties
is estimated at US$68.7 million. The foreign exchange component is about 47%
of project cost or about $32.2 million. Taxes and duties are estimated at
$2.0 million. Cost estimates for the six cities appraised by the Bank are
based on preliminary engineering designs and on final engineering designs for
the components which are to be implemented in 1984 and 1985. Final engineer-
ing designs for the components scheduled for implementation later in each
city, will be completed in 1985. The project requires only modest amounts of
land acquisition which is already underway in the initial six cities. For the
remaining cities which are expected to comprise subsequent tranches, the costs
were estimated based on target investment levels and preliminary engineering
completed to date. The costs for tax mapping at P 62 per parcel and 180,000
parcels per year are based on the costs incurred to date under the on-going
MOF program. Physical contingencies of 10% have been allowed on civil works
in the six appraised cities. Price contingencies are included at 20% for
1984, 12% for 1985, 10% for 1986 and 7% thereafter on local costs, and at 3.5%
in 1984, 8% in 1985, 9% for 1986-88, 7.5% for 1989, and 6% for 1990 on foreign
costs. Base costs are expressed in April 1984 prices.
48.       The proposed Bank loan of $40.0 million would finance the total
foreign exchange requirements ($32.3 million) including the front-end fee
($0.1 million) and about 21% of local costs ($7.7 million). The Bank loan
would be made to the Government of the Philippines (GOP) for a period of
20 years including five years grace at the standard variable interest rates.
Part ($11.8 million) of the loan proceeds would be retained by central govern-
ment for financing tax mapping, training, technical assistance and the capita-
lized front-end fee. The remaining balance ($28.2 million) would be passed on
to the MDF as initial capital to provide subloans for subprojects to be imple-
mented by local governments up to a maximum of 90% of local subproject costs,
at 14% interest over 20 years, including five years grace. The lending rate
was derived on the basis of the cities' financial ability and the Bank's



- 17 -
interest rate with a margin to reflect the front-end fee, commitment charge
and foreign exchange risk, and is in keeping with the emerging government
policy for the cities to bear increasing financial responsibility for their
programs. In contrast, in the past investments of the type included in the
project were to a large extent financed from central government grants. The
proposed interest rate is projected to be positive in real terms :ind would be
reviewed annually in light of the changing economic and financial environment
and adjusted for future subloans.  A major feature of the proposed project is
that the payments of interest and repayments of principal by the cities to the
MDF would be relent to other cities allowing the MDF funds to revolve. There-
*        fore, the Government would be responsible for payment of all financial charges
and repayment of the entire Bank loan including funds passed onto the cities
through the MDF. These arrangements were confirmed during negotiations
(Section 2.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
49.       Local funds would be provided:  (a) by Central Government to finance
national infrastructure components ($22.8 million) to be implemented by MPWH,
and for part of tax mapping and training activities ($0.3 million) through the
MOF and CPO; and (b) by local government ($5.7 million) for local components
and training. This financing plan reflects Government's proposal that the
Bank loan be used primarily to finance the MDF together with the tax mapping,
and training and technical assistance components. This arrangement is
expected to facilitate the provision of local funds since MPWH's contribution
can be consolidated into a single account in MPWH's National Infrastructure
Fund. On this basis no disbursement would be made out of the Bank loan
against national infrastructure components. To provide adequate
synchronization of the national and local components, the scope, location,
phasing and financial requirements of components will be clearly outlined in
the Subproject Agreement between each city and the Steering Committee which
includes a representative of MPWH, the ministry responsible for implementing
the national components.
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       Procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in the table
below:
.



- 18 -
Type of Procurement
Project                                                                     Total
ICB       LCB       Other       N.A.         Cost
…----- $ million -----------------
Civil works                      -       47.6        2.0          1.1        50.7
(21.8)     (1.0)                   (22.8)
Vehicles and Equipment          5.6       1.1        0.5           -          7.2
(5.6)    (0.8)      (0.4)          -         (6.8)
Tax mapping                      -         -         2.6           -          2.6
-       (2.4)          -         (2.4)
Training                         -         -         3.4           -          3.4
_       (3.1)                    (3.1)
Technical assistance             -         -         4.8           -          4.8
_        -        (4.8)                    (4.8)
Total                                                                  68.7
(39.9)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the
Bank loan. Land acquisition ($1.1 million) was included under N.A.
For civil works, over 100 separate components would be spread around 15 cities
over a four- to five-year period and would represent many small contracts, the
largest of which is estimated at $0.9 million. Past experience has indicated
that foreign firms have not been interested in bidding for these types of
works because of the scattered project sites, the large number of contracts of
short duration, and competition from the relatively well-established local
contracting industry. These works (totalling about $47.6 million) will be
procured from prequalified contractors through LCB procedures acceptable to
the Bank which would allow participation by foreign contractors.  The only
exceptions will be rehabilitation of markets and minor traffic engineering
improvements (about $2 million and each costing less than $50,000) which would
be undertaken by force account because of the need to work around existing
operations. Equipment and vehicles for maintenance and solid wastes
management totalling about $5.6 million would be procured through ICB in
accordance with Bank guidelines on behalf of the cities and MOF by the CPO
grouping them into suitable packages of $200,000 or more. A margin equal to
15% of the cif bid price of imported goods, or the actual customs duties and
taxes, whichever is less, will be allowed for domestic manufacturers.
Contracts of less than $200,000 for maintenance tools and small miscellaneous
equipment for training and tax mapping (about $1.1 million) would be purchased
through LCB procedures. For equipment of less than $50,000 per contract,
prudent shopping up to $0.5 million would be permitted. Consultants' services
for tax mapping, training and technical assistance would be obtained in
accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 19 -
51.       Bank funds would be disbursed against civil works and equipment con-
tracts on project components implemented by local governments and financed
from the MDF and against tax mapping, training and technical assistance
carried out by the central government. Disbu 6s ements would be made against:
(a) 100% for subloans funded through the MDF;- (b) for equipment for tax
mapping and training - 100% of foreign expenditures (CIF) if directly impor-
ted; 100% of ex-factory costs if locally manufactured; and 65% if locally
procured; (c) for consultants' services - 100% of foreign and local costs; and
(d) 90% of expenditures for training and tax mapping based on contracts with
implementing institutions or agencies for training and with cities for tax
mapping. Disbursement requests under (a) and (d) above would be supported by
certified statements of expenditures.  A special account of $3 million of the
Bank funds would be established as a condition of effectiveness to expedite
disbursements (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The projected
disbursements generally follow the historical disbursement profile for the
sector in the country. Disbursements are projected over six and a half years
from July 1984 - December 1990 with a proposed closing date on June 30, 1991.
Accounts, Audits and Program Reporting
52.       Each project city will be responsible for maintaining detailed sub-
project accounts for both local and national components. The CPO will main-
tain accounts for the equipment procured on behalf of the cities, and accounts
for the training, and technical assistance for which it is responsible. The
MOF will account for the tax mapping and technical assistance for which it is
responsible, and the MLG for the training study. The CPO will consolidate all
accounts annually in a single project account. The project accounts in the
CPO, the cities and all other existing agencies will be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement). A separate opinion would also be given by the independent
auditors confirming that funds withdrawn under statements of expenditures have
been used for the purposes intended (Section 4.02(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
53.       The Subproject and Subloan Agreements will include implementation
schedules and steps to be taken by the cities including fiscal reform as well
as construction, and will form the basis for progress monitoring. The cities
will submit quarterly reports to the CPO which will consolidate quarterly
progress reports to the Bank. The CPO will also prepare a yearly report which
analyzes and evaluates the whole project.
Local Finances and Cost Recovery
54.       The project would result in a significant increase in the cities'
t         investment programs while increases in central government grants are expected
to drop significantly compared to previous years. To generate the necessary
local funds and meet future debt service requirements, the project cities
would need to: (i) ensure cost recovery on revenue generating components; and
9/   MDF will finance up to a maximum of 90% of local project costs.



- 20 -
(ii) increase local revenue and reduce unnecessary expenditures through
improved administration and maintenance. Rents and fees for markets and
slaughterhouses and bus terminals would be set to at least cover recurrent
costs of operation and maintenance and debt service requirements. With regard
to area improvement works, investments would be recovered through charges
levied on beneficiary communities. For solid wastes management, each project
city currently levies a fee on commercial and industrial establishments as
part of the annual business licensing process. The cost of residential solid
wastes service would be collected from cross subsidies from commercial and
industrial charges and from general revenues since it would be administra-
tively inefficient to levy small direct charges on beneficiaries. For sanita-
tion services, which would consist principally of septic tank cleanout upon
request of the user, a service charge would be applied. Roads and drainage
works would be financed from general tax revenues. Cost recovery performance
for each city would be monitored closely by CPO (para. 44).
55.       Considerable potential exists to implement sufficient increases in
local taxes and charges, together with savings in operation and staff costs,
to support a significant increase in local investment programs. To obtain an
MDF loan, a city would have to contribute a Inimum of 10% of local component
costs and maintain a debt service coverage -   of 1.2.  Most cities would need
to undertake measures to increase local revenues, including completion of tax
mapping and up-dating property assessment, improved records management and
enforcement. Furthermore, improvements in operations and maintenance through
the project are expected to result in savings in expenditures. Improvements
in financial performance of project cities would depend largely on administra-
tive performance by respective cities' Treasury and Assessment staff. In each
city, task forces would be established to set revenue targets and monitor per-
formance in rationalizing business classifications, improving records manage-
ment, collecting delinquent taxes, and, as a cost control measure, reviewing
staffing needs overall. The revenue reforms would be part of the MOF's
national program to strengthen local government finances (para. 33). The CPO
would review city finances and propose revenue enhancement and cost saving
measures during appraisal. Each Subloan Agreement would contain agreements on
specific steps to be taken; in cases of non-compliance, measures would be
taken such as suspension further disbursement of loan funds or even reduction
in government transfers.
Justification and Benefits
56.       The principal benefits of the proposed project are the positive eco-
nomic, social and health impacts on the project cities and an improved policy
and financial environment for municipal development. City efficiency would be
improved through reduction in property damage and improvements on traffic cir-
culation through flood control, drainage, roads, traffic management and bus
terminal investments, and from the maintenance program. The above activities
and the improvement to the markets and slaughterhouses will enable the cities
10/ Annual revenues minus operating and maintenance expenditures divided by
debt service liabilities to all creditors.



- 21 -
to strengthen their economic role in their regions. Health and social bene-
fits would result primarily from the sanitation, area improvement, solid
wastes, drainage and water supply components. Finally, the establishment of
the CPO, MDF and the training programs would introduce a more rational plan-
ning and investment process, stimulate local revenue generatio. and cost con-
trol measures and provide a source of long-term financing for local govern-
ments. The economic rate of return (ERR) would be used as a criterion for
component selection except for those components where benefits are primarily
health related and difficult to quantify or for minor works of costs below a
pre-determined cut-off point. Those components with an ERR below the
opportunity cost of capital (currently about 13%) would be rejected, except
those with a significant health factor and ERR above 10%, which may be
accepted. For the six cities appraised by the Bank, the weighted average ERR
for the city program as a whole ranged from 18% to 24%. The project is expec-
ted to have a substantial positive impact on the urban poor, since most of the
components addressing environmental problems are in the depressed areas where
the poor live. In the cities already appraised, the urban poor comprise 35%
to 60% of the population and approximately $16 million or 51% of the invest-
ments would benefit the poverty group.
Environmental Aspects
57.       The project is expected to have a substantial positive environmental
impact. The municipal infrastructure and enterprise components, especially
flood control and solid wastes management, are designed specifically to
improve environmental conditions and reduce disease risks in the project
cities.
Risks
58.       The principal risks of the project lie in:  (a) the ability of
central government to maintain its local share of the project in a period of
national economic and financial constraints; (b) the capability of the local
governments to provide local funds during implementation continue to service
their debt; and (c) the capability of the CPO to manage the expanding
program. With respect to the first risk, the Government has accorded this
project a high priority and MPWH would commit itself to a schedule of dis-
bursements from its budget for those cities where the programs have been
established. However, if these disbursements could not be maintained, the
program could still continue, either at a reduced scale by omitting some of
the national infrastructure investments in the cities, or by extending the
period of implementation. This would not necessarily jeopardize the economic
justification since a city's program typically would consist of several
discreet components where a postponement of implementation in one would not
delay completion of others. The second risk would be minimized by requiring
the local governments to formulate a financial plan, agreed with the Steering
Committee, which would demonstrate improvements in revenues before a subloan
is made from the MDF and establish task forces chaired by the Mayor on fiscal
and administrative performance which will be supervised by the CPO and the
MOF. In addition, these plans form part of MOF's national program to
strengthen local government finances and the MOF would apply financial
sanctions against defaulting project cities through cessation of disbursements



- 22 -
on their subloan and attachment of central government grants. With regard to
the third risk, the CPO has performed well over the past two years in
preparing the project, but substantial strengthening at middle management
levels is required. The proposed improvements in internal organization and
hiring of key professional staff and consultants services would help to
minimize this risk; most of the required staff has been recruited and the
internal organizational set-up has been arranged.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Sec-
tion 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness include the
signing of a satisfactory Memorandum of Agreement among the MOF, MLG, OBM,
MPWH and NEDA to establish the policies and procedures for the MDF, the
signing of Subproject and Subloan Agreements satisfactory to the Bank, for at
least four project cities, and the establishment of a Special Account in the
Central Bank of the Philippines (Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 15, 1984
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-23 -                                             Page 1 of 5
T A B L E  3A
PHILIPPINES              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) la
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
1 b  RECENT  A         MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960-       1970-  ESTIMATE-            ASIA & PACIFIC        LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
ARgA (THOUSAND SQ. KN)
TOTAL                                 300.0        300.0        300.0
AGRICULTURAL                           98.8        104.0        109.2
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     160.0        260.0        790.0              1028.6                      2088.2
ENEMRY CONSUMPrION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        159.0        333.0        380.0               792.8                      1407.6
OPbULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   27394.0        36848.0     49558.0
URBAN POPULATION (T OF TOTAL)          30.3         32.9         36.7                32.9                        65.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                 76.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                 137.2
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                  2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                          91.3        122.8        161.0               260.7                        35.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND              277.3        354.3       442.3               1696.5                        93.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                            44.6         45.5        43.6                 39.4                        40.1
15-64 YRS                            52.4         51.6         53.3                57.2                        55.8
65 AND ABOVE                          3.0          2.9          3.1                 3.3                         4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (x)
TOTAL                                 3.0          3.0          2.7                 2.3                         2.3
URBAN                                 4.1          3.8          3.7                 3.9                         3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           46.7         44.0         33.9                31.3                        31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           14.6          9.8          7.3                 9.6                         8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.4          3.1          2.3                 2.0                         2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..        191.7       375.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..          2.0        48.0                 46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                         102.0        101.0        124.0               125.2                       113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         99.0         99.0       116.0                114.2                       111.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             46.0        48.0          53.0                57.9                        67.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           17.0         19.0        21.0/c               14.1                        34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            13.8          7.9          4.3                 7.6                         5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          52.8         59.0         63.2                60.2                        64.6
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         105.8         75.0        53.0                 68.1                        62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                  ..         36.0        43.0/d               37.1                        64.8
URBAN                                  ..           ..        66.0/d               54.8                        77.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..         33.07F              2                           44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         57.0         56.0/d              41.4                        54.6
URBAN                                  ..           ..         76.o07              47.5                        69.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..        44.07o               33.4                        29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             6940.0       9100.0      7970.0               7771.9                      1776.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                  ..       5390.0       6000.0              2462.6                      1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              1210.0        820.0        560.0/e            1047.2                       477.0
URBAN                               540.0        390.0          ..                651.1                       667.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..              2591.9                      1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         30.0           ..                27.0                        27.2
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.8          5.9
URBAN                                  ..          6.2
RURAL                                  ..          5.8
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          2.3
URBAN                                  ..          2.1
RURAL                                              2.         .. 4
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                16.5         22.7        36.0
URBAN                                  ..         59.9         82.6
RURAL                                  ..          6.7        10.0
_- - - - - - - - --_ _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_- --_ _- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_ _     _ _   _   _ _-_-__  _ _-__ _-_-_-_- -_-_-_- -_-_-_ _-_-_-_ _-_-_-_ _-_-_-



ANNEX I
-  -: 24 -                                                  Page 2 of 5
T A B L e  3A
PHILIPPINES              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960/       1970/b  ESTIMATEL/          ASIA 6 PACIFIC         LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     95.0        108.0        110.0               101.2                       105.0
MALE                     98.0        115.0        111.0               106.0                       106.3
FEMALE                   93.0        113.0        108.0                97.5                       103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     26.0         46.0         63.0                44.9                        40.0
MALE                     28.0         52.0         58.0                 50.0                       38.6
FEMALE                   25.0         49.0         68.0                44.6                        41.2
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECONDARY)            14.3          8.9/f       33.9/c              18.5                        34.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              36.0         29.0         30.0                32.7                        30.7
SECONDARY                            27.011       33.0         34.0                23.4                        16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                71.9         82.6         75.0                72.9                        79.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             3.2          7.6         10.2/e               9.7                        45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP           21.9         40.7         43.5               113.7                       228.2
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               1.4         10.9         20.7                50.1                       108.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               17.7         13.6         20.7                54.0                        64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         0.6/h         ..          7.4/d               3.4                         2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           10915.0      13477.0      17667.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     34.2         33.1         32.3                33.6                        24.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                61.0         53.0         46.0                50.9                        31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   15.0         16.0         17.0                19.2                        23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                39.8         36.6         35.6                38.6                        31.3
MALE                                 52.1         48.6         47.8                50.7                        49.8
FEMALE                               27.4         24.4         23.2                26.6                        14.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2          1.3          1.3                 1.1                         1.4
INCOCE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5Z OF HOUSEHOLDS             30.1         25.1           . .               22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            56.3         54.0           ..                48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              4.2          5.2           ..                 6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             12.0         14.2           ,,                15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..          ..        260.0               194.5                       289.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..        195.0               155.0                       184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..        266.0               178.0                       519.8
RURAL                                  ..           ''        200.0               164.8                       372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (5)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         32.0                24.4
RURAL                                  ..           ..         41.0                41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverege of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1975; /e 1978; /f 1972; /g 1962; /h 1958.
May 1983



ANNEX
- 25 -                                                                                           Page 3 of 5
DEFINITlIONh OP SOCIAL I NDICAORtS
Hares_  Alh-tcgh the dataer  dr-o  to    ....ce.ge..erally jadgd  th   most aotorsa ,hl lee and reliabe, ft sho t1 also  be totd tha   -ty say Icot be ltt- -etotliy
demob rIeodece ofnglae, td ict  trct,ad ct rec1.ter  -e-etin n.Jor diff-r-rs   bete-- otem
tabjcsroetcp cocet ic   dih  focer   II PeoetraI  ara?ehr   TitdI   Itc As -orth i,e  atdp fflddl  tesht" hlcm                -.~I-             . thsebcese agcolo--yltecal
gr -opacdat   otat      ~         -,d          I-- .- lolpto.    tertetcr'-etcatcfeae gttldlaoa    cmde-cotIoeelblisoIatot                         fetttfr,             haeccatb
AREA (thb...a.dtqA                                                                                         PePolatio- per IPfty-tcl   - Popolat-c  dlsIded by  atri   rci  e
Teal-Toat        scat   re  -rslhIT_acea,   ctr   etrsI190                                                                                                         ....a.sqalfte   re. ooca   cho.a..i..lyted
fe197   p,putae   eacket aed  "ltha   goree       to lie  f--d; 1960.                                   tattled  aetil t.e.es
I97l~~ aed ItOh data.                              pr...paylItl-                                        e pe-od       tt5d       toa,ahc   a ..raI -d pe_tlato    totAl,
~~~V,~~~~ Id   80 d-.                                                                     :i1~~~~~~~~orac   adrote) ielI ddhyseIrspct  onrotfopolea
csloiaed (ci -  sp  erto leaealeaeeae  orectnapinfclee                          an"ItI I to;ecIll  ae_,d brct,       eer    e  efettatteed  hospital andA
ysoeotrrlo   sthd  a  crd   ac  A tm   199-i  es .;                    ehh iha; ooobte IIspt I   reetblse7t   pea-e_d                              ha  e
19N 0 PER   , cr0IT   901 data Fty at leost- ocr ptye ttat.   hochltatn_ on     raidtgctelaytitda
d E_, A"..  ~  ~      ~       ~     ~      ar   reco   etaad          arl  ecloe    eooa    itlarheailt  -ta
b..c.fttftlbciCOIO-foo    paco  teap.e.o   doe ct                                                   e  t.   eersctprt-etl   taddt       hylicIbadyamdlo
y   7cceegyIiledltoa    orooslaoatgaodbdn-   ols                                                      ossas,  as     tnis    t.   hfhofrf-psrtatnedtc    e
1960   1970, aed 1900 dth.                                                                                afa    optl   ttod.Oartcct.eerlhsias   c   oa
Po?0lATI0N MeD cITiL STafThTtth                                                                              Sp.oote    ottl   ore teoloe co    ocde  toIl.                  -b
Octet popaattoc. Midfear (thoaattdsl     S  of hoy 1; 19b0, 1970, atd  t98t                 odisoapr-coila   Bed - ftloen   f  dcY                        c   c  rddhce
data.                          l-co lh.mptio-1                                                                            dittoed Ar the camber of beds.
fooltico Prele-t iee                                                                                           esbl   ostto  -ot  fododaa.    hr   it leg                               ..a rir
Pooolet    a   00-Crte    ooa  o    rdttesor   et   ct90edtersteAos.0badrI                                                                         egr  a   rayeth   nlodI
totalppttlehyag  cod neas    the i rn tnllp  etal feettltty                                           thehetm        I  -1c atAtisttt  yrcd    r
captta  boon   tenel, codtanl  I    eapatI..... talttgtog  a  0.. ..h.P                       da .ti.gs  r..tloi. It'h"                  eroetr-ee,ee    totot   n
yeas.   he   aroetea  fr frtiItyf at  aloe boo -blthree  -et 77octa.ped.parts
aeotgOnlelc  ntlie  tedcgl   cod itlar   otfal.i.e.t                                                               ...ly(peoc   f  e   igo      ea,  c0,ec   ie 
ptatotng paroettoete I bo hIontpItteonlg              ore cyi-these-dn-                        Corcettorl  dtlltgateetlih    cIeo   otr   tpcetg
pohioIcl oPocJ.al-cyaotecctl trytyred   fopoetoyJ-e.otttrac                                                           cprlai   ctepctnp
hhatlcaecy        P" Ioaoin-I    tt eayptoe  e  ther  Is                    f-lyecgreatb-d--
mInce nb  beh   rheIs_qdltosh.dat  rIc od  ls  te  getOCoT
ternl .ty. atot.c.y.. otoittleoot.                                                                      cooIi-hesalib   enormt d  acaterr l-cGt-cay1ct-edldo  peccant
fet  na teat  oplto   a  oce                 Thel yearly  Th'ica   .......ep                                     ..tot Iace   til  aca btoth orj-cc hy    ffoo   ache1ap.....
perad    I-ti-pe          polthee  per t,0or  Al toce -. lOG  deti-s  of                                 Yroldee" gaceratd I.,ccatoot,  rhh-    rd'to   choi.oti i_ca  tI_
heta11t tent 1060,  19,  -ed tO   dot.                                                                  pop its asoa1lly f1   oIfyas.- g;c ryce-ne d teo0a   are
ed;190_         9f   n 1  9  ,   -ana.                                                               Oaioel-  ecrltnetI feteh   of _ectuc- lh                 catl- nal -h tslccitoe
fpetaniceiag  htroIae(etc)-Itdn (-Iyart, illkbtf-age d15                                                Ictldal t-hrlca   itdeohrieI, or otbrcpr gac  AlobI opeah   toeped
P-ytrsl  aertretfessacoafs   acctgt Mield-a-epnetyP_                                                              a   deocoet   efrtdrlalcioes.f
l.po1oIlct;  1960,  197, lod 190t  date.                                                             Pol-echrctt -elao  ar                       cdr-TtattaeeacetdI
pear; yapotattoc  foe   1980-,  1900-00  aet"0-l"rdyeat tryo
,papo_tioce far   OO-    196-00  ad _190 -il.                                                            a  aocag    ftcatoa rppt-da dd  Oyat                                cr
Grad  f.... )ct  lyod   tbocada65dl - eco    o   hdl-hh   pap rthcosoIfdyb,-l of...ld-
yea poar to; tO   9G   e   hp aa                                                                     OidtGd
Grdehat-th tt-l  per thoaaIt - Pet.a  destha               1 per ,hocan    of eld-pa?tear Coc  (rt.: ohasodppoato   Y -  otooctcboprs   e
popela9ta;  1900,      9600, an   lO    Ida,                                                     coc9sartg   estthcegI   pereoca  no  oroahlcoa,hec                             e
Great Bieprhdetce  Oa_the-deecg-   ,-obe  of-- doaghteresos.. -ll Ifo ~it                                   ltto        ola
Y,til y coma'  ato           70yflo-eeo  aceagr ed le.     0  C9b,   gO,  taHcedah   ogceo    ttcprrhoado   caote;oids
of  1teht-ct1960l de97oe   atm espr so   a lto   aIl   tetg                                               ccre  aoihdI Icene leg. ,l -I-                                         -_
all narr;rdocncc  Ic cane.... tanIbt gdropop.chRsciorr'~Tr     .rc-c'po -dato                                                                 Al',t l t1- fe  tl-d-raf
acfa bi cc-h    ,a- ,Pal d-  oc.doteedlIfo r-taaa1tceentay ttsetIIr                                     tt dalyt  i~Ir  hapersti_             ot  eoctsgae
trdnlocaecrrahso8Cneiit   erylp-gose..Geoanolc bted -- peCpit--ceroa -c-iae    eehhe-shrea
ategyeaiatat o  ei fedsapile  oallbt   iceacr parcaIta po                                    eei       tdaeely-        a      Eol---e   starena    taeh ,I,   I   _bt  , oef
.........to t..and.. to.  snock.  te   ecyploe  -elde antIma  feed, e-et,                               oo-k-ii -l  d90,% 1th0 ee- 1981 dat.,                           l-b l-I
-fflleoe-         i   odndosue,so   ete   tdstte inbrelII eret       eIt   aertre_sprceaatfito   aoefee
brqaIdesre - nn- an isoh d fy CO  hated- ccchytIelo  to            cesPadoi         lagloi     (rhc)-  ae9otec   aoeg    oety,bsigc
oeqareaetu  Irlal   conrts -etatl -aedh  000  rctd  fte, slama                                          atilh   cacao'9ace 19n7obd  us tea    al,edfeaelbo.ecs
altooaacn: o  hOget  ftta    eeeoprOa-e  P   retoF-ta   c                                               pcetae   f  ea,naeod   rae   otlalee,a  aesceocief
ofn. oh ItttOgoa  sc lc  eanml.  pi           ti.       se190I90 nd9t   aa                                                ht   cebsdc   t'  patictp Ilee ruins..
oreodac          uy   fa   boeo  0   rc  e   ea  pottoad2  gatrftctgag-e   arcar  frepooalo,adtogtn                                                                            Iced 
otohteaiocchrlhnaoaoeraeefarthooetd,ernpaaadhfe.Oitohe                                    feoeiryeohnaarel f-eorlb         aociIce......t..t
Pe  cctatoti   saPI, deco ae-o  ao   oe        rrl,spply          of.d  adfi     toe             sh F. to~ptal tabo   force.                       l  f.       _P
detlee   Pros  eleat  end      _IsItIt.g.tn    peeday  1 St1-th  t9f ..ed  1907b                              f -1              d   -Y
phId Iaa  t-lnc h~hn II pr- tthoaad 1- "I'aldl th   petil                                                19oas0 I  1970ohae   at P 1iec 1 dccoer (0Th-I   abatbe)-tcie    pl
adtreol-peat,otttdecihhlaggrephorsttmoe pEl_                                                  reree   ,rithetl    pr            IFc pecratt  peren   acdpoI..,       At. peroetof
cTehr Wnsldata dectnSr-            lf    abe; 196165   9  , d 19 911 and t9El date..eseil ds,I  b                              -        .1bb    p11.   II   5                  5
INeao  ff   ae I       p....er o  popollefr- rob,   Irb-t, adl popat- arlronlly aet                                             t  dItp..- ecroia  eec-fen-d reqo rer- r  Is net 
_boero   pol  (tIn,       Lfanhs  , acdearal Oe_t neasbGa tesabsh-ehff                                    1doble
adtri dd .Itldttetosr  o   aea   rateidbtttetdlea  n    oetfIfonIel(h   e   ola      ra   n   oa 
oHEArL        aedTtpHob  stntto   poecePoehtsOtVEg   rdtRTY TrElTle ROPoSryIco    ne   soett  do   erg    e                                                                             th
Liacl,tacc-le   at peoe-taeeIo thft--pcee ppaalonf.Ico -eina.tco oiheoalby   lcactor   sdebadfeehe  oa
arba   yeayiclo   ceroc cstodea   tcetdntnretha   lG  ahts     eeletodjutaesontgtrrosofaI                         -tgtotIoraa
tro      tas  sy  e   tetdrd~ atb  o   1tI    snet    ceeo   htGtnhe.d becta -lee hec   booe  oettlceeIol(erdt      r
hohe    Itrcaill",aotbe   cnt  c Impllhathb "IseOf o"Ie  pra  -Petet   f d                                                            ots (herhe-   e en    owl  arar h-lt
oa idtdethepleo  o           to doapta-   etc  or. -I ro     Rrea.e., oftcoaatca-cfohdl f-rta  plo-tec
hasacaltrtaacdcao-aatot00 _cde-hoe  oyhaao .tthe at  of0' cItftiFh tCaooe                                                                   fayl  andg  Prjec ot-tpanec
y    dic_ea  aol stellar                                                  t1            ~          tI:   dPp,.t. seeroP.,ttyoI .                        .oy 1903b.



- 2f -
ANNEX;
Page 4 of 5
PHILIPPINES - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                          Annual growth rates (%) (constant price)
current prices)                  Actual                   Est.                       Projected
Indtcator                                1983            1979     1980     1981      1982     1983     1984     l985      l986     l987     1988
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product                 34,266           5.9      4.9      3.8       3.0      1.0    -2.2       0.8       2.2      3.5      4.5
Agriculture                          7,388            5.3.     5.0      3.6      3.1    -2.1        2.0      2.0      3.0      3.5       3.5
Industry                            12,364           6.7       3.5      4.7      2.4      0.7     -5.0      -2.0      1.0      3.5      4.5
Services                            14,514           5.5       6.3      3.0      3.5      3.5    -2.0        2.5      2.7      3.5       5.0
Consumption                           26,959            4.8      4.8      4.0      3.5       2.6    -4.7      -0.3      0.6       0.7      2.5
Gross investment                        9,151           7.4      1.0      2.3    -2.9       -4.4   -16.0       1.1      4.2       9.1      7.6
Exports of GNFS                         6,650           7.4     16.0      1.6    -2.6        1.7      4.9      5.1      6.0       6.3      6.7
Imports of GNFS                         8,882          10.3      3.7      -.9      3.5    -2.0   -24.0         0.2      1.5       2.1      2.6
Gross national savings                  7,400           7.7      3.4      3.1    -6.5    -3.1          -        -        -         -        -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1972 = 100)                            249.4   286.9   317.3   343.5   380.4             -        -        -         -        -
Exchange rate (US$1 =   )                               7.4      7.5      7.9      8.5      11.1       -        -        -         -        -
Export price index (1980 = 100)                       98.9   100.0    99.4    87.9    92.0            98      103      113       123      134
Import price index (1980 = 100)                       81.6   100.0   112.7    101.6    95.0           99      105      114      125       136
Terms of trade index (1980 = 100)                     121.2   100.0    88.2       86.5    97.0       101       98       99        98       99
Share of GDP at market prices (X1                             Average annual increase (X)
(at current prices) /a                                         (constant prices)
1960    1970    1975       1980     1985      1990      1960-70   1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Gross domestic product                 100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0              5.1          6.1         5.9        1.3         4.0
Agriculture                          28.1      27.8    29.0    23.2    24.3        22.0         4.3          4.3        4.8         2.3        3.5
Industry                             25.8    29.6    33.5    36.9         36.1     38.9         6.0          8.6        7.6         0.7        4.5
Services                             46.1    42.6       37.5    39.9      39.6     39.1         5.2          5.4        5.7         2.7        4.0
Consumption                          85.3    79.2    75.8    73.8         79.0    76.0          4.8          5.5        5.2         1.0         1.9
Gross investment                     16.3    21.5    31.0        30.5     21.0     22.0         8.2         11.5        6.5        -3.2        6.5
Exports of GNFS                      10.8      19.4     18.5    20.1      23.0    25.0          5.8          3.2       10.0         4.7        6.7
Imports of GNFS                      10.6     19.7    25.3       26.4    21.0      22.0         6.8          6.8        8.0       -1.7         2.4
Gross national savings                16.2    20.5    25.3       22.1     18.0      19.0        7.4          9.7        5.8          -          -
As % of GDP
1960    1970    1975       1980     1983                  Labor force in 1983          Millions        (X)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                   Agriculture                      9.8          48.8
Current revenue                      9.8      9.5      15.0     13.1     12.1                  Industry                 }      9 3  }        46.2
Current expenditures                 9.6    10.9       13.2      9.3      9.6                  Services                              I                          I
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)           0.2    -1.4        1.8      3.7      2.5                  Unemployed                      1.0            5.0
Capital expenditure                  2.3       1.9      3.2      5.2      4.5
Foreign financing                       -     0.1       0.3      1.5      2.0                     Total Labor Force           20.1          100.0
1960-70          1970-75          1975-80           1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (x)                                            5.1             6.1              5.9              1.3               4.0
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (x)                                2.0              2.7              3.2             -1.1               1.7
Annual energy consumption growth rate (B)                            7.4              6.2              4.2              0.7               4.0
ICOR                                                                 3.7              4.3              5.2             23.8              7.1
Marginal savings rate                                                0.29             0.33             0.26             0.35              0.62
Import elasticity                                                     1.33            1.12             1.20            -1.3              0.6
/a   Projected years at constant prices.
East Asia and Pacific Region
March 1984



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of S pages
PHILIPPINES - BALANCE OF PAYMENT' AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL ASD DEBT
($ million, at carrent prices)
Actual                   Est.                     Projected
1979     1980      1981      1982      1983      1984    1985      1986      1987      1988
Summary of Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services           6,177    7,863    8,624    7,837    8,072    8,280   8,891   10,101   11,572   13,336
of which:  exports of goods           4,602    5,788    5,722    5,021    5,005    5,510   6,097    7,059    8,212    9,565
Imports of goods and services           8,108   10,348   11,389   11,683   11,170   10,310  10,490   11,535   12,658   13,922
Of which:  imports of goods           6,142    7,727    7,946    7,667    7,469    5,990   6,236    6,919    7,738    8,709
Transfers (net)                           355       434       472       498       399      490      450       480       500       550
Current Account Balance              -1,576   -2,051   -2,29 3 -3,348   -2,699   -1,540  -1,149            -954     -586       -36
Direct investment (net)                    99        45       407       292         4
MLT loans (net)                         1,091    1,032    1,382    1,721    1,427
Official-source loans (net)             449       375       691      434    1,177
Private-source loans (net)              642       657       691    1,287       250
Other capital (net) /a                   -193       593       -56       146   -1,196
Overall Balance /b                     -579      -381     -560   -1,189   -2,464
International reserves (end-year)/c  2,423    3,155    2,707    2,543            903
Reserves as months of imports             3.6       3.7       2.9       2.6      1.0
External Capital and Debt
Gross disbursements                     2,134    1,887    2,136    2,693
Concessional Loans                      185       168      212       176
Bilateral                             113       107      198       159
IDA                                     3         2        7         8
Other multilateral                     69        59        7         9
Nonconcessional Loans                 1,949    1,719    1,924    2,518
Official export credits               152         8       58        66
IBRD                                  210      229       441       251
Other multilateral                       81        83       119      125
Private sources                       1,506    1,399    1,306    2,076
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed        7,204    8,415   10,148   12,145
Official-source                     2,286    2,730    3,355    3,971
Private-source                     4,918    5,685    6,793    8,174
Undisbursed debt /d                   3,645    4,086    4,546    3,999
Debt Service
Total service payments /e             1,480    1,013    1,560    2,048
Of which:  interest                   488      568       806    1,076
Payments as X of exports of goods
and services /e                      24.0       1.9     18.1      26.1
Average interest rate on new loans
Official-source                           5.5       7.4       7,7
Private-source                           10.5      14.3      15.5      14.4
Average maturity of new loans
Official-source                          23.4      20.2      20.9
r            Private-source                           11.1      10.1      10.0      9.0
/a  Nonmonetary short-term capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omissions.
/b  Equals change in net international reserves, plus arrears.
/c  Gross reserves of the Central Bank ("International reserves," IFS).
7T  Public and publicly guaranteed only.
/e  Includes prepayments of $401 million in 1978, $492 million in 1979 and $92 million in 1980.
Note:  Since the Philippines is in the process of rescheduling its debt, it is not possible to project capital inflow figures
in detail.
East Asia and Pacific Region
March 1984



- 2H -                                                 ANNEX It
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A.  STATEAENT UF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /a
As of March 31, 1984
,in or
credi:                                                                                        Amount (less cancellations)
iwuber      FY    Borrower                       Purpose                                      Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
Thirty-nine loans and three credits fully disbursed                                         1,192.02    32.22            -
uC80-PH      1975   Rep. of the Philippines    Tarlac Irrigation                                17.00       -           0.01
i.O2-PH      1975                                 Rural Development                             25.00       -           0.09
1227-PH      1976                                 Chico Irrigation                              50.00       -           4.90
i272-T-PH   1976                                  Manila Urban                                  10.00       -           0.36
1282-PH      1976                                 Manila Urban                                  22.00       -           0.8()
1353-PH      1977                                 Third Highways                                95.00       -          18.75
.367-PH      1977                                 Jalaur Irrigation                             15.00       -           0.58
1374-PH      1977                                 Fourth Education                              25.00       -           2.32
1399-PH      1977   Central Bank of the Phil.  Fourth Rural Credit                              36.50       -           0.06
1414-PH      1977   Rep. of the Philippines    Nat. Irrig. Systems Improvement                  50.00       -          21.95
1421-PH      1977                "                Rural Dev. Land Settlement II                 15.00       -            2.81
1460-PH      1978   National Power Corp.          Seventh Power                                 58.00       -          11.44
1506-PH      1978   Rep. of the Philippines    Smallholder Tree Farming                          8.00       -           4.46
1514-PH      1978   Philippine National Bank   PDCP V                                           30.00       -           0.75
1526-PH      1978   Rep. of the Philippines    Nat. Irrig. Systems Improvement II               65.00       -          35.42
790-PH      1978                                 Rural Infrastructure                            -       28.00        13.84
1555-PH      1978   Philippine National Bank   PISO                                             15.00       -           0.01
1567-PH      1978   Rep. of the Philippines    Magat II                                        150.00       -           5.87
1572-PH      1978                                 Industrial Investment III                     80.00       -          11.56
1615-PH      1979                                 Manila Water Supply II                        88.00       -          34.89
1626-PH      1979                                 National Extension                            35.00       -          21.47
1639-PH      1979                                 Magat River Multipurpose                      21.00       -           1.06
1646-PH      1979                                 Small Farmer Dev. (Land Bank)                 16.50       -           3.94
1647-PH      1979                                 Second Urban Development                      32.00       -           7.28
1661-PH      1979                                 Highways IV                                  100.00       -          47.84
1710-PH      1979                                 Water Supply II                               16.00       -          16.00
920-PH      1979                                 Water Supply II                                 -       22.00        11.88
923-PH      1979                                 Population II                                   -       40.00        31.20
1772-PH      1980                                 Samar Island Rural Development                27.00       -          18.83
1786-PH      1980                "                Fisheries Training (Educ. VI)                 38.00/c    -           29.08
1809-PH      1980                                 Medium-Scale Irrigation                       71.00       -          55.83
1814-PH      1980                                 Manila Sewerage & Sanitation                  63.00       -          38.27
1815-PH      1980                                 Rainfed Agric. Dev. (Iloilo)                  12.00       -           7.48
1821-PH      1980                                 Third Urban                                   72.00       -          42.79
1855-PH      1980                                 Third Ports                                   67.00       -          40.26
L860-PH      1980                                 Rural Roads Improvement                       62.00       -          39.24
1890-PH      1981                                 Watershed Management                          38.00       -          25.10
1894-PH      1981                                 Third Livestock & Fisheries                   45.00       -          25.63
1903-PH      1981                                 Structural Adjustment                        200.00       -           0.85
1984-PH      1981   Central Bank of the Phil.  Industrial Finance (Apex)                       150.00       -         137.21
2030-PH      1981   Rep. of the Philippines    Elementary Educ. Sector Loan                    100.00       -          94.56
2040-PH      1982                                 Agric. Support Services                       45.00       -          44.30
2067-PH      1982                                 Urban Engineering                              8.00       -           2.74
2127-PH      1982                                 Textile Sector Restructure                   157.40       -         114.17
2156-PH      1982                                 National Fisheries Development                22.40       -          22.07
2169-PH      1982                                  SMI III                                     132.00       -         120.72
2173-PH      1982                                  Communal Irrigation                          71.10       -          62.64
2181-PH      1982   National Power Corp.           Coal Exploration                             17.00       -          14.83
2200-PH      1983   Rep. of the Philippines    Education VIII                                   24.40       -          21.69
2201-PH      1983   Philippines Nat. Oil Co.   Petroleum Exploration Promotion                  13.50       -           9.72
2202-PH      1983                                 Petroleum Exploration Promotion               24.00       -          20.71
2203-PH      1983                                 Geothermal Exploration                        36.00       -          31.33
2206-PH      1983   Rep. of the Philippines    Water Supply and Sanitation                      35.50       -          29.01
2257-PH      1983                                 Regional Cities Development                   67.00       -          66.47
2360-PH/b   1984                                   Central Visayas Regional Development         25.60       -          25.60
1282-1/b    1984                                  Manila Urban Development Supplement           10.50       -          10.50
1639-17W    1984                                  Magat River Multipurpose Supplement            5.10       -            5.10
Total                                                                           3,906.01   122.22    1,468.27
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                                       382.75       0.39
Total now outstanding                                                           3,523.26   121.83
Amount sold                                                  31.94
Of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                           25.98                   5.96       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                                         3,517.30   121.83
Total undisbursed                                                               1,411.35    56.92    1,468.27
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA-financed projects
in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
/b Not yet effective.
/c Includes $7.6 million NORAD funds.



ANNEX II
- 29 -                               Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1984
Fiscal
year                  Company                               Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Dev. Corp. of the Philippines            15.0     4.4    19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                           8.0      -       8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                     -      4.0      4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co.           3.7     0.8      4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                     0.8      0.4      1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corp. of the Phil.               -      2.2      2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                  6.2     2.1      8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial Corp.           15.0      -      15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                    1.9     0.3      2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation            1.5      -       1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.    1.6          0.6      2.2
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation                  1.2      -       1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial Corp.            7.0       -       7.0
1976/1980    Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                        2.6     0.2      2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                        2.3     1.2      3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                       3.5      -       3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.    2.1          -       2.1
1979         General Milling Corporation                      4.0      1.1      5.1
1980         PISO Leasing Corporation                        10.0      0.2    10.2
1980         Ventures in Industry and Business                  -      0.3      0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980          Consolidated Industrial Gases, Inc.             4.5       -       4.5
1981         Loans to Seven Corp. for SMSE                   18.5      0.6    19.1
1981          Philippine Assoc. Smelting & Refining Corp.   -          5.0      5.0
1981         Davao Union Cement Corp.                        16.0       -      16.0
1982         NDC-Guthrie Plantations                         11.0       -      11.0
Total Gross Commitments                       136.4    23.4   159.8
Less sold, acquired by others,               86.1    14.5   100.6
repaid or cancelled
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC              50.3      8.9    59.2
Total Undisbursed                              17.62    0.02   17.64



- 30 -
ANNEX III
PHILIPPINES
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: three years. Preparation has
taken a longer period due to the novelty of the approach and the
large number of cities involved.
(b) Agency which prepared the project: the Central Project Office under
the Ministry of Public Works and Highways.
(c) Date of first presentation to Bank and date of departure of first
mission: May 1982 and February 20, 1983, respectively.
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: August 18, 1983.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: April 18, 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) the Government would submit Subproject and Subloan Agreements con-
cluded between the cities and the authorized representative of the
Steering Committee, and the cities and MOF respectively
(para. 41);
(b) strengthening of organization and staffing of CPO (para. 44); and
(c) Bank loan proceeds would be passed on to MDF to revolve and provide
needed capital for cities enrolling in the program (para. 48).



j7  Z                                                                              
a- i
w z:
E                             Z-cvEo   
f  E    ='>Tod5<;O22g;-Eg'X2,E:¢                           0                          t                           S        \                     I                                            I < 
zo               ,t              I-mOwl I         0ZC¢   C)O N0   (:N000.N 0:t15<NUl0 a5 O     g'Z
_   e y  _    =                -             >~~~~~~~4            >                       .                                                                  _    aS  
Zx                   M                                      :> zg W                                                                                                     ,0CL ri M W4r 
M ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~- ,o. - 



