Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13722-ET
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ETHIOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
APRIL 24, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$ 1.0        =      Birr 6.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVtATIONS
ADD            -      Agricultural Development Division of MOA
AED            -      Agricultural Extension Division of MOA
AIDB           -      Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
AISCO          -      Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation/ Enterprise
CBE            -      Commercial Bank of Ethiopia
CIF            -      Cost, Insurance & Freight
CPD            -      Cooperative Promotion Department
CSA            -      Central Statistical Authoritv
DAP            -      Di-ammonium Phosphate
ERRP           -      Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Project
ESA            -      Ethiopian Standards Authority
FAO            -      Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FAO-IC         -      FAO Investment Center
GDP            -      Gross Domestic Product
GM             -      General Manager
ICB            -      International Competitive Bidding
IDA            -      International Development Association
IMF            -      International Monetary Fund
LCB            -      Local Competitive Bidding
LIB            -      Limited International Bidding
MC             -      Marketing Center of AISCO
MIS            -      Management Information System
MOA            -      Ministry of Agriculture
NBE            -      National Bank of Ethiopia
NFIA           -      National Fertilizer Industry Agency
NFIB           -      National Fertilizer Industry Board
NFIU           -      National Fertilizer and Inputs Unit, MOA
NFSP           -      National Fertilizer Sector Project
NMS            -      New Marketing Strategy
NPK            -      Nitrogen/Phosphorous/Potassium
NSS            -      National Soils Service
PADEP          -      Peasant Agricultural Development Project
PCMO           -      Project Coordinating and Monitoring Office
PIP            -      Project Implementation Plan
QC             -      Quality Control
RTPD           -      Rural Technology Promotion Division of MOA
SC             -      Service Cooperatives
TA             -      Technical Assistance
TGE            -      Transitional Government of Ethiopia
FISCAL AND AGRICULTURAL YEAR
Ethiopian Fiscal Year: July 8 - July 7



ETHIOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  .................................................................i
I. BACKGROUND ..................................................................1
A. The Macro Setting ..................................................................I
B.  The Agricultural Sector ..................................................................2
C.   IDA's  Agricultural Portfolio  and  Future  Strategy ..................................................................                                                       5
II. THE FERTILIZER SECTOR ..................................................................6
A.  Fertilizer Use ..................................................................6
B.  Fertilizer Production ..................................................................7
C.  Fertilizer Policy Environment ..................................................................7
D.  Fertilizer Marketing System ..................................................................8
E.   Fertilizer Prices and  Subsidies ..................................................................9
F.  Fertilizer Credit .................................................................                                                                                          10
G.  Cooperatives ..................................................................11
H.  Constraints to Fertilizer Use .................................................................                                                                              II
1.   Design  Considerations  for the  Fertilizer Project .................................................................                                                        12
J.   Lessons  Learned  ................................................................. 13
K.  Rationale for IDA  Involvement .................................................................                                                                              14
III. THE PROJECT .................................................................                                                                                                       15
A.  Project Objectives and Components .................................................................                                                                          15
B.  Fertilizer Policy Reform .................................................................                                                                                   15
C.  Detailed Project Components .................................................................                                                                                17
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT    .. 24
A.  Project Costs .................................................................                                                                                              24
B.  Project Financing .................................................................                                                                                          25
C.  Procurement .................................................................. 26
D.  Disbursement and Special Account .................................................................                                                                           30
E.  Accounts and Audit .................................................................                                                                                         31
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission (July, 1993) and subsequent reports and clarifications received from the
Government until September 30, 1994. The appraisal missions, which visited Ethiopia, comprised Messrs. Amar Jit S. Sodhi (Senior Operations
Officer and mission leader); Lorenzo Marchesini, Agricultural Economist; Neville Edirisinghe, consultant on Poverty and Gender Issues; Pratap
Narayan, consultant on Policy and Institutional Issues and Rob Leijder representing the Govemment of Netherlands during appraisal, and later
consultant on agronomic, soil testing and biofertilizer aspects. In addition, Mr. Lorenzo Marchesini and Ms. Donna Criddle provided the back-up
support at Headquarters, as the mission leader was operating from the Resident Mission in Addis Ababa. Mr. G. Donovan reviewed the overall
project design, and Mr. M.S. Mudahar reviewed the fertilizer related economic and policy aspects. Mr. J. Srivastava was the Lead Advisor.
Ms. Sushma Ganguly and Mr. Michael F. Carter are the Managing Division Chief and Acting Department Director, respectively, for the
operation.



Page No.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .........................................                                           32
A. Overall Responsibility ........................................                                       32
B. Detailed Project Implementation Plan (PIP) ........................................                   32
VI. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ASPECTS                          ........................................ 36
A. Financial Aspects ........................................                                           36
B. Economic Aspects ......................................... 37
C. Project Benefits and Sustainability ........................................                         39
D. Project Risks ........................................                                               40
VIL AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION                                       .        .        ............................... 41
A. Agreements and Assurances ........................................                                   41
B.  Recommendation ........................................                                             42
TABLES IN THE TEXT
Table 1.1         Ethiopia - Agricultural Portfolio
Table 4.1         Project Costs Summary
Table 4.2         Project Financing Plan
Table 4.3         Procurement Arrangements
Table 4.4         Summary Disbursement Schedule - IDA Credit
Table 6.1         Economic Costs of the Project
Table 6.2         Net Cashflow: National Fertilizer Sector Project
GRAPH  1.1        Long-Term Food Grain Production and Consumption Trends
ANNEXES
1.       National Fertilizer Policy
2.       Fertilizer Minikit Program
3.       Ensuring Adequate and Timely Supply of Fertilizers
4.       Project Cost Summary by Components, Financiers and Years
5.       Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
6.       NFIA Organizational Chart
7.       Training and Technical Assistance
8.       Project Implementation Plan
- Attachment I Project Implementation Schedule
- Attachment 2 Key Monitorable Indicators
- Attachment 3 Supervision Plan
9.       Procurement Packages
10.      Financial Aspects
11.      Economic Aspects
12.      Poverty and Gender Issues
13.      Documents in the Project File
MAP:  IBRD No. 26602
ETHIOPIA: AISCO's Sales and Distribution Centers



ETHIOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Transitional Government of Ethiopia
Implementing Agency:   National Fertilizer Industry Agency (NFIA)
Beneficiary:           Small farmers and fertilizer traders
Poverty:               Not applicable
Amount:                SDR 82.9 million (US$120 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard, with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:        0.50% on undisbursed credit balances. beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver
Financing Plan:        See Table 4.2, page 25
Net Present Value:     US$394 million (at a discount rate of 10 percent)
Map:                   IBRD No. 26602






ETHIOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Macro Setting
1.1    Ethiopia, with a population of 54.8 million, is Sub-Saharan Africa's second most populous country.
Its social indicators are among the lowest in the world very low 1994 per capita GDP at US$125 per year.
high infant mortality rate of 122 per 1,000 live births, mortality rate of over 20 percent for children under five,
and growing chronic protein energy malnutrition. According to TGE's Rural Nutrition Survey (1992), 64
percent of the children are stunted and 47 percent are underweight. Only 17 percent of children complete
four years of primary school against the regional and global averages of 48 and 68 percent, respectively.
1.2    Over 50 percent of Ethiopians suffer from chronic food insecurity. The estimated average per capita
calorie intake is below 80 percent of the level considered necessary for a healthy life. The country's structural
food deficit, estimated to be around one million tons, is growing (Graph 1.1). In the last two decades,
population growth averaged about 3 percent per annum, and is projected in the 1993 World Development
Report, 1993 to grow at 2.7 percent per year until the turn of the century.
1.3    The country continues to suffer from severe port and transport capacitv constraints. With Eritrea
becoming an independent country in May 1993, Ethiopia lost its two traditional ports, Asseb and Massawa,
and became landlocked. Although an agreement between the two countries (July 1993) provides Ethiopia
unhindered access to Asseb and Massawa, the severe capacity constraints are not likely to permit a significant
increase in dry cargo (food and fertilizer) imports. In addition, there are serious transportation constraints
aggravated by the inadequacy and poor state of its roads. Ethiopia's road density is among the lowest in
Africa, standing at 20 km per 1,000 km2 and 0.4 km per 1,000 population. Some 80 percent of Ethiopians
depend on traditional means of transport, such as walking, carrying their goods on the back and head, pack
animals and, to a lesser extent, on animal drawn carts. In dispersed, difficult to reach and mountainous
locations, where much of the population resides, household food security is a matter of growing concern.
1.4    The Ethiopian political and economic structures have been subject to repeated and profound changes
during the past two decades. The 1974 revolution ended an era of monarchy and feudalism. It replaced
market mechanisms with state planning and controls over investment, production and trade; stifled private
entrepreneurship and diverted resources to the conduct of civil war and virtually crippled the economy. The
Mengistu government was defeated in May 1991, and a National Conference, comprising a coalition of 29
parties, ethnic and linguistic groups, installed a Transitional Government (TGE) in June 1991. The TGE is in
the process of introducing new economic and administrative structures and a democratic political system.
1.5    Market-oriented Economic System: In November 1991, TGE announced its Economic Policy
during the Transitional Period, which signaled a move away from the centrally planned economy towards a
more liberal, market-oriented and decentralized economic sysiem in which private, rather than collective
ownership, will dominate most sectors of the economy and efficiency will be stimulated by competition and
increased international openness. In the meantime, to jump-start the economy, an Emergency Recovery and
Reconstruction Project (ERRP), Credit 2351 -ET, was launched in July 1992, in cooperation with other donors,
involving a total provision of about US$650 million to be disbursed in two and a half years. ERRP, due to
close on September 30, 1995, has been satisfactorily implemented thus far.
1.6    The TGE's first phase of economic reform included a 59 percent devaluation of the Birr (in US
dollars terms) in October 1992, and the introduction of a limited biweekly foreign exchange auction system in
May 1993, as a move towards a market-determined rate of exchange. Other important reforms aimed at
improving incentives for production, competitiveness of markets, and private sector performance. These
efforts have been supported by a Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2526-ET) funded by IDA and other
donors. The TGE has also agreed with the IDA and IMF on the subsequent phase of reforms presented in the
third Policy Framework Paper negotiated in September 1994 for the period 1994-95 to 1996-97.



-2 -
1.7    Decentralized Administrative System: In order to provide a sound basis for grassroot economic
growth with people's participation, TGE divided the country into 14 regions; however, the newly adopted
constitution by the Constituent Assembly divides the country into nine states, namely, Tigray, Afar, Amhara,
Oromia, Somali, Benishangul, Southern Nation, Gambella and Harare. These state governments shall have
legislative, executive and judicial powers in respect to all matters within their geographical areas except
certain subjects where the central government alone will have authority. In order to implement the new
arrangements, a massive shift of staff from the central government to various regions is under way. It is a
major step in the reorganization of the country's administrative system.
1.8    Such simultaneous handling of profound systemic changes in the economic, political, administrative
and institutional structures of Ethiopia is an effort of unprecedented magnitude. Inevitably, it will take time to
fully establish effective organizational structures and functional relationships to sustain a high level of
economic performance in a democratic political environment.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.9    Sectoral Contribution: The agricultural sector is the leading sector in the Ethiopian economy. It
accounts for 55 percent of GDP at factor cost, employs 80 percent of the labor force, generates 60 percent of
commodity export earnings, in which coffee alone accounts for 60 percent, and provides raw materials for 70
percent of the country's large and medium-sized industrial enterprises that are agro-based. Crop production is
estimated to contribute around 60 percent, livestock around 30 percent and forestry, fishery and other sub-
sectors around 10 percent of the total sectoral output. An estimated over six million smallholders, farming
about 6 to 7 million hectares of land, follow a largely traditional, low-input/low-output rainfed farming
technology and account for about 96 percent of all agricultural output, including 98 percent of the coffee. The
balance is contributed by state farms and other public agricultural enterprises. Depending on the crop
situation, only about 20-30 percent of the cereal production reaches the local market, while the remainder is
consumed on the farm.
1.10    Sectoral Performance: The performance of the agriculture sector in the last two decades has been
poor. While the economy grew at 2.2 percent during the last 18 years, the annual agricultural growth
averaged around 1.1 percent only. The area under crops as well as the overall production has remained
stagnant for several years, barring some exceptional years like 1982/83 and 1988/89. The land productivity
has also remained low at an average per hectare yield of 1.2 tons for food grains, 0.6 tons for pulses and 0.5
tons for oilseeds compared to relatively much higher yields (more than double in many cases) obtained at
research stations and on demonstrations in farmers fields. As a result, barring the exceptional year of 1983,
the country has been a net importer of foodgrains since 1981. The level of foodgrain imports required to meet
the country's deficit rose from 3 percent of the total grain consumption in early 1980s to about 10 percent in
1990. Further, according to the Central Statistical Authority (CSA) 1988-89 agricultural sample survey, 46.7
percent of 6.09 million households (excluding Eritrea, Tigray, Asseb and Ogaden region) have holdings of less
than 0.5 ha; cumulatively, 72.1 percent have holdings of less than one hectare (average size of holding being
0.73 ha). Further, assuming a family size of 5 and normal cereal productivity in Ethiopia, a typical farm
household may need about 0.75 ha of land to obtain a food supply of about 0.9 tons per annum to stay above
the absolute poverty line. Based on this criteria, over 60 percent of the rural households may be below the
poverty line.
1.11    Policy Environment: The absence of a conducive policy environment has probably been the single
most important factor which depressed agricultural performance in the last two decades. Since March 1990,
however, the policy environment has steadily improved. Producer cooperatives have been dissolved; private
commercial farms are being encouraged; public investment in state farms has been drastically reduced; all
compulsory foodgrain quotas have been abolished, and free foodgrain trade has been restored. A new



- 3 -
Investment Code has been issued which provides incentives to private investors; countrywide peace has been
restored; most of the demobilized soldiers have returned to their farms thereby relieving labor shortages;
extension agents have been relieved of their conscription and other political duties, and devaluation of the Birr
has largely restored the profitability of agricultural exports. These policy reforms, combined with additional
fertilizer support under ERRP in 1992, have already resulted in the highest crop productions in 1992-93 and
1993-94.
1.12    Other Causes of Poor Sectoral Performance include:  (a) inadequate research and extension
support; (b) virtual freezing of crop production technology at a primitive, level except for the limited
introduction of fertilizers; (c) continued poor access to modern farm inputs like seeds and fertilizers; (d)
recurrent droughts, little irrigation (about 3 percent of total area) despite significant potential; (e) declining
soil fertility due to overgrazing, reduced fallow, and very rapid deforestation (from 16 percent of total land
area in the early 1950s, to only 2.7 percent in 1989); and (f) progressively diminishing vegetative cover and
declining long-term fertility of soils with 30 percent of the cropped area already facing soil acidity problem.
As a result of all these inadequacies in soil management, combined with very low levels of fertilizer
application, soil nutrients are virtually being mined. The country has not yet prepared proper soil fertility
maps nor put in place a soil testing service for the farmers, and thus is far from developing a clear, integrated
soil management-cum-inputs (seeds, pesticides and fertilizer) strategy. Further, the indigenous renewable
nutrient resource of animal waste and crop residues stands almost totally diverted to the fuel energy needs of
rural households. The possibility of meeting these needs through a more judicious use of animal dung through
biogas plants which provide (a) energy for domestic cooking; and (b) slurry to improve the structure, moisture
retention capacity and humus in the soils has been successfully tested but not yet tried on a commercial scale.
The use of inexpensive, domestically grown (rhizobium cultures) biofertilizers, which fix atmospheric nitrogen
in leguminous plants such as pulses and oilseeds, has not been propagated either. Even green manuring and
composting are hardly practiced. According to an estimate of the National Conservation Secretariat, the
combined impact on agricultural yields from soil erosion and the burning of dung and crop residues resulted in
a foregone cereal production of about one million tons in 1990.
1.13    Sources of Growth: The TGE's recent agricultural strategy identifies two main sources of growth
in agricultural output: (a) area expansion through (i) extensive mechanized farming and (ii) intensive
commercial agriculture; and (b) higher smallholder crop productivity per unit of land.
1.14    (a)     Area Expansion: The scope of increasing area under crops in the central highlands, where
much of agriculture is currently practiced, is severely limited due to growing population pressure combined
wvith one of the largest livestock herds in Africa. Land scarcity has led to increasing the cropped area at the
expense of both fallow and grazing, with crops being grown on more marginal, steep and poorly drained lands
which are susceptible to erosion. It would, therefore, be necessary for cropped area expansion both for
extensive mechanized farming and intensive commercial agriculture, to move to lower elevations, mostly in
the west and south of the country where population density is much lower. However, this would entail a
considerable amount of lead time and investment, as these areas are generally (i) uninhabited or have a sparse
population; (ii) malaria infested; (iii) lacking in minimum infrastructure like roads, clinics, banks, electricity,
potable water, schools, and telecommunications; and (iv) deprived of access to cheap labor due to the absence
of housing and other facilities. Further, the environmental impact of the sudden opening of large areas of land
combined with new human settlements would need a careful study. Area expansion would, therefore, be only
a medium to long-term option, and would not significantly address the problem of rising food shortages in the
next few years.
1.15   (b)      Yield Enhancement: The only available short-term alternative to meet the compelling need
for increased foodgrain production is by increasing the land productivity. There are several mutually
reinforcing ways of achieving enhanced productivity levels in agriculture. These include widespread use of
improved seeds, better cultural practices, site-specific solutions to low productivity through intensive research
and extension work, minimization of post harvest losses, greater and more efficient use of chemical and



- 4 -
and extension work, minimization of post harvest losses, greater and more efficient use of chemical and
organic fertilizers, and more efficient pest management techniques. However, given the current situation in
Ethiopia, under which (i) the entire public administration system is being revamped; (ii) the agricultural
research and extension system is being reviewed for thorough reform; (iii) work on site-specific crop
productivity problems is yet to commence; (iv) the commercial manufacture and sale of improved agricultural
implements and thrashers has not commenced; (v) the important institution of rural cooperatives is to be
virtually recreated under the new cooperative law; (vi) the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
(AIDB) and Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE), the two primary institutions for rural credit. are being
restructured and recapitalized and (vii) the state farms mainly responsible for limited seed production are
being downsized and commercialized; it would be difficult to expect synergistic contributions from several of
these options at least for the next few years. Nevertheless, it is possible to begin with some specific initiatives
which will progressively draw support from the above mentioned institutional and other improvements.
1.16    Domestic Foodgrain Production and Estimated Needs: Graph 1.1 depicts a 20-year scenario of
food production and consumption needs from 1974 to 1994. The country's structural food deficit which started
in 1981 is now around one million tons of foodgrain per year; this deficit could rise in the coming years unless
the growth rate in domestic food production matched the population growth rate. The urgency of rapidly
increasing domestic food production needs to be viewed in the context of (a) port capacity constraints that
limit more than ever before the scope of food imports; (b) transportation problems from the ports to inland
locations, particularly those which are without access roads; and (c) the fact that 50 percent of the population
is already suffering from chronic food insecurity.
1.17    An estimate of Ethiopia's food balance and fertilizer requirement shows that Ethiopia's gross
foodgrain requirements would rise from 8.38 million tons in 1994 to 10.73 million tons in 1999 (an increase
of 2.35 million tons). This calculation is based on two assumptions: (a) an average annual population growth
of 2.7 percent; and (b) an increase in the per capita foodgrain (cereals and pulses) requirement from 134 kg in
1994 to 150 kg in 1999 (still way below the internationally accepted norm of 220 kg). On the other hand,
assuming that (a) during 1994 and 1999, domestic food production would rise between 3 to 3.4 percent (which
is more than twice the average growth rate in the past 20 years), due to factors like improved economic
environment, liberalization of foodgrain markets, marginal increase in area under crops, prevailing peace in
the countryside. and improved extension service, but excluding incremental fertilizer use; and (b) the average
annual food imports would be maintained at the current level of some 0.8 million tons, the country would still
be faced with an increase in the food deficit of 1.04 million tons in 1999. Therefore, the countrv must
annually increase its production so as to produce an additional 1.04 million tons of foodgrains in 1999. A
plausible solution would be to effectively promote a more widespread and more efficient use of inorganic
fertilizers in the country in conjunction with some pilot initiatives to improve the soil fertility status through
expanded use of organic sources of nutrients.  Given the fertilizer response ratios currently obtained in
Ethiopia and the expected improvements during the project, fertilizer use would need to grow at a compound
annual growth rate of about 17 percent between 1994 and 1999, in order to keep the average food deficit at the
current level of about 0.8 million tons. This growth is considered feasible since the current fertilizer use level
is extremely low (paras 2.2 and 2.8) when compared to fertilizer use in several countries in Africa and
elsewhere, and because about 80 percent of the Ethiopian farmers are non-users of fertilizers due to several
constraints (paras 2.24 to 2.27), many of which can be overcome. On the other hand, importation of 1.8
million tons of foodgrains is not a realistic option, given that the import of grains and distribution is costlier
than local production and, more importantly, that the physical constraints to handling such a large volume of
grain imports through the port, transportation and distribution systems would be too overwhelming. Fertilizer
can play a very significant role in lowering transport costs as one ton of fertilizer substitutes for five tons of
grain on the average.
1.18    An important constraint in fertilizer use promotion has been the inadequacy of the agricultural
extension service and, particularly the extension agents' lack of training in promoting efficient fertilizer use.
The TGE is seriously addressing this constraint. Currently the farmer to extension agent ratio varies widely



- 5 -
11) and Region 4, it is 1880:1. However, TGE is very concerned about the relative ineffectiveness of the
extension. A task force, set-up in August 1994, is finalizing extension recommendations for different crops
and agro-climatic areas, as well as exploring ways of (a) upgrading the skills of extension agents through well-
focused training programs; and (b) ensuring timely and adequate supplies of agricultural inputs-specifically,
seeds and fertilizers to farmers.  A  committee, which was set up in February 1994, has, inter alia,
recommended (i) strengthening the extension services in terms of numbers and skills; (ii) strengthening the
linkages between research and extension on the one hand and input supplies on the other; (iii) improved
mobility of extension workers; and (iv) developing integrated extension services instead of the current
fragmented service with allegiance to several departments.   These recommendations are under the
consideration of TGE.
C. IDA's Agricultural Portfolio and Future Strategy
1.19    IDA's Existing Portfolio: IDA's existing agricultural portfolio is rather thin, and comprises only two
projects. One project in agricultural research and forestry closed in June 1994 and a livestock project closed in
December 1994.
Table 1.1
Ethiopia - Agricultural Portfolio
US$ millions
Credit                                      Credit      Disbursed      Percentage
No.    Effective                          Amount    as of March 31,    Disbursed
Project                  Date          Closin Date                       1995
Original    Current
Small-Scale          1765    Oct.      Dec. 1993    Dec. 1995     7.0          2.40            34
Irrigation                   1987
PADEP 1              1956    Apr.      Jun. 1995    June 1995    85.0          76.32           90
Total                                                       92.0         78.72            85
1.20    Therc has been no new IDA lending for the agriculture sector since 1989. IDA's efforts have mainly
concentrated on policy dialogue, sector work (in areas of food security, poverty alleviation and forestry sub-
sector) and the strengthening of the future pipeline. Since TGE came into office in mid-1991, IDA has
reviewed ongoing operations with a view to restructuring projects established under the previous regime, and
freeing up resources for deployment in support of speedy economic recovery operations, as well as realigning
the project designs with the Government's new economic management and development vision. IDA has
proposed further sector work to TGE and possible support in the areas of agricultural research and extension
services.
1.21    IDA's Lending Pipeline in the Agriculture Sector: In addition to the focus on improved
implementation of the existing portfolio, the pipeline includes two national projects (fertilizer and seed) to
provide an efficient inputs supply service to agriculture. A third, agricultural support services project in the
area of agricultural research and extension, is under discussions with TGE; this would be a continuation and
expansion of the efforts under the recently completed (June 1994) Agricultural Research Project (CR. 1521-
ET) to generate new technologies that can increase crop yields and ensure their effective dissemination
through a nationwide extension service. Another natural resource management project is being proposed by
TGE for funding by bilateral and other grants. In addition, the Global Environmental Facility fund would
assist in the formulation of the bio-diversity strategy.



- 6 -
II. THE FERTILIZER SECTOR
A. Fertilizer Use
2.1    Inorganic fertilizer was first introduced to Ethiopia following three years of simple fertilizer
demonstrations (1967-69) on major cereal crops, carried out by the Government with the assistance of FAO's
Freedom from Hunger Campaign. It did not take long for the peasants to value the benefit of fertilizer
application to their crops.
2.2    Beginning with an average annual consumption of 3,500 tons during 1967-72, the fertilizer usage has
continually increased to a record level of 156,000 tons in 1992. Despite this growth, Ethiopia is one of the
lowest users of fertilizers in the world. It averages about 7 kilograms of nutrient per hectare of arable land,
compared to about 48 kg in Kenya, 60 kg in Zimbabwe, 9 kg each in Tanzania and Sub-Saharan Africa, 65 kg
each in the Middle East and North Africa, and 97 kg--the estimated world average. Application rates by most
peasant farmers are well below those recommended by the extension service (100 kg DAP and 50 kg Urea per
hectare) and may in some cases be as low as 20-30 kg per hectare. The application rates by the state farms,
whose consumption peaked to almost 30,000 tons in 1986-87, were much higher at 130 kg per hectare. The
1974 blanket fertilizer use recommendations are now being replaced with more specific crop and soil related
recommendations on the basis of several years of data obtained from fertilizer trials carried out in different
parts of the country (para 6.1).
2.3    About 85 percent of all fertilizer is used by peasants and much of the remainder is used on the state
farms. Nearly 95 percent of all fertilizer is applied on foodgrains. According to a crop survey by CSA in
1982-83 and the more recent Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation (AISCO) estimates, tef--the major
staple-accounts for about 40 percent of all fertilizer used, while wheat, barley, maize, and sorghum altogether
account for about 50 percent of all fertilizer consumption--the rest being used on other crops like millet,
cotton, coffee and tobacco. Coffee is, in contrast to many other African countries, only a marginal consumer
of fertilizers. For 1990-91, CSA estimated its use around 4,000 tons, applied mostly in coffee nurseries.
2.4    Fertilizers are used by an estimated 1.2 million peasants or some 20 percent of the estimated six
million fanming families. However, according to the 1989 agricultural Extension Monitoring Survey (EMS),
more than two-third of the farmers in the high fertilizer consumption areas are familiar with the blanket
fertilizer use recommendations promoted by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) extension staff. Several field
visits have further revealed that a majority of farmers, including subsistence farmers, in the low-consumption
areas are equally aware of the blanket fertilizer use recommendations.
2.5    About 78 percent of fertilizer consumption is concentrated in the highlands, 46 percent in Shewa, and
16 percent each in the Gojam and Arsi regions. An estimated one-third of all farmers in these regions, which
account for 60 percent of the cropped area, with 30 percent of the households having less than 0.5 hectare of
land, apply fertilizers to their crops. Some 80 percent of the fertilizer sales comprise DAP, urea accounts for
19 percent, and other fertilizers (mostly NPK), one percent. This reflects a serious nitrogen to phosphorous
(N:P) nutrient imbalance (1:1.8) in fertilizer use when compared to the extension recommendations (1:1.1).
There is an urgent need to increase the use of nitrogenous fertilizers by the farmers.
2.6    While the available data does not permit analysis of fertilizer consumption by farm size, preliminary
results of the International Food Policy Research Institute's (IFPRI) survey "Ethiopia: Seasonality Study" in
South Shoa indicate that 40 percent of farmers owning 0.5 hectares or less had used fertilizers in 1991. There
is anecdotal evidence from some other regions to show that some subsistence farmers also use fertilizers to
raise their cereal production to a level which can sustain their families through the year. For this purpose they
would sell a goat or a sheep or even an ox to buy some fertilizers. The two most important constraints
mentioned by the peasants are (a) scarcity of fertilizer in the nearby markets, and (b) non-availability of credit.



- 7 -
2.7    The sales season for fertilizers is rather short with about 15-20 percent being sold during the short
rainy season (belg) from February to April and the rest being sold during the three months May-July, before
and during the main rains (meher) lasting between June and September. There is very little fertilizer sale in
August and virtually no sale between September and January. Therefore, unlike the two distinct fertilizer sale
seasons, separated by some months in most countries, Ethiopia has virtually only one season, from February to
July. This aggravates the logistical problems in fertilizer importation and distribution in Ethiopia.
2.8    Fertilizer Use Potential: Given that fertilizer is used by no more than 20 percent of the farmers and
that many farmers apply sub-optimal doses, and given that countrywide trials over several years have
established the profitability of fertilizer use in most situations, there is a significant scope for increasing the
coverage and the dosage of fertilizer use. These trials, conducted since 1967, have been funded by various
donors from time to time. The National Fertilizer Inputs Unit (NFIU) of MOA funded by Italy and managed
by FAO, in close collaboration with the Agricultural Development Division (ADD) of MOA, is conducting
trials in demonstration plots and farmers fields since 1985 (see para 6.1). The scope of this program is now
being expanded to evaluate the role of complementary organic inputs.
B. Fertilizer Production
2.9.    Ethiopia does not produce chemical fertilizers. However, for the domestic production of inorganic
fertilizers, based on the country's natural resource endowment, some initiatives are in the pipeline. The
Ministry of Industry has completed a techno-economic feasibility study for putting up a 10,000 ton per annum
SSP plant, (20 percent P205) using the annual availability of bones in the country, and the project is likely to
be proposed for donor assistance. Some studies have also been made on various aspects of ammonia-urea
production based on available domestic resources of natural gas, but a systematic techno-economic feasibility
study has not yet been undertaken. The Government proposes to take up further studies out of its own
resources or from other grant assistance. Therefore, for all practical purposes, the country must import all its
requirement for inorganic fertilizers in the coming several years.
C. Fertilizer Policy Environment
2.10   In addition to the macro-policy reforms described in Chapter I, TGE also announced a Fertilizer
Policy in November 1993 (see Annex 1). This policy document addresses major issues germane to the
liberalization and development of the fertilizer sub-sector. Its policy objectives include: (a) promotion of a
streamlined, competitive and efficient fertilizer importation and marketing system; (b) development of an
integrated plant nutrient supply system, including biofertilizers and organic manure; (c) development and use
of indigenous nutrient materials; (d) fertilizer promotion in less accessible and low use areas; (e) quality
control measures; (f) identification and handling of fertilizer related environmental issues; (g) development of
sound agronomic packages with fertilizers as an integral part; (h) alleviation of fertilizer demand and supply
side constraints; and (i) creation of an institutional structure to systematically implement the national fertilizer
policy. Under this policy, the Government would: (a) encourage the private sector to fully participate in the
importation, distribution, wholesale and retail trade for fertilizers; (b) promote cooperatives on the basis of
voluntary membership under the new law; and (c) restructure and streamline Agriculture Inputs Supply
Corporation (AISCO) into an autonomous entity with its own board of directors so that it can operate in a free
market in competition with the private sector and cooperatives. Further, the policy document emphasizes
monitoring of fertilizer prices and subsidies, helping farmers adjust to the adverse effects of macro-economic
changes, and adjusting the pace of subsidy removal programs in accordance with the prevailing conditions.



- 8 -
D. Fertilizer Marketing System
2.11    Until mid-1992, the fertilizer importation and marketing system was fully state controlled. Fertilizer
demand was estimated by AISCO, a monopolist parastatal that had been handling agricultural inputs since
1985, in consultation with the MOA. However, since this demand estimation exercise was generally delayed,
AISCO used to go ahead with imports, depending upon the availability of donor funds, and the demand
estimates were later used to allocate appropriate quantities of fertilizers to different regions. Upon arrival at
Asseb, the fertilizer was handled by a monopolistic parastatal, the Marine Transport Services Corporation
(MTSC) and transported some 800 km from Asseb by another parastatal, the Ethiopian Freight Transport
Corporation (EFTC). It was stored by AISCO in its six transit warehouses (Addis Ababa, Mojo, Nazareth,
Assela, Jimma and Kombolcha) and then transported (average distance 300 km) to about 500 marketing
centers (MCs) resorting under the MOA. The MC staff sold the fertilizer against bank credit, or deposit of the
cost in a bank, to service cooperatives (also a state institution), who in turn sold the fertilizer, primarily against
credit to the farmers. No cash sales across the counter were permitted in MCs, and only about 40 percent of
the 4,100 service cooperatives (SCs) were eligible for Bank credit. Groups of farmers could also go to the
nearest bank (which could be several miles away), deposit the price of fertilizer, and then return to the MC
with a proof of deposit and obtain delivery of fertilizer. No individual farmer could pay cash and buy fertilizer
from MC under this arrangement. The entire system was characterized by a complete absence of market
orientation. This cumbersome system combined with the Government's tight control on the agricultural sector,
including fixed output prices until 1990, has been a major reason for only one out of five farming families
using fertilizers and that too in substandard doses.
2.12    New Marketing Strategy (NMS): Following the New Economic Policy of the TGE (November
1991), a new marketing strategy for fertilizer was formulated with technical assistance from FAO. It has
seven key elements: (a) to begin with, private sector should supplement and not replace the existing marketing
arrangements through MCs and SCs; (b) the playing field should be made level between the cooperatives and
the private traders; both should obtain fertilizers from MCs at the same price and with the same distribution
margin; (c) the National Bank of Ethiopia (NBE) should permit the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE),
which has an extensive countrywide branch network, to provide fertilizer credit to farmers and fertilizer
retailers and wholesalers, thereby breaking the monopoly of the AIDB which had a limited branch network;
(d) the extent and pace of privatization in different parts of the country should be in accordance with the likely
private sector response, given the local social, political and entrepreneurial situation; (e) eventual elimination
of the pan-territorial pricing system and, as a first step, decontrol of retail prices; (f) advocates an active role
for the Government in obtaining donor support for adequate and timely import of fertilizers; and (g) regular
and intensive monitoring of prices, sales and stocks by AISCO and arrangements to rush supplies to areas
where shortages could surface leading to price increases.
2.13    Implementation of NMS: The NMS was implemented except for decontrol of retail prices. AISCO
took a number of preparatory steps during February-May 1992, including: (a) developing detailed proposals on
distribution of fertilizers in war ravaged areas of Tigray, Wello and Gondar; (b) conducting an orientation
program for AISCO's Regional Coordinators; (c) preparing a detailed secondary fertilizer movement plan (i.e.,
from transit warehouses to MCs); (d) preparing a location-based retail network plan as a basis for the
privatization campaign; (e) designing retailer and wholesaler "Application for Registration" form and
recognition letter; (f) preparing criteria for the selection of private retailers and wholesalers, with delegation of
powers to local officers to appoint them without any registration fee; (g) designing the monitoring forms for
fertilizer movement, stocks and sales; (h) preparing   a detailed step by step timetable for action;
(i) strengthening AISCO's sales and distribution department; and (j) working out realistic distribution margins
for wholesalers and retailers in order to make it attractive for the private trade to participate in fertilizer
marketing.



- 9 -
2.14   In view of these preparatory actions, AISCO was able to begin NMS implementation as soon as
government approval came in early June, fairly close to the end of the 1992 fertilizer sales season. During the
short period, AISCO appointed and trained 144 retailers and 7 wholesalers who sold about 3,000 tons of
fertilizer in the last few weeks of the season. Even though the private sector sales in 1992 did not exceed two
percent of the total sales, the Government's directive permitting private sales and AISCO's actions mnarked a
watershed in the history of fertilizer marketing. Further, as a result of abundant fertilizer supplies under
ERRP and better trained and motivated AISCO staff, fertilizer sales hit an all time record of 156,000 tons, up
by 38 percent from 113,000 tons sold in 1991. In effect, AISCO became an effective promoter of private
fertilizer marketing in the country. Beginning with the 1995 fertilizer sales season, AISCO would operate
through its own three newly set up main centers at Addis Ababa, Mojo and Bahir Dar, and 22 (eventually 41)
Sales and Distribution Centers (SDCs) in different parts of the country. It will, however, continue to operate
some 500 MCs, as in the past, until these are effectively replaced by the private trade. These MCs, though
housed in MOA stores and staffed by MOA personnel, are under AISCO's operational control, and serve as
wholesale stores for supply of fertilizers to the private retailers and cooperatives. These MCs do negligible
direct retailing to the farmers against cash, as they are not equipped to handle cash.
2.15    Other Developments: Some other developments have further improved the fertilizer marketing
environment. First, the transport sector has been completely liberalized; this, combined with substantial
assistance to the sector under ERRP, has eased, though not yet eliminated, the fertilizer transportation
constraint. Second, beginning with the 1993 fertilizer season, TGE went one step further in its liberalization
agenda and permitted private sector fertilizer imports. Accordingly, one private trading house has already
imported three shiploads of fertilizers and is marketing them through its own marketing network. The
continuing interest by the private sector in fertilizer importation and domestic marketing is a clear indication
of the profitability of this business. Third, AISCO appointed and trained another 934 private retailers who
were supplied fertilizers from the MCs. Thus, for the 1993 season 1,078 private retailers had been registered,
though only 908 or 84 percent participated in the sales operations. Nevertheless, this arrangement led to a
dramatic increase in fertilizer sales by the private retailers. Their share of sales to the peasant sector went up
from about two percent in 1992 to nearly 68 percent in 1993. Fourth, for the 1995 sales season, AISCO is
planning to raise the number of private retailers and also appoint private distributors and wholesalers to
widen and deepen the private retail network. Suitable terms and conditions for the appointment of retailers
and wholesalers have been developed by AISCO, while those for distributors still remain to be developed.
Fifth, in order to make AISCO an autonomous commercial enterprise TGE has recently constituted a Board of
Directors for AISCO. The administrative control of AISCO has shifted from MOA to the Prime Minister's
Secretariat since February 1994. A restructuring proposal, to make AISCO a lean and efficient organization
has been developed, and is now under implementation. Under this proposal AISCO would replace about 50
MCs with private wholesalers in 1995, 200 MCs in 1996, and the remaining about 250 MCs in 1997. Sixth,
AISCO has started the practice of preparing an annual business plan. The first such plan was reviewed by
IDA and comments provided to AISCO (para 3.9). Seventh, there is a strong donor interest in restructuring
and streamlining the fertilizers sector. Regular donor meetings are held, in which AISCO, MOA, the credit
institutions and the private sector are invited to participate. Any serious emerging problems are brought to the
attention of the Government for suitable action.
E. Fertilizer Prices and Subsidies
2.16    Fertilizer Pricing:  For several years, the country has observed pan-territorial fertilizer price
controls. The Government sets the maximum retail price for each type of fertilizer on the basis of AISCO
proposals duly reviewed by MOA, Ministry of Trade, and the Ministry of Planning and Economic
Development. These recommendations are based on cost-plus proposals by AISCO/MOA and now (i.e., since
1992) include distribution margins for retailers. This arrangement had helped in keeping farmgate prices
close to government administered prices. However, now, with a liberalized and competitive retailing system



- 10-
for fertilizers, these price controls act as a disincentive for retailers to move far away from AISCO's wholesale
stores (MCs) and transit warehouses, because the fixed distribution margins in the maximum retail selling
prices do not cover the transportation costs beyond a short distance of some 20 km. TGE is concerned that
with a competitive marketing system still in its infancy, micro-level monopolies of retailers might lead to
unsustainably high prices, making it uneconomical for farmers to use fertilizers. On the other hand, looking at
it from AISCO's sustained profitability point of view, the pan-territorial price works to AISCO's disadvantage,
as its competitors could undersell AISCO in the main consuming areas, thereby forcing AISCO to move to
more distant areas with higher distribution costs. TGE has decided to gradually phase out pan territorial price
controls, beginning with decontrol of retail prices before the end of 1996, decontrol of wholesale prices by
December 31, 1997, and complete decontrol (i.e., distributors' prices) by the close of 1998. Assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations.
2.17    Fertilizer Subsidy: A subsidy was introduced in 1993 to cushion the likely adverse impact on
demand of a sudden and sharp increase in fertilizer prices following a massive devaluation of the Birr from
US$1=2.07 Birr to US$l= Birr 5.0. Even after the 15 percent subsidy and blending the Birr price of old stocks
and new arrivals, a 39 percent increase in price had to be announced for 1993 sales. This price increase was
an important, but certainly not the only, reason which led to a decline in fertilizer consumption from 156,000
tons in 1992 to 121,000 tons in 1993. The farmers had serious liquidity problems in the near absence of a
credit system. However, in terms of total cash outlay on fertilizers by the farmers, 1993 witnessed an increase
over 1992. Further, the fertilizer subsidy is equally available both to the public and the private sector
importers. Also, the fact that the subsidy is passed on to the farmers is not in doubt, as the fertilizer prices are
regulated by TGE.
2.18    The Government considers the grant of a general price subsidy as a temporary measure.  An
understanding has been reached with TGE that a general, across-the-board fertilizer retail price subsidy will
continue only until September 30, 1996, after which only targeted subsidies, according to a criteria to be
agreed with IDA on the basis of a detailed TGE study to be completed by October 31, 1995, would be
continued to promote fertilizer use in low-using, inaccessible areas with potential. In fact, a beginning
towards targeted subsidies would be made in the 1995 fertilizer season by excluding state farms as well as
large conumercial farms from the benefit of fertilizer price subsidy. Assurances have been provided by TGE
during negotiations that subsidies would be completely eliminated by September 30, 1998, and that the subsidy
as a percentage of the total unsubsidized fertilizer price would not exceed 25 percent at any time.
F. Fertilizer Credit
2.19    Financial Institutions Related to the Fertilizer Sector: Two financial institutions, the Commercial
Bank of Ethiopia (CBE) focusing on trade and working capital finance, and the Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank (AIDB) specializing in the financing of rural credit, are of direct interest to the fertilizer
sector. CBE, the sole commercial bank of the country, has about 115 rural branches, which operate with
reasonable efficiency. Its direct involvement for inputs credit to farmers was circumscribed by the National
Bank of Ethiopia (NBE) Rural Credit Policy (NBE/CR/6 directive 1988), which made input loans a close
preserve of AIDB, with CBE coming in only as an exception. This policy was revised in 1992 to permit CBE
also to advance input loans to farmers and service cooperatives. AIDB, on the other hand, has a rather small
network of 12 main branches and 17 sub-offices; but it has had decentralized lending procedures for some
1,500 registered service cooperatives in addition to state farms, industries and the services sector. AIDB has
been rather weak in enforcing recoveries and, partly because of the political nature of loans to the state farms
sector, it ended up with huge arrears. All AIDB's loans to the state farms have been taken over by the Ministry
of Finance where a credit recovery cell has been set-up to deal with the recovery of outstanding dues. The
Government's efforts to revive input loans to smallholders are underway. Beginning with the 1994 fertilizer
season, CBE has restarted providing input loans to farmers on a significant scale; arrangements are also being



- I1 -
finalized to ensure timely recovery of these input loans. CBE's recovery performance in the past, i.e., prior to
1988, had been very good with recoveries generally exceeding 85 percent. The Government is also working
on the re-registration of the service cooperatives as agricultural cooperatives under the new law enacted in
February 1994.
2.20   Informal Sources of Credit: While the informal financial markets play a role in the financing of
small scale enterprises in urban areas, their current role in the rural areas is unclear. The near elimination of
private trade during the previous regime (1974-1991) greatly reduced the scope of traders' credit in rural areas.
However, with the liberalization of the grain trade and the re-entry of private traders, informal credit channels
are already beginning to be revived.
2.21    Credit to Fertilizer Trade: Credit is also needed by fertilizer importers, distributors, wholesalers
and retailers. In order to satisfy this need, NBE and CBE have recently clarified that merchandise loans on
standard terms would be available to fertilizer importers and distributors against the collateral of the
merchandise itself. The private importers did receive adequate credit facilities from the CBE during 1993 and
1994. However, fertilizer wholesalers and retailers, who would be handling relatively smaller quantities,
would still have to provide collateral against the loans, because their product cannot be kept in bonded
warehouses.
G. Cooperatives
2.22    Service Cooperatives (SC): SCs were one of the four types of cooperative institutions set up by the
previous Government under the Rural Land Proclamation of 1975. SCs were the only channel through which
peasants obtained their supplies of fertilizer, generally on credit. About 4,000 SCs, with membership of
20,000 peasant associations, representing about 5 million farmers, were used by the Government as channels
for distributing to farmers the consumer goods and agricultural inputs which were in short supply. When
grain delivery quotas were in force, they were also used to enforce delivery by farmers. Since SCs were used
by the Government as instruments of coercion, farmer dissatisfaction culminated in mass defaults as the civil
war intensified, and many (exact numbers not available) became defunct due to physical destruction, damage
to premises and records, looting of goods, or the disappearance of office bearers.
2.23    The TGE has already issued a new proclamation (No. 85/1994) on February 1, 1994, on Agricultural
Cooperative Societies. This proclamation permits the registration of new cooperatives on principles of
voluntary membership, one member one vote, non-interference by the Government, democratic procedures for
carrying out its activities, sharing of dividends, and minimum membership of ten individuals living within a
given area. The proclamation provides for the reorganization and registration of the existing active service
cooperative societies and, in the interim permits them to continue operations. A task force in the Prime
Minister's Secretariat is examining ways and means of promoting this rural institution through mass
educational campaigns and training of new cooperative functionaries. It is evident, however, that it would
take some time before a reasonable number of societies are registered and made operational.
H. Constraints to Fertilizer Use
2.24    Constraints to fertilizer use are several; the main ones emanate from  the country's past
macroeconomic environment. In addition, there are supply and demand side constraints.
2.25    Until recently, the macroeconomic policy environment favored complete state control. This brought
in some of the most glaring inefficiencies in the system, including high wastage, excessive distribution and



- 12 -
marketing costs, and serious delivery delays. TGE's latest policies (1992-93), however, make a departure from
the past by allowing private importation, transportation and domestic marketing of fertilizers, as well as free
trading of agricultural output (para 2.15). These reforms would need to be further deepened by abolishing
fertilizer (pan-territorial) price controls, (para 2.16) and eliminating the recently introduced 15 percent
fertilizer subsidy (paras 2.17 and 2.18); and appointing private forwarding and clearing agents at Asseb to
reduce fertilizer handling costs.
2.26    On the supply side, the major constraints include chronic shortages in fertilizer supply at inland
locations, particularly outside the currently surplus grain producing areas of Shoa, Arsi and Gojam, and the
absence of a well-spread out network of fertilizer retailers. In addition, the delayed deliveries of fertilizers at
the retail points are also partly due to the handling inefficiencies of parastatals at the port and those
responsible for transportation, and partly due to late announcement of aid by bilateral donors. Such a situation
reduces the overall fertilizer consumption and encourages fertilizer use on crops planted later in the season,
even if this means fertilizer use on relatively less responsive crops. Fertilizers arriving at Asseb close to the
main consumption season suffer from transportation problems because of the poor state of roads, which is
made worse with the onset of the rainy season. Also the marketing strategy of AISCO, which did not permit
across the counter cash sale, made it very difficult for a small farmer to get his supplies conveniently.
2.27    On the demand side, the main constraints are controlled grain prices and a compulsory quota delivery
system, shortage of agricultural credit, poor research, extension and training support to farmers, unwieldy size
of fertilizer bags (50 kg), and some technical problems like soil erosion, absence of soil testing facilities, and
absence of fertilizer use promotion programs. The most important of the demand side constraints, i.e.,
controlled grain prices and compulsory quota delivery system, have already been removed. Farmers are now
free to sell their produce when they want, to whom they want, and at prices which the market will bear. This
has already improved the demand for fertilizers. In 1992, fertilizer use increased by 40 percent, due to three
main reasons: (a) improved availability of fertilizers within the country through liberal and timely imports
funded by ERRP; (b) higher demand due to improved economic environment; and (c) normal rains. The
Government is currently engaged in addressing constraints of inadequate fertilizer credit, extension support to
farmers, and absence of soil testing facilities.
L. Design Considerations for The Fertilizer Project
2.28    In the design of a fertilizer policy and a fertilizer use development program, some special features
deserve to be noted. First, there being no domestic production of inorganic fertilizers, Ethiopia depends
completely on imports. There is, therefore, no fertilizer supply push ordinarily originating in fertilizer
producing countries from a build-up of inventories in the fertilizer plants during the off-season. Second, in
order to obtain significant economies of scale in fertilizer importation and ocean freight, the minimum size of
a shipment will need to be around 20,000 tons. This means that, at a minimum, an importer must be able to
mobilize about US$5 million for a shipload, and additionally about US$3 million in local currency to meet
port charges, bagging, transportation, and distribution costs. Third, from the time of placing orders with a
foreign supplier, it takes two to four months for the fertilizer to arrive at interior locations. On the other hand,
the fertilizer application season in Ethiopia is short, continuous, time specific and inflexible. Fourth, Ethiopia
is now a land-locked country, and priority berthing and emergency handling of fertilizer vessels may not
always be possible. Fifth, a considerable amount of uncertainty surrounds the fertilizer business. There is
demand uncertainty due to weather aberrations in the rainfed farming systems of Ethiopia. Anticipated output
prices and credit availability also influence fertilizer demand at the farm level. There is supply uncertainty,
given Ethiopia's total dependence on imports coupled with chronic shortage of foreign exchange and
uncertainties in the timing of donor assistance. Supply uncertainties also arise out of unanticipated port
congestions and inland transportation problems. There is also price uncertainty due to fluctuations in world
fertilizer prices and donors' procurement procedures. Sixth, politically, fertilizer is a sensitive commodity; at



- 13 -
the same time, economically, it is a critical input to mitigate an acute problem of food insecurity. Ethiopia has
a significant population amenable to risk posed by famine, starvation and shortfalls in food aid. Also there are
logistical constraints at the ports, as well as within the country, including a poor road network, mountainous
terrain and inaccessible segments of population. It has been estimated that it is much cheaper, in terms of
foreign exchange requirements and the capacity of domestic infrastructure, to import and use fertilizers than to
import foodgrains. Lastly, exclusive reliance on chemical fertilizers may not be the sound way to sustain long-
term fertility of Ethiopian soils. An approach for complementary use of organic and inorganic nutrient
sources for sustaining and enhancing soil fertility could be environmentally more efficient and acceptable (see
para 1.12). Therefore, it may be necessary to take some pilot initiatives in this direction.
2.29    From the above, some conclusions follow: (a) it will not be quick or easy to attract the private sector
to the fertilizer importation business, as distinguished from domestic marketing, given the needed minimum
size of investment and the risks involved; (b) in view of the bulkiness of the fertilizer material and the seasonal
nature of demand, it is a high risk and low profit business and would not, therefore, be the most attractive
choice for an entrepreneur in an economy which is just opening up; (c) in the initial phase of privatization,
when individual entrepreneurs would be cautious in importing or acquiring more fertilizers than they are sure
of selling, a scarcity syndrome could not be ruled out and therefore, the planning of transition from a
government controlled to a market oriented fertilizer sub-sector needs to be done with extreme caution to avoid
convulsive changes in fertilizer flow to the farmer; and, finally, (d) it would be highly desirable to move in the
direction of an integrated plant nutrient supply system, instead of relying on chemical fertilizers alone.
J. Lessons Learned
2.30    In view of the reversal of the policies of the previous Government (1974-90) and the adoption of a
liberalized market-based approach to economic development by TGE, the lessons of the projects implemented
during the earlier regime do not have much relevance in the changed context. However, across countries, a
relevant experience relates to Malawi Smallholder Fertilizer Project (Cr.  1352-MAI).  The Project
Performance Audit Report (PPAR) No. 9689 dated June 21, 1991 concludes as follows: "The main lesson of
this operation for the Bank is that, prior to lending, the Bank should draw up explicit plans, seek a firm
commitment and reach an agreement with the Government on fostering commercialization of fertilizer
procurement and distribution (especially) with proper supervisory and regulatory roles for the MOA or one of
its agencies." In the proposed National Fertilizer Sector Project (NFSP), commercialization and privatization
of fertilizer importation and distribution and monitoring by the National Fertilizer Industry Agency (NFIA) is
the central feature. Further, the PPAR for the Malawi project stated that "the fertilizer project should have
been less ambitious in its objective of policy reform and should have been limited to promoting a
commercialized distribution system." According to the PPAR, the fertilizer subsidy policy issue was quite
properly in the domain of the structural adjustment credit and the agricultural sector credit. In the case of
Ethiopia, phased subsidy removal is one of the conditionalities for the NFSP, but IDA would follow a multi-
pronged approach and keep it as an important issue under the Policy Framework Paper discussions too. Other
relevant fertilizer projects reviewed include Bangladesh First and Second Fertilizer Imports Credits (Cr. 944-
BD and 1044-BD) as well as Pakistan Fertilizer Import Credit (Cr. 1066-PK). The PPAR for the Bangladeshi
projects conclude that these projects helped increase fertilizer use with a significant impact on foodgrain
production. Also the credits helped in easing constraints and laying the foundation for an efficient fertilizer
supply and distribution system. The PPAR underlines the need for training the staff of the Fertilizer Planning
and Monitoring Secretariat--a missing component in the Bangladesh Imports Credits. The lessons from these
projects have been incorporated in the design of the NFSP.
2.31    An important lesson from the Ugandan and Kenyan experience is that a macroeconomic program by
itself would not generate immediate and adequate private sector response in the fertilizer sector. It takes much
longer to create a conducive environment. What is more important, the private sector needs time, to develop



- 14 -
confidence in the new policies as well as in the continuity and stability of the new macroeconomic
environment. Given a range of choices among the new business opportunities, fertilizer is certainly not the
most attractive choice, as the fertilizer business is characterized by the acute seasonality of demand, total
dependence on imports, the need for high capital requirement for even one shipload, and the need for an
elaborate domestic marketing network. The experience in Ghana shows that privatization of fertilizer
marketing increased the concentration of the distribution network in urban areas. While many of the official
distribution channels had shut down, private traders had not rushed in to replace them. This had particularly
hit the small farmers in remote areas. The lessons of these experiences have been taken into account while
determining the marketing strategy during Ethiopia's transition to a fully competitive marketing system.
K. Rationale for I]DA Involvement
2.32    The project is an integral part of IDA's Country Assistance Strategy which is designed to respond
directly to a key concern of the Ethiopian authorities. The latter is to reduce the vulnerability of the rural
population to famine. Food security would be pursued through a concentrated effort to increase productivity of
smaliholder agriculture. One of the major objectives of IDA's country assistance strategy is to improve food
security on a sustainable basis. Economic growth is the essential basis of a long-term strategy to reduce
poverty through increased employment and food production. The aim of the Bank's program is to support this
growth strategy through a series of important measures, which include: (a) a policy framework to stimulate
production, exports, and private sector growth; (b) a reliable flow of inputs for the productive sectors;
(c) essential improvement and expansion of infrastructure; (d) environmental rehabilitation and conservation;
and (e) institutional capacity essential for economic growth. The proposed project would ensure the supply of
the most critically required input, namely fertilizer, to raise agricultural production and productivity and
thereby support TGE's strategic goal of food security. IDA had earlier supported the import of fertilizer as a
part of its on-going program through PADEP I (Cr. 1956-ET), and more recently under ERRP (Cr. 235 1-ET).
The fertilizer project complements the proposed Seed Systems Development Project, as fertilizer and seed are
the critical inputs required for a rapid growth in agriculture. TGE's ownership and commitment is strong for
this project, as evidenced by the National Fertilizer Industry Policy, as well as the major up-front reforms
undertaken with regard to the importation and domestic marketing of fertilizers and the establishment of
NFIA.



- 15 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Components
3.1    The project's objective is to help achieve accelerated and sustainable growth in agricultural
production and productivity with a view to improving food security and reducing poverty. The project is
expected to achieve this objective by (a) supporting policy reform to create an enabling environment for the
growth of a competitive fertilizer sector; (b) supporting institutional strengthening and human resource
development; (c) promoting increased, efficient and environmentally safe use of fertilizers by the largest
possible number of farmers; (d) addressing fertilizer supply-side constraints; and (e) promoting initiatives to
maintain and improve the long-term fertility of the Ethiopian soils and ensuring environmental conservation.
3.2    By the end of the project period, it is envisaged that Ethiopia's fertilizer sector would have moved
from a state controlled to a largely liberalized system with active participation of private sector importers,
distributors, wholesalers and retailers in a progressively competitive price and trade environment. This, in
turn, is expected to contribute significantly to enhanced food security at the national and household levels,
improved management of the Ethiopian soils and the strengthening of fertilizer related institutions.
3.3     The project consists of three components. The first component relates to capacity building and
comprises institutional strengthening and human resource development. The second component addresses
fertilizer demand and supply-side constraints. The third component relates to soil fertility management and
environmental conservation.
B. Fertilizer Policy Reform
3.4    Fertilizer policy reform deals with fertilizer pricing, subsidy, importation and marketing policies; it
sets a new role in fertilizer marketing for AISCO--the parastatal which until recently was the sole importer
and distributor of fertilizers. Finally, it deals with TGE policy towards fertilizer quality control (QC) and its
enforcement.
3.5    Fertilizer Prices: The Government has agreed to phase out fertilizer price controls, beginning with
the decontrol of retail prices by December 31, 1996, wholesale prices by December 31, 1997, and distributors
prices in by September 30, 1998, thereby achieving complete price deregulation (para 2.16). Assurances to
this effect were obtained during negotiations.
3.6    Fertilizer Subsidies: TGE has confirmed that the general, across-the-board fertilizer price subsidy,
introduced in 1993, would be phased out by September 30, 1996. This would be followed by a targeted
subsidy, not exceeding 25 percent of the full unsubsidized price, to bring the farmners in inaccessible and
remote locations within the mainstream of fertilizer users. The selection of farmers wvill be according to a
criteria to be agreed in advance with IDA on the basis of a study to be completed by October 31, 1995. This
targeted subsidy would be removed by September 30, 1998. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations.
3.7    Fertilizer Importation: TGE has already allowed the private sector to import and market fertilizers
within the country without any restrictions (para 2.15). The project would establish institutional mechanisms
in the National Fertilizer Industry Agency (NFIA) to ensure that both the public and the private sector
importers would have equal access to IDA funds under the project as well as to any other foreign exchange
made available by TGE, NBE, and other donors. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.



- 16 -
The Government would also discuss with donors the possibility of harmonizing donor procurement procedures
to import fertilizers at the most competitive prices.
3.8    Fertilizer Marketing:  Consistent with TGE's National Fertilizer Policy (November 1993) in
Annex 1, the project would support a competitive approach to fertilizer marketing, through the public,
cooperative and private sectors, in a level playing field situation. This approach has the advantage of
(a) utilizing the available strengths of the public and cooperative sectors; (b) avoiding a vacuum and sustaining
fertilizer consumption levels during the transition period; and (c) giving time to the private sector to assimilate
change, build confidence as well as experience and achieve sound growth. Further, in order to accelerate and
deepen the privatization process, the project would support improvements in the spread and the density of the
fertilizer retail, wholesale and distributor network. Towards this end, the project would finance technical
assistance, and would provide periodic training to distributors, wholesalers and retailers (paras 3.19 to 3.22).
The project would also support promulgation of a Quality Control (QC) legislation and arrangements for its
enforcement.
3.9    Role of AISCO in Fertilizer Marketing: Even though AISCO is now an autonomous entity with its
own Board of Directors and subject to hard budget constraint, it is critical for the success of the fertilizer sector
reforms that its new marketing strategy is consistent with TGE's economic reform program. Accordingly,
AISCO is rapidly shedding its monopolist role to foster competitive marketing (paras 2.13 and 2.14). It has
been agreed that AISCO's restructuring and business plans would incorporate the following essential features.
First, AISCO would play a key role in widening and deepening the private retail network in the country.
Towards this end, AISCO would sell most of its fertilizer through three types of private traders, in addition to
cooperatives: (a) distributors (annual turnover 3,000 tons or more) who would pick up the fertilizers at the
port of unloading and other designated AISCO stores and would appoint their own wholesalers and retailers;
(b) wholesalers (annual turnover between 150 and 3,000 tons) who would appoint their own retailers; and
(c) retailers (annual turnover between 10 to 150 tons) who would be appointed directly by AISCO. AISCO
would develop the procedures and terms and conditions for appointment of distributors and wholesalers, and
define principles which would guide the pricing of fertilizers for delivery to distributors, wholesalers and
retailers at various locations. AISCO would submit the guiding principles to IDA together with a copy of its
business plan for 1995 before Credit effectiveness. Second. AISCO would, prior to credit effectiveness,
prepare a plan for complete withdrawal from the operations of the MCs by 1997 (see para 2.15). This would
include early withdrawal from the operations of those MCs in whose command area private wholesale/retail
networks are already established. In respect to other locations, AISCO would continue efforts to install private
wholesalers/retailers on the basis of established and well publicized criteria so that it could withdraw from the
operations of the remaining MCs. The progress in this regard would be subject to annual review by IDA.
3.10    The Role of Cooperatives in Fertilizer Marketing: The role of the cooperatives is likely to remain
relatively limited in the coming few years because of the just-commenced reorganization of the service
cooperatives under Proclamation No. 85 dated February 1, 1994, and the time which inevitably would be
required to register new cooperatives, train their managers and executive committee members in sound
business practices, and adopt standard accounting, credit administration and book keeping procedures.
Cooperatives could potentially develop as an important rural institution to (a) provide a valuable additional
channel in fertilizer marketing; (b) intensify competition (and thus prevent micro-level monopolies of the
public or the private sector in fertilizer retailing); (c) play a role in fertilizer promotion; and (d) be an
important channel for the flow of seasonal input loans from the banking sector. The project would therefore
finance technical assistance targeted at cooperative strengthening (para 3.20). Meanwhile, a special task force
in the Prime Minister's Secretariat is developing a program for accelerated development of new cooperatives.
3.11    Direct Marketing of Fertilizer by the Government: It has been agreed that the Government would
not engage in the direct marketing of fertilizers; however, consistent with its National Fertilizer Policy, the
Government could take measures to promote fertilizer use in remote areas, not covered by the trade in its



- 17 -
normal course of business. This will be done under a scheme of targeted subsidies, which will also end by
September 30, 1998 (see para 3.6).
3.12    Fertilizer Quality Control (QC) and Enforcement: The introduction and enforcement of fertilizer
quality and packaging standards to protect the farmers and bonafide traders alike against unscrupulous
practices is crucial for the healthy development of the sector.  Some of the key steps leading to QC
enforcement are (a) enacting a fertilizer law; (b) updating standards and specifications for various fertilizers
currently used or likely to be used in the country; (c) defining fertilizer testing methods; (d) developing
fertilizer and packaging regulations; (e) establishing enforcement mechanisms, both at the unloading ports and
along the domestic distribution chain; (f) regular training of enforcement staff and fertilizer dealers in the
legal and administrative requirements of the law; and (g) educational programs for fertilizer dealers and
farmers on safe fertilizer handling, storage and application methods to ensure protection against
contamination and pollution. The project would support these efforts through technical assistance, training
and limited support to the Ethiopian Standards Authority (ESA) for the procurement of consumables and
vehicle(s), required to supervise the enforcement of the fertilizer QC standards (paras 3.20, 3.21 and 3.22).
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would take appropriate measures to update
or develop standards and tolerance limits for various fertilizer products and packaging materials, and arrange
for enforcement mechanisms. Arrangements would also be made for the annual training of enforcement staff
and traders in QC methods as well as in environmentally safe handling, storage and transportation of fertilizer
products.
C. Detailed Project Components
Component I: Capacity Building (US$5.87m)
3.13    Component I--Capacity Building--has two sub-components: (a) institutional strengthening; and (b)
human resource development.
3.14    Subcomponent 1.1--Institutional Strengthening (US$2.01 million): The project would support the
strengthening of the fertilizer-related institutions with office and other equipment, machinery, vehicles and
civil works. These institutions would include the recently created NFIA, the focal point for the fertilizer sector
development in Ethiopia; MOA, in particular, the Agriculture Extension Division (AED), the Agriculture
Development Division (ADD), Rural Technology Promotion Division (RTPD) and the Cooperative Promotion
Division (CPD); the National Soils Service (NSS) and the Ethiopian Standards Authority (ESA). In
appropriate cases, the project would also fund the incremental recurrent costs on a declining basis.
3.15    National Fertilizer Industry Agency (NFIA): The project would provide the critically needed
support to NFIA which has been established under Proclamation No 106/94 dated October 26, 1994 in
accordance with TGE's National Fertilizer Policy (November 1993). NFIA will be the focal point for the
entire spectrum of activities covered under the fertilizer sector. The NFSP's project coordination and
monitoring office (PCMO) would be located in NFIA. The approved organizational structure of NFIA is
shown in Annex 6. As this organization is new, almost all the necessary office equipments, furniture and
vehicles are still to be procured. The project will finance the procurement of equipment, vehicles and other
essentials required by NFIA, including PCMO. However, all furniture and staff salaries (except for PCMO)
would be funded by TGE. TGE has already appointed the General Manager for NFIA; the appointment of
PCMO staff as shown in Annex 6 would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.16    Ministry of Agriculture (MOA): The project would provide office and audio-visual equipment and
vehicles for the staff of AED and the regional agricultural bureaus to facilitate more efficient operations in
extending fertilizer use technology to the farmers. The project would also support institutional linkages



- 18 -
between the agricultural research and extension systems through the mechanism of periodic consultations and
workshops focused on fertilizers (paras 3.25 and 3.26). ADD, which is responsible for the fertilizer trials and
demonstrations in farmers plots and for setting up eight simple soil testing field laboratories, would be
strengthened by provision of office equipment, vehicles, staff and laboratory buildings and equipment. The
project would also fund the strengthening of the RTPD as well as the procurement of necessary tools,
equipment, materials, and machinery required to implement the program of biogas development in the
country. CPD would be assisted with audio-visual and office equipment and a limited number of vehicles to
strengthen the Government effort to train the cooperative societies' personnel in cooperative management,
including accounting and book-keeping.
3.17    The National Soils Service (NSS): The project would strengthen the micro-biological laboratory of
NSS by filling gaps in the available equipment for the production of biofertilizers in the form of rhizobium
cultures, as well as consumables and one vehicle. Very limited staff support has also been provided to cope
with the additional work.
3.18    Ethiopian  Standards Authority  (ESA): The project would  support ESA  with  laboratory
consumables and a limited number of vehicles to enforce fertilizer quality control at the ports of unloading and
along the fertilizer distribution chain.
3.19    Sub-Component L2--Human Resource Development (US$3.86 million):   Human Resource
Development, through technical assistance and training, is indeed central to the project. This task will be
managed essentially by the Ethiopian staff with limited foreign technical assistance. A variety of programs are
envisaged to build human resource capacity and make the project activities sustainable. The farmer training
programs would be implemented by the agriculture extension staff. The Project would, as far as possible,
contract its other training courses with local vocational and management institutes. Mostly, short-term
expatriate technical assistance will be arranged for assisting domestic training institutions in (a) designing
appropriate courses; and (b) training the local trainers so that domestic capacities are built up and dependence
on expatriate trainers or training institutions is minimized. Further, given the specialized nature of the
subjects treated in many of the courses, the need to keep abreast of the developments in the rest of the world,
and to benefit from the experience of fertilizer sector development in other countries, the Project would
(c) review the feasibility of establishing twinning arrangements with a reputable fertilizer-related foreign
institution; and (d) organize a limited number of foreign study tours and fellowship.
3.20    Technical Assistance: Short-term expert technical assistance will be provided through NFIA to some
of the implementing agencies to build up the domestic capacity in training as well as in specialized disciplines
like biofertilizers, soil testing, fertilizer quality control, soil fertility management, and cooperatives. In
addition, the newly created NFIA would be the focus of attention because of the central role assigned to this
institution for fertilizer sector development as well as NFSP implementation. NFIA must quickly develop and
adopt streamlined procedures and systems to deal simultaneously and effectively with several actors in the
fertilizer sector, drawn from various ministries, regional, zonal and woreda administrations, private trade,
parastatals, and bilateral and multilateral donors. It should also stay current with the developments in the
world fertilizer market. NFIA would, as the central coordinating and implementing agency for the NFSP, also
have to quickly familiarize itself with IDA supervision, procurement and disbursement procedures as well as
with its reporting and auditing requirements. The NFIA would be provided with the services of short-term
consultants in the areas of management information systems, management accounting, training and other
specialized disciplines to be determined during the course of project implementation. Generally, these experts
would be recruited for no more than two months in any single year. However, given the heavy responsibility
which NFIA has to discharge from the time of its creation, it would benefit in its first year from the services of
a long-term Project Implementation Advisor (PIA); in subsequent years the services of this advisor would be
used for shorter duration, depending on actual need (para 5.4 and Annex 8, para 6). In addition, NFIA would
hire a specialist each in the area of fertilizer sector management information systems and in the area of
fertilizer marketing for a period of six months. A total of 89 staff-months of technical assistance would be



- 19 -
provided under NFSP (Annex 7). Appointment of the PIA, and the two specialists whose qualifications and
experience and the terms and conditions of appointment would be satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of
credit effectiveness.
3.21    Training: The project would provide for in-country training, to be organized by NFIA and given in
selected institutions, in the fields of international fertilizer marketing and importation; port handling;
integrated plant nutrient supply systems; fertilizer quality control enforcement; soil testing; fertilizer
wholesaling and retailing; inventory control and warehouse management; biofertilizer production, storage and
transportation; biogas technology; efficient and environmentally safe fertilizer storage, transportation and
application techniques and cooperative management. The methodology for organizing training through a
training coordinator for each discipline is presented in Annex 7. The first year's training plan was presented
by NFIA during Credit negotiations; and it would be finalized in the Project Launch Workshop. Assurances to
this effect were obtained during negotiations.
3.22    Study Tours and Fellowships: The project would sponsor a limited number of short duration
overseas study tours for scientists, senior managers and policy mnakers and fertilizer importers and marketers
in areas where some useful lessons can be learned from other countries for practical application in Ethiopia.
These would include areas like integrated plant nutrient management, biogas, soil testing, fertilizer quality
control enforcement, rural credit and cooperatives. In addition, provision is made for a few study tours for
senior policy makers, to be implemented with the approval of NFIB. A total of 30 staff-months of foreign
fellowships have been proposed over the project life (Annex 7).
Component Il: Fertilizer Demand and Supply (US$216.25 million)
3.23    Component TI--Fertilizer Demand and Supply--has two sub-components: (a) fertilizer use promotion;
and (b) fertilizer supply development.
Sub-Component 11.1-Fertilizer Use Promotion (US$2.03 million)
3.24    The project would support a number of initiatives to promote efficient, balanced and greater nutrient
use by farmers. The objective is to stimulate fertilizer demand from an average level of about 160,000 tons in
1993/94 to about 360,000 tons in 1999. While the realization of this objective would require synergistic
contribution from several public and private sector agencies, the country's agricultural extension services
would play a lead role, which is, therefore, being strengthened (para 3.16), pending the start of the proposed
agricultural support services project in 1996/97.
3.25    Under the project, AED would provide a sharper focus on fertilizer related activities in its overall
extension work. First, at the close of each annual fertilizer consumption season (in August) AED would hold
meetings with the regional agricultural bureaus and others to review the past year's experience in fertilizer use
by farmers and develop tentative action plans to expand fertilizer use in the following season. Second, AED
would present its findings and recommendations in the annual National Fertilizer Workshop (para 3.26) to be
organized by NFIA in September. Third, AED would train its extension staff in fertilizer use promotion every
year during December-January, i.e., before the commencement of the fertilizer season to ensure that the
farmers are given correct and consistent messages by AED staff. Fourth, AED would implement a mini-kit
program through the Regional Agricultural Bureaus. Details of the mini-kit program are shown in Annex 2;
this mini-kit program would annually initiate some 5,000 subsistence farmers into fertilizer use (DAP and
Urea) and another 10,000 DAP-using farmers into balanced nutrient use through the additional application of
urea as top dressing.  Fifth, as the newly created regional administrations streamline and strengthen their
extension and farm advisory work, fertilizer use promotion and fertilizer use technology, particularly in low
fertilizer use areas, would become an area of attention. Finally, in order to extend the concept of integrated
plant nutrient systems, AED would cooperate with (a) RTPD in promoting technologies for biogas and in the
recycling of organic wastes; (b) NSS in promoting the use of biofertilizers; (c) ADD in their



- 20 -
trial/demonstration program concerning biofertilizers and the liming of acid soils and for the purpose of
completing soil test correlation studies; and (d) the regional agricultural bureaus in setting up and operating
eight simple Soil Testing Laboratories in different parts of the country to test farmers' soil samples and provide
the latter with appropriate, crop specific, fertilizer use recommendations. The purpose of the proposed
institutional strengthening, under para 3.16, is to assist in the satisfactory implementation of the above tasks.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that MOAINFIA would implement the measures recommended
here.
3.26    NFIA, in cooperation with MOA and its extension department, would organize an Annual National
Fertilizer Workshop in the month of September to (a) review successes and failures of the fertilizer year just
completed; (b) estimate the demand for fertilizers for the next year, by taking into account the carryover stocks
in different regions, and then defining and announcing the fertilizer import requirements for the following
fertilizer year; (c) prepare an action plan to overcome constraints experienced in the previous year; (d) develop
a package of recommendations by crops and regions, which would be shared with the private and public sector
trading organizations; and (e) develop a common fertilizer promotion strategy which could include promotion
through a multi-media approach, including radio, educational materials, posters and hoardings, and
organizing farmers visits to successful demonstration sites and nearby research stations, as well as dealer
training programs. The annual workshop would be attended by representatives of the agricultural research,
the extension, the cooperatives, RTPD, NSS, ADD, NFIU, AISCO, the private sector fertilizer trade, ESA and
the regional agricultural bureaus. The annual workshop would establish closer linkages between research,
NFIU/ADD, extension and the fertilizer trade. The project would fund the costs associated with these
workshops. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that NFIA would annually organize a workshop as
proposed.
3.27    Other Initiatives: There are a number of other initiatives supporting fertilizer use promotion. One,
the widening and deepening of the fertilizer retail network, through AISCO and the private sector, with a view
to improve the farmers' access to fertilizers would remain an important action point for NFIA. Two, trials
conducted by NFIU/ADD have resulted in fertilizer recommendations by soil type and crops in surplus
producing areas. This effort would be extended to deficit areas where trials were not conducted or, conducted
in very small numbers. These trial-based extension recommendations would instill better confidence among
the farmers in food deficit areas and generate new or additional demand for fertilizers. The project would
support ADD bv strengthening its monitoring and analytical capabilities (para 3.16), while the fertilizer trials
would continue to be funded by MOA and NFIU. Three, the annual dealer training programs would also
contribute to the generation of additional demand. Four, it has been agreed that AISCO and other importers
would introduce 25 kg and 10 kg fertilizer bags for smallholders or farmers in inaccessible pockets. Five, the
project would support CPD's efforts to accelerate the formation and registration of agricultural cooperative
societies in accordance with the new cooperative law and would thereby help start a well organized flow of
seasonal (fertilizer) loans to the farmers. In fact, CBE has already started dispensing credit to the farmers in
the 1994 fertilizer season. NFIA would monitor the availability of input loans to farmers and traders to
enhance effective demand for fertilizers through a Fertilizer Credit Committee under the Chairmanship of the
GM, NFIA, with members drawn from the banking sector, agricultural extension, and fertilizer trade
representing the public and the private sectors. It is worth mentioning in this context that the Sasakawa
Global 20001 intends to lay out some 30,000 demonstrations of 0.5 ha each in the country during 1993-98 to
promote balanced fertilizer use, combined with improved seeds and other agronomic practices. Earlier
Sasakawa Global 2000, set up in 1986, is a non-profit organization in which the Sasakawa Africa Association and
the Sasakawa Peace foundation under the leadership of R. Sasakawa of Japan joined hands with Global 2000 of
USA under the leadership of Jimmy Carter, former President of USA, to increase food production and productivity
in Africa. Nobel Laureate Dr. Norman Borlaugh provides the technical leadership and guidance. In Ethiopia this
program started in 1993.



- 21 -
Sasakawa Global 2000 demonstrations, during 1993 and 1994, already appear to have resulted in a positive
response by the farmers.
Sub-Component lI.2--Fertilizer Supply Management (US$214.22 million)
3.28    Incremental Imports:  Ensuring adequate and timely imports of fertilizers would be a critical
component of the project. The project would use IDA funds to finance about 67 percent of projected
incremental fertilizer imports during the project's life; the foreign exchange for the remaining incremental
imports (i.e., the base level and remainder of incremental) would be provided by TGE from its own foreign
exchange resources (NBE) or from the available donor assistance at the same exchange rate as applied for IDA
financing. However, the project would lay down institutional mechanisms for orderly and participatory
estimation of annual import requirements and monitoring of actual imports.
3.29    From the angle of ensuring adequate fertilizer availability--a critical ingredient for building a
competitive enviromnent, the project must note that Ethiopia has a number of unique features: (a) the country
is totally dependent on imported chemical fertilizers; (b) it has severe port constraints which necessitate
sequencing of the arrival of fertilizer vessels over several months to assure fertilizer supplies; and
(c) competitive fertilizer prices can be sustained in the domestic market only with an unrestricted supply of
fertilizers; and (d) a poor road network seriously affects timeliness of inland distribution of fertilizer. The
project would provide for one responsible institution to professionally oversee the timely and adequate
availability of fertilizers within the country.  TGE has decided that NFIA would be responsible for
coordinating the fertilizer import and inland distribution operations and would resolve all issues which impede
efficiency and cost competitiveness. It would be critical for NFIA to ensure that it (a) announces the fertilizer
import requirements after due consultation with extension and trade, by September of each year; (b) arranges
for the availability of timely foreign exchange through donors, IDA and the Government to match the import
schedule so that both the public and the private sectors have equal access to the foreign exchange; (c) puts in
place a mechanism to ensure that importers who are compelled to import early (because of port capacity
limitations) are not unduly disadvantaged; (d) arranges close supervision of the entire operation, viz., fertilizer
arrival, unloading and transportation, from week to week with a view to taking prompt corrective action as
soon as the need arises; and (e) ensures that there is adequate competition among the clearing and forwarding
agents to reduce the fertilizer handling and transportation costs (details in Annex 3). Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations.
3.30    To discharge these responsibilities, NFIA would be assisted by a Fertilizer Logistics Committee which
would be chaired by the General Manager of NFIA and would have representatives from the Ministry of
Transport, Finance, and Agriculture as well as the fertilizer trade. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that (a) NFIA would handle all supply-side issues and prepare and implement annually an action
plan for ensuring adequate and timely import of fertilizers by the private and the public sector fertilizer
importers alike; (b) TGE would introduce an appropriate mechanism to ensure that the "early" importers of
fertilizers, in accordance with an NFIA approved plan, are not disadvantaged; and (c) TGE would facilitate the
licensing of private forwarding and clearing agents.
3.31    Simultaneously, NFIA would address the following issues: (a) identify the funding gap between the
estimated foreign exchange requirements and those made available by IDA and other donors and arrange that
the gap is met by the GovernmentlNBE through the release of adequate foreign exchange at the same rate of
exchange as applicable to fertilizer donor funds; (b) identify the gap, if any, between the estimated import
requirements and the total fertilizer quantity covered by approved import allocations to importers; (c) arrange
that this gap is filled by AISCO and/or any other importer by making additional imports to be adjusted as
proposed in Annex 3; and (d) arrange annual consultative meetings with the concerned governments to resolve
emerging port issues. Assurances were obtained during negotiations, that NFIA would regularly address these
issues.



- 22 -
Component HI--Soil Fertility Management and Environment Conservation (US$8.30m)
3.32    Developing Indigenous Nutrient Resources: The project would support a number of initiatives to
help Ethiopia develop, over the medium to longer term, indigenous nutrient resources, both organic and
inorganic, to sustain and improve soil fertility and reduce the country's dependence on fertilizer imports.
3.33    Biogas Development: An important initiative towards the development of an integrated nutrient
supply system, through a more efficient use of animal waste relates to the promotion of biogas technology at
the rural household level. Against the recent FAO assessed potential of 750,000 family-size biogas units, TGE
is preparing a comprehensive proposal for the installation of the first 10,000 units during the project life. The
proposal would be submitted to IDA with full technical, financial and economic justification before September
30, 1995 and would include a detailed, region by region, annual implementation plan. Installation of 10,000
units could be a significant first step towards environmental conservation, reduction of pressure on the
country's depleting woody biomass, amelioration of the lot of rural women, and enhanced soil conservation.
The project would make a provision of US$4.0 million, (US$2.0 million to be funded out of the IDA credit, the
balance by TGE) to help plan and commence the work after IDA clearance. The progress of this sub-
component would be reviewed at mid-term, and physical targets and funding would then be suitably adjusted.
3.34    Biofertilizer: The project would support a proposal for the production of biofertilizers in the national
microbiological laboratory for fixation of atmospheric nitrogen on leguminous crops like pulses and oilseeds.
IDA will fund the specific equipment, incremental staff and a vehicle. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations to the effect that (a) a program of production and distribution of rhizobium packets financed
under the project will be annually agreed to with IDA, two months prior to the beginning of each year;
(b) promotional trials and demonstrations program would cover the first of two years of the project; while
(c) commercial arrangements for the sale of rhizobium packets to the farmers will be finalized in consultation
with IDA in the beginning of project year three.
3.35    Other Pilot Initiatives and Studies: The project would earmark a sum of US$0.5 million for other
pilot initiatives and studies to develop or more efficiently utilize indigenous resources for supply of nutrients
through recycling of organic wastes, conditioning of acid soils through the use of lime, green manuring, direct
application of rock phosphate and any other proposals which NFIA could develop with assistance from the
concerned ministries. Such proposals and TORs for studies would be cleared with IDA in order to be eligible
for IDA financing.
3.36    Soil Testing Laboratories: The project would take the first step towards the establishment of a
countrywide soil testing service. The intention is to encourage farmers over time to use fertilizer on the basis
of crop and site-specific recommendations, following soil tests results on their own farms. The government
would further use the generated data for the preparation of soil fertility maps. Eight simple soil testing field
laboratories, to be operated by ADD with the full support of the regional MOA staff, will be established.
These laboratories will be technically backstopped by the National Soils Laboratory (NSL). NSL would have
the responsibility of (a) periodic supervision of the work of these laboratories; (b) regular in-service training of
all the laboratory technicians and their supervisors; (c) establishment of a comprehensive soil test correlation
program, in cooperation with ADD, which is responsible for conducting a large number of fertilizer trials
every year, in order to ensure that the soil test results are correctly interpreted and the fertilizer use
recommendations are technically sound; (d) starting the preparation of soil fertility maps based on the data
generated by the soil test results. The project would support the installation of the laboratories, equipment,
vehicles, consumables, technical assistance and training. To this effect, the Government assured during
negotiations, that the NSS has or would be provided with the capability, in terms of staff and other resources,
to discharge the essential responsibilities entrusted to NSL.  The Government also indicated during
negotiations the four sites where the first batch of laboratories would be located. These sites are (a) Bahir Dar;
(b) Mekele; (c) Wolaita Sodo; and (d) Gambella. After an initial free soil testing service for three years, there



- 23 -
would be a charge for this service. The details would be finalized with IDA before the beginning of Project
Year Four. Assurances to this effect have been obtained during negotiations.
3.37    Environmental Conservation:  The project would support training of farmers and extension
personnel in efficient and balanced use of nutrients so that the losses of nutrients and other polluting elements
into the environment are minimized and gains from fertilizer are maximized. Also, as already proposed in the
National Fertilizer Policy, the Government would establish arrangements to compile and maintain a data base
on the impact of fertilizers and other materials on the environment; this would also include establishment of
monitoring and testing activities at strategic locations for environmental protection. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the details of the arrangements proposed above will be finalized in consultation with
IDA and put in place before December 31, 1996.



- 24 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT
AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Project Costs
4.1     The base costs of the project are US$191.1 million; physical contingencies would amount to US$18.6
million, and price contingencies, USS20.7 million. The total project costs would therefore be US$230.4
million, inclusive of Birr 17.0 million (US$2.8 million) in  taxes and duties. The project would require
US$170.8 million in foreign exchange, equivalent to 74 percent of total project costs. The project costs are
summarized by component in Table 4.1 below;
Table 4.1
Project Costs Summary
(US$ million)
Share of     Share of
Component                        Local   Foreign     Total      Foreign     Base Cost
1. Capacity Building:               2.4       2.9        5.3       55            3
1.1 - institutional strengthening  1.0      0.7        1.7       44            1
1.2 - human resource development   1.4      2.2       3.6        60            2
II. Fertilizer Demand and Supply:    44.8    133.6      178.3       75           93
II.1 - fertilizer use promotion    0.5       1.3       1.7        72            1
11.2 - fertilizer supply development  44.3  132.3    176.6        75           92
IL  Soil Fertility Management &
Environmental Conservation:      2.5        4.9       7.4        66            4
Total Base Costs                 49.7      141.4     191.1        74          100
Physical Contingencies             4.7      13.8      18.6        74            10
Price   Contingencies              5.1      15.6      20.7        75            11
Total Project Costs               59.5     170.8     230.4        74          121
4.2    Component lI.2--Fertilizer Demand and Supply (US$178.3 million) is the dominating component as
it contains 93 percent of the base costs to cover mostly the importation costs of fertilizer. Second largest is
Component III--Soil Fertility Management and Environment Conservation (US$7.4 million) which would
amount to four percent of base costs. Component I--Capacity Building (US$5.3 million) is ranked third and
would amount to 3 percent of base costs.



- 25 -
B. Project Financing
4.3     The project would be financed from three distinct sources. These sources are IDA, TGE and Others.
The category "Others" comprises the fertilizer lmporters/Distributors/Wholesalers/Retailers. In addition, the
base year level of imports (160,000 tons) would be financed by importers with foreign exchange provided by
the National Bank of Ethiopia and/or the donors.
4.4    IDA would contribute US$120.0 million, or about 52 percent of total project costs; IDA funds would
be used to cover (a) 100 percent of foreign exchange requirements for 67 percent of the incremental fertilizer
import; (b) 80 percent of the cost of locally purchased mini kits; (c) 60 percent of total costs of civil works;
(d) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 85 percent of local expenditures on vehicles and equipment
(excluding furniture for NFIA); (e) 100 percent of expenditures on technical assistance, fellowship, study tours
workshops and all of the local training; and (f) on a declining basis (90 percent in the first two project years,
and 50 percent in the project years thereafter, of the incremental recurrent costs of project entities and all
salaries for the PCMO.
4.5     The TGE would contribute about US$20.4 million to the project, or about 9 percent of total project
costs to cover (a) duties and taxes on all items except fertilizer; (b) the foreign exchange required for 10
percent of the imported fertilizer; (c) 20 percent of the cost of domestic purchase of fertilizer in the form of
mini-kits to cover part of the incremental costs of fertilizer handling, transportation and packaging in smaller
bags; (d) 40 percent of the costs of civil works; (e) 100 percent of the furniture for NFIA; and (f) the balance of
incremental recurrent costs of government entities including all of the salaries of the regular NFIA staff.
Table 4.2
Project Financing Plan
Source                  Amount                          Share of Total
(US$ million)                       (percent)
IDA                             120.0                               52.0
TGE                              20.4                                9.0
Othersa/                        90.0                                39.0
TGE and Others                  110.4                              48.0
Total                           230.4                             100.0
Note: a] Others include the fertilizer importers, distributors, wholesalers and retailers; foreign exchange for
part of these imports may be provided by other donors, and the balance by NBE.
4.6     The Importers would finance about US$90.0 million or about 39 percent of total project costs to cover
(a) costs of 23 percent of incremental fertilizer imports; and (b) all of the incremental fertilizer marketing
costs, including taxes and duties. Retroactive financing would be allowed by IDA for fertilizer imports up to a
total of US$12.0 million, equivalent to 10 percent of the credit. The need for retroactive financing emerges
from the fact that the credit is likely to become effective in the middle of the 1995 calendar year, which is the



- 26 -
peak of the 1995 fertilizer season; retroactive financing would be used to import fertilizer in time to ensure
availability of fertilizer during the first project year.
4.7    Annex 4 provides the details on project financing by component. IDA would finance (a) US$4.8
million or 81.4 percent of Component I--Capacity Building; (b) US$109.8 million or 50.8 percent of
Component II--Fertilizer Demand and Supply; and (c) US$5.4 million or 65.1 percent of Component III--Soil
Fertility Management and Environmental Conservation.  IDA funds would be made available under
Development Credit Agreement with the TGE on standard conditions.
4.8    The TGE would finance (a) US$1.1 million or 18.6 percent of component I--Capacity Building;
(b) US$16.6 million or 7.7 percent of component II--Fertilizer Demand and Supply; and (c) US$2.8 million or
33.9 percent of component III--Soil Fertility Management and Environmental Conservation. The role of the
importers/distributors/wholesalers/retailers would be confined to financing of importation and distribution of
fertilizer and they would contribute US$89.8 million in the financing of the project, equivalent to 41.5 percent
exclusively under Component II--Fertilizer Demand and Supply.
C. Procurement
4.9    General: It is anticipated that about US$108.6 million (or about 47 percent of total project costs)
would be awarded under International Competitive Bidding procedures (ICB). Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) would amount to US$3.6 million (or 1.6 percent of total project costs). The value of contracts under
Limited International Bidding (LIB) would amount to US$5.1 million (or about 2 percent of total project
costs); international shopping would total to US$0.2 million (or less than 1 percent of total project costs) and
consulting services, and recurrent costs (incremental salaries and operation and maintenance) would total
US$6.5 million (or about 3 percent of total project costs). IDA procurement procedures would not apply to
contracts worth US$106.5 million (or approximately 46.0 percent of the total project costs) as in these cases
the items would be fully financed by TGE or the fertilizer importers/distributors/wholesalers/retailers; ICB and
LCB procedures and, where applicable, Local Shopping procedures (LS) would be subject to IDA's prior
review and clearance.
4.10   The IDA guidelines for procurement would be followed whenever IDA funds are used, regardless of
the percentage of financing provided by IDA for a particular procurement package; the Bank's standard
bidding and contract documents would be used for all ICB, LIB and consulting services. Three parties would
be involved in the procurement under the project. They are: (a) the Procurement Office of the Ministry of
Agriculture (PO/MOA); (b) the NFIA; and (c) the fertilizer importers/distributors/wholesalers/retailers in the
public and private sector.
4.11    The PO/MOA  has demonstrated adequate capability to satisfactorily handle procurement in
accordance with ICB and other IDA procedures. The same can be said for the fertilizer importer, AISCO,
which is now an autonomous entity and has through the years built-up considerable experience in handling
ICB and other procurement procedures under a variety of projects financed by IDA, such as the Fourth
Livestock Development Project (FLDP), the Peasant Agriculture Development Project One (PADEP I), and the
Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Project (ERRP). The existing private importer of fertilizer is known
to be highly experienced with international commerce and has recently demonstrated the ability to supply
fertilizer to the public sector in a heavily competitive international environment at a price well below that of
all of his competitors. The NFIA would be actively involved in procurement of Technical Assistance and
would further have the overall responsibility for monitoring procurement to ensure that procedures agreed with
IDA are followed by the participants. IDA would hold procurement seminars and workshops and NFIA would
benefit from the technical assistance by experts in project implementation and management information
systems.



- 27 -
4.12   Works: It is anticipated that a total of about US$1.5 million would be awarded under the project for
works (or less than 1 percent of total project costs). The works include the construction, in two batches, of a
total of eight scattered soil testing laboratories. IDA funds would be used to finance about US$0.9 million
worth of these works. Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures would be applied as works are
individually small (individual contracts are anticipated to be below US$200,000) in widely dispersed locations
and therefore unlikely to attract the interest of foreign firms. However, contractors from within the country
will provide adequate competition; foreign bidders would be allowed to participate if they choose to do so.
4.13   Goods: It is anticipated that about US$168.4 million (or about 73 percent of total project costs) worth
of goods would be procured under the project. The category goods includes fertilizers, vehicles, and
equipment. IDA funds for goods would total approximately US$113.8 million (or about 67 percent of total
costs of goods) to cover US$108.2 million of incremental fertilizer imports and US$0.1 million in contribution
to the cost of domestically purchased fertilizer mini-kits, US$1.3 million of vehicles and US$4.3 million worth
of office and laboratory equipment.
4.14   Fertilizer imports would consist mainly of Urea and DAP and would generally come in lots which
equal the size of a shipload of about 20,000 MT; each lot would have an average, c.i.f. Asseb (or any other port
of importation), value of about US$5.0 million. IDA financed Urea and DAP, anticipated to cost US$106
million, would be procured on the basis of ICB procedures. A minor part of the IDA financed fertilizer would
be procured in lots of smaller size as compared to Urea and DAP; this is notably the case for NP and NPK
compounds, lime, etc. which would mostly be used by the project for trials and demonstrations and would be
procured by following Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures; for these smaller lots, individual
contracts would not exceed US$0.2 million, aggregating not more than US$2 million. Fertilizer mini-kits,
with a value of each contract less than US$100,000 would be procured by Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)
whereby the total value of contracts during project life would not exceed US$0.2 million. All importers who
benefit from IDA funding would be required to use the Association's standard bidding documents and
procurement guidelines.
4.15    Vehicles would be procured by the project in a limited number (mainly pick-ups and four-wheel-drive
station wagons, off-road motorcycles and bicycles) to be used by government entities only. Procurement worth
a total of US$1.4 million, would be by ICB for individual contract values exceeding US$100,000; provision
would be made to procure up to US$200,000 worth of vehicles through individual contracts of less than
US$50,000 on the basis of shopping procedures.
4.16   ICB procurement procedures would be followed for equipment packages with an individual value in
excess of US$100,000; the total value of ICB procurement for equipment is anticipated to be US$1.0 million.
Contracts for equipment of a specialized nature, valuing less than US$100,000 each and aggregating to not
more than US$3.2 million, would be awarded according to Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures;
contracts for common use equipment of less than US$100,000 each, aggregating not more than US$1.9
million, would be procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedure.  Contracts below
US$50,000, aggregating not more than US$250,000 would be procured through Local Shopping (LS)
procedures, provided that local market conditions would ensure adequate competition.
4.17   Consultancies: The procurement category "Consultancies" covers technical assistance (including
twinning arrangements, consultancy services and studies), training (local courses, study tours, and
fellowships) and workshops. The total anticipated value of contracts for technical assistance is US$2.3 million
(or 0.9 percent of total project costs); the total anticipated cost of training would amount to US$1.7 million
(0.7 percent of total project costs), whereas it is anticipated that workshops will require US$0.3 million.



- 28 -
Table 4.3.
Procurement Arrangements a/
(US$ million)
Procurement Category                 ICB        LCB        Others      N.B.F          Total
Works                                            1.5                                   1.5
(-        (0.9)        (-0-                     (0.9) 
Goods                               108.6        2.1        5.6        52.0           168.4
(107.9)a/    (1.4)       (4.5)        (           (113.8)
- fertilizer                        106.2        0.2        2.0       52.0 b/         160.4
(106.2)      (0.1)      (2.0)        (-)         (108.2)
- vehicles                           1.4           -         0.2                       1.6
(1.1)        (-)       (0.2)        (-)          (1.3)
- equipment                           1.0         1.9       3.4        0. lc/          6.4
(0.7)       (1.3)      (2.3)        (-)          (4.3)
Consultancies                                                4.3         -             4.3
-technical assistance                                       2.3                        2.3
(-)   (-)      ~~~(2.3)      ()(2.3)
-training                                                    1.7                       1.7
.              (-)         (-)       ~~~~~~~~~~~~(1.7)  ()(1.7)
- workshops                                                 0.3                        0.3
(-)   (-)      ~~~(0.3)      ()(0.3) 
Miscellaneous                                               1.9        54.4           56.3
0     0        ~~~(1.1)    ----(1.1)                 l
- recurrent costs                                            1.9       0.8d/           2.7
(-)   (-)      ~~~(I. 1)     ()(I. 1)
- fertilizer marketing                                                 53.6           53.6
TotalC/                             108.6        3.6        11.8       106.5          230.4
(107.9)      (2.1)     (10.0)        (-)        (120.00)
Note:
a/    All figures within parenthesis refer to IDA financing.
b/    Refers to fertilizer not financed by IDA.
c/    Refers to furniture financed by TGE.
d/    Refers to NFIA regular staff.
e/    Total may not tally due to rounding off.



-29 -
4.18   Contracts for technical assistance would be procured in accordance with IDA's guidelines for Use of
Consultants. Training and workshops would be subject to agreed procedures according to a workplan to
require clearance by IDA on an annual basis; the plan would have to include identified candidates, type, place,
timing and costs of the training. Where practical, the consultant contracts would include a training
component.
4.19   Miscellaneous: Incremental recurrent costs of the project would total about US$2.7 million and thus
1.2 percent of total project costs. About US$ .1 million recurrent costs would be reimbursed net of taxes and
duties by IDA; the balance would be provided by the Government. The costs of fertilizer marketing would be
financed by the full 100 percent, i.e., US$53.6 million (all in local currency) by the importers/distributors/
wholesalers/retailers chain. These costs are, therefore, included in Table 4.3 under the heading non-bank-
financed (N.B.F).
4.20   Annual Procurement Work Program and Procurement Monitoring: The PO/MOA would be in
charge of procurement for the Agricultural Extension Department (AED), the Agricultural Development
Department (ADD), the Cooperative Promotion Department (CPD) and the Rural Technology Promotion
Department (RTPD). The NFIA would be in charge of procurement for the agency itself, the ESA, the NSS
and would supervise and coordinate the procurement by the fertilizer importers. The estimated number of
procurement packages, by years, is in Annex 9.
4.21   An Annual Procurement Work Program (APWP) would be prepared by the NFIA in consultation with
PO/MOA and the fertilizer importers. The APWP would contain details with respect to each agency and the
importers on (a) items to be procured and expenditure category; (b) procurement packages; (c) estimated cost
per package; (d) proposed procurement method; (e) implementation schedule for procurement; while
(f) Annual Training Program (ATP), to be prepared by the NFIA, would be integrated in the APWP and
should contain a budget, implementation schedule, and other details to be specified and agreed upon. The first
APWP would be prepared and submitted to IDA. The submission of the first APWP would be a condition for
credit effectiveness; in subsequent project years the APWP would be submitted to IDA at least two months in
advance of the new project year.
4.22   The NFIA would, in addition to the physical and financial quarterly progress reports mentioned in
Chapter V, also be responsible for the preparation of Quarterly Procurement Progress Reports (QPPRs); the
QPPR would be submitted to IDA within 30 days from the completion of each quarter. A tabular format for
this report would be agreed during the Project Launch workshop. The QPPR would, inter alia, contain the
following information:
(a)    Awarded contracts: by (i) project component and/or sub-component; (ii) contract
number and date; (iii) method of procurement; (iv) the name of the country of the
successful bidder; (v) value and currency of the contract; (vi) major expenditure
category; and (vii) expected and actual date of contract completion; (viii) date of
receipt of goods.
(b)    Procurement in Process: (i) project component and/or sub-component; (ii) total
funds allocated and name of procurement package; (iii) planned and actual dates of
inviting bids (iv) date of opening of bids; (v) date of anticipated and actual
submission of bid evaluation report to IDA; (vi) date of clearance by IDA; (vii) date
of award of contract and value; and (viii)expected contract completion and receipt
of goods.
(c)    Procurement Processing Time: at negotiations standard processing time for
procurement activities were agreed upon with TGE according to the Project
Implementation Plan.



- 30 -
4.23    Procurement Review by IDA: All contracts for goods and works with an estimated value in excess
of US$100,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. It is anticipated that this would cover about
75 percent of the total number of contracts. For contracts of a value equal to or less than this threshold, a
selective ex-post review (one out of five) would take place during project supervision missions. All terms of
reference for technical assistance and training would be subject to the Association's prior review; consulting
contracts with firms in excess of US$ 100,000, and with individuals in excess of US$50,000 would be subject to
IDA's prior review.
D. Disbursement and Special Account
4.24   Disbursement: The project would have a life of five years. A longer duration is not planned because
the project involves only a minimal amount of notoriously slow disbursing works. The activities scheduled
under the main component relate to fertilizer imports and capacity building which should be completed as per
project design. The IDA credit of US$120.0 million is expected to become effective in the second semester of
1995 and would be closed 66 months later.
Table 4.4
Summary Disbursement Schedule-IDA Credit
(US$ million)
Category                      Amount              % of Expenditure financed
1. Works                             0.8           60% of total
2. Goods
2.1 fertilizer imports              94.5          100% of foreign
fertilizer minikits              0.1           80% of total
2.2 vehicles                         1.2          100% of foreign; 85% of local
2.3 equipment & machinery           4.1           100% of foreign; 85% of local
3. Consultancies
3.1 technical assistance            2.3           100% of total
3.2 training                         1.7          100% of total
3.3 workshop                        0.3           100% of total
4. Miscellaneous
4.1 incremental recurrent costs      1.0          90%  in PY-1 and PY-2, 50% in PY'-3, PY-4
and PY-5
5. Unallocated                       14.0
Total                                120.0
4.25   The project disbursement schedule is shown, by semester, in Annex 5 Disbursement projections of
this table are based on a global disbursement lag of six months. Such disbursement lag is considered realistic
as: (a) fertilizer imports would account for about 90 percent of the total credit; (b) the credit would be used to
finance 67 percent of the incremental fertilizer requirements equivalent to 21.8 percent of the total fertilizer
requirement of the country during the project period; (c) in the initial project years, AISCO is likely to import



- 31 -
the bulk of the imports and this parastatal has a proven capacity to handle ICB efficiently; and (d) NFIA
would make arrangements with local institutes to provide technical assistance and training to the fertilizer
importers/distributors/wholesalers/retailers.
4.26   The Special Account: A special account would be established on terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA. This account would be held in the name of the project, and be maintained in US$ in a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA. IDA would make an initial deposit up to US$1.0 million into this account to establish a
revolving fund covering eligible expenditures for about four months. The special account would be replenished
monthly in accordance with established IDA disbursement procedures. Replenishments would be made against
fully documented withdrawal applications prepared by NFIA. The special account would be used for contracts
amounting to less than US$100,000 and replenishment would be made on the basis of Statement of
Expenditure (SOE). The project would to the extent possible use direct method of disbursement for contracts
with a value of over US$100,000 to ensure liquidity of the SA. The NFIA would retain supporting
documentation on the SOE for inspection by auditors and bank missions.
E. Accounts and Audit
4.27   The management, accounting, and budgeting of the project would be entrusted to NFIA which would
therefore coordinate all financial transactions including disbursement requests generated by government
entities, as well as the public and private importers who are to benefit from the project. The NFIA would
maintain for this purpose separate records reflecting specific disbursements to the various implementing
agencies of the Government, as well as the foreign exchange support to TGE, from which AISCO and all of
the other fertilizer importers would benefit under the project.
4.28   NFIA would maintain all project records in accordance with internationally-accepted standards. At
negotiations, assurance were obtained that the project's financial management and accounting system will be
in place by December 31, 1995; the accounts would be audited annually by an auditor, acceptable to IDA. The
audit would comprise the auditor's report on the project accounts, the special account and the statement of
expenditures. The audited accounts would be submitted to IDA at the latest within six months from the close
of the fiscal year. To assure that accounts are maintained in conformity with IDA's requirements, the project
would reserve funds for the PCMO to receive assistance from a local accounting firm, acceptable to IDA, to
help set up the financial management and accounting system for the project.



- 32 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Overall Responsibility
5.1    The overall responsibility for project implementation will rest with the National Fertilizer Industry
Agency (NFIA), which has recently been set up by TGE in accordance with its National Fertilizer Policy.
NFIA is expected to provide effective national guidance and the institutional linkages necessary to secure the
overall development of the fertilizer sector with the objective of contributing significantly to agricultural
productivity. NFIA would develop a strong fertilizer data base, organize training and awareness programs and
monitor the national and international fertilizer situation and ensure effective implementation of the national
fertilizer sector development programs. NFIA would regularly report to, and seek guidance from, the National
Fertilizer Industry Board (NFIB), which has been constituted as the country's apex policy advisory body, in
effect an inter-ministerial and inter-institutional body with the Minister for Agriculture as its chairman. NFIB
has the mandate to periodically review, revise and update policies and guidelines on fertilizer use and
development, under the guidance of the Council of Ministers. NFIB would also review the implementation
progress of NFSP every quarter. The General Manager NFIA would be the counterpart of IDA's Task
Manager for the project. Further, in order to have a focal point for NFSP within NFIA, a small NFSP
coordination and monitoring office under a full time Project Coordinator, equivalent in rank to that of a
Deputy General Manager, will be created for the duration of the project. TGE has already appointed the GM
of NFIA prior to credit negotiations.
B. Detailed Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
5.2    A detailed PIP drawn up in consultation with the Government is given in Annex 8. It gives the
project implementation arrangements, together with an implementation schedule (Attachment 1 to Annex 8)
for each project component. The key monitorable indicators, finalized during negotiations, are in Attachment
2. A project supervision plan describing TGE and IDA roles is in Attachment 3 to Annex 8. Procurement
packages duly classified according to categories are in Annex 9.  Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that TGE/NFIA would follow the project implementation arrangements as proposed in Annex 8.
5.3    Basically, the project does not propose any new institutions/agencies to be created specifically for
project implementation; each component will be implemented by the concerned department/division in line
ministries or the concerned public or private sector agency. Even within NFIA, the Project Coordination
Office will have only a monitoring, reporting and facilitating role, like ensuring maintenance of proper project
accounts by each implementing agency, orderly and timely submission of withdrawal applications through the
NFSP office, and finalization of periodic reports and other information needed by IDA. This arrangement is
expected to ensure better sustainability of the fertilizer sector development, including institutional
arrangements for fertilizer demand assessment, development of the competitive importation and marketing
systems, integrated plant nutrient supply systems and capacity building programs. For the same reasons, TGE
has not proposed any salary supplements for the staff; only the salaries of the few staff in the NFSP
Coordination Office, who would be recruited on a contract basis for the life of the project, would be paid out of
the IDA credit. On the other hand, the IDA credit would play a significant role in providing resources for
upgrading office technology, providing mobility and capacity building within NFIA and other implementing
agencies.
5.4    National Fertilizer Industry Agency (NFIA):  Given that NFIA has a critical role in the
management of NFSP, and given that NFIA is a nascent institution which is yet to be fully staffed and made
operational, and further, given that NFSP will demand implementation, coordination and management skills
of the highest order, assurances were obtained from TGE during negotiations that the following actions will be



- 33 -
completed before project effectiveness: (a) a Project Implementation Advisor (PIA), and two specialists whose
qualifications, experience and terms of employment would be satisfactory to IDA, would be internationally
recruited, to assist in institution building by guiding the development of appropriate management systems,
procedures and controls within NFIA, the preparation of an Implementation Manual for NFSP, and an MIS for
the fertilizer sector in general and NFSP in particular; (para 3.20 and Annex 8, para 6); (b) the NFIA and
NFSP Coordination office will be fully staffed as per the agreed organizational chart at Annex 6, and housed
in suitable accommodation; and (c) the qualifications, experience and terms and condition of employment of
staff in the NFSP Coordination Office and Monitoring will be satisfactory to IDA. Assurances were received
during negotiations that the Government will provide adequate and timely budgetary and staffing support to
NFIA to undertake assigned responsibilities for NFSP; that the qualifications, experience and terms of
employment of all PCMO professional staff will be satisfactory to IDA at all times during the life of the
project, and that the PCMO staff, including PIA and two specialists, would be in place before project
effectiveness.
5.5    NFIA would arrange, in collaboration with IDA, a project launch workshop, prepare a project
implementation manual in PY-1, set up a proper accounting system for NFSP in NFIA as well as for the
implementing agencies, annually organize a national workshop on fertilizers with active participation of
research, extension, cooperatives, regional administrations, fertilizer trade, and others concerned (para 3.26),
organize a workshop on procurement and disbursement before or immediately after project effectiveness,
maintain a close liaison with regional administrations and donors through frequent meetings, arrange a
benchmark survey in PY-1 and annual surveys thereafter to assess the impact of the project (Annex 8), arrange
a mid-term review in collaboration with IDA (Annex 8), arrange annual audit of project accounts, special
accounts, statement of expenditures in NFIA by auditors satisfactory to IDA and submit the audit report to
IDA no later than six months after the close of the fiscal year. Further, NFIA/NFIB will submit an Annual
Work Plan two months before the beginning of each year and ensure implementation including policy
conditionalities relating to fertilizer prices, subsidies, privatization of AISCO's marketing centers and
twinning arrangements with reputed fertilizer institution(s). NFIA will also be responsible for preparing an
Implementation Completion Report at the close of the project. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations.  Submission of an annual work program  for 1995-96 would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
5.6    Ministry of Agriculture (MOA): Efficient fertilizer use promotion and a gradual shift towards an
integrated plant nutrient supply system is mainly the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture. This
responsibility will be discharged in close cooperation with and guidance to the relevant wings of the newly set
up regional administrations on the one hand and NFIA on the other. Each of the implementing agencies in
MOA, namely, AED, ADD, CPD and RTPD would annually submit a work program related to the project to
IDA through NFIA, for review, by May 15 of each year, for the following fiscal year. This work program
would indicate specific program targets for achievement during the year, such as the number of mini-kits to
be distributed by regions, training of field staff and farmers, and specifics of fertilizer use promotion by AED;
establishment of soil testing laboratories, conducting trials and demonstrations for biofertilizers by ADD;
programs for registration of new agricultural cooperatives and targets for member education program and
training of field staff and executives of cooperative societies by CPD; and targets for the installation of biogas
units in various regions and details of related training programs by RTPD. In addition, the work program
would include (a) a procurement plan; (b) staff deployment on project objectives; (c) details of consultancy
studies/technical assistance to be arranged during the year, with target dates for approval of terms of reference,
short lists, appointments and execution of the tasks; and (d) details of the training program for the year. For
local training specific details would be provided on the type of training, location, date, number of persons to be
trained and trainers identified by name, discipline and institution. For external training and study tours, the
annual program would identify the trainees, area of study, period and place of training, as well as the
estimated cost; (e) details of expenditure projection by quarters, source of funding (Government, IDA, other
donors), and the provision of funds in the Government budget with target dates for release.



-34 -
5.7    Fertilizer Importers and Distributors: The Implementation of the fertilizer import and distribution
program will be the responsibility of the public and the private sector. NFIA would ensure that both have
equal access to foreign exchange, and equal access to any fertilizer subsidies and credit for fertilizer
importation, domestic marketing and training. Submission of an annual business plan to NFIA to indicate its
financial, organizational and marketing plans and capability would be a requirement from each importer.
Further, assurances were obtained during negotiations that both the public and the private sector would be
equally represented in the committees set up for the implementation of NFSP at various levels, and that the
private sector will be treated on a par with the public and the cooperative sector in the matter of fertilizer
importation, subsidy payments, fertilizer credit, domestic marketing and participation in workshops, seminars,
study tours and training programs.
5.8    AISCO would implement its restructuring plan as submitted to IDA, so as to replace all of its
wholesale and retail marketing operators conducted through marketing centers by private (including
cooperative) trade by 1997. This effort would be overseen by NFIA and periodically, at least once every six
months, reviewed by NFIB. Satisfactory implementation of this plan, which is crucial to the success of the
liberalization program, would remain an important conditionality. The annual business plans of AISCO
would, inter alia, review progress of the previous year and targets for the following year, and spell out the
terms and conditions, including distribution margins for its distributors, wholesalers and retailers. TGE would
also nominate an independent management expert on the Board of Directors for AISCO. Assurances were
obtained during negotiation that (a) AISCO would submit its annual business plan to IDA through NFIA at
least three months prior to the commencement of the next fiscal year, and take IDA's comments into
consideration before finalizing it; and (b) AISCO will not be asked by the Government to undertake non-
commercial or developmental operations, unless the Government agreed in advance to fully compensate
AISCO for its extra costs.
5.9    Quality Control Legislation and its Enforcement: While the Ethiopian Standards Authority would
update and or set up, as appropriate, fertilizer and packaging standards, and have a fertilizer law drafted and
enacted with NFIA assistance (and NFIB clearance), the enforcement of the law would be the responsibility of
the field agricultural staff who will be specially trained and empowered to discharge this responsibility.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations to this effect.
5 10    Regional Bureaus of Agriculture: The newly created regional bureaus of agriculture will play the
most critical role in project implementation. NFIA and MOA will have to collaborate actively with the
regional administrations and guide and facilitate project implementation, and ensure that adequate facilities in
terms of equipment and staff training are provided to the agricultural bureaus. Further, each agricultural
bureau would set up a fertilizer/inputs unit, by project effectiveness, to coordinate guide and monitor the
implementation of NFSP in the region. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
5.11    Capacity Building: NFIA would coordinate and implement the capacity building program under
NFSP. The training programs would be systematically developed well before the beginning of each year,
reviewed and cleared by NFIA, and detailed arrangements made for its efficient implementation. IDA's prior
agreement would be required for all courses and staff selected for overseas training, expatriate technical
assistance as well as foreign study tours financed under the project. Detailed proposals for TA and Training,
as well as dealers training for PY-1, were submitted by NFIA to IDA during negotiations; these would be
finalized during the Project Launch Workshop. Training of fertilizer dealers would always receive high
priority and detailed annual programs would be made for each region. Similarly, for all local and
internationally recruited TA, NFIA would ensure that the terms of reference and the qualifications of TA are
satisfactory to IDA. Details of TA and Training proposals are at Annex 7. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the TA and Training proposals will be implemented as proposed in this annex, subject to
such changes as may be mutually agreed upon between IDA and NFIA.



- 35 -
5.12    Twinning Arrangements: In order to benefit from the experience of several other countries and to
upgrade the knowledge and skills of functionaries dealing with the fertilizer sub-sector, NFIA will review the
feasibility of entering into a twinning arrangement with a well established fertilizer institution/organization in
another country. Under this arrangement, exchange of information, ideas, guest faculties and documentation
could be arranged according to an annual program developed by NFIA and cleared with IDA. NFIA could
also arrange participation of some key actors in the fertilizer sector in training programs/study tours organized
by such foreign institution/organization.
5.13   Reporting Arrangements: The key reporting requirements from NFIA would include (a) submission
of an annual work program for all components to IDA two months before the beginning of each year--this
would include T.A., training and procurement proposals; (b) submission of a quarterly progress report in an
agreed format one month after the close of every quarter; (c) submission of an audit report of all project
accounts within six months of the close of each fiscal year; and (d) an implementation completion report
(Annex 8, para 10).



- 36 -
VI. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ASPECTS
A. Financial Aspects
6.1     The Proritability of Fertilizer Use: Technical and financial aspects related to fertilizer use have
been studied for more than a quarter of a century in Ethiopia. It began with the FAO--Freedom from Hunger
Campaign's fertilizer trials program in the highlands--the bread basket of the country. In 1985, the program
of fertilizer trials expanded under the Italian funded, FAO managed, National Fertilizer and Inputs Unit
(NFIU). The NFIU in collaboration with the Agricultural Development Division (ADD) of the MOA, has
been focusing on further refinement of the country-wide blanket fertilizer application recommendations by
(food grain) crop, region and soil type; it has expanded its fertilizer trial activities to the low fertilizer-use
areas with potential. The most recent data on fertilizer profitability in different crop and soil situations were
presented by NFIU during a workshop held in Addis Ababa on July 2, 1993: profitability is expressed in the
Value Cost Ratio (VCR)2. The NFRP experience reveals average VCRs of about 3.0 for teff and wheat, 4.0 for
maize, 3.0 for barley and 2.2 for sorghum. These values clearly confirm the profitability of applying fertilizer
on rainfed crops, as these are in excess of 2.0--the generally accepted minimum level.
6.2     NFIU's most recent VCRs have been subjected to further analysis through variation in (a) yield;
(b) arm size; and (c) hired labor requirements. It emerges from the supplemental analysis that a 10 percent
reduction of incremental yields negatively impacts the profitability of fertilizer only for sorghum and wheat in
the Gondar and Wollo areas, as the VCRs would drop to 2.0, i.e., the minimum level at which a farmer would
consider applying the recommended dosage of fertilizer at the current prices for produce and inputs. More
interestingly the supplemental analysis reveals that fertilizer use under non-mechanized (and thus labor
intensive) farming conditions is a worthwhile proposal only for farms of a size of 2.5 ha or less, irrespective of
the regions; fertilizer is rightly perceived as expensive by the farmers who crop more than 2.5 ha in a labor
intensive manner.  Fertilizer is a relevant tool for increasing smallholder farm incomes, particularly in
Ethiopia where 98 percent of all holdings are below 2.5 ha and where mechanized peasant farming is
virtually non-existent.
6.3     Farm Income Analysis: The farm income analysis focused on the typical (average) farm types in
five provinces: Gojam, Shewa, Arsi, Gondar, and Wollo. Of these Gojam, Shewa and Arsi are known to be
relatively high fertilizer consumption areas. Gondar and Wollo are areas where fertilizer consumption is
below national average. Surveys have revealed, and field trips have confirmed, that farmers in these areas are
familiar with the benefits of fertilizer. Average holding and household size is, in each of the aforementioned
five selected areas, very close to the national average. Regional differences in cropping patterns, yields, and
(NFIU) fertilizer recommendations, as well as prices of produce and inputs, are accounted for in the farm
income analysis.
6.4     The results of the farm income analysis are summarized in a tabular form, for the With and the
Without fertilizer case Annex 10. The analysis reveals that the average net farm incomes in Gojam, Shewa
and Arsi are about Birr 1,000 per year without fertilizer, and about Birr 1,600 with fertilizer, applied
according to NFIU recommendations. Average net farm incomes in Gondar and Wollo are only Birr 800 per
year without fertilizer and about Birr 1,200 with fertilizer; the 20 to 25 percent lower incomes in these areas
are the result of less favorable agro-ecological conditions as compared to Gojam, Shewa and Arsi. The
2     Value Cost Ratio or VCR = value of incremental production due to fertilizer: the cost of the fertilizer application,
whereby all other factors of production are maintained constant (ceteris paribus).
3     Source:  Agronomic Feasibility of the Proposed Recommendations and Comparison with the Previous
Recommendations: NFIIJ, June 1993, General Paper No. 17, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.



- 37 -
analysis demonstrates that average annual farm incomes would increase by about 50 to 60 percent as a result
of fertilizer application only.
6.5    The productivity of agricultural labor, expressed in term of remuneration per day of family work,
would increase by about 20 percent on average as the average daily return per day of family work is estimated
at Birr 11.0 without, and Birr 13.0 with fertilizer, or about 3 to 3.5 times the going rate for (hired) seasonal
unskilled labor. Expenditures on fertilizer average at about Birr 230 per average farm and are twice the cost of
all other seasonal inputs. The total cost of fertilizer and other inputs average about 20 percent of the (gross)
value of production. Since only family labor is used, the present practice of consuming 80 percent of on-farm
produced food can, under normal circumstances, be continued without endangering sustainability in fertilizer
demand.
6.6    Household Biogas Plant: The project would promote and install household biogas plants of the non-
communal type. A detailed scheme with a complete operational plan is under preparation with the Rural
Technology Promotion Department (RTPD) of the MOA. However, preliminary estimates indicate that
construction of a biogas unit would require Birr 5,000 (about US$800), whereas the annual costs of operation
and maintenance of such plants are about Birr 80 (or approximately US$15), all expressed in 1994 prices.
6.7    Operation of a household biogas plant would eliminate (a) the cost of firewood purchase and/or the
burden of firewood collection, (b) the hazardous smoke in the house due to burning of dung cakes; and (c) the
cost of kerosene based lighting. The biogas technology would further improve: (c) household hygienic
conditions; (d) the structure of the soil by applying dung slurry and thereby reduce soil erosion; and
(e) agricultural output as a result of the organic fertilizer application. Only the net value of increased
agricultural production and the elimination of kerosene expenditure is considered in the financial revenue
flow; annual increase in household income from the production of garden and food crops is estimated at Birr
1,100 and savings in kerosene purchased would average Birr 50 per year.
6.8    The financial internal rate of return (FIRR) is estimated at 20 percent on all financial resources
employed; the return on the farmers own resources would be more than 50 percent based on a 20 percent
contribution by the beneficiary. The financial viability of biogas is even more evident if it is considered that
(a) these FIRRs are obtained with relatively high estimates for capital outlay; (b) sufficient funds would be
generated by the biogas unit to guarantee timely principal and interest payments (5 years, real interest rate of
2 percent) and to build up at the same time a financial reserve for timely replacement of worn-out parts; and
(c) a substantial part of the benefits relating to well-being (health and nutrition) of the beneficiaries has not
been included. Under conservative assumptions (10 percent increase in expenditures, 10 percent reduction in
revenues) the overall FIRR would be 18 percent in real terms, while the return on own resources would still be
36 percent.
B. Economic Aspects
6.9    General:  The project's net contribution to the economy has been calculated by following the
conventional economic cash-flow analysis in which costs and benefits are expressed exclusive of any form of
transfer payments, such as, taxes, duties, subsidies, interest, etc.; tradable goods and services are shadow
priced; all non-tradables, except labor, are valued by using the market prices. The economic analysis has been
performed in constant prices of 1994.
6.10    Economic Costs: The economic costs of the project are derived by (a) allowing for the value of
fertilizer inclusive of the costs of inland transportation and marketing up to the farm gate level; and
(b) excluding all local taxes and duties from investments and recurrent costs. The economic cost is shown by
component in Table 6.1. below.



- 38 -
Table: 6.1
Economic Costs of the Project
(Birr million, constant prices 1994)
Component                          Total Economic Project Costs
during the 5 years
L Capacity Building
1. Institutional Strengthening                   10.86
2. Human Resource Development                    22.07
Subtotal I                                   32.92
II. Fertilizer Demand and Supply
1. Fertilizer Use Promotion                      10.53
2. Fertilizer Supply Development              1,151.38
Subtotal II                               1,161.91
IIm Soil Fertility Management                     46.77
Totala/                                   1,241.60
Note: al Totals may not tally due to rounding off.
6.11    Economic Benefits: Analysis of the economic benefits has focused on the direct and tangible benefits
of the project only. These benefits stem from an increase in agricultural productivity through (a) use of
incremental fertilizer; and (b) increased availability of manure following the introduction of biogas
technology. It is anticipated that 360,000 hectares would benefit from incremental fertilizer in the first project
year, to ultimately reach 2.8 million hectares in the last project year. Yields on these areas would increase
with 300 kilogram per hectare in the first project year to 350 kilograms per hectare in the fifth and final
project year. Fertilizer would increase food grain production by about 2.66 million tons during the five project
years; installation of 4,000 biogas units would increase agricultural production by 13,000 tons during the
initial five years of the project, and 5,000 tons annually thereafter. The mix of the incremental crop
production is unknown. The average farm gate value for food grains was used (Birr 1,800 per ton), based on
average wheat and maize importation and distribution costs, to value incremental crop production. The net
value of incremental food grain production was obtained by allowing for reduction due to incremental labor
required by fertilizer application only; the cost of labor was based on a value of Birr 2 per working day, or half
of the market price for unskilled agricultural labor, whereas it was anticipated that 20 days of work would be
needed per hectare to cope with fertilizer application and incremental harvest requirements.
6.12    Economic Net Cash Flow, Net Present Value and Benefit Cost Ratio: The investment and the
operation and maintenance costs of the project, as well as the additional labor costs due to incremental
fertilizer use, the incremental (gross) value of production resulting from fertilizer application, and the net



- 39 -
value of incremental production generated by the biogas plants, are shown in Table 6.2, along with the Net
Cash Flow (NCF).
Table 6.2
Net Cash flow National Fertilizer Sector Project
(Birr million, constant prices 1994)
Investment   Operation &    Incremental   Incremental   Incremental         Net
Maintenance   Labor Costs   Agricultural   Agricultural    Cash-flow
Year                                      due to      Output from    Output from      (NCF)
Fertilizer_a    Fertilizer     Biogas
1           77.86         2.20            9.20         198.00          0.00         108.74
2          132.76         2.95           23.00         432.00          1.12          274.41
3          238.22         3.03           35.80         900.00          2.25          625.20
4          335.43         3.29           51.10        1,386.00         4.50        1,000.68
5          442.66         3.42          63.40         1,872.00        6.25         1,368.77
6             -             -               -             -            9.00            9.00
7-15                                                                    9.00             9.00
Note: a/  The incremental labor costs follow from fertilizer application only; the incremental labor requirements are estimated at 20 days
per hectare of food grains crops.
6.13    The Benefit-Cost Ratio (BCR) results, at a 10 percent discount rate, to be 3.4, and therefore the
discounted benefits are more than triple the discounted costs; at the same discount rate the Net Present Value
(NPV) of the project is Birr 2,363 million. The switching values are, for total project benefits and total costs,
respectively, minus 70 percent and plus 236 percent, whereas they are minus 70 percent for fertilizer benefits
and plus 290 percent for investment. These switching values indicate that the risk of not meeting an
acceptable return (10 percent) is minimal. It is, therefore, concluded that the NFP contributes significantly to
overall economic development (see Annex 11).
C. Project Benefits and Sustainability
6.14    Project Benefits: The benefits from satisfactory project implementation would be several. First,
increased fertilizer use would improve crop productivity; on an average, each ton of fertilizer used would result
in an estimated increase in food grain production of five tons. It is estimated that the project would help in the
production of an incremental 2.6 million tons of grains during the project life. Second, the project would
annually initiate some 5,000 smallholders into fertilizer use, and another 10,000 farmers into a more balanced
fertilizer use. Third, introduction of smaller fertilizer packings of 10 and 25 kg, against the current standard
packing of 50 kg bags, would bring farmers, with small holdings, and/or living in difficult to reach locations,
within the mainstream of fertilizer users. These benefits would contribute in alleviating poverty and
improving national and household food security (see Annex 12). Fourth, increased fertilizer availability would
generate both on-farm and off-farm employment; the later in the fertilizer trading and transport sector. Fifth,
the project would, through pilot initiatives, help address concerns associated with the maintenance of long-
term soil fertility and environmental conservation. The biogas program would directly benefit the farm
women by providing them with a more efficient and smoke free cooking environment, thereby releasing a
considerable amount of women's time for child care and/or income generating activities (see Annex 12).



- 40 -
Finally, the project would assist the TGE in building up an institutional framework which would enable the
establishment of a sustainable fertilizer import and marketing system.
6.15    Project Sustainability: Project sustainability would only to a very limited extent depend upon
government budgetary contributions. Fertilizer importation would continue to be funded by private and public
sector importers, but foreign exchange would, from project completion onwards, be obtained through the
auction system. The soil testing service is expected to recover its costs by charging farmers from project year
three onwards for the service. Biogas beneficiaries would pay for the units and the program would thus
continue beyond the project completion date. Fertilizer handling and storage would be paid for by the trading
sector. The PCMO of NFIA would be closed at project completion, and NFIA and NFIB would continue to be
funded by the Government.
D. Project Risks
6.16    There are three main risks to satisfactory project implementation. They are:
(a)    Economic and Political Environment: This risk is related to the ongoing changes in the
economic, political, administrative and institutional structures (para 1.8) and the devolution
of powers to the regions. A related risk is that the successor government to TGE could
possibly have different policies. These risks, though real, are not rated high as there are no
viable alternatives for TGE or its successor government to change the course or speed of
economic reform.
(b)    Inadequate Private Sector Response. This risk is minimal given last year's experience in
mobilizing private retailers in the domestic marketing of fertilizers. However, the risk is real
as far as fertilizer importation by the private sector is concerned. The scheme of promoting
bulk distributors in the country could possibly bring new entrants into the fertilizer import
business over time. Also, once the reorganization of the country's political, economic and
administrative structure is complete, the private sector would have built up greater
confidence in the stability and continuity of the government's new policy, and would
increasingly venture into the fertilizer import business.
(c)    Inadequate Donor Response: This risk relates to inadequate donor response leading to less
than needed fertilizer imports and its deleterious impact on privatization and the country
food security. There is a strong indication of adequate donor response, provided TGE
maintains its macro-economic reform program on course. Further, TGE in its National
Fertilizer Policy, is committed to providing the needed foreign exchange for fertilizer
imports.



- 41 -
VIIL AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements and Assurances
7.1    IDA has obtained the following assurances from TGE during negotiations:
(a)    The Government would eliminate across-the-board fertilizer price subsidies by September
30, 1996, and further eliminate targeted subsidies by September 30, 1998. Further, TGE will
completely deregulate fertilizer prices in a phased manner by September30, 1998. No direct
or indirect subsidies will be paid to AISCO by TGE during the life of the project. (paras 3.5
and 3.6 and 5.7);
(b)    The Government/NFIA would ensure that both public and private sector importers have
equal access to IDA funds as well as to any other foreign exchange made available by TGE
and NBE for fertilizer imports; that both will be represented in the NFSP implementation
related committees at various levels (paras 3.7 and 5.7);
(c)    The Government would not engage in direct marketing of fertilizers (para 3.11);
(d)    NFIA and MOA would ensure the implementation of the measures recommended to promote
fertilizer use (paras 3.25, 3.26 and 3.27);
(e)    The Government and NFIA would follow the project implementation arrangements as
proposed in Annex 8 and paras 5.4 and 5.5; also, the Government would provide adequate
and timely budgetary and staffing support to NFIA to satisfactorily implement NFSP (para
5.4);
(f)    NFIA would coordinate fertilizer import and inland distribution operations and resolve all
issues which impede efficiency and cost competitiveness; it would also ensure that early
importers are not disadvantaged, and any gap between estimated requirement of foreign
exchange and likely availability of donors (including IDA) funds would be bridged by the
GovernmentlNBE in line with its fertilizer policy (paras 3.29 to 3.31);
(g)    The Government would (i) take measures to update or develop standards and tolerance limits
for various fertilizer products and packaging materials, and arrange for appropriate
enforcement mechanisms; (ii) arrange for the annual training of fertilizer inspectors and
traders in quality control enforcement as well as in safe handling and transportation of
fertilizer products. (para 3.12 and para 5.9);
(h)    NFIA would annually agree with IDA on an IDA-funded production and distribution
program  for biofertilizers.  Further it would finalize, during the mid-term  review,
arrangements for the commercial sale of biofertilizers (para 3.34) and put in place by the end
of PY-3 cost recovery mechanisms for soil testing service (paras 3.34 and 3.36);
(i)    NFIA would finalize with IDA, details of arrangements to maintain a data base regarding
the impact of fertilizer on the environment and establish monitoring and testing
arrangements at strategic locations by December 31, 1996 (para 3.37);
(j)    NFIA would submit to IDA an annual work program  for all components including
procurement, technical assistance and training, two months before the beginning of each
year (para 5.5) submit quarterly progress report, including one on procurement, to IDA



- 42 -
(paras 4.22 and 5.13, and Annex 8); maintain the special accounts according to IDA
guidelines (para 4.26), and maintain all project records in accordance with internationally-
accepted standards. All project accounts would be audited annually by an external auditor,
acceptable to the Bank. The audited statement of accounts would be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the close of each fiscal year (paras 4.27 and 4.28); NFIA will prepare
an implementation completion report at the end of the Project (para 5.5);
(k)    NFIA would ensure that the Project's financial management and accounting system is in
place by December 31, 1995 (para 4.28);
(1)    AISCO  would implement its restructuring plan and replace its wholesale operations
conducted at the marketing centers by private wholesalers by December 31, 1997. Further,
AISCO would annually submit its business plan three months in advance to the
commencements of the fertilizer sales season to IDA through NFIA and would take into
consideration IDA's comments before finalizing it (para 5.8);
(m)    NFIA would develop and implement annual technial assistance and training programs as
proposed in para 5.11 and Annex 7; and
(n)    NFIA would organize a benchmark survey in PY-1 and annual surveys thereafter to assess
the impact of the project; and further, NFIA jointly with IDA, would conduct a mid-term
review of project implementation progress soon after the close of PY-2 (para 5.5 and Annex
8, paras 10 (vii) and (viii))
7.2    Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
(a)    Submission by AISCO: (i) a phased action plan to IDA for complete privatization of the
operations of its marketing centers by December 31, 1997 (para 3.9); and (ii) a business plan
for 1995, acceptable to IDA, including guidelines on fertilizer pricing for distributors,
wholesalers and retailers (para 3.9);
(b)    Submission by NFIA  of its annual work program, including procurement, technical
assistance and training for 1995-96 to IDA (para 5.5);
(c)    Appointment of staff in NFIA, including a Project Implementation Advisor, two specialists
in MIS and marketing and the NFSP Coordination and Monitoring Office staff, (para 5.4),
to make it fully operational; and
(d)    Setting up of Fertilizer/Inputs units in each regional agricultural bureau (para 5.10).
B. Recommendation
7.3    Subject to the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 82.9
million (US$120 million equivalent) to the Transitional Government of Ethiopia.



- 43 -
ETHIOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
GRAPH AND ANNEXES
GRAPH 1.1    Long-Term Food Grain Production and Consumption Trends
ANNEXES
1.     National Fertilizer Policy
2.     Fertilizer Minikit Program
3.     Ensuring Adequate and Timely Supply of Fertilizers
4.     Project Cost Summary by Components, Financiers and Years
5.     Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
6.     NFIA Organizational Chart
7.     Training and Technical Assistance
8.     Project Implementation Plan
- Attachment 1 Project Implementation Schedule
- Attachment 2 Key Monitorable Indicators
- Attachment 3 Supervision Plan
9.     Procurement Packages
10.    Financial Aspects
11.    Economic Aspects
12.    Poverty and Gender Issues
13.    Documents in the Project File
MAP: IBRD No. 26602
ETHIOPIA: AISCO's Sales and Distribution Centers



ETHIOPIA - NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
Long-Term Food Grain Production and Consumption Trends
(cereals and pulses)
8
Consurmplion Trend ,~
c         _           _ __    _  ____                                            _    ____  __
uo/                                                                         Productli  Trend
_2                                       Net Production
@2
c
.2                                                               Fodgan  a
0
-2    -- __ _  __    .____ ._    ___                                                        _  
-2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 64 85 66 07 go as 90 91 92 93 94 95
Crop Years ending September 10



-45-
Annex 1
Page 1 of 12
TRANSMONAL GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER POLICY
(November 1993)
I. Introduction
1.     Agriculture is the main stay of the Ethiopian economy. Mixed farming and pure livestock based
production systems are dominant in the highlands and lowlands of Ethiopia, respectively. The mixed production
system has been practiced for centuries. Because of the inter-dependence of the animal husbandry and crop
production practices, the support extended by each has been a key factor for their coexistence. Plant nutrient
recycling has been and still is an integral part of the mixed production system. Despite the intense agricultural
practices in the mixed farming areas, the system has remained productive and, hence, needs to be supported
and strengthened through the infusion of relevant new technologies.
2.     Current grain production does not meet the food requirement of the population. Projections show that
the population will continue to grow at a faster pace and, hence, contribute immensely to the severity of food
deficit. Agricultural productivity in general and yield per unit area in particular have to be improved
significantly if food deficit problems are to be minimized and finally eliminated. In this regard, diffusion and
adoption of new and improved technology including the use of fertilizers will play a critical role. Fertilizer
consumption during the last 20 years has been increasing and it has contributed towards increasing crop
production. Increased use of fertilizer along with improved practices of the indigenous know how will continue
to contribute to agricultural production provided that there is an extended and intensive distribution of fertilizer
outside the established fertilizer consuming areas.
3.     Inappropriate economic policies, weak infrastructure, lack of market outlets, and centrally controlled
pricing systems were among the major drawbacks which affected agricultural production, productivity and
income of the farming communities. This had serious implication on fertilizer use since the purchasing power
of farmers will be severely limited even if fertilizers were available. It is believed that the market-oriented
policies pursued by the Government, coupled with intensive extension services, and provision for credit facilities
would create incentives to increase farmers productivity and hence, would help to improve the weakened
purchasing power of smallholders.
4.      Lack of policy and guidelines on importation, pricing, distribution and marketing of fertilizer use
together with limited research information, lack of resources and services, poor infrastructure, mismanagement
of natural resources, centralized pricing policies of the past, limited diffusion of information and to a certain
extent unfavorable climatic conditions have been responsible for the poor performance of the agricultural sector.
5.     The profitability of fertilizers would be optimized when used in conjunction with improved seed,
efficient water and land management, and sound cultural practices. Availability of technological packages will
thus help intensify fertilizer use. In the absence of full-fledged technological packages, however, use of genetic
materials that are productive under existing natural fertility conditions would have to be encouraged and
promoted. In this connection TGE has given much emphasis to the development of the agricultural sector and
as a result policies and guidelines on seed industry, agricultural research, plant genetic resources, forestry,
science and technology, chemical industry, minimizing and energy have been and are being developed. In
addition to the trade subsector, the Govermnent has taken measures to liberalize wholesale and retail trade, thus
offering opportunities for the privatization of fertilizer marketing at all levels. Such measures will have a
positive impact on fertilizer use and development. To provide guidelines and to further facilitate the promotion
and development of the subsector, a national fertilizer policy has become imperative.



-46-
Annex I
Page 2 of 12
H. Objectives:
Main Objectives
6.      The importance of the fertilizer subsector in raising productivity per unit of land significantly
contributing to the growth of a sustainable agricultural system needs no emphasis. This, of course, necessitates
a wider and efficient use of organic and inorganic fertilizers which in turn requires a healthy development of
the fertilizer subsector. The development of the fertilizer subsector along with other enabling environments will
be instrumental in achieving the national goals of food security, the production of industrial and exportable
crops.
7.      The national goals of food security and food self-sufficiency can only be realized when carefully
planned and designed agricultural development programs are implemented. This has to be supported by a
clearly spelled out fertilizer policy which broadly aims at the farmers' effective demand situation, supply of
fertilizer, distribution and marketing, pricing and subsidies, credit, research and extension, quality control and
environment and organizational set up to implement the policy. In order to achieve this goal a national fertilizer
policy with the following sets of specific objectives is formulated.
Specific Objectives
(a)     To ensure that fertilizers are available to smallholders in the required quantity, product-mix
at a time needed and at reasonable prices;
(b)     To develop the farmers effective demand through the interactions of biological/agronomic
potential, supply of fertilizer, effective distribution and marketing system with appropriate
incentives, better cropping pattern to increase agricultural production so that the objectives
of food security, supply of raw materials and exportable crops could be achieved and
sustained;
(c)     To provide the necessary support to the national research and extension systems to generate
packages of technologies (improved seeds, irrigation, integrated pest management, farm
implements, improved cultural practices, etc.) and disseminate them so that the rapid growth
of fertilizer use would contribute to increased and sustained agricultural production and
productivity;
(d)     To encourage judicious and efficient use of inorganic and organic fertilizers, and improve
traditional soil management practices in order to increase and sustain agricultural productivity;
to encourage small holders who know the benefit of fertilizers but constrained by
unavailability of fertilizers and financial resources; and to educate non-users in remote areas
to benefit from fertilizer technology;
(e)     To establish a streamlined, competitive and efficient fertilizer importation and marketing
system to ensure the availability of fertilizer on sustainable bases;
(f)     To stimulate the exploration, evaluation and development of indigenous raw materials for
local and domestic production of fertilizers (organic and inorganic) and soil amendment
materials;
(g)     To encourage and promote the establishment of manufacturing plants for fertilizers (organic
and inorganic) and soil amendment materials;



-47-
Annex I
Page 3 of 12
(h)     To establish environmentally safe and sound fertilizer use and develop and strengthen
programs of quality control systems; and
(i)     To create a functional and efficient organizational setup to develop the fertilizer subsector and
implement the national fertilizer policy.
m.    Farmers Effective Demand for Fertilizers:
8.      Although fertilizer consumptions have been growing at an annual rate of about 12 percent, and seasonal
and regional variations in consumptions are pronounced (85 percent in main growing seasons and 80 percent
consumed in three regions), fertilizers consumption in Ethiopia is at a very low stage. In Ethiopia, fertilizer
use began at very low level (still very low by any standard) and grew gradually over time.
To promote and develop farmers effective demand for fertilizer use, there are several factors that
require special attention, and these, inter alia, include:
(a)     The diverse natural endowment potential (agro-climatic zones) and the physico-chemical
characteristics of the soils vis-a-vis the promotion of fertilizer use;
(b)     The need for intensive and appropriate conservation measures to rehabilitate those regions
with severely degraded soils on the one hand, and preventive measures in those areas where
the soil is in the process of depletion on the other, and the promotion of fertilizer use;
(c)     The regional variations and the need to correct unbalanced use (recommended usage) of
fertilizer by farmers in areas where fertilizer has been adopted and used for years and losses
incurred due to this;
(d)     Lack of improved seeds (95 percent of farmers use their own seeds ) and other packages of
technologies that would have made fertilizer more profitable to smallholders;
(e)     Water as a major limiting factor for crop production and the need to develop small-scale and
medium sized irrigations schemes to benefit and reduce risks and uncertainty in the use of
fertilizer;
(f)     The need to increase the number of new fertilizer users in general and in remote areas in
particular, which require special promotional efforts through an intensive extension scheme,
supported by various types of incentive mechanisms which are crucial at the early stage of
the learning process;
(g)     The chronic and persistent constraints on the supply side due to total dependency on imported
fertilizer, shortage of foreign exchange, delays in procurement, etc.;
(h)     Poor and inefficient distribution and marketing systems which affect the allocation and
distribution of fertilizers among farmers;
(i)     Price policies that would affect relative prices of products and inputs including fertilizer; and
(j)     National agricultural objectives and strategies pursued to achieve the established targets of the
agricultural sector.



-48-
Annex I
Page 4 of 12
9.      Since these factors will affect the growth of fertilizer use in the short, medium and long terms, the
Government will take appropriate measures to minimize the negative effect while encouraging and promoting
those that would have positive contributions.
10.    Demand estimation and sales forecast are key management functions for determining the right type and
quantity of fertilizers to be supplied.  Demand estimation has often been inaccurate and fraught with
bureaucratic procedures leading to delays and consequential inventory costs as well as crop production losses.
Hence, the relevant institution or organization and a reliable mechanism for realistic national demand forecasts
of annual, short, medium and long-term fertilizer requirements shall be established.
IV.    Supply of Fertilizers:
Fertilizer Importation:
11.     Ethiopia imports, all inorganic fertilizers for domestic use, although not in sufficient quantity. The
main constraints to importing fertilizers in insufficient quantity and timely delivery are (a) shortage of foreign
exchange; (b) inefficient procurement procedures (partly related to donors' procedures) which delay fertilizer
shipment; (c) shortage of port facilities, clearing and handling at the port which has reduced offtake capacity;
and (d) all fertilizer imports are handled in bags which has increased fertilizer costs. To reasonably deal with
these constraints, the Government will take the following measures:
(a)     Allocations of Funds: The Government shall allocate sufficient funds to ensure continuous
and adequate importation of fertilizer to fulfill the growing requirement of the country. This
means providing adequate foreign exchange for programmed and timely import of fertilizers.
Furthermore, for the short and medium terms supply of fertilizer, the Government will
negotiate with donors (credit and grants) to make the funds available on time;
(b)     Port Facilities and Handling: The improvement and development of these facilities will
become more critical with expected increase in volume of fertilizer to be imported in the
coming years. Accordingly, the Government will negotiate with concerned governments to
ensure that the capacities and facilities of the ports will improve progressively through various
arrangements;
(c)     Import of Fertilizer in Bulk: In the past as well as at present, fertilizers are imported in
bags and the benefits of importing in bulk have been foregone. The benefits of bulk imports
lie: (i) in avoiding the cost of bagging and loading bags into the ships in high labor cost
supplier countries; (ii) in obtaining lower sea freight rate; (iii) in avoiding the relatively high
cost of stevedoring for unloading bags from the ship at destination ports; (v) in achieving a
higher rate of discharge which would save time and money; and (vi) in creating local
employment for bagging of fertilizer and allowing the use of locally produced bags.
12.    To take advantage of bulk importing of fertilizer, the Government will phase out imports in bags as
rapidly as possible and encourage importers to import fertilizer in bulk. Accordingly, medium and long-term
plans will be made to develop facilities to handle bulk imports at entry ports. In the mean time, measures will
be taken to switch to bulk importing by making temporary arrangements, and encourage fertilizer importers
(AISCO and privates) to use portable dockside bagging system.
13.     Economies of Scale in Importation: Following the economic reforms pursued by the Government
in general, and the new fertilizer marketing strategy, competition in imports through inclusion of private
importers is expected to improve timely arrivals and availabilities of fertilizer in the country. However, the
advantage of economies of scale in importing in large quantity need not be overlooked and the Government will



-49-
Annex I
Page 5 of 12
ensure that such advantages be exploited to the possible maximum and siall ePcourage investment in warehouse
and bulk handling facilities.
14.    Phasing of Fertilizer Imports: In the past and currently, phasing of fertilizer imports has been on
an ad hoc basis and this needs to be synchronized with the main sales offtake period and imports to minimize
inventories. Accordingly the Government will encourage importers to develop schedules where the quantities
to be imported would be tuned to the peak offtake season.
Domestic Production of Fertilizers:
15.    Ethiopia is totally dependent on imports for its inorganic fertilizer requirements and domestic
production of fertilizer dose not exist. It is the intent of the Government to explore the possibility of promoting
domestic production of both organic and inorganic fertilizers in stages. Considering (a) the size of the market
for fertilizers which is expected to grow rapidly and substantially in the medium and long terms, (b) the
existence of domestic raw materials as confirmed by various studies, and, (c) the possibility of mobilizing
domestic and foreign capital for investment, the Government believes that the growing fertilizer demand of the
country needs to be gradually met by domestic production.
16.    Resource Potential: Sustainable domestic fertilizer production can only be ensured when there are
adequate domestic supply of raw materials. The country is endowed with various mineral and energy resources
and favorable geological environments. In addition to sufficient energy resources, there are identified deposits
of raw materials and other agro-minerals that could be used for the production of various kinds of fertilizers.
Raw materials such as natural gas, potash, and phosphate are known to exist in the country. There are also
sizeable energy resources of hydropower, natural gas, geothermal, and limited amount of coal and oil shale.
The continued exploration and evaluation of these resources will, therefore, pave the ground for the
development of inorganic and other organic fertilizer production in the country. The potential for the
development of a low cost organic fertilizer production from the large size of livestock population and a mixed
agricultural production system is very high. Agricultural and industrial wastes, slaughter house by products
and town organic wastes are also potential resources. The Government, realizing the need for intensive
resource assessment, will thus create an enabling environment in this respect.
17.    Chemical Fertilizers:  As noted above the country is totally dependent on imported chemical
fertilizers. The foreign exchange requirement for the purclhase and transportation of imported fertilizers is too
high and prone to increase in the future. Sustainable supply, hence, cannot be met by importation alone.
Therefore, the establishment of domestic fertilizer manufacturing plants in order to gradually minimize import
is of high national interest and priority. Emphasis will be given to the production of nitrogenous and phosphatic
fertilizers from indigenous and available resources. The Government will create an enabling environment to
encourage investment for the establishment of domestic fertilizer manufacturing plants.
18.    Biofertilizers: Low cost organic fertilizers can be used as supplements to the high cost inorganic
fertilizers. The use of biogas slurry and other agricultural and agro-industrial wastes as fertilizer is very
important. Some soil micro-organisms are very cheap and useful biofertilizers which have to be used widely
in the future. Therefore, the establishment of organic and biofertilizer production units based on agricultural
and agro-industrial wastes, slaughter house by products, and town wastes will be encouraged for investment
by the private and public sectors.
19.    Soil Amendment Production: There are abundant and widely distributed soil amendment resources
such as limestone, dolomite, gypsum, etc. in the country. The establishment of production units will be
encouraged through the participation of public and the private sectors. The Government will take appropriate
measures to develop infrastructural facilities in order to enhance the establishment of domestic manufacturing
plants for the production of soil amendment materials.



-50-
Annex I
Page 6 of 12
20.     Mobilizing Investable Resources: The critical element, of course, is mobilizing domestic and foreign
capital and skill for investment in the fertilizer industries. In the spirit of the macro-economic reforms and
other liberalization policies that are being pursued by the Government, an enabling environment will be created
to encourage foreign and domestic investors to fully participate in the production of domestic fertilizers.
V.      Fertilizer Distribution and Marketing:
21.     Supply of fertilizers (either imported or domestically produced), and intensive research and extension
services to promote fertilizer and other inputs use will be a futile exercise without an effective distributions and
marketing system. The distribution system needs to ensure (a) that organized fertilizer distribution on a
commercial basis so that users get the know how to use fertilizers and obtain optimum economic results
(increase production and productivity per unit area) and improve living conditions; and (b) that fertilizer is
available to smallholders in the required quantity, product mix, at the right time and at a reasonable price.
Accordingly, the process of developing a competitive marketing system introduced in 1992 in the fertilizer
subsector will continue. In the distribution and marketing system there will be three participants.
Participants
(a)     The private sector: In view of the growing fertilizer demand, the volume to be imported and
distributed, the participation of the private sector will be crucial in reducing prices and
delivering fertilizer to the smallholders on time. The Government will encourage the private
sector to fully participate in the importation, distribution, wholesale and retail trade of
fertilizers in the country.
(b)     Service Cooperatives: The role of farmers' service cooperatives (SCs) in providing better
services to their members is well known. Efforts shall be exerted to strengthen and encourage
the participation of the service cooperatives in the fertilizer subsector to ensure the timely
availability of the right fertilizer at reasonable prices to their members, in competition with
other government and private sector traders.
(c)     Government Role and Participation: In the past importation, distribution and marketing of
fertilizer has been carried out under the monopoly of Agricultural Input Supply Corporation.
In view of the government's economic reforms and liberalization policies (the new fertilizer
marketing strategy) AISCO will be restructured and streamlined to operate competitively in
the free market with the private sector and cooperatives.  It will be an autonomous
organization and accountable to the board of directors, and the necessary regulations will be
promulgated to that effect.
22.    Transportation and Storage Facilities:  Transport and storage facilities have been the major
bottlenecks in the distribution and marketing of fertilizers in the country. Since fertilizer is moved by roads
from ports (a) a shortage of trucks has been critical to cope with the offtake of fertilizer from ships; (b)
shortage facilities at the ports and inland have caused unnecessary wastage and mishandling of fertilizers; and
(c) lack of, and poor conditions of feeder and access roads delayed timely delivery of fertilizer to the marketing
centers in the interior. To overcome these problems, the Government shall invest to improve and expand
physical infrastructure and other facilities as well as encourage and support the private sector to invest.
23.     Fertilizer Reserve Stock: In the country where the road networks are not well developed, where
fertilizer use is totally dependent on imports, where fertilizer usage is being developed, where fertilizer supply
systems can be constrained by world fertilizer demand/supply situations and international prices are volatile,
etc., there will definitely be a need for minimum fertilizer reserve stocks. To this effect, the Government shall
take steps to maintain minimum fertilizer reserve stocks at strategic locations in the country and a guideline will
be prepared on how such a minimum reserve stock will be managed in a cost effective and efficient manner.



-51-
Annex I
Page 7 of 12
VI. Pricing and Subsidies of Fertilizers:
24.     Fertilizer Pricing: The main objective of fertilizer pricing is to provide an incentive for efficient
fertilizer use and to sustain a stable pricing environment to the farming community. In the past both fertilizer
prices and grain prices (fixed grain prices and quota systems) were set by the Government, and this had created
dis-incentives to agricultural producers. The Government believes that such pricing system would tend to
distort the economic price structures of fertilizers, thus hindering effective competition in the fertilizer
subsector. Nevertheless, the macro-economic reforms (particularly foreign exchange adjustment) that are
underway might continue to affect imported fertilizer prices. Accordingly the Government will monitor the
dynamic situation of the reforms on this import of fertilizers, growth of fertilizer consumption, the relative
prices of agricultural output and fertilizer, and deregulation of the Pan-territorial pricing system in stages.
25.     Fertilizer Subsidy: Direct subsidy has not been practiced in the past because both agricultural product
and fertilizer prices were administered by the Governmuent. However, the economic reforms and market
liberalization policies of the Government has changed the centrally administered pricing system into a market-
oriented system which, it is hoped, will create a competitive environment both for agricultural producers and
suppliers of agricultural inputs. There are, however, cases where short and medium term fertilizer subsidies
are called upon and the reasons for such subsidies are (a) that further exchange adjustment may dramatically
increase the domestic prices of fertilizer which could be beyond the means of smallholders; (b) that international
fertilizer prices are volatile and do fluctuate, and there could be a need for maintaining stable fertilizer prices
domestically; (c) the fertilizer consumption in Ethiopia is extremely low and the need to increase its
consumption is of paramount importance particularly during the period of early adaptation when the risks of
farmers are high; and (d) in some cases it may be used to correct short-term distortions in relative prices. It
is therefore, essential to consider the question of subsidy in relation to promoting sustained fertilizer use for
agricultural productivity and economic realities of the smallholders in the short, medium and long terms.
26.     The approach of the Government shall be (a) to critically monitor and evaluate the policy of subsidy
within the goals of the country's agricultural development strategy for increased and sustainable crop
production, for food security, industrial raw materials and exports, and (b) to synchronized subsidy removal
programs with the prevailing conditions.
VII.    Fertilizer Credit:
27.     Given the created enabling environment, aggressive participation of fertilizer importers, distributors,
wholesalers and retailers are expected, and the Government will encourage them to develop their capacity to
operate within the banking institutions' credit policies and operational guidelines.
28.     Ensuring adequate credit facilities for smallholders and the mechanism through which the funds would
be made available and recovered are important issues. Three constraints could be identified: (a) lack of
appropriate financial institutions specifically dealing with smallholders; (b) ineffective and inefficient rural
institutions to administer and recover the fertilizer loans from farmers; and (c) a psychological problem where
farmers feel that Government loans are grants, hence they do not plan for repayment. To minimize these
problems, the credit programs designed to help smallholders will consist of (a) establishing rural financial
institutions that will participate in expanding fertilizer credit to smallholders; (b) providing all the support in
promoting, organizing and developing cooperatives, associations and groups and encourage them to participate
at all levels of fertilizer activities; (c) ensure that proper management and discipline are followed in assessing
the loan requirements and repayments on time.



-52-
Annex I
Page 8 of 12
VIII. Agricultural Research and Extension Services:
Soil Fertility Research:
29.    Wide variations in climate, geology and physiographic conditions have contributed to the formation
of diverse soil types with varying characteristics. The dominant arable soil of Ethiopia, Nitosols, have high
phosphorus fixation property and hence low P availability. Cambisols, the second important group, are
shallow, stony and low in organic matter. Soil moisture management and nitrogen deficiency are, therefore,
the main limiting factors to crop production. Strong fertilizer related research is critical for increased and
efficient use of fertilizers in the agricultural sector. The National Agricultural Research System (NARS) will,
therefore, be strengthened in undertaking soil fertility research and development activity.
30.    Chemical Fertilizer: Nitrogen and phosphorus, in that order, are generally considered the major yield
limiting nutrients in Ethiopian soils. Attempts will therefore be made to improve the role and efficiency of
these nutrients in the major soils and crops under varied agricultural conditions. Priorities will also be set for
improving deficiencies and or excesses of secondary and micronutrients for economically optimum crop
production.
31.    The country has potential resources of fertilizer raw materials and other agro-minerals such as
phosphate rock, limestone and gypsum. The contribution of these sources in terms of soil nutrients, and
their impact on the environment will be assessed following standard soil, plant and water analytic
methodologies.
32.    Bio Fertilizers: The soil fertility programs will also be based on the principle of using food and
forage legumes and multi-purpose legumes trees as low cost soil nitrogen sources. Therefore the identification
and exploitation of the use of superior rhizobial strains and other beneficial microorganisms under diverse soil
conditions will be assessed, promoted and made available.
33.    Due emphasis will be given to the maximum use of locally available organic fertilizer sources such
as animal excreta, biogas slurry, slaughter house byproducts, composts and organic wastes, in order to reduce
dependency on chemical fertilizers, develop local resources for self-sufficiency and minimize foreign currency
spending.
34.    Improved Management Practices: The Ethiopian farmers have, through generations, developed a
crop-livestock integrated agriculture which has helped them to sustain productivity. This traditional knowledge
of farmers where both crops and livestock are mutually benefiting from the closed nutrient cycle, must be
developed and properly utilized.
35.    Crop response to fertilizers is influenced by a flux of biotic and abiotic factors in addition to the use
of improved cultural practices. Attempts will, therefore, be made to maximize the net return from application
of fertilizers through the use of recommended technological packages (such as high yielding crop varieties, and
recommended agronomic practices).
36.    Fertilizer use efficiency will be increased by improving land and water management practices. The
focus will be on implementing useful soil conservation techniques and appropriate water management practices
in order to increase fertilizer efficiency and promote long-term agricultural productivity.
37.    Improved cropping systems--multiple cropping, crop rotation, and green manuring--are useful
techniques for increasing crop production by ameliorating the fertility of soils. Therefore, determination of the
optimum cropping practices will be strengthened for the various agro-ecological conditions in order to maintain
sustainable crop production system.



-53-
Annex 1
Page 9 of 12
38.     The national efforts in crop breeding programs will emphasis the development of genotypes and
cultivar, having wider adaptations and performing well under both low and high input and marginal conditions.
Fertilizer Extension:
39.     Extension plays a critical role in the introduction and popularization of fertilizers to the farming
community. As a result fertilizer extension programs are currently being conducted by both governmental and
non-governmental organizations with differing strategies and approaches. However, if these various programs
are to be effective, their activities need to be systematically organized and coordinated under the general
framework of the National Agricultural Extension system. To this effect:
(a)     The Government will identify priority areas and strategic crops for fertilizer extensions to
meet national food security in the shortest possible time;
(b)     The existence of inter sectoral ties is very important in rural development in general, and
crop production in particular. Therefore, it will be ensured that fertilizer extension will be
closely linked with research, training, input suppliers and other related organizations;
(c)     Fertilizer use will be popularized as agronomic packages and based on soil test results through
the use of large-scale farmers' managed demonstration programs where national and local
mass media facilities will be used and involve farmers in disseminating their experiences;
(d)     It will be ensured that recruited extension agents will have rural background and knowledge
of the social and cultural norms of the society;
(e)     The agent-farmer ratio shall be increased to manageable size to improve agents' performance;
(f)     Efforts will be made to create effective agricultural extension system through the deployment
of effective advisory services, qualified personnel, with sufficient facilities and incentive
mechanism for those involved in extension activities.
IX. Fertilizer Quality Control and Environmental Protection:
40.     Inappropriate use of fertilizers can lead to adverse soil conditions and degradation of the environment.
It is also possible that losses from agricultural fields and other areas can lead to environmental degradation, and
contamination of ground and surface waters.
Quality Control:
41.     Since fertilizer is an essential commodity and users are not highly informed and lack the tools to test
the quality of the product, the Government will have to lay down regulations to ensure quality control both at
importation and within the distribution system. Quality control will include: (a) nutrient contents of the
products; (b) deterioration of physical quality; (c) adulteration of the product at importation and distribution.
42.     The Government will protect farmers from using substandard fertilizers. To protect the interests of
farmers the following measures will be taken:
(a)     Testing facilities are indispensable in verifying and ensuring the right types of fertilizers. To
provide efficient and reliable services, efforts will be strengthened to increase the testing
capacity in the field of quality assurance;



-54-
Annex I
Page 10 of 12
(b)     To ascertain the genuine supply of fertilizers, quality control system shall be strengthened at
all levels intensive inspection;
(c)     Farmers' knowledge about the quality aspects of fertilizers will be raised to make them
conscious of the deceptive finish of fertilizer products and encourage them to perform
elementary quality activities by themselves;
(d)     Legal action shall be taken to enforce the proper implementation of the existing standards of
fertilizer control.
Environmental Protection:
43.     The environment is adversely affected by improper use of fertilizer products and discharge of industrial
effluent unless preventive measures are taken. To this effect, environmental standards for fertilizer products
and industrial effluent of local fertilizer plants will be formulated and implemented. Accordingly:
(a)     Efforts will be made to introduce, develop and use efficient mechanisms that minimize losses
of nutrients and other polluting elements into the environment;
(b)     Fertilizer materials that cause soil and environmental degradation will be carefully monitored,
screened and restricted as required;
(c)     The impact of mining, processing and application of fertilizer raw materials and other agro-
minerals on the environment will be investigated and monitored. In addition, reclamation and
rehabilitation of mine spoils and degraded areas will be enforced;
(d)     Unwise and excessive use of fertilizers will in the long term lead to contamination of ground
and surface waters; and the environment at large. Therefore, measures will be taken to
monitor nutrient levels in water, food sources and the soils;
(e)     Fertilizer industry technology and plant location have considerable impact on the environment.
Emphasis will, therefore, be given to the identification of environmentally safe technology and
plant location;
(f)     It will be ensured that effluent and emissions from fertilizer plants shall be appropriately
treated before being discharged;
(g)     Measures will be taken to establish monitoring and testing facilities for environmental
protection in strategic locations;
(h)     Action will be taken for the compilation and maintenance of a database on the impact of
fertilizers and other materials on the environment; and
(i)     Ensure that types of fertilizer imported shall be based upon the recommendation of the
National Agricultural Research System (NARS).
X.      Organization of the National Fertilizer Industry
44.     Lack of a national fertilizer policy coupled with the absence of a responsible governmental organization
to guide and coordinate fertilizer activities have limited the growth and development of the subsector. Hence,
an institutional arrangement under which all concerned organizations can coordinate their activities for the
development of the subsector need to be in place. To this effect, a National Fertilizer Industry Board (NFIB)



Annex 1
Page 11 of 12
and National Fertilizer Industry Agency (NFIA) as its secretariat will be established. Members of the National
Fertilizer Industrial Board (NFIB) will consist of:
(a)     Ministry of Agriculture                                Chairperson
(b)     Ministry of Natural Resources Development
and Environmental Protection                           Secretary
(c)     Ministry of Industry                                   Member
(d)     Ministry of Mines and Energy
(e)     Ministry of Transport and Communication
(f)     Ethiopian Science and Technology Commission
(g)     Ethiopian Authority for Standardization
(h)     National Bank of Ethiopia
(i)     Three eminent Scientists
(j)     Regional Office Representatives
(k)     Others as required
45.    The NFIB will have the following duties and responsibilities:
(a)     Provide a policy framework and advises the Government in all matters pertaining to fertilizers
use and development and ensures on the implementation of the national fertilizer policy and
strategy;
(b)     Issues guidelines and procedures for efficient and systematic import, export and distribution
of fertilizers and the establishment of domestic fertilizer industry;
(c)     Assures that policies and strategies for fertilizer use and development are consistent with the
overall national objectives of the country;
(d)     Reviews, revises and updates policies and guidelines on fertilizer use and development under
the guidance of the Council of Ministers;
(e)     Promotes capability building in all aspects of the sub-sector;
(f)     Guides and gives directives to the Agency.
46.    The National Fertilizer Industry Agency: The National Fertilizer Industry Agency which is the
secretariat of the National Fertilizer Industry Board (NFIB) will have the following objectives:
(a)     Ensures the implementation of this fertilizer use and development of policy and strategies, and
others;
(b)     Encourages the growth and development of the fertilizer subsector and contributes
significantly to agricultural productivity.
47.    Duties and Responsibilities of the NFIA:
(a)     Monitors and ensures the proper implementation of regulations and guidelines regarding the
import, export, resources development and other fertilizer related activities;
(b)     Supplies to decision makers and others timely information on international demand/supply
situation, prices and cost of inputs, and domestic consumption;



-56-
Annex 1
Page 12 of 12
(c)     Maintains and strengthens relations with donors and other financing agencies;
(d)     Organizes training and awareness programs for personnel involved in the subsector;
(e)     On behalf of the Government and in cooperation with relevant government institutions
negotiates and signs agreements with local and foreign organizations pertaining to fertilizer
related loans and grants.
(f)     Performs other essential duties that can help to promote fertilizer use and developments.
48.     Duties and Responsibilities of the General Manager of NFIA:
(a)     Prepares and submits short, medium and long-term plan, work programs and revised policies
and guidelines to the board and upon approval ensures their implementation.
(b)     Assures that policies, strategies and guidelines of the fertilizer subsector are properly
implemented.
(c)     Promotes good  working  relationship  with  all governmental and  non-governmental
organizations which are active in the fertilizer subsector.
(d)     Represents the agency with third parties and signs any agreement and contract concerning the
agency.
49.     Fertilizer Data Base: A strong national fertilizer information and documentation system will be created
under the auspices of the NFIB to gather and provide information pertinent to the development of the sub-
sector.
50.     Fertilizer Law: The Government shall prepare and promulgate a National Fertilizer law to promote
fertilizer trade, ensure quality standards, and thereby protect users.
51.     Organization of the National Fertilizer Industry Agency: Lack of effective national guidance and
coordination of institutional linkage had hindered the use and development of fertilizer. To this effect, the
establishment of the following organs within the agency is essential:
(a)     Market research and development;
(b)     Monitoring and evaluation;
(c)     Resource development.
52.     The functions and responsibilities of the various organs will be set by the National Fertilizer Industry
Board.



-57-                                   Annex 2
ETHIOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
FERTILIZER MINIKIT PROGRAM
1.     The objective of the minikit program is two-fold: (a) to promote balanced nutrient
application by use of urea for top dressing, which is virtually non-existent at present; and (b) to
attract non-users of fertilizers, including those in the war affected areas to take to fertilizer
application to raise crop yields.
2.     Balanced fertilization: It is proposed to distribute minikits of 5kg of urea free to eligible
farmers in traditional fertilizer using areas. It is proposed that 10,000 packets be distributed each
year, or 50,000 packets during the life of the project. Each minikit would be adequate to cover an
area of 1,000 sq metres (which is 20 times the size of MOA current demonstration plots). For
smallholders with fragmented holdings, 1,000 sq metres trial is considered to be adequate. The
intention is to assist the smallholder compare the yield from such trial plots with the normal yield
in the rest of his holding which had no weeding and no top dressing. This should convincingly
demonstrate the advantages of balanced fertilization.
3.     The farmers will be selected by The Development Agents (DAs) in consultation with a
local village council, if any. The eligibility criteria for the minikit would be:
(a)    he should be a traditional DAP user, already applying or willing to apply the
recommended DAP dose at his cost; and
(b)    he should have weeded the trial plot, either manually or using weedicides, before
application of urea for top dressing. The DA will arrange application of urea at
the appropriate stage of plant growth in his presence and under his guidance to
achieve maximum advantage. A farmer will be given free urea minikit only once
during the project life. Therefore, every year, new farmers will need to be
identified.
4.     Fertilizer Promotion: In war affected areas, the usage of fertilizer is relatively very low.
In order to attract non-users, it is proposed to distribute 5,000 minikits of DAP of 10kg each every
year (total 25,000 during the project life) through the Development Agents. DAs will demonstrate
the use of DAP as basal dose on 1000 sq m. plots, coupled with other improved cultural practices.
Later, the same farmers will also be given minikits of urea--5 kg each (5,000 minikits per year)--at
appropriate stage of the plant growth for top dressing, provided they have undertaken weeding and
there is no moisture stress. The application of both DAP and Urea will have to be under the
personal supervision of a DA. Among other things this would ensure that the beneficiary farmer
does not apply the fertilizer over his entire holding, thereby missing out on the demonstration
effect. It is expected that this demonstration program would result in expansion of fertilizer use
and also help in balanced use of nitrogen (N) and phosphates (P2.05).
5.     The farmers will be selected by DAs in consultation with Baito/Shengo. A selected farmer
will receive free minikits only once during the project life; each year new farmers will be selected
to achieve maximum coverage. However, if considered preferable, such minikits could be
distributed to farmers or groups of them in rotation among different woredas, with a view to create
a visual impact, instead of the minikits being very thinly scattered all over the war affected
regions.
* *** *



-58-
Annex 3
Page I of 3
ETHIOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
Ensuring Adequate and Timely Supply of Fertilizers
1.      Until 1992, AISCO was the sole agency responsible for importing and distributing fertilizers in
Ethiopia. The timing of fertilizer arrivals at Asseb port was essentially donor driven; often substantial
quantities of fertilizers arrived near or after the close of the fertilizer season. This heavy inventory was
carried forward for several months and the carrying cost, then estimated to be around 13 percent of the
distribution cost, was simply built into the administered price. However, with the liberalization of imports in
1993, profitability considerations are inducing importers to carefully determine the timing of imports in order
to minimise their inventory carrying costs. Given that fertilizer sales begin in February-March and (almost)
completely end in August, every importer would prefer to get his supplies between February and April, after
which heavy countrywide rains make transportation to most consumption areas very difficult.
2.      Scheduling the arrival of fertilizer ships near the commencement of the season should ordinarily not
be a cause for worry if adequate infrastructure by way of port and inland transport capacity was available to
handle the entire quantity between February and April. Unfortunately, however, there are serious capacity
constraints at Asseb port; it has only one deep water berth for unloading imported fertilizer which, for
reasons of economy, must come in shiploads of 20,000 tons or more. With the current average daily
discharge rate of 1,050 tons, a 20,000 ton ship takes about 20 days to unload fully. Accordingly, during
February and April, i.e. in 89 days a maximum of 4.5 ships can be unloaded, assuming back to back arrival
(which itself is somewhat unrealistic). Against this, in the Project Year 3, about 260,000 tons of fertilizer
material is likely to arrive; this would be equivalent of 13 shiploads, needing 260 days, i.e., 8.7 months to
unload. This implies that fertilizer unloading must start in mid-september. Even allowing for an occasional
smaller ship of 10,000 tons, which can be handled at a smaller berth, and even allowing for significant
improvement (say 30 percent) in the fertilizer unloading rate by introducing dockside bagging etc., discharge
of the first vessel must begin in late october; thereafter the fertilizer ships should arrive on a continuous basis.
[It may be noted here that the situation of Massawa port would not permit more that a small, say, a 10,000
ton vessel being unloaded there. The only other port viz. Djibouti could probably be available from PY 3,
provided the road between Djibouti and Dire Dawa and/or the railway system between the samne stations is
extensively repaired and the security situation improves.]
3.      Such advance arrival would mean significantly higher inventory carrying costs, which no importer
would be willing to incur in a competitive marketing system, lest he should be priced out. And yet, because
of infrastructure constraints, there is no escape from advance stocking to meet the projected demand for
fertilizers. It is, therefore, considered advisable that to encourage such advance stocking, the Government
should evolve suitable mechanisms so that the early importers-whether AISCO or private sector do not suffer
on account of the extra inventory cost (interest and storage charges) from the time of ship arrival until the end
of January.
4.      During discussions, the Government has proposed that, given that most of fertilizer imports are
likely to be funded by bilateral donors and multilateral agencies in the next few years, one possible way of
tackling the problem would be to make suitable foreign exchange available, against a promissory note or bank
guarantee, to private and public sector importers as per the agreed (with NFIA) timing of imports (beginning
July) and require all importers to pay the counterpart funds on the opening date of fertilizer sale season, say
February 1 or March 1, as NFIA may deem appropriate. This could be managed and monitored by NFIA.
This proposal would need revision of the current agreement(s) between the donors and the Ministry of
Finance.



-59-
Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
5.      Fertilizer Demand assessment However, the first step would be to set up a satisfactory system of
likely demand forecast for the next year. The responsibility for this will rest with the proposed NFIA. The
demand estimate should be finalised at the latest by end September every year to serve as the basis for
determining the procurement quantity for the following season/year, and should include a provision of 10-15
percent for the pipeline. This is important because there is no scheme to have emergency reserve stocks.
6.      Allocation of quantities to be procured between different agencies: The second step would be for
NFIA to suitably notify the import requirements, and invite proposals for import. In the proposal, the
intending parties should be asked to provide evidence of their financial capacity to support the intended level
of fertilizer imports, experience in foreign trade (import/export in any commodity) and handling cargo at
ports; their proposal should indicate the names and quantities of products proposed to be imported in different
months for the Belg and Meher seasons as well as their distribution plan in different regions. While inviting
proposals, Government's intention to compensate the importers for early arrivals (paras 3 and 4 above) should
specifically be announced. This is necessary to ensure orderliness in the implementation of fertilizer import
plan and avoid bunching of fertilizer ships at the port of entry close to the fertilizer sale season. Similarly,
TGE will announce how Government will adjust the timing proposals of intending importers to make it
consistent with the capacity of the port to handle fertilizer vessels. Once NFIA is satisfied about the bonafides
of the private applicants, they should be asked to deposit earnest money equal to about one percent of CIF
cost of shipment, which would be liable to be forfeited in the event of applicant's failure to fulfill the
commitment. Such a stipulation is considered necessary to ensure that only serious parties enter the race and
do not jeopardize timely and adequate procurement of fertilizer. The earnest money can be adjusted against
the value of each shipment to be deposited at the time of release of foreign exchange authorization.
Alternatively, some other similar safeguards could be thought of.
7.      Further, NFIA will need to develop mechanisms to rationally adjust the arrival timing of vessels,
with the assurance to the applicant importers that the early importers are not disadvantaged.
8.     TGE has to provide against one more risk. It is possible that in a competitive environment, the sum
total of the quantity proposed to be imported by AISCO and other private parties may fall short of the
projected fertilizer import requirements for the coming year. In such a case, NFIA will ask AISCO, or for
that matter any other importer, to import the balance quantity under ICB procedures and put it on the market
for sale. Since this would be an agency function, NFIA will have to bear or find ways of covering the import
and carrying cost of this quantity until it is sold or the commencement of the next season, whicever is earlier.
The importer/distributor will pay to the Government, or any other designated agency, the value at the notified
prices within a month of the sale of the quantities sold. Such an arrangement would alone guarantee adequate
and timely fertilizer availability within the country and avoid shortages and consequent high prices.
9.     Need for strengthened donor coordination and periodical meetings: There is a need to strengthen
coordination with the donors. In particular, the following aspects need special attention to ensure that the
timing of donor assistance coincides with the monthly import plan prepared by NFIA. Donors would need to
be briefed frequently over the progress and problems which they can help resolve. Some suggestions and
issues are explained below:
(a)    Every year, a donors meeting should be held as soon as the fertilizer demand estimates have
been prepared for the following season/year, and the import plans discussed; donors could
also be encouraged to indicate their firm plans for the year in question and indicative figures
for the next two years.
(b)    To the extent possible, procurement procedures would need to be streamlined to reduce the
time lag between initiating action for procurement and opening letters of credit and donor's
advice to corresponding bank. At present the whole procedure takes about 90 to 100 days.
This could perhaps be reduced by about 30 days if donors allowed the importing agencies to



-60-
Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
follow standard format of bid documents, instead of approval of same bid documents every
time. Some other possibilities could also be discussed.
(c)    Sometimes, the CIF value of the fertilizer material received under bilateral aid is higher
than the material procured under ICB procedures. In a competitive environment, it is
necessary to ensure that no importer is disadvantaged due to compliance with donor
requirements. This issue could be addressed in two ways. Either the donors could be
requested to remove country, nationality, shipping restrictions while inviting bids. Or
alternatively, the importer could be allowed to deposit counterpart funds in Birr, equivalent
to the cif price of the fertilizers imported under ICB procedures.
10.    Import of fertilizer in bulk: Currently, AISCO imports fertilizer only in bags. Significant saving
in ocean freight and foreign exchange can be achieved by importing fertilizer in bulk and bagging it locally,
as has been done successfully by many developing countries and lately even in Ethiopia. The rate of
discharge of bulk fertilizer from the ship is higher; this reduces detention period of the ship at the port and
increases the throughput of the only available berth at Asseb for fertilizer unloading. This will also provide
increased employment to local people for bagging and, in the long run, development of a domestic packaging
industry. Ethiopia Amalgamated has imported the US Aid material in bulk by installing bagging machines
and significant savings have been established. AISCO can also rent these or other machines.
11.    Change over from CIF liner to CIF charter basis: At present, shipping arrangement for import of
all fertilizer by AISCO is on liner terms. Significant saving in ocean freight can be achieved by change over
to CIF charter terms, as has been established by the experience of Ethiopia Amalgamated.



-6 1-
Annex 4
ETHIOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
Cost Tables: Project Costs Summary by Components, Financiers and by Year
NmUanW   r    s        pd                                                                                      %    % ToW
coiponawt rPI    cd Sw_wy                            (sr milni                       (US$ mai               PForeig   laia
Locad     Foreign     Tota       Local    Foresign     Totaw   Exchang  Coos
A Capaity lukNgt
1. 1 _kdbniW Skwvoflv                          SJ         4.5       10.3       1.0         0.7        1.7      44       I
2. FU  RnmRuf DtioS prom                       5.7       13.0       21.7        1.4        2.2        3.6      so       2
gubailCaphuMyBuIlkA                             14.4       17.5       31.9       2.4         2*         5.3      so      3
a. paUlg  Demuid mmd supply
1. 'iik.rPu_mPol                               2*         7.6       105        O0          1.3        1.7      72       1
2. FrntbmrSw UPP_V lAiD                     2M.         793.      1,.01.       44.3      132.3      173.0      75      92
SUNa" Wp.PUoemnd"SdUupply                      2011.7     101.4     1,070.1      44A       133A       175.4      75      3
C.SWIPUy IbsrI NoM' A,             can          11.1       29J        44.7       2.5         4.3        7.       a        4
Total    M    C0sTO                            296.2      54.6       1,146.      40.7       141        11.1       14  19t
Plsha C-inggls                                25.1       93*        111.4       4.7       13.        1.        74      10
Prbia.C 4igm.ei                                          93.6      124.3        1.1       15.6       20.7       75     11
ToW4 P1ACT COSTS                               37        1,025.0    1i=.         5664       17         2304A      74    121
Noa': IWl  bal donmeeand         sd, has b_ manAed d_ a  me d 4 pinnWe pw Ivnwn lw asg prad Vuu
ETHIOPIA
mb    poowsno Pf*d on"L
ampomwo  NW                                                                                         fad& AIma   a
b. ~~~uI~ k.  x
(Vs~~ kg"                                         'A                 _                   eav    Tvad
A. _IOWW 6WW4                       1.0  gas         1.0   45                       2.0   0.9                1.1     01
2. ti  AnmIMMS iWNs0I                                   .   A           .7             19    1.        3         .
IFUmPISiim                             07 _0.7         1 3 tUS                        2.6    0         1.      04       0
lOg9   7.4    103.   $M7
C.Fo"  __*|_0  12Q lb*M1           C-           I0 2L                                                                    14178S 
COMYRT.LS
ETHIOPIA
N loI Fert     sclir Pllt94FW
Proud C_mpmnws by YG  ToWs inu -Cosiumndm  (UmEI
INM         961           716         "M           NM           Tod
A Capacty bu*ig
1.lndh.iW iSnohuft                                   0.7         0.3          0.2          0.3          0.4          2.0
2 Hwunu Rmaosu D         _Apn,u,i                    1.3          0.9         0.9          0.4          0.3          3.9
Subtal Capaiy budig                                    2.0          1.3          1.2         0.7          0.7          5.9
L Fwrtibw Dwn_id u    Supply
1. FsrtlbUseP w.ftm                                 0.6          0.6          0.2          0.2          0.3          2.0
2. Fr94wlt Suppl O.mhpi                             10.0         20.2        40.3          60.0         6.         214.2
Su     ll Fwtsr DO owi and SIWp                       10.6         20.6        40.6         602          6"1         210.3
C. Sd Fedim qu   4w Erndonmus  Cariw                   1.1          1.3         zo            2.0          1.2          6.3
Tow PROJECT COSTS                                     13.6         240          4O           630          6.          230.4



-62-
Annex 5
ETHIOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ million)
Cummulative       %
IDA FY            Semester    Disbursement 1/   Disbursement    Total
1996                     1                  0.0             0.0           0.0
II                 4.0            4.0            3.3
1997                     I                  4.0             8.0           6.6
II                 6.7            14.7          12.3
1998                     I                  6.7            21.4          17.8
II                11.4            32.8          27.3
1999                     I                 11.4            44.2          36.8
II                16.2            60.4          50.3
2000                      I                16.2            76.6          63.8
II                21.8            98.4          82.0
2001                     I                 21.6           120.0         100.0
11
Note: 1/  Excludes the effect of possible retroactive financing of fertilizer imports up to a value
of US$12.0 million in the first semester of 1996.



-63-                                      Annex 6
ETHIOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
NFIA ORGANIZATION CHART
X  =IONML  rM1LI 3M  INDUSTRY BOAD
l   llas L FRTILSS32  INDUS=TY  aGcy
_            _   j~~~M00t   zoleeeitaLoa
|Admin. & Finance                         ProJect Coordln                           UvUe
\  and  aiarn ofice                        1
Project Coordinator
Hed.mad     Hied, P_-g md             Heed, Re
| DOt        | Mnltobrig Dep l    DOewlapmnt Dpt.l
Procurwneut
_ oes.min~m            Dew ra                 Resewch
mid twidwb,s                      ~~~Prajee Dewt.
N~~we~              D  Pwoa              Dmu_ ,ho_U
Lo*f
CFO& & Se             Morwl O  id               Thin
Pamoa                  Eulas
PADO          =      Project Accounts and Disbursement OMcer
Op. Off.             Operations Officer
MISRO         =      Management Information System and Reporting Officer
MIS                  Management Information System



-64-                                     Annex 7
Page 1 of 4
ETHIOPIA - NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
A. TRAINING
1.     General:  In order to meet the human resource requirement resulting from  the new
fertilizer sector policies and to successfully implement the National Fertilizer Sector Project
(NFSP), it will be necessary to implement a wide range of training activities to: (a) improve the
management of fertilizer importation and distribution; (b) increase involvement of private
entrepreneurs in the sector; (c) increase the knowledge and skills related to development and
application of domestic nutrient resources; and (d) increase the knowledge and skills of farmers to
use fertilizers. Training would come in the form of local training courses, (overseas) fellowships,
study tours and workshops.
2.     To achieve these objectives, staff of various public entities and private organizations
(including farmers) would participate in a variety of training courses designed to address the
specific training needs of each participant group. The courses would be carried out according to
annual training plans that would be determined in consultation with the training institutions, the
participants and IDA as described below.
3      Training Coordination:  Because of the diversity of the content of the various courses
designed for specific target groups, it is necessary to assign training coordinators for the various
implementing institutions. The training coordinators would focus on the following groups: (a)
retailers; (b) warehouse supervisors; (c) laboratory technicians; (d) government agencies; (e)
cooperatives; and (f) farmers. The coordinators would be assigned from various government
implementing agencies, participating training institutions and/or private organizations and would
work with the project training coordinator of the NFL4, who would ensure that all training funded
by the project is consistent with the project objectives.
4.     It is anticipated that one project training coordinator and 6 training coordinators] would
be employed under the NFSP. Each of the six coordinators would be responsible for the planning,
the implementation of, and the reporting on training activities in his specific area. All training
coordinators would be designated by the government before project effectiveness date and they
would participate in the Project Launch Workshop;  provisions are made under project's
Institutional Strengthening component as the coordinators will be staff of the existing government
entities.
5.     Training Plan: A first year training plan would to be prepared before project effectiveness
date and would be presented at project launch workshop. This initial and all subsequent training
plans would detail: (a) training activities; (b) number and identity of training participants; (c)
logistical requirements; (d) scheduling and duration; (e) instructional staff requirements; and (f)
The project training coordinator would come from NFIA; the other 6 coordinators would come from AISCO
(one for dealer training and one for warehouse supervisors training), NSS (laboratory technician training), one
other from NFIA (government agencies training), one from the CPD (cooperatives development training), and
one from AED (farmer training and extension).



-65-
Annex 7
Page 2 of 4
costs and available budget. All but the initial plans are submitted to IDA for review 2 months in
advance of the project year.
6.     Local Training Courses (US$ 1.27 million): Local training courses would be conducted
by trainers, who in turn would be trained during a one week period prior to the start of the training
courses. The costs for training of the instructors have been accounted for in the training budget
under the heading of local training courses. A tentative list of training courses is the table on page
3, under the heading "A". It follows from this table that a total of 16 subjects will be treated in the
different courses, ranging from course number 1 - Management of the Fertilizer Sector (to be held
separately for national, regional and woreda level staff) to course number 16 - Input Credit for
Farmers. The courses would be repeated at regular intervals; provision is made for 55 sessions
during project life.
7.     Fellowships, Study Tours and Workshops (US$ 0.75 million): the project provides for
(overseas) fellowship training in order to cope with the change in the fertilizer sector and the lack
of skills in certain clearly identifiable disciplines. A total of 30 short-term fellowships would be
funded in the fields of: (i) fertilizer quality control; (ii) bio-fertilizer production; (iii) soil testing;
and (iv) cooperative development. The total costs of the fellowship program would amount to US$
0.22 million. A total of 8 study tours, intended to improve the skills of senior policy makers (2) and
subject matter specialists (6) alike (US$ 0.22 million). Workshops (US$ 0.31 million) would be
used as a tool to discuss fertilizer related matters and seek solutions (the annual fertilizer workshop
and the project launch wvorkshop included). Details are shown in the lower part of the table of page
3, part "C".
B. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
8.     Technical Assistance (US$ 1.86 million): The project would benefit from  89 man month
of technical assistance by experts in 16 various disciplines. The total cost of consultancies is
estimated at US$ 1.45 million. Specialists will for the greater part (12) be assigned to the NFIA in
disciplines ranging from Project Implementation to Environment. The other experts would be
assigned to ADD (soil testing and correlation), NSS (bio-fertilizer production and use), CPD
(cooperative management) and ESA (fertilizer quality control). Only one of the experts (project
implementation) would be assigned on the basis of a long term contract; all others services would
be required for short periods only and assignments would generally not exceed 2 months per year
for about half of the project years. Provision is further made for technical assistance to be
arranged under twinning agreement with an internationally reputed institution (US$ 0.41 million).
Details on technical assistance are shown in the table on page 3, under "B"; expert profiles are
shown in the table on page 4.



-66-                                          Annex 7
Page 3 of 4
Table 2
Technical Assistance
Expertise, Functions And Counterparts
Field Of Expertise                  Function                        Counterpart
- Biofertilizer production       to assist in setting-up facilities and   Head of the micro-biological
guide production                laboratory NSS
- Biofertilizer extension       to assist in organizing trials and  Head of the micro-biological
& marketing                   demonstrations and in the        laboratory NSS
promotion of biofertilizers and
marketing
- Soil test correlation         to assist in correlation of soil test    Head ADD of the MoA
results and crop nutrient
requirements
- Laboratory                    to assist in planning and        Head ADD of the MoA
establishing of the soil laboratories
and training of personnel
- Rock phosphate use            to assist in designing of trials and    Head ADD of the MoA
interpretation of results
- Fertilizer quality control    to assist in formulation of fertilizer   Head ESA
legislation and its enforcement
- Agricultural economist        to prepare methodology and       Head ADD
procedures for collecting data from
various trials and interpretation of
results including training of a
national team
- Project implementation       to assist NFIA to set-up a        General manager NFIA
streamlined organization with
effective implementation
procedures and implement the
NFSP by ensuring coordination
among the various implementing
agencies
- Management information        to design, test and set-up a MIS for   Deputy general manager NFIA
systems                       the NFIA with particular emphasis
on the NFSP
- Miscellaneous                 to be decided during the project  to be decided during the project
- Soil fertility management      assist in design of various trials to    Head ADD
promote soil fertility thru integrated
nutrient supply systems and
._________________ _  management of acid soils
- Cooperative management         to assist in the reorganization of  Head CPD of MoA
cooperatives under the new law and
prepare manuals for management
and accounting systems
- Cooperative education          to design training programs and  Head CPD of MoA
teaching aids for training of
cooperative staff
- Cooperative, others           to be decided during the project  Head CPD of MoA



-67-                                                                   Annex 7
Page 4 of 4
ETHIOPIA
Natcnal Fsrttzer Sector Prqect (NFSP)
SUB-COMPONENT 12 Hurnan Resource Developrnert
QuantItes
Unit      95/9t    96v97    97/99    99/99    69/00     Total
L Investm nt Costs
A. Trslning
1. Managemnt Fertilizer Sector a
local miraing cause                                      nrp sum         1        1        1                           3
2. Fenilizer Danand Assesment
local traingig course                                  lupsTu            1        1 SLI                                3
3. World Fertilizer Market and Import
local treming course                                  kBp sun            1        -        1         -        -        2
4. Port Handling
local trairng course                                   iump sum          1                 1                           2
5. Fertilizer Quality Control
ocal mrairrig course                                     mp sum                                                        4
6. Transportation & Storage
local mraining course                                  lamp sum          1        -        1        -         -        2
7. Dealers Training lb
bcalbaitring course                                    iumpsum           1        1        1        1         1        5
9. Soil Fertillty
locai traing course                                    lurpsum            -       1        1        1         1        4
9. lntsgrted Nutrient Supply
local trainig coursae                                  hp sum             -       1        1        1         -        3
10. Blofertilizer/c
local tairing course                                   lump sum          -        1        1        1        1         4
11. Soil TestIng
local tarring corse                                    lumpn              -       1        1        1        1         4
12. Blogas
local 1rmaing course                                   iunp sum          -        1        1        1        1         4
13. Fertilizer and Environment
local trairrng corse                                   lump sum          1        -        1        -        -         2
14. Cooperative Management
local miring coarse                                    iup sum           1        1        1        -         -        3
15. Fannmer Trsining
irainrng extension staff                               lurrpsum          1        1        1        1        1         5
iaining for in farners                                 iumpsunm          1        1        1        1        1         5
Subtotal Farmers Training
16. Input Credit for Farmers
local ftnning course                                    urp sum          1        1        1        1        1         5
Subtotal Training
B. Technical Assistance /d
NFIA, PrqectlmplementatlonAdvisor                        marnonith        12        6        3        3        -        24
NFIA Montring & Evakiaton                                mrnmonih          3        2        1        2        2        10
NFIA Management Informaton Systems                       manmontih         3        2        1        -        -         6
NFIA. Management accourniat                              mwantonh          2        2        1        -        -         S
NFIA. Agricultural Econorrit                             marnmonvih        I        -        1        -                  2
NFIA. Fertzer Marketng                                   marrnont          2        2        1        -        -         5
NFIA. Proaxcement Speclalst                              marnmonth         2        1        1        -        -         4
NFiA, Ports and Stippng                                  nanmonth          1        1        -        1        -         3
NFIA, Trairng Specialst                                  manrmonb          3        1        -        1        -         5
NFIA. Dealers Trairing                                   mninonth          1        1        -        1        -         3
NFIA. Ervironment                                        marnonth          1        -        -                           1
NFIA. TvAwrnng Arrangement                               Bmp sun
NFIA, Miscelaneous /I<                                   manmonth          1        1        1        1        1         5
NSS .3iotlertizer Specialst f                            mnmi1onith0       2        2        2        -        -         6
MOA, ADD, Sol Testing & Coneiation                       marwnoni          -        2        2        -        -         4
MOA , CPD, Cooperative Management                        manmontih         1        1        1        -        -         3
ESA, Quatty Control                                      niamnonih         1        1        -        1        -         3
Subtotal Technical AssIstance
C. Fellowships, Study Tours and Workshops Ig
NFIA, Felowshp Ferlizer Que'ty Cordl                     minmonith         3        -        -        3        -         S
NFIA Feowship No-Fertitzer Producton                    mnanmonih          -        3        -        -        2         5
NFIA, Felowshp Sdl Testrng                               mannrxoth         3        3        3             -             9
MOA, CPD, Fevshtsp Cooperative Developent                marnorih          5        -        5        -        -        10
Subtotal Fellowehips, Study Tours and Workshops
D. Study tours & Workshope
MOA ,CPD, SudyTaou Cooperatives                          iumsum            1        1        1             -             3
NFiA.  , WiWntratlorn Study Tour Ih                      hump Smr          1        -        1         -        -        2
MOA  AED  StudyTour SodTesflng                           iump sin          -        1        1        -         -        2
ESA    , Staiy Totur  uatly Conrotl                      imp SIm           1        -        -        -        -         1
Subtotal Studytoura &Workshope
E. Workshops
NFiA.   PrJect Launch Wortlihop                          kump sim          I        -                                    1
NFiA.  A.Ani Wapriump rpm                                                  1        1        t        1        1         5
NFLA,  ,TrairtngWoriuhopshA                              lumpsatm          1        1        1        1        1
NFIA.  ,Ottwrorkshops                                    hump mn           1        1        1        1        1         5
Total
a to irnckide management courses for (i) natoral; (fi) regional: and (lii) woreda lev
lb inciudes wholesale and retail
vc mrckdes producton and use
d inctides Intentonrl air ravel, fees and subsistenrce
%b incldes rock phosphate specaist
V blofesllzer production, extenson and markebng specialsts.
tg Inciudes intrnacrair at mavd bbon and sJbsistence
VI for senwior  tcy makers
V r tain he mainers



-68-
Annex 8
Page I of 9
ETMHOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
A. Introduction
1.    This Project Implementation Plan has been prepared in consultation with TGE. Assurances
have been obtained during negotiations that this plan will be implemented as explained below. Any
deviations/departures would need prior consultation with and concurrence of IDA.
B. Overall Responsibility
2.    The overall responsibility for project implementation will rest with the National Fertilizer
Industry Agency (NFIA) which has recently been created under TGE proclamation No. 106/94 dated
October 26, 1994. According to the National Fertilizer Policy, NFIA will be TGE's major instrument
for the management and development of the fertilizer sector. This agency will work under a policy
advisory body called the National Fertilizer Industry Board (NFIB). NFIB will be headed by the
Minister for Agriculture and will draw its membership from the concerned ministries including
environment, industry, mines and energy, transport and communications, and agencies including
Ethiopian Standards Authority, the Science and Technology Commission and the National Bank of
Ethiopia. In addition, three eminent scientists and regional administrations' representatives will also
be members of this Board. This Board will report to the Council of Ministers.
3.     The main responsibilities of NFIB will include: (i) ensuring implementation of the National
Fertilizer Policy; (ii) issuing guidelines and approving procedures for efficient and systematic import
and distribution of fertilizers at competitive prices; (iii) promoting the domestic fertilizer industry
(chemical, organic and biofertilizers as well as soil amendment materials); (iv) capacity building in
the fertilizer subsector;  (v) reviewing the implementation of fertilizer related policies and
recommending changes to the Council of Ministers as and when necessary; and finally (vi) guiding
and directing the NFIA. In addition, NFIB will review progress of implementation of NFSP every
quarter and provide directions and guidance to NFIA. It has been agreed with TGE that NFIB will
closely monitor and guide the implementation of NFSP.
4.     NFIA will be IDA's counterpart agency for ensuring implementation of NFSP in all its
aspects. NFIA's permanent responsibilities include: (i) providing a secretariat to NFIB; (ii) ensuring
efficient implementation of the National Fertilizer Policy by setting up adequate monitoring, review
and coordinating mechanisms; (iii) taking the needed steps to encourage the growth and development
of the fertilizer sector; (iv) institutional and human resource capacity building; (v) donor coordination;
and finally through these actions (vi) contributing significantly to increasing agricultural productivity
and building indigenous (organic and inorganic) fertilizer production capability. While the main
fertilizer sector work, which will cover a major part of the NFSP agenda, will be handled by the
regular NFIA staff, a special project coordination and monitoring office (PCMO) will be set up in



-69-
Annex 8
Page 2 of 9
NFIA for the period of project life to focus on and coordinate activities for the NFSP and to comply
with IDA and NFIB reporting, procurement and disbursement requirements.
5.     NFIA is headed by a General Manager (GM) and will be managed by a small contingent of
professional staff. The PCMO will be headed by a full time Deputy General Manager (Dy. GM) of
a rank not less than the proposed heads of other departments in NFIA. This office will have a full
responsibility for the coordination of NFSP activities. In addition to the Dy. GM., the NFSP
Coordination office will have (a) a Project Accountant-cum-Disbursement Officer (PCDO) (b) two
Operations Officers (OPO); and (c) an MIS and Reporting Officer (MISRO).  The major
responsibility of the PCDO, who would have requisite project accounting experience, would be to
ensure that all agencies responsible for spending project funds maintain proper accounts as agreed
with IDA, and promptly claim reimbursements from IDA. All withdrawal applications will be
submitted to IDA through the office of DO so that a proper track of expenditures by different
component managers in different institutions and ministries or departments is kept and IDA
disbursements are received by the beneficiary without undue delay. PCDO will also be responsible
for supervising such "Special Accounts" as are created under the project and guide various
implementing agencies with regard to the procedures for their utilization. The major responsibility
to the two OPOs would be to closely supervise the implementation of various project components in
the concerned regions, identify implementation bottlenecks in the field or at Headquarters and bring
them to the attention of the Deputy General Manager: these OPOs, with duties allocated territorial
or functionally between them, will also provide MISRO with reports on physical and financial
progress as noted by them in the field. MISRO will establish and operate a project specific
management information system, obtain periodical and special reports from various project component
managers and others concerned, collate the data and reports and submit them to the Dy. GM. He/she
will monitor project indicators and prepare quarterly and annual reports to be submitted to IDA in
agreed formats besides preparing background and current status reports for the IDA supervision
missions.
6.    In the initial settling down phase, GM NFIA will also be assisted by a Project Implementation
Advisor (SAR paras 3.20 and 5.4). This advisor would assist in rapidly building up management
systems within NFIA, institutionalized linkages and coordinating mechanisms for all implementing
agencies, and guide the preparation of a Project Implementation Manual. The advisor would be
assisted, inter alia, by two specialists, one each in MIS and fertilizer marketing.
7.     The planned organziatonal set up of the agency is at Annex 6 of the SAR. Assurance has been
given during negotiations that NFIA staff including NFSP-PCMO staff and PIC would be in place
and that suitable and adequate office accommodation will be made avaialble by Government to NFIA
before proiect effectiveness.
8.    While the salaries of the regular NFIA staff would be paid by the Government, IDA will (i)
assist in the provision of technical assistance and training for NFIA staff; (ii) finance payment of
salaries and allowances of the staff for NFSP coordination office who will be hired on personnel
service contracts, (this office will be wound up on project completion); and (iii) finance expenditures
on vehicles and equipment required for NFIA to ensure rapid build up of its capacity. Technical
assistance will essentially be in two fields viz. (i) development of appropriate management systems,
procedures and controls within NFIA; and (ii) MIS for the fertilizer sector in general and NFSP in
particular.



-70-
Annex 8
Page 3 of 9
C. NFIA's Specific Responsibilities for NFSP
9.     NFIA's specific responsibilities for NFSP implementation will include, but not be limited to
(a) assessment of next year's fertilizer demand every September through a workshop (para 3.26), (b)
its public announcement and invitation of applications from intending fertilizer importers (Annex 3
and SAR para 3.29); and handling all the subsequent steps leading to timely importation; (c) creation
and implementation of mechanisms to ensure timely and adequate import of fertilizer by the private
and the public sector in a level playing field situation (Annex 3); (d) monitoring and ensuring full
implementation of the fertilizer sub-sector reform program agreed under NFSP, including
deregulating fertilizer prices, eliminating subsidies and building up a conducive competitive
environment for the private and public sectors in domestic marketing; (e) promoting an integrated
plant nutrient supply system through the use of fertilizers, organic manures and biofertilizers etc; (f)
fertilizer related capacity building in the public, private and the farming sectors to enhance
efficiencies; (g) monitoring and coordination to ensure effective implementation, from the national
to the grassroot level, of all NFSP components, including soil testing; biogas; biofertilizers; inputs
credit to farmers, fertilizer importers and dealers; environmental protection; studies; development and
dissemination of extension packages and training of farmers and extension staff in fertilizer use
technology; (h) assisting IDA supervision missions with necessary information, setting up meetings,
organizing field visits, and accompanying the supervision missions to such meetings and field visits;
(i) regularly submitting quarterly reports to IDA in agreed formats in addition to such other
periodical reports which IDA may specially request; and finally () (i) developing a detailed
operational manual for NFSP in the first project year (PY-1) in a format satisfactory to IDA; (ii)
conducting, jointly with IDA, a mid-term review of project progress immediately after the close of
the second project year (PY-2); and (iii) preparing an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) at
the close of the project. Government have agreed that NFIA will assume and discharge the above
responsibilities for NFSP and that Government would provide adequate and timely budgetary and
staffing support to NFIA to undertake these responsibilities.
10.    TGE have agreed that NFIA will set up the following institutional mechanisms:  to
(a) implement project proposals; (b) secure the needed inter-agency coordination and obtain periodic
feedback and (c) regularly submit progress reports to IDA in agreed formats.
(i)    Project Implementation Committee (PIC): NFIA will set up a PIC with membership drawn
from all implementing agencies. This will include AISCO, private fertilizer traders, MOA's CPD,
RTPD, ADD and NSS. The PIC would meet every month under the chairmanship of General
Manaer (GM), NFIA. Members of PIC would be heads of concerned Department in MOA and senior
staff or implementing agencies. The Project Coordinator in charge of the NFSP coordination office
will be the member secretary of PIC. During the peak fertilizer sales season i.e. between February
and July, the PIC meetings may need to be held more frequently. In addition to the issues of
immediate importance, the standard agenda for PIC meetings would include physical and financial
progress of each fertilizer component and progress in fertilizer importation, unloading, transportation
and distribution by each importer. Towards this end, NFIA will agree with each implementing agency
during the project launch workshop the formats and the timing of the monthly report. PIC may also
set up subcommittees or task forces for indepth study or review of any specific issues or to review
implementation of any project components.



-71-
Annex 8
Page 4 of 9
(ii)   Fertilizer Credit Committee and Fertilizer Logistics Committee: Given the crucial role
of these two committees in the successful implementation of NFSP, as explained in paras 3.27 and
3.30, these committees would also be set up and chaired by GM, NFIA. The frequency of the
meetings will be determined according to need.
(iii)   Meetings with Regional Administrations: In order to maintain its grass root contacts and
stay current with the problems of each region and to assist the newly set up regional administrations,
NFIA will hold regular, preferably quarterly, meetings at selected places in the country, each for a
cluster of mostly contiguous regions. These regional meetings would review, region by region, the
progress achieved and problems encountered in the implementation of various NFSP components in
the past and agree with the regional administrations on a work program for the future.
Representatives of concerned departments in MOA and other ministries would participate in these
meetings. Arrangements will also be made to secure participation in these meetings of the private
fertilizer trade as well as the local branches of AID Bank, Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE) and
any other rural financial and cooperative institution(s) that may be set up in the future.
(iv)   Donors Comnmittee: G.M. NFIA, would arrange formal meetings with the donors under the
chairmanship of Minister for Agriculture, at least once a quarter, to brief them and exchange views
on the fertilizer situation in the country and to resolve any outstanding issues, including those related
to the availability and utilization of donor funds, procedures for donor funded procurement and
deposit of counterpart funds.
(v)    Annual Workshop on Fertilizers: Every year, at the close of the fertilizer sales season,
preferably in September, NFIA will hold a National Fertilizer Workshop, to comprehensively review
the outgoing fertilizer year, identify successes and failures in the implementation of each project
component by regions, prepare, in consultation with and the cooperation of participating agencies,
plans for implementation in the following year and assign responsibilities for future specific actions
to various implementation agencies (SAR para 3.26). Thereafter, PIC would, in its regular monthly
meetings review the progress in the implementation of each workshop recommendation by the
concerned agency, follow up closely where the progress is slow and regularly submit quarterly
progress reports to NFIB and IDA. If considered necessary by PIC, NFIA would hold another follow
up workshop in December to review the status of preparation including imports and stock situation
by regions.
(vi)   Project Launch Workshop: NFIA, in close collaboration with IDA, will organize a Project
Launch Workshop before or immediately after Project effectiveness, in which all those responsible
for implementing various project components will participate. The agenda for the workshop,
focussing on project start up issues and work program for the first year, will be finalized in
consultation with IDA. Among others, NFIA will discuss and finalize its detailed proposals for
technical assistance as well as the training of fertilizer importers, distributors, wholesalers, retailers
and NFIA staff in the first project year. It will also finalize a plan for ensuring adequate fertilizer
imports during PY-1. The fornat of quarterly progress reports will also be discussed and finalized
in this workshop.
(vii)   Workshops on Procurement, Disbursement and Project Management: NFIA will also
organize, with IDA assistance, one or more workshops on procurement, disbursement and
computerized project management in the first year of project implementation (and later again, if



-72-
Annex 8
Page 5 of 9
necessary) for the staff engaged in NFSP related procurement, disbursement and project management.
The staff NFSP coordination office in NFIA will receive intensive training in IDA procedures.
(viii)   Mid-Term Review: After the close of PY-2, a mid-term review of the NFSP progress will
be held by IDA in cooperation with NFIA and the concerned implementing agencies. Based on the
findings of the IDA mid-term review mission, the project will be restructured, if and as necessary.
The mid-term review would include a review of the progress in policy reform including pricing,
subsidies and privatization of AISCO's marketing centers; fertilizer importation and distribution
arrangements, fertilizer use by regions and future outlook; progress achieved towards the
establishment of an integrated plant nutrient system, (this would include a review of experience in
the promotion of biogas and biofertilizer components as well as in the establishment of soil testing
laboratories), compliance with legal covenants, staffing, funding and operations of NFIB, NFIA and
various committees, progress in institutional and human capacity building, AISCO's operations, cost
recovery for soil testing and commericalization of biofertilizer operations.
(ix) Project Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation: NFIA would be responsible for coordinating
the prepartion of annual work plans for various project components at least two months prior to the
beginning of each year and maintaining data on implementation progress. Towards this end, it will
develop and establish an appropriate management information system. Further, NFIA will be
responsible for establishing bench marks for evaluation of subsequent project achievements through
a survey in Project Year-i and organizing annual surveys thereafter to evaluate the impact of the
Project. Quarterly progress reports, providing a descriptive and analytical account of project
achievements and highlighting implementation problems, would be prepared and submitted to NFIB
and IDA within a month after the close of each quarter. The comments and directives of NFIB, if
any, on the quarterly reports would also be subsequently communicated to IDA. NFIA will also
ensure that the business plan of AISCO and private importers is submitted to IDA at least three
months prior to the beginning of each fertilizer sales season and IDA's comments will be taken into
consideration before finalizing it. Further, NFIA will prepare and submit to IDA an Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) on the project execution no later than four months after the project closing
date. The ICR would, inter alia, include Government's assessment of the extent to which project
objectives were realized, details of physical and financial achievements, problems encountered,
solutions found and the lessons for the future. IDA would provide NFIA with a standard format for
the ICR. TGE have agreed that the NFIA would discharge the obligations stated in this para.
(x)    Audit: NFIA will ensure that separate books of account are maintained in NFIA and by each
implementing agency for all project related accounts. These accounts will be regularly audited by
auditors satisfactory to IDA and detailed audit reports submitted to IDA no later than six months after
the close of every fiscal year (SAR paras 4.27 and 4.28).
D. Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation/Enterprise (AISCO)
11.   In accordance with the provisions of the Public Enterprises Proclamation (no. 25/1992),
AISCO has prepared a restructuring plan to make it an autonomous, lean, commercial enterprise.
The restructured AISCO has now its own Board of Directors with a chairman, three nominated
members and two members elected by AISCO's staff. There is no representative of the private
sector, nor a management expert on the Board. The General Manager of AISCO, not a Board



-73-
Annex 8
Page 6 of 9
member, attends all meetings by invitation. TGE would nominate an independent management expert
on the AISCO Board of Directors.
12.   Each of AISCO's three main centers and 22 (eventually 41) sales and distribution centers
[SDCs] will be a cost center. The criteria for the location of SDCs include accessibility through a
road network, availability of adequate storage space, existence of a Commercial Bank branch and
the potential for developing a wholesale and retail network around each SDC. The SDC staff would
be on the payroll of AISCO. AISCO would distribute fertilizer supplies to its private and cooperative
wholesalers and retailers from the SDCs as well as MCs (until their phasing out). Towards this end,
AISCO would define the terms and conditions including distribution margins for its distributors,
wholesalers and retailers without any discrimination between different (cooperative and private)
channels.
13.   Recognizing that AISCO, with its expanding network of private distributors, wholesalers and
retailers, would continue to be a primary channel of fertilizer distribution and marketing in the
country until competition effectively builds up through new private fertilizer importers and
distributors over the next few years, it is important for the project to monitor the financial health of
AISCO and ensure that it follows sound commercial practices. TGE have agreed that AISCO will
not be compelled by Government to undertake any operations, eg. closing down or opening new
marketing centers for non-commercial considerations, unless Government agrees in advance to fully
compensate AISCO for its non-commercial or developmental operations.
14.   AISCO will annually develop and advertise its plans for expanding and intensifying the
marketing network by appointing private and cooperative distributors, wholesalers and retailers in the
command area of each marketing center (MC) as well as in areas with fertilizer use potential but
without adequate marketing infrastructure. It will develop transparent criteria for selection of
interested parties and set up expeditious decentralized arrangements for making these appointments
and subsequently monitor that all its agents have ready and convenient access to the fertilizer material
for sales without any discrimination. The marketing centers will be closed down as the private
wholesale and retail trade builds up in the command of each MC. All these aspects will be reflected
in the annual business plan to be reviewed annually by NFIA and IDA three months prior to the
commencement of the fertilizer sales season. (SAR para 5.8).
E. The Private Sector
15. The private sector would also be represented on the concerned fertilizers committees at the
national, regional, zonal and woreda levels. It will be treated at par with the public and cooperative
sector in the matter of fertilizer importation, subsidy payments, if any, and domestic marketing.
Further, the private sector would be invited to participate in all fertilizer related workshops, seminars,
training programs and study tours. Assurances were provided during negotiations that this policy will
not be changed during the life of NFSP without prior consultations with IDA.



-74-
Annex 8
Page 7 of 9
F. The Central Government
16.   The role of the Central Government in the fertilizer subsector will undergo a profound change
during the life of the project. This will comprise withdrawing from its traditional role of direct
intervention and management of fertilizer imports and marketing to assume an important facilitating
role for the public and private sectors to operate in a competitive environment. The Central
Government will also play an important regulatory role of setting fertilizer standards through the
Ethiopian Standard Authority and enforcing quality control through MOA.
17.   Ministry of Agriculture (MOA): Amongst the line ministries, the Ministry of Agriculture
MOA will have the central role in the realization of project objectives. This responsibility will be
discharged in close cooperation with and guidance to the relevant wings of the newly set up regional
administrations, on the one hand, and in close collaboration with NFIA on the other. Specifically,
MOA's responsibilities will include, fostering relevant fertilizer related research, forging links
between fertilizer research, extension and trade, promoting integrated nutrient supply systems
including biogas, biofertilizers, promoting soil fertility maintenance through use of indigenous
resources like lime and bonemeal, implementing the biogas component through RTPD and regional,
zonal and woreda administrations; setting up and managing 8 field soil testing laboratories through
ADD and regional administrations, and fertilizer use promotion through the national, regional and
grassroots extension systems (SAR paras 3.13, 3.24, 3.32, 3.35 and 5.6)) and installing a monitoring
and coordinating mechanism within the Ministry to ensure a balanced and well coordinated thrust
towards the realization of project objectives. Towards this end, the Minister for Agriculture will
establish necessary institutional mechanism to oversee the NFSP progress, both physical and financial,
with respect to all components for which responsibility rests with MOA. He would make a bimonthly
review of implementation progress with concerned heads of departments and divisions including
extension, cooperatives, rural technology promotion, planning, fertilizer quality control enforcement
and agricultural development. Such unit would also be responsible for regularly submitting the
required reports to NFIA. In addition, annually in August, it will organize detailed consultations with
the regional agricultural bureaus and, drawing on the lessons of the completed fertilizer season,
develop a work program for the coming year. Such consultations and decisions would constitute a
valuable and practical input into the National Fertilizer Workshop to be annually organized by NFIA
in September. Government have agreed to the role of MOA defined in this paragraph.
18.   Quality Control Legislation and its Enforcement: While NFIA will take the necessary
initiative to get a Fertilizer Quality Control Law promulgated in cooperation with the Ethiopian
Standards Authority, MOA would be responsible for enforcing the new quality control legislation by
empowering the MOA woreda, zonal and regional agricultural officers to visit fertilizer storage and
selling establishments, draw samples, send them to laboratories and initiate penal action against erring
traders and stockists. NFIA will notify IDA the enforcement arrangements by December, 1996.
19.   Biogas Program Implementation: The Rural Technology Promotion Division of the MOA
would be responsible for implementing the biogas component of NFSP through its regional RTP
centers. MOA will ensure adequate staff employment, training and technical assistance. The Vice-
Minister for Agriculture will review every two months the progress and problems with concerned
officials of RTPD and take appropriate corrective actions. The details will be finalized after IDA
review of TGE proposal agreed to be submitted to IDA before September 30, 1995.



-75-
Annex 8
Page 8 of 9
20.    Promotion of Cooperatives: The Division of Cooperatives in MOA would (a) mount a
program to re-register existing Service Cooperatives with such changes as are necessary, under the
new Law; (b) annually launch an educational campaign in each region to familiarize the farmers with
the provisions in the new Law; (c) create facilities for swift registration of new cooperatives; and (d)
launch a program to train the executives of the newly registered cooperative societies as well as
officials of the Cooperative Department. Towards this end, it has been agreed that MOA would
annually submit to IDA, through NFIA, an annual work program at least three months prior to the
commencement of each fiscal year.
G. Role of Regional Administrations
21.    The newly created regional administrations will play an increasingly critical role in NFSP
implementation - whether it is fertilizer use promotion, providing soil testing service to farmers,
fertilizer quality control, biogas development, promotion of organic fertilizers including biofertilizers,
or creating an environment which is conducive to a free and competitive fertilizer marketing system.
An increasing understanding by these regional administrations, of the project rationale and objectives,
their willingness to strengthen relevant institutional and physical infrastructures and, above all, a rapid
building of capacity of concerned staff and institutions would be most crucial. NFIA and MOA will
have to play an important guiding and facilitating role. NFIA and MOA would ensure that adequate
facilities in terms of equipment and staff training are provided to regional agricultural bureaus, and
that each agriculture bureau would set up a fertilizer/inputs unit staffed by a soil and fertilizer
specialist to coordinate, guide and monitor the implementation of NFSP in the region. NFIA would
also ensure that the regional bureaus participate very actively in the Project Launch Workshop. It has
been agreed that such inputs units in regional agricultural bureaus would be made functional by the
time of Project effectiveness.
H. Capacity Building
22.    A major thrust of the Project would be institutional and human resource capacity building.
NFIA would coordinate and implement the capacity building programs under NFSP.
23.    Training:  It has been agreed by TGE that by April 15 each year, each implementing
department and agency, including NFIA, would annually prepare a training program for the following
year and submit this to NFIA. The program would identify the subjects and courses for training,
their timing, duration, estimate of costs, name of the training institution and its location and names
of persons proposed and justification for this training. The training program could include short
duration overseas fellowships and study tours, hiring of foreign faculties to build training capacity
within the country, on-site and institutional training to the national, regional and field staff, selected
farmers and fertilizer traders (both in the public and the private sectors). All overseas training would
be based on an individual skill gap analysis of the candidates and be directly related to project
activities. PIC would review these proposals in a meeting in late April or early May and approve the
annual program. Any subsequent proposals would also be subject to approval by PIC. IDA's prior
agreement would be required for all courses and staff selected for overseas training, expatriate



-76-
Annex 8
Page 9 of 9
technical assistance as well as foreign study tours financed under the Project. Detailed proposals for
training in PY-1 would be submitted to IDA, and finalized during the Project Launch Workshop.
24.    Training of Fertilizer Dealers: In order to promote an efficient and competitive fertilizer
marketing system and more efficient fertilizer use, training courses would be annually organized by
NFIA for all fertilizers distributors, wholesalers and retailers. In addition, a foreign study tour and
training programs for fertilizer importers and major distributors would be organized. TGE has agreed
that the criteria for selection of candidates for foreign study tours and training programs with details
thereof would be cleared in advance with IDA. While the fertilizer dealers training courses would
be free for the candidates in the first two project years, the joint mid term review in PY-3 would
assess the desirability of charging the sponsors some admission fee to these courses. NFIA would
finalize the institutional arrangements for dealers training in 1995 at selected locations in different
regions at the Project Launch Workshop.
25.    Technical Assistance (TA): The current assessment of TA needs is reflected in Annex 7.
For all local and internationally recruited TA, NFIA would (i) ensure that the terms of reference and
the qualifications of TA are satisfactory to IDA; (ii) process all proposals through PIC. This
Committee would, among other things, periodically (say every six months) consider the status of TA
recruitment and performance, as evaluated against an agreed set of criteria; (iii) ensure that for all
TA, adequately qualified counterparts would be assigned to work continuously with the TA
throughout their assignment. Further, based on a skill-gap analysis of the counterpart, a training
program would be prepared and implemented which would be designed to allow the local staff to
assume the duties and responsibilities of the TA within a specified period. TGE has agreed that these
TA arrangements would be implemented as proposed. Further, detailed TA proposals for PY- 1 have
been submitted to IDA during negotiations; these will be finalized during the Project Launch
Workshop.
26.    Finally, the schedule of activities arising out of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) is
indicated in Attachment 1. Key Monitorable indicators finalized during credit negotiations are at
Attachment 2. Similarly a Supervision Plan for this project is at Attachment 3.



ETHIOPIA: NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Projeei
Year
Fial Year             FY 95          FY 96               FY 97               FY 98                     FY 99          FY 2000
KM Actvies                                              Quater       _     2    3   4    1   2    3    4    1   2    34            I   2 3 4            I        3    4   _      2    3    4
1. PROJIECT PROCESS
Finalization of SAR                                              *
-Internal Rcview*
- Negotiation                                                             *
- Board Presentation
-Effectiveness
- Benchmark Survey                                                                       *
- Impact Evaluation Survey                                                                                    *                   *                   *              *
- Mid-term Review                                                                                                            *
- Implementation Completion Report                                                                                                                                           **
- Project Closing                                                                                                                                                                   *
2. PROICT START-UP
- Appointment of GM  and Project Coordinator, NFIA                        *
- Provision of Office accomodation for NFIA                               *
- Establisment of NFSP Coordination office with staff            _             *
- Appoint Project Implementation advisor (NFIA)                                *
- Project Launch Workshop                                                 *
(a) Finalization of TA and Training for PYI                             *
(b) Finalization of key performance indicators, reportir g
requirements from  implementing agencies to NFI L         __
and fornat of annual work program and quarterly                     *                                                                                                                           _f
progress report from NFIA and IDA



ETHIOPIA: NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Yoar
Fi Year               FY 95           FY 96                FY 91                FY 98                      FY 99          FY 2MO
Kcy Aivitis                                               Quar           I    2    3    4    I   2    3    4    1    2           3     4    I    2    3    4  1   2    3    4   _      2    3    4
3. Project Implementation
3A. National Fertilizer Industry Agency (NFIA)
(i) Appointment of full staff                                              **
(ii) Meeting with Regional Administrations                       _    _    _    _    _    _
(iii) Meetings with Implementing agencies                                   *                    *                    *                    *                    *    r
B - Assessment of fertilizer demand for next year
C- InviLation of application from importers
D- Submission of application with business
plan by importers                                                                                            _ _
E- Handling all steps leading to timely importation                                     *            *        * _                  * _                  * _                 *       *
F- Annual Workshop on Fertilizers                                                                  *                  _      *                    *   _
(iv)  Review AISCO progress in privatizing fert mar eting        _    _    _    _    _       7
(v)   Establish MIS in NFSP coordination office
(vi)  Establish project accounting system_
(vii) Setup Project Implementation, Logistics and Cre it
committees
(viii) Submission of Audit Report by IDA                         _          _    _    _    _    _
(ix)  Workshop on procurement and disbursement                                  *                                                    *
(x)   Prepare Operational Manual                                                      * *        _N   rt |
rt



ETHIOPIA: NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Y ear         __  _  _  _  _  ___                                                  _  _  _  _    _
Fila   Year            FY 95            FY 96                 FY 97                 FY 96                      FY 99           FY 2OD
K~Activiics                                               Quaflex         1    2    3    4    I    2    3    4    I    2        3 4        1   2      3    4    1    2    3    4    2    2    3    4
TA and Training
Finalize TA-Training Program for PY I
a) Technical Assistance
Receive and review  proposals/ TOR by PIC TA                   _                             *                  *                     *
NFIA recommendation to IDA                                                                     *                *                     *
- Clearance of proposals by IDA                                                                                          _         _    _
- Implementation of TA program_
- Impact evaluation of TA program
b) T,a     :                                                                                                                                                                                                               sD
- Submission of detailed proposal and time table
to NFIA by each Department / Agency                                                                                       *                     *                     *
- Review of approval of local training by NFIA
- NFIA submits overseas training proposal to IDA                                                   
-IDA sends clearance
- NFIA monitors implementation of training progra ns
-Donors Meeting
-Impact evaluation of training programs
3B. AISCO
- Review progress in privatizing AISCO fertilizer                                           *         *          *          *           *          *          *          *          *          *              P   3t D
retailing and wholesaling operations                                  _x
3C. MOA                                                                   _  _ 
General                                                                  - p**
-Develop annual work program for each componen-                                                  -    -     -    -     -    -    -     -
-Revtew implementaion progress_____                             -     -         -     -    -     -    -     -    -    -     -      jl*



ETHIOPIA: NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year
Ficl Ycar             FY 95           FY 96                FY 97                FY 98                      FY 99           FY 2000
Kcy Acliviteis                                            Quur           1   2    3    4    1    2    3       4    1   2   3       4         2 3 4                2    3    4    1    2   3       4
- Submit reports on implementaion status to NFIA                              *   *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *
3D. Soil Testing Laboratories (STL)
Building Construction (including fixtures)
- Finalize plans and specifications                                    *                                         *
- Clear bidding documents with IDA and invite bi s                          *                                         *
- Obtain IDA clearance for bid evaluation                                   *                                         *
- Sign contract
- Construction period                                                                                            ***X
Eabmt   at vedrm                                                                                                                                                                                             01
C)
- Clear bidding document with IDA and invite bid                                 * _
- Clear bid evaluation report with IDA                                           *                                         *
- Sign contract
- Receive equipment                                                                              *                     *                   *
- Install equipment                                                                                   *                                         *
Recruitment of staff                                                                             *                                         *
Training of STL Staff                                                                                 *                                          *
3E. MNRDEP/NSS (Biofertilizer)
Equipment and vehicle
- Clear bidding documents with IDA and invite bi s           _D  p) |D
-Clear bid evaluation report with IDA                                                                                  _ _co
-Sign contract                                                              *rt
- Receive and install of Equipment                                                          *
Recruitment



ETHIOPIA: NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
FWl YcIr              FY 95          FY 96                FY 97                FY 98                     FY 99          FY 2000
Kcy ActivliS                                              curt        _      2    3    4   _     2    3    4   _      2    3    4   _      2    3    4   _     2    3    4   _      2    3    4
-Staff                                                     _ *                                           
Technician                                                 _ *        _ _      _     _ _       _                              _    _ _       _     _              _    _ 
-Othcrs*
Training
- Scientist and Technicians                                          *                    *                     *                   *                    *                   *
- Dcvelopment Agents                                                 *                    *                    *                   *                    *                    *
Tcdu,ca Amgvstm
- Biofertilizer Consultant(s)                               _    _
BioFliw tuiak antd da0otsriw
-Lay out of trials and demonstration                                                                                     **           **           **           **
- Conumercial sale of biofernilizer                         _    _                                                                                     **
- Annual evaluation of the program                         _     _  _ _   _
3F. Quality control
- Review and update fertilizer and packaging stand rds                                                    *
- Draft and process Fertilizer Law (FL)                                     *   *
- Enact FL                                                                           *
- Notify FL enforcement arrangements                                                      *
Training of quality control inspectors                                                              *                         *           *                 *
-Procure vehicle, equipment and consumables                                    *                    *    * 
en w
O ID
t-1 0
rt



ETHIOPIA: NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year
F la   Year           FY 95          FY 96                FY 97                FY 91                     FY 99          FY 2000
Key Activkics                                            Quartu         1   2    3    4    1   2    3    4    1          2    3    4   _  2    3    4   _      2    3    4   _      2    3    4
3G. Biogas Program  I/
-Submission of governments complete proposal                                      *
- Review of proposal by IDA                                                           *
- Finalization of proposal                                                           *
-Start up Workshop*
Start of program
9. Promotion of Cooperatives
- Prepare & submit annual program on
a) Registration of agricultural Cooperatives (ACS                          *                   *                    *                    *                   *
b) Educational Campaign*****
c) Training prograun
MOA staff-**-                                                                                                                              **
Regional staff                                                                    *     -              *     -             *    -*                                   *
Zonal and Woreda staff                                                                 **                   **                   **                  **                   *
Secretaries of ACs                                                                     **                                                  **           **                *
Office bearers of ACs                                                                               **                 _*  **                           **                *
- Impact evaluation                                         _          _    _                                                       -         *                   *
II Procurement. TA and Training Schedules will be drawnup after the proposal is finalized.
lb rtl i
GQ rtl 
0 '
a -G



Ed I niurI.it
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT: KEY MONITORABLE INDICATORS
(for quarter ending                 , 19
S. No.     at            Ac&"                             Taii f   Twg_ C    iwe                Cminv, l    Ra ats     fcc
fi  w l md_t oDrm  an                ad ofqtr       Sba. ifdi)
NRA               I. bra"Iof   sEUS load
OAF
u-
(b) hhin 3S.
DAP
u-
.~~~~2 S_oo ai_^0OWam
(a) AUDM
DAP
U-
(b) mwD -                       l            
DAt
U-
3. Sa&o =r
DAt
Una
DAP
U-
4. Aao.uM O at Pim. U-Ma
(b) P.hmSauinf 
Dbubson                                                                           P)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rt~
ID D-W
1                |   __s                          I        I               I            I             I           X                = jnl P) (
Nlat
Note :The target for the year will be finalized at the anntial workshops to be organized by NFIA              r



Annex 8
-84-                      Attachment 2
Page 2 of 3
ir
Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT: KEY MONITORABLE INDICATORS
(for quarter ending             , 19
Aasl Ahem
S. No. (kiam         A1&*                          Tai toe Taag Calvc            C_ Omlve o   Rumatz (m foir
e yw   l a of eS     Dua, (Mai   ad of emw  daoclbU. if my)
2. P ~of bioekuim fhwm
- -..w of- -ek~ nmi
-  nd k  , of bfinm
5   MNRDW            1I
EA/M0A              -" .
7  AOa
-NWlb of M d.ui dw
a  CM d MFom _   W. C 
4b-A-Ip                                                                                               00
U  ~~  AiDS     Wq    A1W                                                                                              Ln
- _e
VAAU
:~~~~~~dn
CSM 4
00 rJ
t1l



Annex 8
-86-                                               Attachment 3
ETHIOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
Supervision Plan
TGE input into Supervision Activities: TGE input into the supervision will include but not be limited to (a)
regular submission of routine progress reports to IDA; (b) providing detailed progress updates and analysis
to IDA Task Manager upon arrival; (c) Arranging meetings, field visits, and the gathering data and
information for the mission; and finally (d) organizing opening briefing session and wrap up meetings with
the chairperson, NFIB; and (e) joint project supervision:
IDA SuRervision Input into key activities: will be in accordance with the following tentative supervision
plan.
Approximate    Activity                                          Expected                      Staff input
Month/Year                                                       Skill                         (staff-weeks)
Requirement
6/95            Project Launch Workshop                          Task Manager, Procurement,    10.0
Disbursement, Institutional
and Training Specialist
8/95            Supervision Mission: Review start-up, adequacy of   Task Manager, Procurement,   8.0
organizational arrangements for project          Accounting, and Marketing
coordination and implementation including        Specialists, Agriculture
procurement, accounting and record keeping.      Economist
Review 1995 performance
2/96            Supervision Mission:Review preparation for 1996  Task Manager, Marketing,       10.0
fertilizer season, pricing, subsidy, privatization  Institutional, soil fertility
issues. Progress in soil testing, biofertilizers,  and MIS Specialists,
Capacity building initiatives. NFIA annual work  Agriculture Economist
program & Business plans of fertilizer importers.
8/96            Supervision Mission: Review 1996 fertilizer      - Task Manager                   8.0
season; Identify implementation problems. NFIA,    - Institutional Specialist
institutional, marketing, procurement and        - Procurement Specialist
disbursement issues. Audit. TA and Training,     - Marketing Specialist
Promotional Programs.                            - Agricultue Economist
2/97            Supervision Mission: Preparations for 1997       - Task Manager                  8.0
fertilizer season; NFIA's implementation capability,   - Training Specialists
STL and biofertilizers, pricing, subsidies, capacity    - Soil fertility expert
building, audit, compliance with legal covenants.  - Accounting and Audit
Specialist
- Agriculture Economist                         l
8/97            Mid-term Review: Comprehensive review of         Task Manager, Institutional,   20.0
policy, institutional and implementational issues.  Capacity Building, Fertilizer
Progress in implementation of each project       Marketing and Credit
component by regions, compliance with legal      Specialists, Financial analyst,
covenants and audit requirements                 Agriculturalist
Agriculture Economist
2/98            Supervision Mission: Annual Business Plan for    Same as for 2/96               10.0
AISCO, same as for 2/96
8/98            Supervision Mission: Same as 8/96                Same as 8/96                    8.0
2/99            Supervision Mission: Same as 2/97                Same as 2/97                    8.0
8/99            Supervision Mission: Same as 8/97                Same as for 8/97               20.0
2/2000          Supervision/lCR Mission: Complete evaluation     Same as for Mid-term review    22.0
keeping in view ICR guidelines                I.      .      .    ._.
Total Supervision Staff Week                                                   132.0



-87-
Annex 9
ETHIOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
Procurement Packages 1/
disbursement categoly and procurement                       Year I          Year 2          Year 3         Year 4          Year 5              Total
method                                      (1995/96)       (1996/97)       (1997/98)      (1998/99)      (1999/2000)
Cwvil Works.
soil testuig laboratones
- LCB                                          each               4 ( 4]                       4 [ 4]                                              8 [ 8]
Incremental Fertilizer
total importeduicremental fertilizer 2        tons'000           25              50             100            150              200               525
IDA financed incremental fertilizer 3/        tonsV00            20              25              55             75              115               290
- ICB                                                              [I]            [I)             [3]           [4]               [6]                [151
- Shopping                                                         ['I            [I]             [1]           [1]              [I]                 [5]
EqlpmS
- ICB                                                              [41            [4]             [2]           [3]               [ 2]               (15]
Others                                                           [1              [11             [ 1]          [1]              [1]                 [5]
Vehicles
cars, pickup trucks, station wagons
-ICB                                           each            15  1]          30 11           30 [ 1]                                             80 3]
-Others                                        each            5  1]                                           1[1]             4[ 1]              10  3]
Bicycles
- ICB                                          each           250 1]          250 1]                                                             500 [2]
Motorcycles
- ICB                                          each             50 1]          50 [1                                                             100  2]
Total Packages                                package              [16]           [1 ]             [13]         [1I]              [12]                [63]
Note  1/ figures within [ indicate number of package, other figures m qumtiies; 2/ refers to all incremental feflhzr, 3/ rounded



-88-
Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
ETHIOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Farm Income Analysis Without And With Project
Average Farm Size 1 Hectare, by Region 1/
(in 1994 constant Birr)
farm size = ha                   Gojam    Shewa   Arsi      Gondar  Wollo
Value of Production    without   1106      1157     1133     884      908
with 2/    1872    1998    2048      1455     1583
Costs of Production3/    without   84     92        133     87        98
with      90       99       142      92       104
Costs of Fertilizer    without   0        0        0        0        0
l____________________    with     224      249      281      188      225
Family Labor Days      without   88       88       80       85        85
l____________________    with     113      114      103      109      111
Hired Labor Days       without   0        0        0        0         0
with      0        0        0        0        0
Net Farm Income        without   1022      1065     1000    797       810
with      1558     1650     1625     1175     1254
Net Return / Day 4/    without   11.6    12.1       12.4    9.4       9.5
with      13.8     14.4     15.7     10.7     11.4
Notes:    1/ Cropping patterns shows in Annex 10, page 2; 2/ reflects conditions at full
development; 3/ excluding fertilizer costs; 4/ reflects deduction for hired labor (if any).



-89-
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
ETEHOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Value Cost Ratio (VCR) of Fertilizer Use by Region, Farm Size and Crops
(Supplemental Analysis 1/)
Farm size/ crop      Gojam         Shewa        Arsi         Gondar        Wollo
1.0 ha:
-wheat               3.8           2.7          2.7          2.0           2.0
-sorghum             2.5           3.0          2.5          2.0           2.0
-maize               3.7           3.7          3.7          3.6           3.6
-barley              4.0           3.5          3.5          3.3           3.3
-teff                4.0           3.4          3.4          2.3           2.3
2.5 ha:
-wheat               3.8           2.7          2.7          2.0           2.0
-sorghum             2.5           3.0          2.5          2.0           2.0
-maize               3.7           3.7          3.7          3.6           3.6
-barley              4.0           3.5          3.5          3.3           3.3
-teff                4.0           3.4          3.4          2.3           2.3
5.0 ha:
-wheat               2.1           1.9          1.8           1.3          1.3
-sorghum             1.0           1.3          1.1          0.9           1.0
-maize               2.0           2.2          2.1           1.9          2.0
-barley              2.4           2.4          2.3          2.1           2.2
-teff                 1.7          2.1          2.0           1.3          1.4
10.0 ha:
-wheat                1.2          1.0          1.2          0.7           0.7
-sorghum             0.5           0.5          0.5          0.4           0.4
-maize               1.0           0.9          1.1          0.9           0.9
-barley              1.3           1.3          1.5           1.2          1.2
-teff                1.2           1.1          1.5          0.9           0.9
cropRiny Dattern:
-wheat               7.0%          15.5         33.5%          6.6%        12.2%
-sorghum             3.8%          10.5%        4.7%          12.9%        16.4%
-maize               12.8%         14.0%        9.0%          4.6%          4.3%
-barley              14.5%         14.8%        31.5%        22.4%         28.8%
-teff                34.3%         27.7%        6.4%         21.7%         20.2%
-others              27.6%         17.5%        14.9%        31.8%         18.1%
1/     The VCRs presented in this table are based on 10% yield reduction as compared to the NFIU data.



-90-
Annex 11
Page 1 of 3
ETHIOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
ECONOMIC ASPECTS
Economic Values
(constant prices of 1994)
A. Fertilizer:
bagged urea                                           USS 140 / ton
bulk   DAP                                            USS 170 /ton
average fertilizer f.o.b                              US$ 155 /ton
shipping                                               USS 45 /ton
average fertilizer arrival seaport                    USS 200 /ton
unloading, port charges, bagging and
forwarding fees                                        USS 50 /ton
transport, storage, distribution ,etc.                 USS 80 /ton
total at farmgate                                     US$ 330 /ton
(Birr 1980 /ton)
B. Food crops:
maize (No.2 Milo yellow, f.o.b Gulf)                  USS 110 /ton
wheat (Canadian No. 1, western red
spring in store St. Lawrence,                   USS 200 /ton
export)
wheat (US No.2, f.o.b Gulf)                           USS 135 /ton
average food crop port of origin                      USS 150 /ton
loading and shipping                                   USS 40 /ton
port fees, unloading, bagging, etc.                    USS 50 /ton
transport and distribution                             US$ 60 /ton
total at farmgate                                     USS 300 /ton
(Birr 1800 /ton)
C. Labor:
unskilled, seasonal                            0.5 times the hired labor rate or
Birr 2 per manday



-91-
Annex 1 1
Page 2 of 3
ETHIOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
ECONOMIC ASPECTS
Incremental Production due to Incremental Fertilizer
(area in hectare, production in tons, yield in tons/ha, value in Biff million)
Project Year         Area          IncTemental          Yield          Gross value
affeceted by.   production due to   increase due to  incremental
incremental      incremental      incremental     production due to
fertilizer       fertilizer        fertilizer       fertilizer
1              360,000           110,000           0.31              198.0
2              780,000           240,000           0.31              432.0
3             1,440,000          500,000           0.35              900.0
4             2,220,000          770,000           0.35             1,386.0
5             2,800,000         1,040,000          0.35             1,872.0
ETEHOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
Tentative Import Schedule, Fertilizer by Type
(tons)
1994/95     1995/96      1996/97      1997/98     1998/99     1999/2000
_ _ _ _ _       ~~~    ~~a/  _ _  _   _  _    __                     _  _   _     _
Urea in tons       24,150       36,344      51,076       75,044      102,554      136,126
Urea in  %          15.0         19.6        24.2         28.8         33.4         38.0
DAP in tons        136,850     149,086      159,984      185,526     204,496      222,103
DAP in  %           85.0         80.4        75.8         71.2         66.6         62.0
Note: a/ historic import; b/ based on a N to P ratio of 1: 1.1



-92-
Annex I 1
Page 3 of 3
ETHIOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Switching Values
(Constant 1994 prices)
Incremental  Benefits   Benefits        Net
Year      Investment     0 & M       Labour   Fertilizer   Biogas    Cash-flow
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ C o s t s_ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
1           77.9         2.2         9.2        198.0        0.0         108.7
2          132.8         3.0        23.0        432.0        1.1         274.4
3          238.2         3.0        35.8        900.0        2.3         625.2
4          335.4         3.3        51.1       1386.0        4.5        1000.7
5          442.7         3.4        63.4       1872.0        6.3        1368.8
6                                                            9.0           9.0
7                                                            9.0           9.0
8                                                            9.0           9.0
9                                                            9.0           9.0
10                                                            9.0           9.0
11                                                            9.0           9.0
12                                                            9.0           9.0
13                                                            9.0           9.0
14                                                            9.0           9.0
15                                                            9.0           9.0
NPV @ 10%       863           11         129         3322         44          2363
NPV                  switching
_  10%                  value
Total Benefit                 3366                     -70%l
- fertilizer                 3322                     -70%
- biogas                       44                    2184%
Total Cost                    1003                     236%
- investment                  863                     290%
- 0 & M                        11                   30266%
- labor                       129                    2519%



-93-
Annex 12
ETHIOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
Poverty and Gender Issues
A. Poverty Issues
1.     Present indications are that about 50 percent of the rural households in Ethiopia may be in
absolute poverty with food consumption levels giving less than 80 percent of the requirements. Higher
agricultural output, which the National Fertilizer Sector Project will make possible, could yield a
positive impact on poverty alleviation and nutritional welfare in three ways: (a) by increasing food
supplies in households with less than 0.5 ha of land (about 46 percent of all rural households) to enable
increases in consumption to meet a minimum critical level of consumption of around 70 to 75 percent
of requirements from the present levels of around 40 to 50 percent; (b) increasing food supplies in
households prone to transitory poverty (those having between 0.5 and 1.0 ha of land constituting about
34 percent of all farm households) to enable adequate levels of nutrition; and (c) by increasing
agricultural output in relatively better-off farms which may provide indirect benefits to the poor
through increased opportunities for labor incomes in farms and marketing activities.
2.     These prospects for significant poverty alleviation through increased crop productivity call for
concerted actions to assist the small-holder peasant sector by way of assuring timely availability of
institutional credit, providing effective extension services and making available fertilizers to meet the
needs of the poor and marginal farmers. In particular, providing fertilizer in smaller size bags (eg. 25
kg bags) may help adoption. Small farmers in the low-potential areas face relatively high levels of
production risks and have low economic capacity to undertake innovations. The NFSP's "Minikit"
program could be innovatively used to launch current fertilizer non-users in the low-potential areas,
especially those in the war-affected areas, into fertilizer use. Hence, this program should have special
focus in these areas. This demonstration program also can bring about some additional income to the
farmers which they can utilize for fertilizer purchases in the next season.
B. Gender Issues
3.     The welfare of women in agricultural households depends to a large extent on the level of
overall resources available in the family and on the degree to which women have command over these
resources.  Increased agricultural productivity increases resource availability and enables greater
nutritional welfare to the family. Where intra-household food distribution behavior has disfavored
women (and children), increased overall food availability will tend to relax the constraints that induce
such behavior. From the perspective of fertilizer use, two major avenues are available to increase
women's command over resources: One is by enabling an increased share of women's input in the
fertilizer-related incremental output; the other is by enabling women to increase their incomes from
homestead agriculture through fertilizer use. Extension services have to play a crucial role in both
these areas, Women should be treated as co-equal partners in agriculture when providing extension
and other support services. In addition, the proposed restructuring of cooperatives should clearly
recognize the role women can play in income generating activities in general, and in credit markets, in
particular, both as users of credit and as savers of surplus incomes.
4.     The NFSP proposal to promote the production of bio-gas using dung will help women by
(a) providing a more efficient and smoke-free cooking environment which will release a considerable
amount of women's time for other household or income generating activities; and (b) by allowing the
use of slurry to increase productivity of their home gardens. Considering the many benefits of a bio-
gas program - better environmental management, women's welfare and income generation - it deserves
to be promoted even if it involves a social subsidy.



-94-
Annex 13
ETHIOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
1.    Project Cost Tables
2.    AISCO - Restructuring Plan, 1994
3.    Proclamation No. 85/1994 dated February 1, 1994 on Agricultural Cooperative
Societies
4.    Consultant Report on AISCO's New Marketing Strategy, 1992
5.    Proclamation No. 106/94 dated October 26, 1994, establishing a National
Fertilizer Industry Agency
6.    Consultants Preappraisal Reports on:
(i)   Fertilizer Marketing
(ii)   Policy and Institutional Aspects
(iii)   Agronomic Aspects of Fertilizer Use
7.    FAO-IC: Project Report on National Fertilizer Project (July 1992)



IrI                             I                I    , ,          I                I                 I                I                 I
34'              36               38 /              40^              42                44               46'               48
ETHIOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
Agricultural Input Supply Enterprise(AISCO)
RED                            Sales and Distribution Centres
-6                                       /    ERITREA                     SEA                                  MAIN CENTERS16
*0   SUB - CENTERS
0    SELECTED TOWNS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
ZONES (Unofficial 1994 boundaries)
- 14         SUDAN                                    TIGRAY                                                   STATES (Unofficial 1994 boundaries)    14'_
-INKL\INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
MEKELE
/                         O*                                           The State/Region names ore per Article 47
GONDER                                             of the Constitution  of Ethiopia.
GONDER                                       \
,-'       Oa*                                      >_ ('                                CLILF OF
- 12'                       ';.AFAR/                                                                                        ADEN                   12-
MER-AWI*    AMHARA                                  DJIBOUTI
- KOMBOLCHA    .           .x,- 
BEN1H,ANGUL FINOTE SELAM    BICHENA               *
DEBRE        SOKORO                                                                                      l-
_MA0^   .  DEBRKOS  /    DEBRE                    K.
MARKOS          *~BERHAN
AMBO   ADDIS                       HARAR            ,
NEKEMPTI          ABABA                            0
j                    *          AKAKI  43ABOMSA
(-   METU  BUTAHIRA           MOJO                'A
i.  GAMBELA                          HOSINA 0       BEKOJI OROMIA                                                                           8
6'GAMBELLA                         HOSINA
JIMA  SHASHEMENE '          DODOLLA
00             0
SODO          AWASSA   GOBA                               SOMALI                    7    SOMALIA
The bouw,danres, colors X  SEPRA       ARBA
denominations ond any                 MINCH                                                                                                     6
6 other nifornmotio, shown                   0 o                                                                                                  6
on this map do not    .
imply,  on  the  part of
The World Bonk Group,t
any  ludginleit oa, the legal                                                                                . 7
stastus   of  any    territory                .- 
or any endorsement 
or occeptonce of such                                                                                ._. 
boundaries
r  acceptance   of  s/ch~                                                                         KILOMETERS    0   50  100    150    200    250    300    350    400  r
n -      .  /                KENYA              N                  .',                                      MILES 0    50   100   150   200   250  4 .
UGANDA"" 30  6'_,                                             ># rs/4^4                                                                 >             O









IMAGING
Report No:      13722 ET
Type: SAR



