Report No. PID10298
Project Name                     Ethiopia-National Fertilizer Sector...
Project (NFSP)-Supplemental Credit
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Agriculture and Environment
Project ID                       ETPE73307
Borrower                         Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Implementing Agency              National Fertilizer Industry Agency
Environmental Category           C
Date PID prepared for NFSP       April 12, 1995
Date PID Prepared for this
NFSP-Supplemental Credit         April 30, 2001
Project Appraisal Date
Original Project                 June 28, 1993
Project Appraisal Date
Supplemental                     October 16, 2000
Project Board Approval
Date - NFSP                      June 13, 1995
Projected Board Approval Date
for Supplemental                 June 14, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background:
Ethiopia's population of 62.8 million is the second largest in sub-Saharan
Africa, and its per capita income of US$100, the second lowest. Social
indicators are among the lowest in the world, with a gross primary enrollment
ratio of 43 percent, life expectancy of 43 years, and infant mortality of 107
per thousand. Income poverty remains more severe in rural areas (44 percent)
than in urban areas (33 percent).
The Government of Ethiopia has adopted an Agricultural Development-Led-
Industrialization (ADLI) policy under which agricultural development is the
main engine for economic progress. In the early 1990s, Government identified
two avenues for increasing production: (a) area expansion via extensive
mechanized farming and intensive commercial agriculture; and (b) increased
land productivity in smallholder agriculture. However, area expansion raises
many problems and is unlikely to address food shortages in the short to
medium term. Therefore, land productivity improvement appears to be the best
option to address food shortages in the short to medium term.
Fertilizer Sub-sector. Fertilizer consumption in Ethiopia has grown rapidly
from a negligible 3,500 tons in the early 1970s to 290,000 tons in 1999. This
is still a low level of about 30kg/ha. The bulk of fertilizer (85 percent) is
used by small farmers, most of whom are in the highland areas that account
for 60 percent of cropped areas. Food grains (teff, wheat, barley, maize, and



sorghum) are the largest consumers of fertilizer, accounting for nearly 95
percent of fertilizer use. Technical and financial aspects of fertilizer
application have been studied for many years in Ethiopia and have confirmed
the profitability of its use. Data on fertilizer profitability in different
crops and soil situations point to Value Cost Ratios (VCR) ranging between
2.2 and 4, i.e. above the VCR level of 2.0, generally considered a minimum
necessary for profitable application by farmers.
2. Project Objectives:
The objective of the National Fertilizer Sector Project and the proposed
Supplemental Credit is to help Ethiopia achieve accelerated and sustainable
growth in agricultural production and productivity with a view to improving
food security and reducing poverty. Towards this end the NFSP sought to
support policy reforms, strengthen institutions, address demand and supply
side constraints and support measures and initiatives to maintain and enhance
soil fertility and environmental conservation. The Supplemental Credit would
support the realization of these objectives by ensuring continued and
adequate availability of fertilizers in the crop years 2001 and 2002.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement:
The latest Country Assistance Strategy, dated August 19, 1997, identified
agriculture/environment as one of the leading sectors with the potential to
make a major contribution to economic growth, poverty reduction, and food
security. In addition, in response to the consequences of severe drought in
2000 and the two-year war with Eritrea, the Bank issued an Interim Support
Strategy (ISS) in November 2000. The ISS is designed to assist Ethiopia in
addressing the human, material and financial destabilization caused by the
war, while simultaneously re-engaging on core development issues. With
respect to development issues, reducing food insecurity has been identified
as one of the most critical areas that will continue to receive Bank's
attention. Widespread famine has in the past exacted a devastating human toll
in Ethiopia. The need to ensure that adequate food supplies are available,
particularly in years affected by drought , has been a major concern of the
central and regional authorities.
Past Bank operations have supported policy reforms and measures to ensure
sustainability of agricultural growth including increasing agricultural
yields and developing the livestock sector. IDA-funded projects which
included a completed small scale irrigation project and the ongoing Seeds and
Fertilizer projects were designed to enhance agricultural productivity and
food security through a considerably wider use of improved farm inputs. These
projects are supported by an IDA funded Agricultural Research and Training
Project. Given IDA's involvement in the agricultural sector wherein it has
played a key role with significant support of the donor community, it is
important to continue and consolidate the reform process in the farm input
sub-sector.
4. Project Description:
The NFSP, with an estimated cost of US$ 230 million, was approved in June
1995 and it was declared effective in February 1996. IDA supported the
project with a credit of SDR 82.9 million (US$120 million equivalent at the
time of negotiations); the Government was expected to contribute US$20
- 2 -



million, and others including fertilizer importers and donors were to
contribute US$90 million. The project consists of three components. The first
component relates to capacity building and comprises institutional
strengthening and human resources development; the second component addresses
fertilizer supply and demand constraints; and the third component relates to
soil fertility management and environmental conservation including the
construction of rural soil testing laboratories.
The NFSP Supplemental Credit would address the incremental funding needs for
fertilizer imports, brought about by the anticipated large increase in
fertilizer consumption due to government's large extension intervention
program, and expected increases in irrigation. It would be used to finance
the foreign exchange component of the incremental consumption of fertilizer
for the crop years 2001 and 2002 aggregating to about 130,000 tons of DAP
and 70,000 tons of urea, estimated to cost about US$44 million.
5. Project Financing:
Total supplemental project cost is estimated at US$46.2 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$44 million (95 percent). IDA would
contribute US$ 44 million under the supplemental credit for the upcoming 2001
and 2002 crop seasons.
6. Project Implementation:
The National Fertilizer Industry Agency (NFIA) will continue to be in charge
of the overall implementation and coordination of project activities
including activities under the Supplemental Credit. Imports of fertilizer
will also continue to be implemented by private importers and the
Agricultural Inputs Supply Enterprise (AISE), under international competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. There would be no new
conditionalities under the supplemental credit.
7. Project Sustainability:
The consolidation of the current momentum and the further expansion of
fertilizer use clearly hinge on an even greater role of private sector
involvement in input supply, including the development of partnerships
between foreign and local firms. The unprecedented increase in the number of
private importers of fertilizer, from one to six between 1994 and 1999, bodes
well for private sector development in this sub-sector. The establishment of
a private sector-driven farm input supply system within the country will be a
key policy objective for the follow-on project.
In addition, as the long-term sustainability of the emerging demand of
fertilizer depends on the improvement of the Value Cost Ratios of fertilizer
use, three key issues need to be considered. First, the grain marketing
system suffers from inefficiencies owing to poor road infrastructure and
large market segmentation; but the ongoing Bank-funded Road sector
development program is expected to address this issue. Second, most of the
fertilizer applications by farmers still follow blanket recommendations by
crop, but the planned preparation of soil fertility maps based on soil test
results from the rural soil testing laboratories constructed under the NFSP,
is expected to provide a basis for updated recommendations tailored to the
needs of different soil types; this would enhance the efficiency of
-3 -



fertilizer use. Third, there is scope for enhanced management of fertilizer
supply chains, as well as for greater competition in local marketing of
fertilizer . These issues are expected to receive focussed attention in the
proposed follow-on project.
8. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector:
The Government of Ethiopia has been very preoccupied with boosting the
agricultural supply response capacity in order to sustainably address the
country's food insecurity problems. This concern largely explains
Government's heavy-handed role in fertilizer distribution through the
National Extension Intervention Program (EIP). Under this program, the
regional governments provide bank credit guarantee on fertilizer for
participating farmers, and have been involved in bulk procurement of
fertilizers from domestic public and private sector importers and
distributing them to EIP farmers. Because of the large scope of the EIP which
accounts for over two-thirds of the fertilizer consumption, the unintended
consequence is that the fertilizer marketing system has been drifting from a
system in which private wholesalers and retailers play a key role.
Consequently, the main lessons learned are that IDA lending for the
development of farm input use should explicitly recognize that (i) private
sector agents have shown their capacity to play a key role in input supply,
and that it is time for government to "leave the market", and (ii)
government should focus on the demand side, i.e., the very important and
unfinished agenda of maximizing the economics of input use by farmers,
through training for the efficient and balanced use of inputs, dissemination
of market price information, credit, training of service cooperatives in
procurement management, etc. These elements are part of the building blocks
of the planned follow-on project, and as noted above, some related
preparatory studies are being carried out under the current fertilizer
project.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI):                Yes
10. Environmental Aspects (including any public consultation):
The Ethiopian authorities have established a mechanism for the annual
compilation and maintenance of a database on the impact of fertilizer use on
the environment. In this context, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
has put in place 32 sites in four major fertilizer consuming regions. The
annual tests that were conducted after the 1999 cropping season show that the
nitrate and phosphate content in underground water was significantly below
the threshold level acceptable to the World Health Organization (WHO). The
use of fertilizers at current levels thus poses no significant environmental
risks. Similar testing conducted by EPA for the year 2000 season is under
analysis and review.
11. Contact Point:
Team Leader
Amar Jit S. Sodhi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
-4-



Telephone:       (202) 473-7266
Fax:             (202) 473-5147
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Facsimile:    (202) 522-1500
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 11, 2001.
VCR are the ratio of incremental production due to fertilizer over the cost of
fertilizer application, whereby all other factors of production are maintained constant.
CIF prices of Urea and DAP decreased by 55 percent and 26 percent respectively between
1997 and 2000. Although the Birr depreciated by only 22 percent during the period, retail
DAP prices actually increased by 17 percent, and urea prices decreased by 17 percent only.
This may have been partly due to the removal of the subsidies in 1998, but which alone
cannot explain this situation. The studies mentioned above (para 15) are expected to shed
light on these issues and generate an action plan.
- 5 -



