Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8363
PRO'ECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2178-TH)
FEBRUARY 12, 1990
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by redpients only In the performance of
thei oflficl dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wibout World Bank authorzaton.



AIT        -  Asian Institute of Technology
CPU        -  Central Project Unit
CSC        -  Civil Service Commission
CSS        -  Community Secondary School
CU         -  Chualalongkorn University
DCID       -  Department of Curriculum and Instructional Development
DGE        -  Department of General Education
DNFE       -  Department of Nonformal Education
DOVE       -  Department of Vocational Education
DTEC       -  Department of Technical and Economic Cooperation
EMIS       -  Education Management Information System
EMISC      -  Educational Management Information System Center
EPD        -  Educational Planning Division, Ministry of Education
IBRD       -  The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA        -  The International Development Association
IIEP       -  International Institute for Educational Planning
INNOTECH   -  Southeast Asian Ministers of Education Organization Regional
Center for Educational Innovation and Technology
IPTST      -  Institute for the Promotion of Teaching Science and Technology
ITVE       -  Institute of Technology and Vocational Education
KMIT       -  King Mongkut's Institute of Technology
MOAC       -  Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
MOE        -  Ministry of Education
MOP        -  Ministry of Finance
MOPH       -  Ministry of Public Health
NCDC       -  National Curriculum Development Center
NEC        -  National Education Commission
NESDB      -  National Economic and Social Development Board
NIDA       -  Nations  'Institute of Development Administration
ONPEC      -  Officq    the National Primary Education Commission
OPEC       -  Offic. ot the Private Education Commission
OSP        -  Office of Special Projects
PTU        -  Project Implementation Unit
REO        -  Regional Education Office
SEAMEO     -  The Southeast Asian Ministers of Education Organization
SISS       -  Second IEA Science Study
SLP        -  School Location Planning
DTE        -  Department of Teacher Education
UNDP       -  United Nations Development Program
UNESCO     -  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
CURRENCY IQUIVALEUTS
Curremy Unit - Babt (B)
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
SCDOOL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



THE WORID BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
US.A.
Oprauw EvJutif
February 12, 1990
MENORANDUl TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report:  THAILAND - Sixth Education
Prolect (Loan 2178-TH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Thailand - Sixth Education Project
(Loan 2178-TH)" prepared by the Borrower with an Overview by the Asia
Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
'~~
Attachment
Tbh document has a fstrictd thbuion nd may be uso by moniptonly in the petfoamenco
of tbeir oflicbl dutba Its contents mu not oftbise be dischxod witbout World ak autbortion.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2178-TH)
TABLE OF CON$ERTS
Preface               .....................................................                                              i
Basic Data Sheet                                .. ..............   ii
Evaluation Summary                                ......................    iv
Overview              .......................... ..........................                                          vii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT PREPARED BY TH_ GOVERNMENT
I.      INTRODUCTION  AND  PROJECT  BACKGROUND   .....                                ............               3
A.    Introduction    ...................................                                                 3
B.    Project  Background  and  Composition    ....                               .........              4
The  Socio-Economic  Setting    .....................                                             4
C. The Education Sector Setting at the Time
of  the  Project  Formulation    .....                          ..............                 5
Overview   .............                    ...........................                            5
Issues  in  Secondary  Education   .....                            ..............                7
Management Constraints .10
Government Plans and Strategy for Secondary
Education  Development   .........................                                           13
Project  Items    .........                      .........................                       14
Studies  and  Evaluation  ..........................                                             15
Project  Management   ..............................                                             15
Annexes . ............................................   17-18
LOWER SECONDARY SCHOOLS (LSS) .19
Introduction    ...........                      ............................                           19
Project  Implementation    .............................                                                22
Civil  Works    ..........                     ..........................                        22
Furniture    ...........                    ...........................                          25
Equipment ......                                                  N                              25
Technical  Assistance   ............................                                             27
Implementation  Schedule    ........................                                             29
Project  Costs    ...........                      ...........................                          31
Project  Outcomes    .........                        ..........................                        31
Teacher  Utilization  and  Incentives   .....                               .............               33
Conclusions  and  Suggestions    ........................                                               34
Annexes . ............................................   36-54
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authodzation.



TABLE OF_ NTENTS (cont'd)
Pag2 No.
III.        PLANNING  AND  MANAGEMENT   (P&M)                                      ..................... .                       55
Introduction                            .......................................                                     55
Project   Implementation                       .............................                                         56
Civil  Works             ....................................                                                56
Furniture            ......................................                                                  57
Equipment            ......................................                                                  57
Technical  Assistance                      ...........................                                       58
Implementaiton  Schedule                         ........................                                    62
Project  Costs               ......................................                                                 63
Project  Outcomes                  ...................................                                              63
Conclusions              ........................................                                                   68
Annexes           ............                   ................................                              71-81
IV.    STUDIES AND PROJECT EVALUATION   .....................                                                                  83
Introduction               .......................................                                                  83
Sub-Sectoral   Studies                     ...............................                                           83
Evaluation of Sixth Education Project   ....                                               ..........                94
Anne ... 98
V.       PROJECT  OUTCOMES                  ...................................                                               99
Completion  of  Key  Covenants                           ...........          ..        ...........                  99
Project Costs and Disbursements   ........ ..                                            ..........                100
Project  Costs               ........ ....... ..                     .................                     100
Disbursement   of  IBRD  Funds                         .........        ..        ..........               101
Excess   Funds                    ..................                .................                      101
Attainment of Project Objectives - A Summary                                                   .......             101
Lower   Secondary   Schools                      ..........         ..        ............                 101
Planning  and  Management                        ..........         ..        ............                 103
Studies   and  Evaluation                      ...........          ..        ............                 106
Conclusions                    ....................                   ....................                         109
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
ATTACHMENT I:  Comments from the National Education
Commission   ..................................                                                    111
ATTACHMENT II: Comments from the Ministry of Education ......                                                                     115



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THALANLD
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2178 THl
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews implementation of the
Sixth Education Project in Thailand, for which Loan 2178-TH in the amount
of US$75 million was approved on June 10, 1982. The project was closed as
scheduled on Decemb"er 31, 1987. US$43.87 million of the loan amount was
disbursed and the balance of US$31.13 million was cancelled up to July 7,
1988.
The Evaluation Summary, the Overview and the Basic Data were
prepared by the Population and Human Resources Operations Division, Country
Department II, Asia Regional Office, based on a review of the relevant
documents and project files and complemented by discussions with Government
officials in March 1989; these sections are followed by the Government-
prepared PCR.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department. The
draft report was sent to the Borrower and its agencies for comment on
August 23, 1989. Comments received from the Government, which also include
some additional data, are reproduced as Attachments I and II (see pages
111-118).



- ii -
FRWECT COMMIN  ESP
SRULANDU
SIXSH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2178-Tm)
BASIC DATA SOE?T
BASIC PROJECT DATA
item                      DARraIsal Estimate       aoBlrm
Total Project Cost (US$ million)               214.40            109. D
Underrun (X)                                -               49.2
Loan Azunt (US$ million)                        75. 00            75. 00
Disbursed (as of 6130/88)                   -               43.67*
Cancelled (as of 717188)                    -               31.13
Repaid (as of 12131188)                     -                 2.98
Date Phvysial Components Completed              12186              8/87
--in menths since Loan Signature              53                61
Proportlon completed by above date (2)           -                  852
Proportion of time overrun (2)                   -                  15X
Institutional Performanee                        -                Good
* knludes front-end fee of US41.108 million
CuMWLATIVR ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSE 8NT
(in USS million)
L                1983      1984     an       196      1987      18m
Appraisal Estimate     1.1      16.5    35.0      55.0     73.5      75.0
Actual                 1.2       4.9     13.8     24.3     32.7      43.7
Actual as 2 of       109.0      29.7     39.4     44.1     44.5      58.3
EstLate
APPLICATION OF WAN PROCEEDS
(In US$ million)
Original        Actual          S of
Category                     AhIaast.Ln    iENUidituUe   OrlsAai
1.  Civil Works                         42.0         30.9           73
2.  Equlpment and Materials             15.0          8.1           53
3.  TechaLnal Assistance, Consultant
Services and Training            10.0          3.8          37
4.  Front-Bnd Fee                        1.1          1.1          100
S.  Unallocated                          6.9           --
6.  Cancelled                             --         31. 1
Total                           75.0         75.0
-              _



- iii -
No. of  go. of         Staff    Date of
iaton            seat By      Month/Yr.  Week    Persaona         Weeks     Renorl
Identification   banklUNSCO  01/80        2.5     3 (GE)           21.0       N/A
Pr p r-tton     DBnkUS/USC0  07/80          4      3 (SGE,1A.1E)  100.0       NA
Appraisal        Bank         04181         3     5 (2GE,1A,2E)   28.1        N/A
PoStapprae&al    Bank         10/81         3     2 (GE, A)       2117    05118182
Total                                                          160.8
Supervtisin 1    Bank         12182               2 (A,GE)         0.7    12106182
Supervlsion 2    Bank         05/83       0.25    2 (A,GE)        12.4    06114/83
Supervision 3   Bank          04184       1       1 (GE)           8.5    05/04/84
SupervisLaon 4    Bank        07/84       1.1     1 (A)            4.5    08/24/84
Superviutin 5    Bank         0618S       1.5     1 (GE)           4.5   06/25/85
Supervision 6    Bak          06/86       1.2     2 (A,GE)         8.4    07/28186
SupervLsion 7   Bank          02/87       1.5     2 (A,GE)        10.8    03/17/87
SupervIslon 8    Bank         11/87       1       1 (A)            5.7    12/15/87
Total                                                          55.5
At Architects  E:  Economists   Es: General Educator
OTHER PROJCT DASA
1uu                     9tEitnal Plan      Revision           Actual
First MentLon tn Files                                           11/23/77
Negotiations                   4/15/82                            5/07/82
Board Approval                 6/15/82                            6/10/82
Lo-an Agreement Date           7/26/82                            7/26/82
Bffectlveness Date            10/26/82                           10/26/82
Closing Date                  12/31/87                           12/31/87
CurrencM Exchanse Rates
Name of Currency: Baht (B)
8xchan2e Rates:f                               USSi - Biht
Appraisal Year Average (1982)                               23.0
blplewentation Period Average (1983-87)                    25.2
Completion Year (1987)                                     25.7
STAFF INPUT
(S..aff veeks)
zi      if    ii    80   I      8      3     4                 Az 86    87 &    Total
PNr-
appraisal   1.0   0.5  21.4  75.6  10.6   -      -                            109.2
Appraisal    -      -     -     6.5 27.2   -      -     -     -     -     -      33.8
Negotiation  -     -      -     -    14.8   -     -     -     -     -     -      14.8
Supervision  -     -     -      -     0.7  13.0  8.7   9.0   8.7  10.8  5.7  56.7
Other        -     -      -     -     1.3  -      -     -     -     -     -       1.3
Total        1.0   0.5  21.4  82.2  34.6  13.0  8.7   9.0   8.7  10.8   5.7  215.7



- iv -
fPQJECT COMPLETION REMORT
THAILAND
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2178-TH)
EVALUIATION SUMMARY
Proiect ObLectives
i.       The implementation of the Sixth Education Project coincided with
the Fifth Five-year Development Plan (1982-86), during which the formal
primary and secondary education structure was changed from a 7-3-2 Y! to a
6-3-3 system.   The old education system was characterized by an overly
academic bias, regional disparities in opportunities for education,
inefficient teacher utilization, and ineffective education and manpower
planning.   The project was to address these weaknesses by pursuing two
broad objectives:   (a) improve the access,  relevance,  quality and
efficiency of lower secondary education in disadvantaged areas; and (b)
strengthen the national capacity for edu.eation and manpower planning and
management. The project financed: (a) civil works, equipment, furniture,
fellowships. training and technical assistance for lower secondary schools
selected according to criteria based on their disadvantaged conditions; and
(b) technical assistance, fellowships, training, equipment and materials
for education agencies at central, regional and provincial levels.
lmglementation Experionce. Project Costs and Disbursements
ii.      The project was completed on tire with minor delays during
implementation and there was no extension of the project Closing Date. All
components were fully implemented at a total project cost of US$109
million, representing 51 percent of the appraisal estimate of US$214.4
million. Of the US$75 million in loan funds available, US$43.9 million was
disbursed (including a front-end fee of US$1.1 million), and the surplus of
US$31.1 million was cancelled in stages after December 1986. Actual annual
disbursements were about 30 percent to 45 percent of original estimates as
.1/ Seven years of primary education followed by three years of lower
secondary and two years of upper secondary education.



. v .
project costs were over-estimated with a 44 percent contingency
allowance.3/    The high. project cost, on which the front-end fee and
commitment charges were computed, was a contributing factor in the
Government's decision not to proceed with the negotiation of a follow-up
project and the suspension of the pipeline in education lending with the
Bank.
.'esults
iii.    Buildings were provided to 480 secondary schools in rural areas,
according to agreement. Furniture was supplied to about 4,000 classrooms
and equipment to about 3,000 workshcp units at the lower secondary level,
as appraised.   In service training in the community school concept was
provided to about 3,000 teachers and administrators, and short courses on
equipment maintenance and repair were provided to about 3,000 non-teaching
staff.  In order to improve planning and management, technical assistance
was provided to the National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB),
the National Education Commission (NEC), and the Ministry of Education
(MOE) in the form of local and foreign experts, and local and overseas
fellowships.   Eight studies were carried out which addressed important
issues in education.
iv.      In spite of successful physical implementation, the project did
not fully achieve its educational objectives. Enrollment at the end of the
project was 34 percent below the projected target in project schools, while
overall enrollment was 21 percent below target. This is partly a result of
overly optimistic enrollment forecasts at appraisal but is mainly due to
reasons beyond the control of this project including: (a) high tuition and
opportunity costs, (b) scarce employment opportunities following
graduation, (c) low quality of schooling compared to urban schools, (d)
irrelevance of educational content as perceived by parents, and (e)
parents' preference for six-year secondary schools which have bettE, chance
of leading to higher education.   Equality of educational opportunity as
measured by transition rates from primary to lower secondary education
declined rather than increased, particularly in small schools, leading to
greater disparities among regions.  The transition rates after graduation
also favored larger urban schools.
v.       Regional educational supervisors and lower secondary coordinators
rated project schools higher than non-project schools in terms of:  (a)
teaching and learning, (b) re-orienting communities to participate in
2/ Up to the Yellow Cover stage in November 1981, the total project cost
was appraised. to be about $143.2 million with a foreign exchange
component of US$59.4 million or 41% of the project cost.   Prior to
negotiations, the Bank decided that a concurrent investment program
originally planned to be financed from the Government's own budgetary
resources should be included in the project, which doubled the baseline
cost. A contingency allowance of 55%, based on Bank guidelines, then
inflated the total project cost to US$276 million with a foreign
exchange component of US$100 million.   During negotiations, as the
Government had originally budgeted to borrow only US$60 million, both
the contingency allowance and the project scope were reduced to limit
the borrowing to US$75 million.



- vi -
school development.   The project was successful in improving teaclher
utilization by prescribing a higher student to teacher ratio.  Incentives
were provided to attract rural teachers to -ural areas, but the impact of
the new incentives has not been measured.
vi.      The project was least successful ia terms of improving the
planning and management of the education system. The goals to reorganize
the Ministry of Education (MOE) and to strengthen local planning and
management capacity were overly optiaistic for a single project within the
time frame of one project period. The reorganization required changes to
laws and regulations and coordination among different agencies with
duplicative functions. This required permanent delegation of functlons by
the Cabinet.   Such objectives could only be achieved through a sustained
policy dialogue at a high level between the Bank and the Government over a
long period.
Sustainability
vii.     The PCR and the Overview do not contain specific sections dealing
with sustainability.  However, it can be concluded from the context that
the project is sustainable, provided an adequate flow of finance for its
operation is assured.
Findinas and Lessons Learned
viii.    Education projects have to consider educational. content, the
policy environment, and institutional support system in addition to "brick
and mortar." Some of the major lessons learned are the following:
(a' t sustained policy dialogue at a high level between the Bank and
the Government would have been required to carry out major
educational reforms associated with the project.
(b) Clearer delineation of responsibilities among various agencies
concerned with education would be beneficial.
(c)  There should have been one agency to synthesize the findings from
the eight studies and translate them into an action plan.
(d) Establishing project monitoring indicators at appraisal and
tracking them throughout the supervision period would have been
beneficial.
(e)  An overall executing agency should have been responsible for
#verseas fellowships. Such an agency could have provided language
training and assistance in the placement of students in overseas
institutions.   This would have avoided communication and study
problems due to the language barrier and difficulties with gaining
admission to overseas institutions.
(f) Procurement could be more centralized, even for locally financed
components to ensure   rticipation of more qualified bidders and
delivery of quality products.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIT!H EDUCATION PROJECT (LOWM 2178-TM)
Project Identitv
Project Name: Sixth Education Project
Loan No.: 2178-TH
RVP Unit: Asia
Country: Thailand
Sector: Education
Subsector: Secondary Education
Executing Agencies: Ministry of Education,
National Education Commission, and
National Economic and Social Development Board
Backgeound
1.       The implementation of the Sixth Education Project coincided with
the Fifth Five-Year Development Plan (1982-1986), during which the formal
primary and secondary education structure was changed from a 7-3-2 to a 6-
3-3 system. The purpose of the new structure was to provide for a better
integration of the schooling process between the primary and secondary
education levels and greater flexi1' !"ty to allow the students to leave the
formal school system at various poi's.   The lower secondary program
included exposure to practical skMlls and the upper secondary program
allowed students to acquire vocational skills tor employment when they left
school or for further studies at the tertiary level.  A new diversified
secondary curriculum was introduced in 1978 to supplement traditional
academic subjects with occupational subjects, including work education.
Proiect Objectives
2.       The previous education system was characterized by an overly
academic bias, regional disparities in opportunities for education, ineffi-
cient teacher utilization, and ineffective educational and manpower plsn-
ning.  The project was to address these weaknesses by pursuing two broad
objectives:
(a) to improve the access, relevance, quality and efficiency of lower
secondary education in disadvantaged areas by (i) providing new
and renovated classrooms, new workshops, laboratories, materials,
in-service staff training and technical assistance, and (ii)
improving teacher utilization through an increase in the average
weekly teaching periods; and



- viii -
(b)  to strengthen the national capacity for education and human
resources planning and management by (i) introducing systematic
improvements in the central planning agency of the Ministry of
Education (MOE), and (ii) providing technical assistance, train-
ing, equipment and materials to the central, regional and provin-
cial planning agencits of the Ministry of Education (MOE), the
National Education Ccmmission (NEC) and the National Economic and
Social Development Board (NESDB).
Proiect Costs and Disbursements
3.       The project was completed on time with minor delays during imple-
mentation, and the project closed as scheduled on December 31, 1987. All
components were fully implemented at a total project cost of US$109
million, representing 51% of the appraisal estimate of US$214.4 million.
Annual actual disbursements were about 30% to 45% of the original estimate,
as the project costs were over-estimated, and included an overall con-
tingency allowance of 44% over the base cost. Of the US$75 million loan,
US$43.9 million was disbursed (including a front-end fee of US$1.1
million), and the surplus of US$31.1 million was cancelled in stages during
project implementation and after the Closing Date as it was apparent the
amount was not needed.
4.       Up to the Yellow Cover stage in November 1981, the total cost was
appraised at $143.2 million with a foreign exchange component of US$59.4
million or 41% of the project cost.   This amount covered 600 project
schools. Prior to negotiations, the Bank decided that the total project
cost should be increased to about US$276 million with a foreign exchange
component of US$98.6 million. These much higher figures were the result of
including in the project a concurrent investment program in classroom
construction carried out by the Government using its own funds. This com-
ponent was not appraised during the appraisal mission nor after the deci-
sion was made to include this component. At negotiations, the Government
reiterated its position that it was only authorized to borrow US$60 niillion
and that it wished to finance this added component out of its own re-
sources. The project scope was then reduced from 600 to 480 schools and
the contingency allowance reduced from 55% to 44% of the base cost.3/   The
final project cost was recalculated at US$214 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$75 million. (See Table 1). During project imple-
mentation, underruns occurred in all categories.  The civil works compo-
nent, in particular, had an underrun of 26 percent against the baseline
estimate.
5.       The over-estimated project cost, on which the front-end fee and
commitment charges were computed, was a contributing factor in the
Government's decision not to proceed with the negotiation of a follow-up
project and the suspension of the education lending pipeline with the Bank.
.J/ The two versions of the contingency allowance were based on Bank
guidelines, drawn from different years.



- ix -
Implementatio
6.       The project consisted of two major components: (a) provision of
facilities and in-service teacher and staff training for lower secondary
schools in disadvantaged areas; and (b) improvement of planning and manage-
ment including a major organizational reform of the MOE.   The following
components were satisfactorily carried out with minor problems:
(a) All project school sites were adequately developed to provide a
playground and lndscaping, roads, safe water supply, electricity,
and pools for vegetable and animal farming projects wherever
applicable.
(b) Buildings were provided to 480 relatively disadvantaged lower
secondary schools in rural areas. Facilities included classrooms,
general science laboratories, libraries, specialized activity
rooms and shops which, in the case of small- and medium-sized
schools, included general workshops and those for home economics
and agriculture.
(c) Furniture was supplied to 4,303 classrooms and educational equip-
ment to 3,784 workshop units for 13 academic and work education
subject areas at the lower secondary school level, including
library and audio-visual equipment.
(d) With the infrastructure and educational equipment in place, in-
service training was provided to 3,720 teachers and administrators
in the community school concept and to 540 staff in maintenance
and repair of equipment, and short courses were provided for 3,160
non-teaching staff.    Most of the trainees carried on with the
duties that were originally assigned to them.
7.       To improve planning and management,  technical assistance was
provided to NESDB to improve overall policy making, to NEC to assist with
educational policy and plan development and to MOE to improve the develop-
ment of educational strategies and operational plans.  The loan financed
specialist services, local fellowships, overseas and local staff training,
and a small amount of equipment and physical facilities including building
complexes for two regional education offices (REOs) and two workshops for
each of the four project regional education offices.  Some furniture was
provided to the REOs and equipment to NEC, MOE and REOs.
8.       NESDB commissioned 23 local experts to undertake studies in:
population distribution, long-term labor supply projection, human resources
development in the agricultural sector, human resources planning in the
public sector, human resources development, information system development,
and human resources and educational planning. NEC hired 11 local experts
to consult on the development of overall planning mechanisms, processes,
strategies and techniques on the basis of which training activities and
materials for central and principal planners were developed. Materials for
training trainers were developed by three experts from the Institute for
International Education Planning (IIEP).   MOE hired 25 local experts to
develop a reorganization plan for the restructuring of the planning system



. x -
at MOE. They analyzed and developed a budgeting system, a program struc-
ture, a project classification and an educational management information
system.
9.       Overseas training (including Ph.D. programs) and long- and short-
term courses were provided to NESDB, NEC and MOE staff.   The NEC, in
conjunction with the Educational Planning Division (EPD) of MOE, trained a
total of 1,142 provincial education officers in integrated planning at the
provincial level, and an additional 1,000 key provincial administrators
participated in seminars with the objective of achieving improvements in
internal efficiency.
10.      Consultant services were provided to study and propose a framework
for REO functions. Staff training was provided to 12 regional supervisors
and 30 regional educators in educational research and evaluation and to 42
supervisors and educators in instructional materials production.
Project Impact
11.      In spite of successful physical implementation, the project fell
short of fully reaching its educational objectives.   Given the long term
process of educational development, data collected at project completion
cannot fully reflect the success or failure of the project per se as the
project schools became fully operational only at the end of the project,
and beneficiary students began entering the school only in the last years
of  project implementation.   Therefore, the full impact of the project
cannot be measured until those students graduate.          Furthermore, this
project was originally conceived as the first phase of a larger primary and
secondary education program, with other components to be implemented in
follow-up projects.   The suspension of the subsequent projects adversely
affected the possible cumulative impact which was to begin with this
project, and clouded the policy environment for reforms necessary to fully
reach the educational objectives. The main findings in relation to project
objectives are described below,
12.      Enrollment Expansion.   Enrollment at the end of the project was
34% below the projected target in project schools while overall enrollment
in all schools was 21% below target. This could be partly attributed to
overly optimistic enrollment projections performed at the time of apprai-
sal.  In absolute numbers, enrollment increased in the first three years
and thereafter the numbers declined. In project schools, the net gain was
about an 8% increase in enrollment between 1982 to 1986, but the dropout
rate worsened from 10.8%  to 12.9%.  This phenomenon was not peculiar to
project schools and was caused by factors not within the control of the
project.   Factors which became apparent during project implementation
included: (a) the high cost of tuition and the opportunity cost of attend-
ing school, (b) scarce employment opportunities following graduation, (c)
low quality of schooling compared to urban schools, (d) irrelevance of the
curricular content as perceived by parents, and (e) parents' preference for
six-year secondary schools which have better chance of leading to higher
education. In future projects, those factors should be taken into account
in project design.



- xi -
13.     Access.  The project aimed to support and strengthen schools in
rural and disadvantaged areas.   However,  educational opportunity as
measured by transition rates from primary to lower secondary education
showed decreasing transition rates particularly in small rural schools,
thus widening the disparities between regions instead of improving it.
Furthermore, transitlon rates after graduation again favored larger urban
schools. This partly results from migration to urban areas and partly from
the reasons cited in para. 7. Notwithstanding the difficulties, a major
achievement by the Government was to put in place incentives to attract
teachers to teach in the rural areas. The incentives included one housing
unit for every two teachers, free medical treatment, transportation in the
form of motorcycles, a special salary increment, plus an additional 10%
salary increase in 23 severely disadvantaged districts. At this time, the
impact of those incentives has not been measured.
14.      Relevance.  In order to be relevant to community needs and play a
role in rural development, schools were instructed to provide community
services including short-term training in vocational education, general
education and village development as well as activities in promoting
culture, customs, and national events. This aspect of the p.oject appears
to have been the most successful.  Communities participated in all these
activities except for the mobile library program.          Communities also
donated money for books and equipment and participated in sport and games.
Some communities have even donated land for schools, which may not be
located at the most suitable sites.   Further community involvement in
school activities could generate greater student demand in the future.
15.      Ouality.  In a study which compared project schools to non-project
schools, regional education supervisors and lower secondary coordinators
were asked to rate school quality in terms of:  (a) teaching and learning,
(b) educational information services, (c) community services, and (d) re-
orienting communities to participate in schools development.   Project
schools were rated higher than non-project schools on all four measures,
which were closely interrelated. Quality improvement of science teaching
in most schools was still below the national average, but was better than
before project participation.   This trend may continue as the project
schools are now fully operational.
16.      Efficiency.  A major policy change intended for this project was
increased efficiency in teacher utilization through an increase in the
student:teacher ratio to reduce recurrent costs. The student:teacher ratio
was increased from 18:1 to 20:1 by 1986 by restricting the annual intake of
teachers, re-training existing teachers, and transferring teachers from
over- staffed to under-staffed schools.
17.      Central Planning and Management,  To improve planning and
management, a major organizational restructuring of the MOE planning and
management system was proposed whereby planning, monitoring, operation and
evaluation were to be integrated and EPD elevated from a division to a
department. A budgeting system and a management information network were
also developed. However, this restructuring plan was not prepared until
the final year of project implementation as the plan involved changes in
the status guo for many agencies and amendments to laws and regulations.



- xii -
The new structure still needs further clarification of functions, and the
proposed administrative bodies need revamping. The prcposed change to the
line-item budgeting system was not implementable since it would require
changes in other ministries as well. However, the HOE has established an
Office of Policy and Planning under the Deputy Permanent Secretary to
integrate the fourteen education planning divisions currently under the
fourteen MOE departments. This process, which is expected to be completed
within a year, will be a major achievemant.
18.      Local Planning and Management.  At provincial and regional levels,
delineation of responsibilities and functions is still not clear and the
regional education offices are understaffed. As a result, the REOs are not
fully accepted by the provincial staff.  At this stage it is still pre-
mature to make effective use of the information derived from the training
exercises, as planning capabilities are just being developed and the
foundation of the planning system is new and not yet firm enough to ensure
continute.d planning efficiency.  The equipment intended to facilitate the
REOs' functions was installed rather lato due to delays in the construction
of the REOs, thus giving rise to under-utilization which was in turn
aggravated by a lack of technical staff. New recruits to the REOs still
have inadequate knowledge and experience to assume their technical respon-
sibilities since most of these staff members used to be teachers, and as
such have had limited experience in technical affairs.
19.      Studies.   Eight studies were supported under the project,
including the improvement of vocational and technical programs in formal
and non-formal education, the cumpetency of technical teachers, private
schools, the planning and distribution of educational resources, coopera-
tion in primary education with community organizations, project auditing
systems, completion of the second International Education Achievement
Science Study, and production and utilization of teachers.   These eight
discrete studies did not specifically address project objectives but
contributed to sector research.
Lessons Learned and Recommendations
20.      Since human resources development is a long term investment with
high returns that would benefit the country as a whole in the future, the
Government needs to focus on the development of a long-term strategy, with
or without external financing.   Bank projects are catalysts to that
development process, and as such, the cost-benefit analysis cannot dwell on
the immediate pay-offs.   The following lessons could benefit future
programs.
21.      Policy Dialogue.  Clearer articulation of tla purposes and mecha-
nisms of the ref*rm during implementation is probably as important as the
physical implementation. A sustained policy dialogue on education between
the Bank and the Government at a high level would have ensured greater
project impact.
22.      Duplication of Functions.  The Bank supports NEC's recommendation
that existing problems of duplication of functions and responsibilities



- xiii -
among NOR, NEC and NESDB could be solved by a Cabinet resolution that
systematic coordination via permanent agencies be used to complement
informal, verbal agreement.
23.      Prouurement.   Problems were encountered in the first phase of
construction, primarily as a result of some low bid prices which were 25%
below estimate and because some contractors entered several contracts in
the same phase, making it difficult for them to mobilize resources.
Furniture procurement was funded through 12£^l counterpart funds, therefore
individual schools conducted their own procurement exercises. Remoteness
of certain areas discouraged wide participation of bidders and school
personnel lacked expertise in procurement. This resulted in acceptance of
low-quality products and delays in implementation.   Procurement should
therefore be carried out at least at the level of Provincial Education
Offices.
24.      Furniture.  Quality of furniture varied from region to region and
was generally of low quality and of poor design.   It would have been
preferable for the MOE to involve school authorities in the development of
life-size prototypes of furniture, which would be tested and evaluated to
ensure quality, and then to develop acceptable models for mass production.
25.      Technical Assistance Administratio.  An overall executing agency
should be responsible for overseas fellowships.   Such an agency should
provide language training and assist in the placement of students in over-
seas institutions. This would avoid communication and study problems due
to the language barrier and difficulties with gaining admission to overseas
institutions.
26.      Studies.  One agency should synthesize the findings of the eight
studies and translate them into an action plan.
27.      Project Indicators.  Establishing project monitoring indicators at
appraisal and tracking them throughout the supervision period would have
been beneficial. Evaluation capacity should be strengthened through appro-
priate institution building.
Bank Performance
28.      Supervision staffweeks spent on this project (55.5) was about the
regional average (60). Physical implementation of the project was carried
out smoothly under the careful supervision of Bank staff.   However, in
spite of a successful construction program, the project did not fully
achieve its educational objectives.   At appraisal, this project was envi-
sioned as one component of a larger primary and secondary multipurpose
program, with the rest of the components to be implemented in subsequent
projects. The Bank also prepared a Seventh Education Project, focussing on
the reinforcement of basic education. However, this follow-up project was
aborted due to the high cost of borrowing from the Barik and related factors
(cf. para. 3) precisely at a time when a sustained education policy
dialogue between the Bank and the Government at a high level was needed.



- xiv -
29.     The Appraisal Report provided substantive information and analysis
on issues in education and the project design covered both hardware in
terms of physical infrastructure and software in terms of planning and
management improvement.  There was, however, insufficient attention given
to the following issues, which were not covered by the appraisal team and
should have been included in the project design, namely, tuition policy and
an evaluation of the curriculum and schools program from the beneficiary's
point of view. The goals for ijprovement of planning and management, which
involved major reforms in the system, were perhaps overly ambitious for one
project.   The Staff Appraisal Report did not have a clear step-by-step
implementation plan for those reforms.  Relations between the management
reforms and the lower secondary schools component were not clearly
articulated and project staff had difficulties relating the two components.
Borrower Performance
30.     Although all components of the physical works were completed
according to quantitative targets, the quality was barely above the minimum
acceptable standards as noted by the supervision missions. The Government
could have allowed more money be spent to upgrade the quality of construc-
tion, furniture and equipment to reduce maintenance costs in the future,
particularly since there was a large surplus of funds. Procurement could
be more centralized, even for locally financed components to ensure parti-
cipation of more qualified bidders and delivery of quality products.
31.     As the same staff has served on the Central Project Unit through-
out the life of the project, the continuity and the collective experience
of the Unit ensured successful physical implementation. There was, how-
ever, no consensus among policymakers in different agencies on major issues
and changes in leadership also affected the continuity of the policy
dialogues.
Compliance with Covenants
32.     All covenants were fulfilled, even though some were completed four
years later than the agreed dates. The status of each covenant is shown in
Table below.



Covenant                    Deadline         St,atus/Remarks
Review    Plans    for      July 1982        This condition was fulfilled by
coordinating                                 NEC inJanuary1982.
interministerial  and
departmental planning
with   World   Bank
supervision mission
Prepare and furnish to                       As such plans required reforms of
the Bank final plans                         status guo and changes to laws and
for:                                         regulations, the final plans were
(a) NEC to effectively     Jan. 31, 1983   submitted  f,ur  years  late  in
oversee and coordinate                       October, 1987.
inter -ministerial
educational planning,
(b) for the EPD of NOE     Jan. 31, 1983
to effectively oversee
and    coordinate
departmental
educational planming.
Prepare and furnish to      December 1983    Furnished by the Department of
the  Bank a plan  on                         General Education to the Bank in
utilization        of                        January 1984.
teachers.
Undertake a study and       December 1984    This was furnished by the NOE to
p  r  e  p  a  r  e                          the Bank in February 1985.
recommendations   for
incentives suitable to
attract  and   retain
teachers   in   rural
areas.
Furnish  to  the  Bank      October   1984   Condition fulfilled March 1988.
annual    progress          through 1987
reports    on    the
implementation of the
teacher incentive plan
and  teacher
utilization measures.



- LAVI -
Have all accounts and       Not later than   Condition fulfilled arumally.
statements  for  each       March 31 after
fiscal year audited by      p r e v i o u a
independent   auditors      fiscal year.
acceptable   to   the
Bank, and furnish to
the   Bank   certified
copies    of    the
financial   statements
and the report of such
audits.
Prepare and furnish to      December   31,  The report, which was submitted
the  Bank  a mid-term       1985.             one year later than scheduled in
review  in  scope  and                        Nov. 1986, was quite informative.
format satisfactory to
the Bank and
incorporating    the
views of the
department    and
agencies   concerned
with the Project.



PROJECT COMPLLTION REPORT
THAILAND
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE 1:   Changes in Project Scope and Costs
Yellow-     Green-      Negotiations        Actual
Cover       Cover        Buff-Cover    Implementation
11/25/81    3/1/82         5/18/82       10/82 - 12/87
Proiect Scone
No. of schools                   600         600            480        480
No. of Workshops                1940        1940           1560       1362
No. of Classrooms                  0        2760           2428       5679
groject Costs
Civil Works                     47.1 *     128.9 *        112.9 *     83.4
Furniture                       11.6        11.6            9.7        9.4
Equipment                       22.5        22.5           18.2       11.8
Professional Services            1.7         1.7            1.7        1.1
Training                         4.5         7.4            3.3        2.4
Expert services                  5.4         5.6            2.7        0.9
Baseline Cost                   92.8       172.7          148.5      109.Q
Physical Contingencics          10 3        20.4           12.8          0
Price Contingencies             40.2        77.5           53.1          0
Total Project Cost             143.32 275.6               214.4      109.Q
a Bank loan                       47          25*            40         40
Loan Amount                       60          l  **7                    44
*  The unit cost was estimated at US$122 per sq m in the Yellow and Green
Cover Staff Appraisal Reports and was increased to US$130 per sq m in the
Buff Cover.
** A covering memorandum to the Loan Committee recommended that the loan
amount be increased to US$100 million or 43% of the total project cost and
it was approved.



THAIIAI
SIH EDUCATION PROJECT (IDAN 2178-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
June 1988
Ninistry of Education
Bangkok, Thailand



- 3 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILU
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 2178-TH)
I.  INTRODUCTION AND PROJECT BACKGR.Q
A. Introduction
1.01     This Project Completion Report of Thailand Sixth (Secondary)
Education Project (Loan 2178-TH) was prepared by a Subcommittee set up by
the Steering Committee which was appointed by the Cabinet to oversee the
implementation of all ongoing education projects under credit/loan funds.
The member ship and terms of reference of the Subcommittee appear in Annex
1.
1.02     The work of the Sub-Committee commenced in July 1987 with general
meetings to study the Guidelines for Preparing Educational Project
Completion Reports.   Ideas were developed on the report outline and con-
tents, the formation of working groups on sub-projects, data gathering,
procedures for report writing on each sub-project and submission of reports
for preparation of the main report by the CPU staff.
1.03     The sub-project working groups were assigned the task of develop-
ing instruments for data collection, where necessary, collecting data and
studying relevant documents, analyzing collected information, and writing a
report on their respective part of the project as guided by the table of
contents already agreed upon.
1.04     Most of the sub-project reports were completed by the middle of
February 1988, but some parts were not submitted until mid-April.   The
Vice-Chairman of the Sub-Committee (Dr. Sen Keoyote), assisted by a Sub-
Committee member (Mr. H.N. van Cuylenburg - Project Adviser) put the report
together in its final form by modifying some parts for clarity and consis-
tency of expressions. The key staff of CPU (Mrs. Valairat Sukawong - Chief
of Civil Works Section' Miss Laddawan Smitamana - Chief of Technical
Assistance Section; Dr. Direk Namfar - Procurement Officer) as well as many
other CPU staff members also assisted in verifying, rectifying and revising
the information and statements supplied by the sub-projects.   Several
informal meatings were carried out with representatives of the sub-projects
to refine and confirm information as well as to secure additional informa-
tion as necessary.
1.05     The consolidated report was finalized by the Sub-Committee at its
meeting on June 15, 1988 and was later endorsed by the Steering Committee
for Education Development Projects at its meeting on June 28, 1988.



- 4 -
B.  -rogect Backzrgund anid C onuitiga
The Socio-Economic Setting
1.06     Thailand has a total area of 514,000 square kilometers divided
into four main geographical regions--the Central Plain, North, North-East
and South--incorporating twelve educational regions.   For details see
Annex 1.3.
1.07     The population is presently estimated at approximately 53 million,
mainly of the Thai ethnic group. There are also seve:al minority groups
including the Lao, Khmer, Mao, Karen, Malay and several hill tribes who
speak different dialects and languages.  The literacy rate in the 1980's
was close to 90%.
1.08     The table below compares basic socio-economic indicators taken at
the time of the formulation of the project in 1980 with those in 1986 at
the completion of the project.
BASIC SOCIO-ECONOMIC INDICATORS
1980              1986
Population
Total estimated (in millio s)              44.8              52.9
% of growth rate                            2.1               1.5
Economy
GNP per capita (in baht)                 6,127              7,011 La
GNP growth rate (% per annum)               5.4               3.3
Finance
Education and research expenditure
as % of total public expenditure         25.14             24.69 /a
as S of GNP                               3.30              3.22 L&
as of GDP                                 3.21              3.04 /A
Labor Force
Persons (in millions)                    26.3              27.6
I in agriculture                         66                64
L Estimated
Source: NESDB
1.09     The Fifth Year Development Plan (1982-1986) was in effect concur-
rently with the life of the project.  The Sixth Five Year Plan (October



1987 - September 1991) came into effect as the project closed. There was
one devaluation of the baht during the life of the project.   This took
place In 19P4 and had a significant affect on the financial aspects of the
project.
C. The Education Sector Setting at the Time of the Project Formulation
O-verview
1.10     In the decade of the 1970's Thailand rapidly expanded its educa-
tion system and in 1980 primary enrollment had reached 7.4 million, repre-
senting about 970 of the age group 7-12 years.   Other enrollment ratios
were 39% at the lower secondary level, 9% at the upper secondary level and
3.6% for higher education. The literacy rate in 1980 was about 85% (com-
pared with about 50% in the mid 1950's).
(a) Structurg
1.11     In 1978 following the new national education scheme initiated
under the Fourth Development Plar. (1977-1981) the structure of the formal
education system was changed as follows:
Years of Schooling-by Level
Primary    Secondary    Tertiary
Lower   Upper
Old system (through 1977)                      7        3      2/3     4 to 6
New o-,.tem (from 1978)                        6        3        3     4 to 6
Implementation of the change was completed in 1983.   The new structure
provided for a better integration of the schooling prices between the first
two levels of education (viz. primary and secondary) and within each level.
The main characteristics of the new system are:
(a)   The adjustment of compulsory primary education from seven to six
years as step towards a more realistic basic education cycle.
(b)   The structure has greater flexibility as students may enter or
leave the formal school system at various points, and may benefit
from equivalency provisions in nonformal education which would
count towards their graduation.
(c)   The lower secondary program includes work experience or orienta-
tion through exposure to practical skills.



- 6 -
(d)   The upper secondary program allows students to learn practical
skills for employment when they leave school, or for further
studies at the tertiary level. As part of the program to better
prepare students for local life, secondary schooling was re-
oriented from a sole preoccupation with preparation for employ-
ment. This has been attempted by the introduction in 1978 of a
new diversified secondary curriculum which supplements traditional
academic subjects with occupational subjects including work educa-
tion. There are seven distinctive features in the new curriculum.
(i)  Cognitive subjects are integrated into five inter-related
areas of study--language, science and mathematics, social
studies, character development and work education.
(ii) Literacy in Thai has primary emphasis since studying a
foreign language is not longer compulsory.
(iii) The curriculum is terminal for both lower and upper secondary
education.
(iv) The teaching learning process is flexible and students are
allowed and encouraged to fulfill their course requirements
in practical subjects in vocational and skill tr-aining
centers or through supervised home projects that make greater
use of local materials and resources.
(v)  The content of employment education is localized because it
is increasingly designed at the refional level.
(vi) Greater guidance is provided for students to select subjects
that are most consistent with their aptitudes and chances of
post graduation employment.
(vii) Evaluation or examination is internal to each school based on
the principle that those who evaluate should be those who
teach.
(viii) Evaluation or examination is internal to each school based on
the principle that those who evaluate should be those who
teach.
The new curriculum will be refined through continuous evaluation to improve
the efficiency _f secondary education.
(b) Administratio
1.12     Responsibilities for education administration and planning are
shared among several central government agencies. Educational administra-
tion of primary, secondary, and post secondary (non-university) education
imiluding teacher training, is under t.he Ministry of Education. Non-formal
education is administered primarily by the Department of Non-formal
Education in the Ministry of Agriculture, Interior and Public Health also
administer out-of-school programs.   The Government also loosely controls
private educiAtion which forms an important part of the Thai education



system and accounts for about 10% of primary, 20% of secondary, and 10% of
higher education enrollments. The Ministry of University Affairs oversees
government universities and private colleges. For supervisory purposes the
Ministry of Education has grouped the country's 72 provinces into 12
regions with offices in each region.
(c) Finance
1.13     Public education is supported almost entirely by the central
government. Tuition fees are levied at the secondary and tertiary levels,
and, although they are a significant source of funds, they cover only a
fraction of the total recurrent expenditure.   The share of tho central
government budget allocated for education grew from 16% in 1970 to 20% in
1980, and over the same period total education expenditure decreased it
share in GDP from 3.21% to 3.04%.   In the primary and secondary levels
expenditure appears unbalanced in the allocations by category and by
region.   Nearly 90% of total expenditure is recurrent and about 96% of
recurrent expenditure is allocated to salaries and related benefits and
less than 3% to materials. Expenditure per students is significantly lower
for the North and North East regions than for the Central and South
regions.
Issues in Secondary Education
1.14     In view of the rapid social and economic changes taking place in
Thailand the Government has decided on accelerated and universal improve-
ments in secondary education. Enrollments in secondary education expanded
rapidly during the 1970's from about 600,000 in 1972 to about 1.3 million
in 1980.   To successfully cope with this continued expansion under the
Fifth Five Year Plan substantial changes became necessary in the secondary
education sector to improve the education system's performance relating to
access, relevance, quality and efficiency.
1.15     Regional disparities in participation rates effect persisting
imbalances in access to secondary education, the most undeserved areas
being the north and northeast regions. On the national basis the quality
of education has been depressed by the shortage of specialized teachers in
science and work education subjects, inadequate textbooks, ineffective
teaching methods and inadequate supervision as well as a shortage of physi-
cal facilities.
(a) Access
1.16     Access to lower secondary education is an important issue both in
absolute terms and in terms of regional disparities.   Because of the
rapidly rising primary enrollments and a slower expansion of secondary
schools places in recent years, coupled with social and economic reasons,
the transition rate from primary to secondary gradually fell between 1978
and 1980.   Intake in grade 7 was also held down in the same period to
accommodate the enrollment bulge cause by the transition from the old to
the new secondary cycle and total lower secondary enrollments. The latter
actually decreased in 1981 but were expected to rise again.   Under the
Fifth Plan the targeted participation rate in public lower secondary
schools would increase from 30% in 1980 to 41% in 1986.  When expected



- 8 -
enrollments in private schools are included the participation rate would
rise from 39% in 1980 to 46% in 1986. Based on primary enrollment projec-
tions, the transition rate to lower secondary would reach 55% in 1986.
1.17     Although regional disparity in secondary enrollments had been
narrowed significantly from 1973 to 1908, considerable imbalances remained
in participation rates between and within regions. While overall disparity
was reduced by about 60% between 1973 and 1980, the country's north and
northeast region generally, and Yala province in the South, particularly,
lagged behind the rest of. the country.
1.18     Access disparity was also evident within differew- administrative
levels, especially in remote areas farther away from existing district or
tambon secondary schools. Thus the Fifth Five Year Plan placed high prio-
rity on improving access to secondary education in the most disadvantaged
areas.
(b) Facilitigs
1.19     The quality of rural secondary schools facilities, particularly
those limited to the lower cycle, tended to be much lower than the larger
urban schools. They often consisted of a small permanent building to which
the villagers had added temporary structures using locel materials.   As
these schools lacked basic equ .pment and resource materials, it was diffi-
cult to offset the social and economic factors that already discourage well
qualified teachers from teaching in these schools and thus the teachers'
potential was wasted.   The absence of workshops particularly impeded the
teaching of work education subjects which were a new element introduced to
the students for better occupational opportunities after graduation. Many
students from better off rural families bypassed the small school in their
own locality to gain admission to the larger schools providing both lower
and upper secondary levels which are concentrated in Bangkok and the larger
towns. This is the braindrain phenomenon long in existence due to a high
value placed on the performance of the latter schools in preparing their
students for college and university education.
1.20     With the aim of improving secondary education facilities DGE and
NEC (the latter with funds from the Fifth Education Project) have carried
out a school mapping exercise covering all secondary schools, and a compre-
hensive information system is being established for planning the develop-
ment of the secondary school system. A range of school models based on
standard numbers of classes and related to catchment areas and numbers of
feeder schools has been developed. The school models are of three kinds:
4-4-4, 6-6-6 and 8-8-8, depending on whether they have 4, 6 or 8 classes in
each grade. Schools are to be improved in accordance with these models to
a minimum standard of 12, 18 or 24 classes. The maximum class size would
be 45.   Thus to widen access, rural lower secondary schools should be
upgraded to the standard of the appropriate above model and provided with
adequate equipment and teaching-learning materials. To attract sufficient
qualified teachers to rural schools, improved incentives should be provided
to teachers to teach in rural areas.



- 9-
(¢) Relevance and Ouality
1.21     The 1978 diversified secondary curriculum with its work orienta-
tion is meant to provide a more relevant education to the majority of
students than the previous one which stressed academic subjects and pre-
pared students for higher education. The new curriculum provides a struc-
tural readjustment in that a number of core courses in work/occupation
education are compulsory for all students, beyond which electives are
available to those who have the potential. However, the implementation of
the new curriculum has been hampered by two main issues which also adverse-
ly affect the quality of education:
(a)   inadequate preparation of teachers to teach the new curriculum;
and
(b)   insufficient provision of materials, equipment and physical faci-
lities in support, particularly in the smaller secondary schools
in rural areas.
1.22     The decision to implement the new curriculum in 1978 posed a time
and financial constraint on the preparation of teachers for the changes in
education orientation and the introduction of new subjects in work educa-
tion.   The new curriculum which provides for compulsory and elective
subjects is organized into five integrated areas:  language, science and
mathematics, social studies, character development and work education.
Study of a foreign language is no longer mandatory. The introduction of
work education as a compulsory subject provides students an opportunity to
learn basic living skills and exposes them to a broader range of subjects
and skills on which to base their electives in line with future choice of a
career.   There is also a provision for greater emphasis on guidance in
relation to the choice of elective subjects.
1.23     The overall responsibility for curriculum development rests with
the Department of Curriculum and Instruction Development (DCID) which is
also responsible for the planning and preparation of procedures and
materials for the in-service training of teachers to implement the curricu-
lum, although the training proper is conducted by the departments that have
jurisdiction over the schools. The Institute for the Promotion of Teaching
Science and Technology (IPTST) has special responsibility for science
curricula.   Budgetary and time constraints dictated the adoption of the
"echo" system of in-service teacher training to implement the new curri-
culum.   On the initiative of DCID and IPTST, courses were organized in
their respective subject areas for secondary school supervisors and other
key staff in the regional education offices, and for teacher training
college tutors.  These people then became responsible for training leader
teachers from the school cluster, who in turn trained other teachers within
the school cluster.  This compromised plan called the echo system was to
train all subject teachers for a particular grade in the year prior to the
introduction of the new curriculum in that grade.  The system, of neces-
sity, precluded a number of teachers waiting to be re-trained, and by the
time the new curriculum was introduced in all lower secondary grades by
1981 some 30% of lower secondary science and mathematics teachers had not
received training. A more serious problem related to the training of work
education teachers.   There exists a shortage of specialized teachers to



- 10 -
teach work education in all schools.   However, thee subject content is
sufficiently basic and simple for general subjects teachers to teach work
education subjects after appropriate in-service training. Running parallel
with inadequately prepared teachers, there existed an insufficiency of
instructional materials, classroom equipment and facilities and supervisory
support for teachers through the regional education offices. New textbooks
were produced but not all students could afford to buy them, and most
school libraries were poorly stocked. Most schools lacked general equip-
ment as well as the specialized facilities or equipment for teaching work
education and prevocational subjects.   To improve relevance and quality
there is, therefore, a need for the provision of appropriate instructional
materials, equipment and facilities, and adequately trained teachers.
(d) Internal Efficiency and Teacher Utilization
1.24     While the internal efficiency of lower secondary education in
Thailand is high, as indicated by high transition rates (averaging 97%) of
students progressing from one grade level to the next, the teacher utiliza-
tion rate in classroom teaching is low.  Typical lower secondary schools
timetables for teachers reveal an average teacher has a formal teaching
load 16 teaching periods or 13 hours out of a maximum of 24 periods or 20
hours per week, with a good number of hours for numerous other out-of-class
activities which, under the circumstances, are not facilitated by suffi-
cient clerical staff. The low average teaching load is reflected in the
low teacher-student ratio of 1:18 in 1980 compared with 1.22 in 1976 and a
class-teacher ratio of 1:2.2 in 1980 compared with 1:1.9 in 1976, despite
the fact that the average class size has remained at over 40 students.
This issue was highlighted in 1975 in the Project Completion Report on
Thailand's first education project tw4er Loan 471-TH and in comparison with
other countries in the area Thailand has the lowest teacher-student ratio.
Management Constraints
1.25     The matter of competent planning and management in education is
one that requires immediate, and continued, attention. The main issue in
the education sector as a whole is the inefficient allocation and utiliza-
tion of resources.   Generally, short term budgetary considerations take
precedence over long term objectives and broad development policies. Apart
from the MOE, other agencies involved are NEC.   NESDB and the Budget
Bureau. The management structure lacks a strong central agency to direct
and coordinate educational planning and administration within the MOE and
between the MOE and other ministries.   Competent management of scarce
resources requires a better integrated system of planning, monitoring and
evaluation. The fragmented responsibilities for management of the sector
have resulted in weak articulation of planning activities of the different
departments of HOE and ineffective allocation of resources between sub-
sectors and between projects.   The uneconomic utilization of teachers is
one example of the ineffective allocation of resources. Additionally the
functions and staffing of the key agencies involved with education and
manpower planning need to be oriented towards more effective planning and
management of human resources.



- 11 -
(a) Central Planning and Management
1.26     One of the major discernible drawbacks in the planning system is
the lack of effective annual planning which serves to bridge long term
planning and annual budgeting.   This may be explained by the absence of
both a comprehensive management information system and of continuous
sectoral planning to provide the operational framework for setting priori-
ties and targets, outlining strategies and programs, and guiding project
planning and thdgeting.
1.27     The weakness in planning and budgeting is not specific to educa-
tion alone.   In fact, it is a major problem that permeates the entire
government bureaucracy. All departments are allowed very high autonomy in
planning, budgeting and decision-making, and thus the drawbacks in the
Office of the Permanent Secretary are to be interpreted in the context of
the overall system. In NOE the weakness in planning and budgeting stems
not only from this problem, but also from the fact that the MOE's educa-
tional responsibilities have outgrown the capabilities of its central
planning agency--the Education Planning Division--which as consequently
suffered a loss of influence and effectiveness, let alone assuming a key
role in formulating sectoral plans and policies, and coordinating the deve-
lopment plans and programs of the various departments. As these depart-
ments have their own separate planning units, they are liable to bypass the
Planning Division where possible, dealing directly with such agencies as
NEC and the Budget Bureau.
1.28     Fragmentation of management responsibilities also makes effective
overall administration and planning difficult.   Responsibility for a
particular subsector is often shared by different departments.    As the
existing structure does not allow the Education Planning Division an
adequate degree of authority, there is practically no coordination between
and within various educational levels. The lack of manpower planning is
reflected in the failure to articulate formal and nonformal vocational/
technical skill training.
1.29     The National Education Commission has a policy formulating brief
with a responsibility for the review and evaluation of the education system
at all levels, but it has no control of the Ministry of Education depart-
ments. Policy is formally enunciated in the Five Year Plan, prepared from
inputs form NOE, NEC and NESDB but the fragmented planning system is not
conducive to a comprehensive translation of national education policy into
viable programs and projects. The weakness in planing is compounded by the
lack of a reliable national data base for systematic analysis of sector
issues.
1.30     To ease off the Government's overall problem in educational and
manpower planning and policy formulation and advance the goal of an inte-
grated planning system, the planning agencies of the MOE, NEC and NESDB
need to be strengthened by staff development programs and, in the case of
NOE, by organizational restructuring as well. NEC should be assigned the
responsibility for interministerial coordination in the context of the
national social and economic planning.



-12 -
(b) Regional Nanag2m M
1.31     Each of the 12 educational regions has a regional education office
(REO) responsible directly to the office of the Permanent Secretary of
State for Education in MOE. The REO's have four main functions:
(a)   Coordination of activities by institutions and agencies at
regional level under the MOE and other ministries relating to
education, culture and community development matters and general
guidance of educational development in line with official
policies.
(b)   Supervision of vocational physical and general (academic) educa-
tion, provision of in-service teacher training and implementation
of technical jobs initiated by the REO's themselves or delegated
by departments of MOE.
(c)   Production and distribution of teaching-learning materials.
(d)   Research and evaluation.
1.32     The main issue in regior,al management is the inability of the
REO's to maintain efficiency and carry out their diverse functions due to
inadequacy in staffing,  facilities, equipment and budgeting.   As the
Regional Education Offices are not an intermediate administrative body,
their coordinating power is limited by the MOE's centralized decision-
making process. Central level weaknesses in coordination are reflected at
regional levels. In-service teacher training suffers from a lack of funds
and staff, made more acute by the demands of new secondary education
especially in technical subjects.   School supervision is restricted by
inadequate budgeting for school visits. The effectiveness of supervisors
is vitiated by unrealistic demands which require them to be in-service
teacher trainers, produce instructional materials and at the same time
carry out research.
1.33     Their multiple responsibilities are not conducive to the develop-
ment of expertise in particular fields.  Clearly, the functions and res-
ponsibilities of the REO's need to be rationalized and their effectiveness
improved by providing them with adequate equipment and the appropriate
resources for staff development. In this manner, the REO's as research and
development centers should be able to function more effecti7ely given the
administrative and coordinating constraints as outlined above.
(c) Provincial Management
1.34     The main issue in provincial management is the fragmentation of
management responsibilities arising from the lack of staff trained in
planning and the absence of an integrated planning system. In theory the
provincial education offices represent the Office of the Permanent
Secretary of State for Education and should serve as coordinating agencies
for all MOE departments at the provincial level.   In practice, however,
individual provincial offices and educational institutions report directly
to their home MOE departments.   Without effective horizontal linkages
between provincial agencies, there is a lack of coordination in the provin-
cial management of education.   There is also a shortage of trained and



- 13 -
experienced planning staff in the PEO's which has resulted in poor coordi-
nation and integration of provincial educational and manpower planning and
a failure to bridge the gap between local and national education planning
and management.  To strengthen provincial management, there should be a
staff development program in planning and management and the introduction
of a system of educational planning to serve as a mechanism thtt would
articulate provincial and national planning as well as integrate the
planning activities of the provincial offices.
Government Plans and Strategy for Secondary Education Development
1.35     Consistent with the objectives to widen opportunities and improve
quality, relevance and efficiency in schooling, as well as to improve and
maximize efficiency in educational management, the government plans to
increase the participation rate in lower secondary education from 39% in
1980 to 46% in 1986, a iorresponding rise in enrollments from 1.3 million
in 1980 to 1.7 million in 1986.  To achieve this the government plans to
meet all requirements to accommodate a projected expansion of about 400,000
places by providing new facilities and replacing 50% of temporary places
which are due to replacement. Improvement in relevance and quality would
be achieved by providing workshops, laboratories and other facilities
together with adequate equipment and teaching materials for teaching work
education as well as general subjects.   Teaching skills will alsc be
upgraded through in-service teacher training.   To improve efficiency in
educational management the government plans to introduce organizational
changes in selected central and regional planning of management agencies in
step with projected staff development in planning and management skills.
1.36     Proiect Generation.   Five previous World Bank loans/credits have
been made to the education sector in Thailand, totalling US$103.5 million.
In August 1980 the Royal Thai Government submitted a "Proposal for
Educational Development:   A Request to the World Bank for the Sixth
Education Proj4ect." This proposal was prepared with the assistance of a
UNESCO team headed by Dr. S. Syrimis. The World Bank commenced appraising
the project in April/May 1981, but it was not until May 1982 that the
appraisal report was finally completed. The original proposal was found to
be over-ambitious and, in line with Thailand's economic situation, there
were several curtailments and omissions, entailing a number of bank
missions and resulting in the project being cut down to two components.
One for secondary education and one for Education Planning and Management.
Negotiations between the Royal Thai Government and the World Bank took
place in Washington, D.C. from 3rd to 7th May and the Loan Agreement
No. 217S-TH was signed on 26th July 1982, the date of effectiveness being
26th October 1982.
1.37     Prolect Descrintion.  The education system is characterized by an
overly academic bias, regional disparities in opportunities for education,
ineffi'.ient teacher utilization, and ineffective educational and manpower
planning. The project would address these weaknesses by pursuing two broad
objectives:
(a)   to improve the lower secondary education performance in disadvan-
taged areas relating to access, relevance, quality and efficiency
by (i) providing new and renovated classrooms, new workshops,



- 14 -
laboratories, materials, in-service staff training and technical
assistance; and (ii) improving teacher utilization through an
increase in the average weekly teaching periods; and
(b)   to strengthen the national capacity of education and manpower
planning and management by:  (i) introducing systematic improve-
ments in the central planning agency of MOE; and (ii) providing
technical asslstance, training, equipment and materials, to the
central, regional and provincial planning agencies of MOE, NEC and
NESDB.
The project would involve MOE, NEC and NESDB and would provide (a) improved
facilities to about 480 lower secondary schools with a maximum capaclty of
about 335,000 students places and (b) local and overseas staff training for
about 1,430 persons.
Pr-oject Items
1.38     Secondary Schools.  This project would address the access, rele-
vance, quality and efficiency issues in secondary education through general
upgrading of selected secondary schools, furthering the implementation of
the diversified curriculum, improving the professional competencies of
teaching and non-teaching staff in the project schools and improving
teacher utilization.
1.39     Improvement of Facilities.   To improve quality and access in
secondary education.   Four hundred and eighty relatively disadvantaged
lower secondary schools in rural areas have been se'.ected under an agreed
criteria.   Under the project the 480 schools would be provided with new
classrooms, if required to replace existing temporary facilities or to meet
projected enrollment requirements, as well as workshops, laboratories, and
other facilities to enable the introduction of the new diversified curri-
culum. Equipment and furniture as necessary would also be provided.
1.40     Teaching Programs.  Following the upgrading of facilities it would
be possible for all project schools to follow the new lower secondary
curriculum comprising both compulsory subjects and electives. Work educa-
tion would be a compulsory subject and would emphasize practice rather than
theory. The syllabus would be adapted to the needs of the students and the
community and would take advantage of agricultural activities and nonfarm-
ing enterprises in the surrounding area to provide students with opportuni-
ties for field work.
1.41     In-Service Staff Training.   To improve the quality of teaching,
some 3,720 teachers and administrators would be provided in-service
training.   Part-time community teachers would also be recruited to teach
specific skills as has successfully been done in the operation of Interest
groups" courses for out of school population by the Non-Formal Education
Department. Additionally 540 staff would be provided with training in the
maintenance and repair of equipment, and 3,160 non-teaching staff including
principals, librarians, school counsellors, etc., would be provided with
short course training in their specific areas of responsibility.
1.42     Teacher Utilization.   Poor teacher utilization at the secondary
school level adds significantly to educational costs. The government plans



- 15 -
to improve teacher utilization by increasing the average weekly teaching
periods from the current 16 per week (13-1/2 hours) to 18 per week (15
hours).
1.43     Planning and Mnagement.  This project component would improve the
government's overall capacity for educational and manpower planning and
help develop an integrated planning system i- which there would be effec-
tive coordination of departmental and ministerial planning and policy
formulation within and between the MOE, NEC and KESDB.   It would also
strengthen the linkages between central, regional and provincial planning
and management agencies.
1.44     Central and Provincial Staff Development.  The objective of this
component is to develop an integrated planning system that would coordinate
the management of resources at ministerial level as well as between central
and provincial planning units. NEC would have the responsibility for over-
seeing and coordinating interministerial planning. MOE would restructure
and strengthen the Division of Education Planning to enable it to formulate
sectoral plans and policies and coordinate development plans of the MOE
departments. A study would be undertaken to clarify the planning functions
of, and relationship between, the NEC, NESDB and the MOE's Division of
Education Planning. To strengthen staff expertise in planning and manage-
ment, training would be provided for the MOE's Division of Education
Planning, departmental planning units, ONPEC, CPU, the provincial planning
units of MOE, NEC and the Human Resources Planning and Social Projects
Divisions of NESDB.   This training would comprise overseas and local
fellowships for short courses as well as higher degree studies in manpower
and educational planning. There would also be local staff training in the
form of workshops and seminars.
1.45     Regional Management.   This component would provide technical
assistance and training to help rationalize the management and organization
of REO as well as to improve capabilities in school supervision, curriculum
research, and instructional materials development.   REO's in four major
geographical regions would be strengthened viz Region 3 (Songkhla - South),
Region 6 (Lopburi - central) Region 7 (Pitsanulok - north) and Region 11
(Nakorn Ratchasima - Northeast).
Studies and Evaluation
1.46     Studies.   Three major areas have been identified for priority
studies--vocational and technical education and manpower needs, teacher
training, and educational planning. Provision has been made for additional
studies.
1.47     Evaluation.  NEC would undertake separate mid-term and final
evaluation of all project components.
Project Management
1.48     The Central Project Unit, a full time body with a divisional
status created in the Office of the Permanent Secretary for Education,
assumed responsibility for overall coordination between the project compo-
nents and also for liaison with the World Bank. The Department of General



- 16 -
Education was directly responsible for implementing the lower secondary
schools component of the project and the Office of the Permanent Secretary
for Education; the National Education Commission and the National Economic
and Social Development Board were responsible for implementing their
respective staff development programs under the planning and management
component.
1.49     The Central Project Unit.   The Central Project Unit has four
sections staffed and equipped to perform their respective functions as
follows:
The Civil Works Section provides professional services pertaining
to civil works and furniture including review of sketch plans,
working drawings and tender documents; advice and monitoring of
bid advertisements technical evaluation of bids; assistance in
preparation of furniture lists; advice on selection and contract-
ing of professional services and contractors; and monitoring the
performance of consultants and contractors.
The Eduipment Procurement Section provides professional services
including: collection of catalogues and price lists; assistance
in the preparation of equipment lists; preparation of specifica-
tions and tender documents; advice on, and monitoring of, bid
advertisements; evaluation of bids; drafting of contracts for
manufacturing, storage and delivery of equipment; and monitoring
of performance of suppliers and contractors.
The Technical Assisstnce Section assists in drafting terms of
reference for foreign and local experts, and helps to racruit
suitable experts or to contact organizations that can provide
specialist services for the project.  The section also helps to
define selection criteria for awarding fellowships and selecting
institutions or agencies for in-country or overseas training.
The Accountancy Section monitors and reviews applications for
withdrawals from loans and credits. The section also assists in
the preparation and finalization of the project quarterly progress
reports and provides summaries and statistics thereon to the World
Bank.
1.50     The Office of Special Projects, a task force unit created within
the Department of General Education, was given the responsibility of imple-
menting the LSS project. The organization of the unit is as described on
page 2-3.  The Unit is headed by a Project Director assisted by a deputy
director.
1.51     flganij and Management.  The Office of the Permanent Secretary
for Education, the National Education Commission, and the National Economic
and Social Development Board each set up project implementation units to
take responsibility for implementing their particular project component.



- 17 -
Annex 1-1
Membership and Terms of Reference
Sub-Committee on Project Completion Report for
Sixth Education Project
Membership
Chairman           Dr. Ekavidya Na Thalang          Deputy Permanent
Secretary
Vice Chairman      Dr. Sen Keoyote                  CPU Director
Members            Dr. Sawat Udompoch               LSS Project Director
Mr. Visit Boonyakesanond        P&M, NESDB Project
Director
Mr. Sawaeng Pinmanee            Educational Policy and
Planning Division, NEC
Dr. Boonlue Tongyoo             P&M, MOE Ptoject
Director
Mr. Pasop Sribura               REO Staff
Mr. H. N. van Cuylenburg        CPU Project Advisor
Secretary          Miss Laddavan Smitamana          CPU Chief of T.A.
Asst. Secretary    Mrs. Valairat Sukawong           CPU Chief of C.U.
Terms of Reference
To prepare a Project Completion Report on Thailand Sixth Education
Project for endorsement by the Cabinet appointed Steering Committee on
Educational Development Projects prior to submission to the World Bank.



- 18 -
Anmex1-
List of Workina Groups ¢n Sub-Projects
Lower Secondary Schools
Dr. Sawat Udompoch
Mrs. Jitsai Padungrat
Mrs. Yupin Sinturawet
Mrs. Payao Buachan
Mr. Sumon Intarakosit
Mrs. Tussanee Rochananond
Plannlng and Nanagement - NEC
Mrs. Oranooch Cooparat
Miss Pannee Peerapornratana
Plannrng and Management - NBSDB
Mrs. Vannao Bulsuk
Miss Yanee Soonthornthum
Planning and Management - MOE
Miss Ubol Banharnsupawat
Mr. Chatarat Kotkam
Planning and Management - REO
Mr. Pasop Sribura
Studies
Mr. Wirol Taoklam
Mrs. Lakhana Ratanarat
Miss Sunante Sangthong
CPU Staff
Dr. Sen Keoyote
Mr. H.N. van Cuylenburg
Miss Laddavan Smitamana
Mrs. Valairat Sukawong
Mr. Direk Namfar
Mrs. Thanongj it Thiemjan
Mrs. Weena Thanetchaiyakupt
Miss Sureerat Tangyarit
Mr. Samrerng Somthai



- 19 -
II. LOWER SECONDARY SCHOOLS (LSS)
IntrogductLon
2.01     Scope of the Project.   The Lower Secondary Schools Project was
implemented by the Department of General Education betwee.i fiscal years
1983 to 1987 with the main purpose of expanding the community development
school concept to cover a further 480 secondary schools across the country
after completion of the 42 rural secondary schocls in the Community
Secondary Schools Project between the fiscal years 1980 to 1984.
2.02     The LSS Project was designed to improve the lower secondary educa-
tion performance in disadvantaged areas relating to access, relevance,
quality and efficiency. Subsumed utnder this objective wi.s to find a suit-
able model for the community secondary school that would not only improve
the educational delivery system at this level but would also cater to the
economic and social development needs of the local community.  On the one
hand, general upgrading of selected secondary schools to promote equality
of educational opportunity for the rural population would be accompanied by
furthering the implementation of the diversified curriculum suitable for
the rural setting, improving the professional competencies of the school
staff and improving teacher utilization.  On tbe other hand, the communiiy
secondary school should also be equipped to efficiently serve the community
in which it is located by enabling the rural population to benefit from the
educational programs organized by the school.  In this context the school
would provide the kind of learning useful for, and applicable to, daily
life especially for those who are out of school.
2.03     The LSS Project included 480 lower secondary schools (see Annex 2-
2 for locations, also Annex 1-3, Chapter I) and its specific objectives
included the provision of (1) new and renovated classrooms, new workshops
and laboratories; (2) educational materials and equipment; and (3) in-
service staff training. Unlike previous educational projects, the project
scope did not spell out the names of the schools but provided a set of
criteria for their selection. These were intended to guide the project at
the planning stage prior to project implementation when designation of the
schools would be in order, meaning also that schools already designated for
inclusion in the project could be replaced by others during implementation
if the latter met such criteria.
2.04     Criteria for Selection of Proiect Schools.   The criteria for
project school selection were as follows:
(a)   the school would be located in one of the officially designated
rural poverty districts that have been accorded development prio-
rity under the Fifth Plan;
(b)   the school would be located in an area with a low transition rate
from P6 to Ml, but with a high potential for P6 feeders;



- 20 *
(c) the school would in academic year 1981 have had a minimum of 70
and a maximum of 400 students enrolled in Ml;
(d) the school would have a good access road and could be provided
with water and electricity; and
(e) the school would have a site large enough (generally about 35 rai
or 6 ha) to accommodate proposed construction while leaving spaces
adequate for outdoor activities.
2.05     Project ?unding.  The project was divided into two parts, namely:
Part A - Workshops to be funded out of the proceeds of the loan with
government counterpart funds, and Part B - Academic Facilities to be funded
entirely by government funds. While Part B covered classroom buildings and
furniture necessary to accommodate the planned enrollment, Part A covered
civil works for the workshops, equipment and materials, and technical
assistance, the details of which are covered in the subsequent parts of
this report.
2.06     The project implementation was generally divided into four phases,
each phase consisting of 120 schools. In general terms, the phases coin-
cided with the Thai fiscal years as follows:
Phase 1 1983
Phase 2 1984
Phase 3 1985
Phase 4 1986
2.07     Proiect Management.  The Department of General Education assigned
the Office of Special Projects (OSP), a task force, to take charge of the
project implementation.  The formal organizational structure for project
administration was as depicted in Chart 1.



- 21 -
Chart 1
Organization of Project AdJinistration
Sixth Education Project
(Ministry of Education)
.        Steering Committee
I                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II
. . ..._...........................................   --------------------------..... 
Lower                         |                    Planning and
Secondary Education                                         M Management
...... Loan Committee      I l
Office of                    Central                Other Agencies
Special Projects              Project Unit            (MOE, NEC, NESDB)
(Department of              (Office of the
General Educ)            Permanent Secretary)
Refer to Annex 2-1 for magnification of the relationship of the
OSP with concerned agencies.
The Office of Special Projects consisted of six sections, namely:
Secretary to the Office
Project Planning and Monitoring
Project Operation
Procurement and Contracting
Project Accounting
Architecture and Engineering
All six sections operated under the Project Director and Assistant Director.
The Office of Special Projects cooperated with all permanent divisions within
the Department of General Education such as Finance Division, Supplies and
Educational Materials Division, Supervisory Unit, Planning Division, Secondary
Education Division and Personnel Division.
The tasks of the Office of Special Projects included planning and
monitoring of project activities, selection of the engineering consultant,
coordination with the various committees set up for procurement of civil
works, goods and services, application for reimbursement, project accounting,
reporting on the achievements of the project and cooperation with outside
agencies.



- 22 -
2.08     As the LSS executing agency, the OSP also acted as secretariat to
the Sixth Educational Development Project Committee, the latter being in
charge of setting policies, approving project plans and giving advice on
project problems.   In carrying out its functions, the OSP liaised with
other DGE divisions, the Central Project Unit and other government
agencies.   At the ministerial level, there was a Steering Committee for
Education Development Projects responsible for monitoring, reviewing and
controlling project operation in accordance with the government policies
and the loan conditions.
Project Implementation
givil Works
2.09     Professional Services.  A private engineering consulting firm was
engaged to carry out the following tasks:
- Geographical and topographical study of the site;
- Suxvey of existing facilities;
- Soil testing;
- Suggestions on building modification, renovation and exten-
sion, and site development including estimation of costs; and
- Preparation of master plans, building drawings and detailed
drawings.
At the preparation stage, the project would comprise 600 schools and
professional services would be carried out in three phases of 200 schools
each. Prior to negotiations the number of project schools was reduced to
480 to be implemented in four phases, but the decision to cover 200 schools
in phase 1 professional services to meet a prerequisite prior to negotia-
tions was maintained, 24 of which were not included in a later decision.
Subsequent phases of professional services then covered 76, 116 and 112
schools respectively, making up a total of 504 schools. A prior agreement
was made with the Bank to utilize the Fourth Education Project funds
through retroactive funding to cover the cost of phases 1 and 2 profes-
sional services carried out in 1982 and 1983 respectively, thus making it
possible to get the project work started well in advance and avoid unneces-
sary delays.  Professional services for phases 3 and 4 in 1984 and 1985,
were paid entirely out of tne proceeds of the Sixth Education Project Loan.
The cost table in a later section differentiates between these two sources.
2.10     Experience irn the Fifth Education Project showed that facilities
planning by the project staff without school involvement was inadequate.
Therefore, a procedure was adopted whereby the project staff and the school
administrator would work together using the output of the engineering
consulting firm as a basis for the development of a preliminary sketch
plan, a layout plan and detailed specifications of utilities installation.
As for the latter, additional information was sought from the Department of
Mineral Resources pertaining to the characteristics and depth of under-
ground water such that a decision could be made on the suitable type of
installation and treatment. As for electricity, an arbitrary criterion was
used, that is, if the main was no further than 3 km from the site, then
installation would be put up immediately; or, in the case where the school
or the local power authority had a prior plan for electricity installation,
specification would be given up to the point where installation would be



- 23 -
connected. Otherwise, installation would be deferred until agreement could
be reached with the power authority, and, in the meantime, a small gene-
rator would be temporarily provided. Having all these criteria conformed
to, the OSP would then forward the preliminary sketch plan, layout plan and
detailed specifications of utilities installation to the consulting firm
for the final stage of their task, that is, preparation of master plans,
building and detailed drawings and development cost estimates.
2.11     Designs.  The Architectural and Engineering Section of the OSP was
responsible for designing classroom buildings and auxiliary facilities and
preparing sketch master plans and general site development plans of project
schools. As the prototype design of the forerunning 42 CSS schools in the
Fifth Education Project has proved suitable for this type of educational
institution, that is, a small school with some degree of diversification
for rural students and an additional task of community services, it was
adapted to the LSS school requirements. Thus, the design took into account
minimized costs, compatibility with middle level skilled technicians and
availability of local materials.   The design of workshops, again, was
adapted from the prototype in the CSS project. In the case of small-sized
and medium-sized schools with a 4-4-4 and 6-6-6 class plan, the general
shop was required whereas the unit shops design was adopted for larger
schools with an 8-8- class plan. Another consideration was the building
structure and details that had to suit local conditions and functionality.
For example, the RC roof beams were used in place of steel trusses to with-
stand salty atmosphere generally prevalent in coastal areas.
2.12     Construction.  Civil works of 480 LSS schools was carried out in
four phases each commencing in fiscal year 1983, 1984, 1985 and 1986 res-
pectively with each phase taking about 10 months.   The commencement and
completion of each phase is summarized as follows:
No of Pkgs         Latest
Phase   No of    No of       Contract           Completed        Completion
Schls    Pkgs        Duration       On Time      Late       Date
1     120       45     Aug 83 - Jun 84       31         14      Apr 85
2     120       49     Sep 84 - Jul 85       39         10      Jun 86
3     120       49     Sep 85 - Aug 86      45           4      Dec 86
4     120       55     Sep 86 - Aug 87       47          8      Oct 87
2.13     As the number of project schools was excessively large,  the
Department of General Education deemed it necessary to adopt the package
approach to construction contracting whereby the schools in the same pro-
vince were combined into one or two contracts, taking four as an arbitrary
maximum number. Another consideration was access highways that would guide
packaging, unless the number of schools was not in excess of four for which
case they would still be in the same package even through they were a long
distance apart.  The packaging approach had certain advantagas:  it made
the individual contracts large enough to attract wider competition, reduced
tie number of contracts to a more manageable size and facilitated supervi-
sion of construction. However, incidental costs might be higher because of



- 24 -
the many sites involved that necessitated travelling back and forth. It
might also pose a problem to the contractors themselves in synchronizing
activities and payments.
2.14     While tendering and contracting were conducted centrally at DGE,
construction supervision proper was carried out by the technical teacher of
each school specifically trained by OSP.   This was necessitated by the
large number of contracts which far exceeded the number of available civil
technicians.   The work acceptance committees also comprised local educa-
tional authorities of suitable capacities, such as the provincial education
officers, the directors of the provincial secondary schools who represented
the DGE on administrative matters, the principals of the LSS schools them-
selves, the technical teachers trainead as mentioned above, etc.   While
construction was underway, project architects and engineers would visit the
sites for periodic inspection and follow-up on construction progress. In
fact, each architect and engineer had overall responsibility for a number
of schools throughout the construction period to smooth out construction
work problems and conflicts that might arise from time to time.                         U
2.15     In the case of existing classroom buildings, those older than ten
years with wooden structure would be left intact and new buildings be p:t
up to accommodate enrollment expansion, while buildings less than 10 years
old, mostly with concrete structure, would be extended only when half-built
and warranted by future expansion. Repainting, fixing the gutters, provid-
ing ground floor RC slab and electrical installation were included in civil
works contracts whenever necessary and budget was available.
2.16     Problems Encountered.  Several month's delay in the first phase of
construction occurred in some schools due to floods, rejection of work due
to poor workmanship, and in some cases mismanagement by the contractors.
These latter two problems were related to low bid prices which averaged 25%
below estimates. The delay in consecutive phases was gradually minimized,
based on accumulated experience in the implementation of a project of this
size.
2.17     The quality of workmanship of phase 1 schools left much to be
desired as a result of the very low bid price mentioned above. Some con-
tractors declined to accept responsibility for their work within the one-
year guarantee period of the contracts necessitating court action against
them. Another problem commonly found among many schools located in remote
areas was the unavailability of electrical power supply. The excessively
high cost of providing physical facilities for extension of supply to the
school coupled with the monopoly by the Provincial Electrical Authority
made it rather difficult to get electricity installation on time, and thus
completion of civil works contracts was retarded in many schools.
2.18     It occurred that some contractors entered several contracts in the
same phase, making it difficult for them to mobilize resources, such as
skilled labor that was not available locally and construction materials
that needed adequate investment funds or an acceptable credit rating.
Under these circumstances, subcontracting was predominant thus resulting in
poor management and workmanship as well as nonacceptance of commitment to
the work during the guarantee period.   Other problems such as natural
hazards and extortion were minor but also had some effect on project
implementation.



- 25 -
Furiture
2.19     Desi&ns and Speclfications.   The designs and speeifications of
classroom, library, special room and workshop furniture were prepared by
the Architectural Section of the OSP with the approval of the Department of
General Education and the Budget Bureau. The price levels of the furniture
conformed to the norms set by the latter.
2.20     Procurement.  As furniture was not funded by proceeds of the loan,
the Department of General Education employed local tendering procedures in
its procurement.   As stipulated by the rules and regulations of the
Ministry of Finance on provincial budget procedures in force since 1981,
government funds were to be reallocated through the provincial authorities
to the individual schools to conduct their own procurement exercise, again
with the approval of the Budget Bureau.   This was carried out in fiscal
years 1984 through 1987 for the schools in Phases 1 through 4 respectively.
2.21     Problems Encountered.   A new approach in furniture procurement
resulted in a number of Interwoven problems which seldom existed in pre-
vious exercises where large, experienced and well-equipped firms were
contracted.   One of the main problems was the low standard price levels
which did not allow specification of better quality material and workman-
ship.   This was aggravated by the unavailability of technical skills of
local suppliers who entered into contracts with the individual schools, as
well as the restrictive nature of the drawings and specifications. More
often than not, the remoteness and/or sensitivity of the areas where some
schools were located discouraged wide participation of bidders resulting in
the acceptance of suppliers lacking in expertise and equipment.   The
suppliers' lack of understanding in the procurement procedures as well as
comprehension of the drawings led to naive violation of the rules and
regulations.   The schools themselves also lacked qualified personnel for
proper inspection and acceptance of the furniture supplied, while regular
and continuous assistance by the OSP was not always possible due to the
distances. A further problem occurred when the non-local supplier had to
transport the finished product to the school over long distances under a
poor transportation system which caused some damages. All these problems
led to one major issue, that is, the quality of workmanship and material of
the product. A side, consequential, issue was delays in the use of pro-
vided funds, any balance of which, by regulation, had to be carried over
into the next fiscal year, thus making it awkward and cumbersome for
reallocation again.
Eguipment
2.22     Eauipment List and Specifications.  Equipment lists and specifica-
tions for LSS schools were prepared by several "specifications committees"
of DGE by subject areas. This approach proved to be generally satisfac-
tory. The master list and the number of items by phase were as follows:



- 26 -
Number in                 Number
equipment list              provided
General science                             388                     382
Agriculture                                 140                      137
Clothing                                     64                     52
Food lab                                     44                     42
Academic subjects                           120                      1il
School Library                               48                     45 La
Office and audio visual                      56                     56
General home economics                       60                     58
General industrial arts                     652                     643
Unit industrial arts                        820                     807
Total                               2.L2a                      2.333
La    Excluding 24 library book and visual aid items the requirement of which
was not anticipated in the original equipment list and procured with
surplus funds.
2.23     Procurement.   Equipment procurement involved both international
competitive bidding and local bidding procedures. It was divided into four
phases each falling about one year after the commencement of each civil
works phase. The number and composition of packages were virtually the
same in all phases. Of all 2,392 items, about 97.5% were procured. Some
minor items such as plastic buckets, threading instruments and thimbles
were directly procured by the schools.
2.24     The commencement and completion of each phase is summarized as
follows:
COMMENCEMENT AND COMPLETION OF EQUIPMENT PROCUREMNTX
First contract     Last contract
Phase          No. of schools             signing date      delivery date
1                  120                September 84        August 85
2                  120                September 85        September 86
3                  120                June 86             August 87
4                  120                May 87              May 88
2.25     Problgms Encountered.   The highly debatable issue of quality
versus price often led to delays in finalizing decisions to contract for
various items of equipment and this was aggravated by difficulties in
coordinating committee meetings because of the widespread location of the
offices of committee members as well as the large number of committee



- 27 -
members in the various committees. A further issue was the inadequacy of
funds and personnel in the fields of delivery and installation which, in
effect, reflected inadequate priority given to the down stream stage of
equipment procurement for project schools. There were also a few isolated
cases of late delivery by suppliers which caused delay. In every phase of
procurement a few items had to be cancelled because production had been
discontinued.  One of the major factors in equipment procurement was the
unustally higher than estimated bid prices leading to the cancellation of
certain items.   This was attributable to the baht devaluation in 1984,
aggravated by the increasing foreign exchange rates since 1985. The latter
also caused cancellation of some small contracts requiring imported items
due to the lack of response from bidders.
Technical Assistance
2.26     Overseas Training.  The main purpose of overseas training was to
provide administrators cf the project institutions, supervisors and person-
nel involved in project implementation with the theory and practice of the
community school concept.   Experience from the Fifth Education Project
showed that the INNOTECH, an educational training arm of the SEAMEC,
performed well to serve this purpose. Therefore, the DGE decided to engage
the INNOTECH again as the executing agency   A total of 137 trainees
consisting of 102 LSS school admiristrators 24 supervisors, and 11 DGE
staff involved in the project were dispatche in 6 groups of 22-25 persons
each, to participate in the four weeks long training courses which
commenced in March 1983 and ended in August 1984. In the main, each train-
ing session required participants to carry out:
(a)   an intensive study of the community school concept, in the first
week;
(b)   case studies of specific community schools in the Philippines and
other countries, and field visits to schools operating on the
community school concept in provinces around Metro Manila, in the
second week;
(c)   a project-planning workshop to draw the framework for operating
the school along the community school concept, in the third week;
and
(d)   the critique, revision and finalization of the project plans
including the preparation of some management control tools, in the
fourth week.
2.27     Prior to commencement of each session, there was an orientation
period for the participants, which included the experiences of the previous
groups. The program was closely supervised by the Department. At the end
of each of the first four training sessions, one or two designated senior
officials of the DGE visited the training venue to follow-up on the course
and assess the immediate achievement of the participants. Their findings
and recommendations became useful to the operation of the program such as
in providing a Thai coordinator to assist participants who showed a lack of
language fluency.   For the fifth and sixth groups the visit by senior



- 28 -
officials from DGE was unnecessary as by that time the program was func-
tioning satisfactorily.  Annexes 2-3 and 2-4 summarize this program in a
table form.
2.28     After completion of the first two training programs, 27 selected
participants out of 44--15 principals, 8 regional supervisors and 4 depart-
mental staff--were assigned the task of preparing a reference for the
program which included topics on the community school concept;   its
planning, management, monitoring and evaluation; and strategies for change.
This reference prepared in the Thai language, was then used for the
preparation of prospective participants of consecutive INNOTECH courses and
by LSS school administrators who had no chance to go abroad. In seminars
for LSS school administrators that followed, the reference was used as a
basic text and the 27 participants as resource persons. Other participants
of the INNOTECH training program were also involved in similar seminars and
acted as resource persons for the school clusters to which they belonged.
The latter, in essence, provided a multiplying effect on secondary
-education in rural areas, thus providing an unexpected but desirable
outcome.
2.29     Local Training.   The project implemented a very extensive staff
development program through local training, part of which (less than 10%)
utilized government funds to cover unforeseen areas such as development of
a handbook for conmunity school administrators, furniture procurement in
accordance with newly issued guidelines and supervision of construction in
later phases.  Roughly speaking, three categories of staff were trained:
school administrators, school teachers and facilicators.   While the in-
service training courses to develop the first type of staff included annual
seminars for school administrators and academic assistants, the work
education teachers and music teachers were provided training in their
respective fields.   The training of 'facilitators" included equipment
maintenance, library services, guidance counselling, functions of community
resource persons, school and community coordination, regional supervisors'
roles in school coordination, and supervision of construction. Most of the
training courses were broadly phased in line with the phasing of
construction and equipment procurement.   The number of participants in
local training courses was 7,889 altogether, which included those school
administrators who attended the seminars that recurred annually. The DGE
assigned the OSP to take charge of school administrators training and the
Supervisory Unit the training of school librarians, counsellors, practical
arts teachers, school-community coordinators and local resource persons.
Annexes 2-5 and 2-6 summarize the local training program in a table form.
2.30     One characteristic of the program was functional training whereby
participants were taught how to teach and function properly in a community
school setting. This was employed as a short-range strategy to cope with
temporary shortages of subject teachers in rural schools.
2.31     Problems Encountered.  Overseas training was carried out according
to schedule witezout any obstacles.   Local training, on the other hand,
faced the difficulty of budgetary restrictions which made it necessary to
shorten the training period. For functional training of this nature, it
happened that some participants did not have a chance to teach because
newly recruited teachers arrived in time to take over the duty from them.
In the case of smaller schools, certain teachers were repeatedly sent out



- 29 -
for training in a number of courses because they happened to be the only
persons suitable for the many jobs under training. From the project imple-
mentation point of view, this became inefficient in that these teachers had
to share the responsibility with other teachers who did not have the train-
ing.   It was also common that many administrators and teachers were
transferred elsewhere, thus adversely affecting the instructional program
as well as the implementation of the community school concept. To minimize
this problem, the department tried to have them transferred among project
schools only, unless unavoidable.
Implementation Schedule
2.32     Overall Implementation School.   The prolect was intended to be
implemented over five years and three months following loan effectiveness
(October 1982) including twelve months of guarantee period, with a comple-
tion date of December 31, 1986 and a closing date of December 31, 1987.
According to project appraisal, the construction work per phase was
expected to commence as follows:
Phase 1: February 1983;
Phase 2: February 1984;
Phase 3:  November 1984; and
Phase 4: January 1986
each covering a construction period of 12 months.   It is worthy of note
that the master schedule anticipated one-shot contract for professional
services and allowed no time for tender document preparation prior to
tender proper, which will be mentioned again when delays are discussed.
Tenders and contract awards for supplementary furniture and equipment for
existing buildings would be in January-April 1983, and the balance phased
in conjunction with construction as above. Technical assistance, studies,
evaluation and monitoring would be phased over three to four years, 1983
through 1986. It is worth mentioning that the implementation schedule in
the Staff Appraisal Report (May 18, 1982) contained a number of elements
the scheduling of which was not practical. Therefore, the comparison would
be carried out on the basis of the activities breakdown described above
rather than the master appraisal implementation schedule.
2.33     Professional Services.  The first phase of professional services
commenced in April 1982 prior to loan negotiations and was completed in
December 1982, just two months after effective date (October 1982), made
possible by retroactive funding. The three consecutive phases were slight-
ly off schedule thus having some consequential effects on civil works
contracting.
2.34     Construction.  Following completion of the professional services
contract in each phase, the bidding documents for civil works packages were
prepared. This started with the process of producing the blueprints which,
due to their very large volume (30 sets of 50 packages), was in itself a
procurement exercise in the form of local competitive bidding, taking about
three months after completion of the prototype.  Normally it took about
four months from bid opening to commencement of construction, involving bid
evaluation, approval of contracts and approval by the Cabinet for carried-
over budget commitment.   Construction typically commenced in August/
September and was completed by July/August the following year. Despite the



- 30 -
notable uniformity of the commencement and completion of construction in
each phase for a project of this size, the overall picture showed a delay
of six months compared with the appraisal implementation schedule.  This
may be explained, in favor of the project implementation, that the
appraisal (yellow-cover) estimate did not allow time for the process of
producing the blueprints and packaging necessary for tendering procedures,
described above, as previously contained in the draft appraisal report.
See Annexes 2-7 and 2-8 for comparison. A further note can also be made of
the expected commencement date of the third phase which -v  not consistent
with the other phases in that it was scheduled to start three months
earlier than a suitable date.
2.35     Furniture.  Furniture procurement comnenced several months later
than scheduled dates due to budget arrangements and, to some extent, the
rather ambitious master schedule. While the average contract duration was
about four months, the staggered contract signing dates covered a span of
7-9 months as shown in Annex 2-7.   The majority of phase 4 contracts
terminated in January 1988 with the exception of two schools were the
termination was delayed to September 1988 due to the unavailability of
local suppliers as stated in section 2.12.
2.36     EcuiRment.  The process of equipment procurement commenced prior
to the loan effective date with the specifications preparation of all items
in the master list.   When the Department of General Education reviewed
these specifications, differences were found in the equipment standards
between project and non-project schools, prompting an attempt for standard-
ization of educational equipment for all secondary schools under the
department. It took another 15 months to prepare universal specifications
for both project and non-project schools, and as a result, the tendering
process of the first phase was deferred by about a year against the
original plan, and this had a chain effect on subsequent phases.   In
addition to this occurrence, the schedule was also slightly affected by
complaints from certain bidders, which resulted in late contract signing of
some packages.   The last phase of equipment procurement, as a matter of
course, could not be concluded until March 1988, with the procurement of
additional items (library materials and books) prolonged until May 1988.
Annex 2-7 provides an overview of the implementation of equipment procure-
ment under this project component.
2.37     Technical Assistance.  Overseas training was completed within the
first half of the life of the project and well within the original esti-
mate. Local training extended beyond the original schedule and this was
attributable to additional needs unforeseen during project preparation.
See Annex 2-7.



31-
Project Cos
2.38     Actual Expenditures.  Total expenditure for LSS was 2,726,060,901
baht equivalent to US$106,108,858.   This showed an underrun of 25.74%
against the appraisal estimate of US$142,897,000 Ig. Actual expenditures
by category were as follows:
Category                      Baht             US$        Exchange Rate
Professional Services            25,256,415       1,051,533  k    24.02
Civil Works                   2,135,892,628      83,412,579        25.61
Furniture                       248,418,813       9,412,878        26.39
Equipment                       293,108,335      11,281,728        25.98
Technical Assistance             23,384,710         950,140        24.61
Total                      2,7X6,060,901     106,108,858        25.69
@g    Excluding contingencies.
1,    Includes 14,350,000 baht - US$624,474 from Project 4 funds.
Project Outcomesi
2.39     The implementation of 480 district and tambon schools in the Lower
Secondary Schools Project was purported to redress several issues persist-
ing at this level of schooling, such as secondary education opportunity for
rural populace, instructional quality and implementation of the emerging
concept of community secondary schools. The outcomes of the project may be
sumnarized as hereunder.
2.40     School Environs Development.  The sites of all project schools
were adequately developed to provide a playground and landscape, roads,
safe water supply, power electricity, and pools for vegetable and animal
farming projecrs wherever applicable. This provides not only an environ-
ment conducive to better teaching and learning, but also a good example to
the community in environmental improvement for quality of life.
2.41     Infrastructure.  Build.tng facilities provided to small-sized and
medium-sized (4-4-4 and 6-6-6) and large-sized (8-8-8) schools were as
follows:



- 32 -
AZm:  and MedIum Schools                     Large Schgl
Classrooms                                   Classrooms
General science lab                          General science lab (2)
Library                                      Library
Specialized activity rooms                   Specialized activity rooms
General shop                                 Wood and metal
Home economics                               Electricity and drafting
Agriculture                                  Clothing and food labs
Agriculture
Schools in phases 1 and 2 were also provided with an auditorium and one
or two staff houses out of the savings on low bid prices of Part B
construction.
2.42     For Part A of the project, a total of 1,362 w3rkshop units were
built as general shops and unit shopi for work e3-cation courses in home
economics, agriculture and industrial arts.   For iart B, a total of 338
two-story buildings were constructed to house classrooms, general science
laboratories, libraries and specialized activity rooms; and 118 unfinished
two-story buildings were also completed.   The ground floor of the old
buildings of some 25% project schools was renovated for multipurpose use.
Furthermore, 104 small auditoriums and six multipurpose buildings were also
proviied for school and community activities.   A number of 235 housing
units were built to help relieve the teachers' perennial accommodation
problem in the remote rural setting. See Annex 2-9.
2.43     Furniture and Eauinment.  To make the infrastructure provided to
prcject schools fully functional, furniture was supplied to 4,303 class-
rooms and educational equipment to 3,784 workshop units for 13 academic and
work educatRon subject areas at the lower secondary school level, including
library and audio-visual equipment.   Thus, all 480 schools are now ade-
quately equipped for effective teaching for some 334,800 potential students
set forth as the target number.   Annexes 2-10 and 2-11 give further
details.
2.44     Staff Develme.   Staff development took two forms, overseas
training and local training. Overseas training was conducted by INNOTECH
for 102 LSS school administrators, 24 supervisors and 11 departmental staff
who were involved in the project. These persons were trained in the com-
munity school concept and the planning for its implementation in the Thai
setting. Most of these persons stayed on in the project and provided a
smooth transition from the project stage to routine operation.   Local
training was conducted internally by the DGE. It involved the staff of the
LSS schools who were responsible for many different duties including admln-
istrators, teachers, librarians, community development coordinators and
work education teachers in home economics, agriculture and industrial arts.
This local training program was professional and functional training in
nature, and most trainees carried on with the duties that were originally
assigned to them. Properly utilized, these staff could become instrumental
in the expansion of the implementation of the community school concept



- 33 -
throughout the country.  Coupled with the infrastructure and educational
equipment as mentioned earlier, the trained staff play a viable role in
tackling the various issues identified as permeating the secondary
educational system.
2.45     The Role of LSS Schools in Community Development.  The LSS schools
have been assigned three functions--teaching students, educating the public
and providing community services.   In performing the third function, the
schools allow the community to make use of the school premises, facilities
and equipment including personnel for various activities such as gather-
ings, fairs, ceremonies, mother's day, sports, agricultural exhibitions and
public meetings by local government agencies. Although this function is
secondary to student teaching, it plays a vital role in encouraging the
public initiative as well as providing a closer tie with the surrounding
community.   Whereas the concept of community development may not be
realized with the school acting as a sole agent (without active participa-
tion by the other three principal ministries--Interior, Public Health and
Agriculture), the LSS schools have demonstrated a high potenLtial as a
helping hand in delib3rate community development efforts.   Based on a
history of secondary schools as college and university preparation institu-
tions, it seems difficult and undesirable to discourage them from upward
extension to offer upper secondary classes. No matter what some of these
schools may aspire to, the secondary role of community development, in
which rural schools have an edge over their urban counterpart, is here to
stay and perhaps this function should manifest in the same direction as
their aspirations, that is, community services in academic md technical
matters.
Teacher Utilization and Incentives
2.46     Teacher Utilization.  A challenging efficiency issue in secondary
education is illustrated by the teacher utilization rate in classroom
teaching which was found to be low at project appraisal, averaging 16
periods per week or about 67% on the basis of a 24-period maximum work
load. On the one hand, an increase in the utilization factor, such as a
teaching load of 18 periods per week, would mean fewer teachers at an
appreciable saving on their salaries and a higher teacher-to-student ratio.
On the other hand, small rural schools were faced, with scarcity of
teachers, especially in practical subject areas, and freezing f.e teaching
staff growth during project implementation would mean a sacrifice in the
quality of practical subject instruction.   If a portion of the bulk of
academic subject teachers were to be replaced by new recruits to obtain
instructional quality in practical subject teaching, then these replaced
teachers would become surplus. Under these circumstances, redistribution
of in-service teachers is to be attempted together with recruitment of new
ones.
2.47     To find a solution to this dilemma, a first attempt was to apply
the self-imposing ratio 1:20 as a guideline rather than a yardstick for the
annual intake of teachers, which worked quite well and the target ratio
could be attained by the school year 1986-87. A second measure was to re-
train some potential teachers to enable them to serve certain functions
that were considered indispensable for project implementation such as
library services, community development coordination, vocational and occu-
pational teaching and equipment maintenance (without foregoing the training



- 34 -
of proper teachers). Another measure was to transfer teachers from over-
staffed to under-staffed schools to maintain a decent workload standard.
Also, the teaching loads and the number of teaching staff by subject area
in some 600 schools were studied and a decision was made tc retain their
positions so as not to affect the teaching staff requirement for each
subject.
2.48     Teacher Incentives.  Without offsetting the measures to increase
the workload and teacher-to-student ratio in rural secondary schools, an
attempt was made to apply incentives to teachers to attract them to teach
in these schools.   A first measure was to provide accommodation at the
school premises in the form of housing units, which resulted in one house
for every two LSS scnool tcichers.   A z->ond measure was provision of
medical treatment benefits as long as they wvailed themselves of the
servizes of government hospitals and public health offices.   In this
connection, the Department also provided budget to purchase drugs and
medical cupboards. A third measure was the provision of utilities such as
tap water supply, olectricity, postal. service and telephone.   Fourthly,
motorcycle were provided to 30 LSS schools each -ear. A personnel manage-
ment measure provided a concession for special salary increment for these
teachers, plus a 10% top up for teachers working in 23 severely disadvan-
taged districts. Last but not least was a publicity campaign in the forms
of monthly newsletters and mass media to keep them abreast of news and
technology of the outside world.
Conclusions and Suggestions
2.49     The LSS project was implemented during the loan period (1983-
1987). During the planning and implementation period, 480 LSS schools were
provided with equipment and trained personnel in order that the schools
could function as community development schools. There were some delays in
civil works and equipment procurement. However, the DGE was able to solve
all the problems and complete the project within the closing date.   The
plan to increase the student enrollment was not achieved because of a
steady decline in the number of the school age population attributable to
successful family planning.   The Ministry of Education tried to increase
the transition rate by making the parents and students aware of the value
of education to better prepare themselves for useful employment. However,
during the implementation period, people in rural area were faced with
economic difficulties, so the parents were not able to send their children
to secondary schools. As a result, the transition rate did not increase as
expected. By the end of the implementation period, many LSS schools were
ready to offer upper secondary classes which provided an expansion of
educational opportunity for rural poor studeats by access to upper second-
ary education formerly available only in bigger towns and cities.
Sl&gg2stions
(a)   There should be a follow up study of LSS schools, after the
implementation period, to find out if the LSS schools are func-
tioning well as planned. If the schools are still facing Jiffi-
culties, solutions should be sought.
(b)   The Department of General Education of other government agencies
should be aware that in operating a loan project, some government



- 35 -
financial regulations are not suitable because they cause delays
which in turn result in paying a high commitment charge.   The
project director should be given more authority in making deci-
sions instead of waiting upon decisions of other bodies, commit-
tees, etc.   There should be only one committee to deal with
problems and make decisions on matters over whi.h the project
director has no legal authority.
(c)   The use of incentives to attract teachers to work up country as
initiated by DGE should be continued since this renders moral
support to teachers who work up country. Teachers who are local
people in the areas where the schools are located should be given
first priority to work in their home town in order to reduce the
number of teachers transferring away from schools which may cause
the problem of teacher shortage in certain subjects. Furthermore,
it seems that a school with a greater number of teachers from the
local area has better relations with the community in which the
school is located.
(d)   The LSS schools project has made a very large investment in
providing schools with equipment and workshops to enable all LSS
project schools to offer practical arts courses effectively. With
these equipment and workshops alone academic achievements would be
restricted without a sufficient number of practical arts teachers.
Therefore, in calculating the number of teachers for any school,
the teacher-to-student ratio in practical arts subjects should be
taken into consideration separately from other subjects; other-
wise, there would not be enough of them to carry out effective
teaching.
(e)   LSS schools and other agencies involved in the project should make
an effort to inform the public about the responsibilities of LSS
schools in community development, to make it clear to the people
that the roles of LSS schools are to develop human resources
through educational means, not to develop materials only. In this
manner, the roles of LSS schools in developing the community is
assured not to duplicate with those of other agencies.



- 36 -
Annex 2-1
Coneeptual Framework for LSS Project Implementation
Department of General Education
Director General
Budget Bureau _                                Loan Committee
NEC, NESDB, etc.
NOE
l~~~~ I  .                                 I l        
Procure-     I       Planning       j         Finance     I   Secondary
ment Div.               Div.        I           Div.      I   Education
Office of                 j       Div.
Special Projects             I
Supervisory                                    Personnel
Unit                                           Div.
LSS PROJECT
Regional Supervisors       I
School Clusters



- 37 -
Annx 2-2
Locations of LSS Schools bv Educational Region
Educational          Number of LSS Schools by Phase
Region       Phase 1      Phase 2     Phase 3     Phase 4         Total
1            -           -          12           -              12
2            -          3            -           2               5
3            -         31            -          24              55
4            -           1           -          15              16
5            -         16            2           8              26
6            -          3           14           9              26
7           13         35            -           4              52
8           16         18            -          14              48
9           30           -          19          12              61
10           30          2           26          17              75
11           31           -          29           5              63
12            -         11           18          10              39
Total             120         120         120          120            480



- 38 -
Annex 2.3
Number of INNOTECH Particigants by TIne and Group
Type of                     Group of Participants
Participants           1       2      3      4      5       6         Total
LSS Schools
Administrators        16      15     15     18     18      20          102
Regional Super-
visors Acting
as LSS School
Coordinators           4       4      4      4      4       4           24
Staff Involved
in Project
Implementation         2       3      3      1      1       1           11
Total              22      22     22     23     23      25          137



- 39 -                                    Annex 2-4
Paoe 1
LSS Overes Tralnina at lNNOTECH Philloiones
March 21 - AnriI 15. 1068
Group I
Recipient                    Title                 Institution                      Province
1. Mrs. Vupin Sinturawt    Project Staff           Office at Special Projects       Bangkok
2. Mr. Manop Kalcdee         Supervisor            Supervisory Unit                 8angkok
S. Mr. Chusuk Uut eraeco     Supervisor            Supervisory Unit Region 7        Phlteanulok
4. Mr. 8unyat Buranhi run   Supervisor             Supervisory Unit Region I        Chigno Mal
5. Mr. Preecha Sirime.       Supervisor            Supervlsory Unit Region 9        UWB Thanl
0. Mr. Losn Srichan          Supervisor            Supervisory Unit Region 10       Ubonratcha-
thanl
7. Mr. Bamrn MNno-ue         Principal             Tongtnoe  School                 Rot Et
8. Mr. Duron Pengprakone   Principal               S8nbu Withayeun School           Burlram
9. Mr. Samatachal Nakapiw    Principal             Kuewd Prach sun School           Si $o Ket
10. Mr. tears Pcncrl          Principal            Nonora-ad Pithayssun School       Udon Thani
11. Mr. Sumret Powanna        Principal            8onskc  wongwsi Withays School Yasothon
12. Mr. Wipak Rotechanopad    Principel            Pmu_ng Withayakon School          Phetchabun
1B. Mr. Surat Choichompoo    Principal             Tantong Plihayako School          Surlrm
14. Mr. Kittleboe Holysepoo Principal              Pusang Withayeko. School          Payau
15. Mr. Wiste Sngh airl       Prlncipel            Thon Withays School               Nongkhal
16. Mr. Wltbichal Sunbutta    Principal            Nonguossa  Pithoyakhe School      Udon Theni
1?. Mr. Panthong Wunt.m       Principal            Tungkow Withsyakci ScIool         Chiang Rai
16. Mr. Wanit Tichawln        Prinlcipal           Noon Pithayskom School            Kelosin
10. Mr. Supol Tongdbe         Principal            Hoengbang Withayakok              Loel
20. Mr. Nirote Po   kee       Principal            Oungeompn WIthayakom              Phetchabun
21. Mr. SuMat  Soetol         Principal             Plopek Withaya School            Nokon Phanom
22. Mr. Praoatchal Chantern-  Principal            Poengnol Sukso School             Konksen
s*ebt



Annex 2-4
- 40 -                                   Page 2
Oroup 1|
April 18- May 18, 1968
Recipient                    Title                Institution                      Province
1. Mr. Blan Cotanont         Principal            Kudjabprachason School           Udon Thani
2. Mr. Boolua Songprakone    Principal            Bankrodwittayakarn School        Buriram
8. MrTearavat Koenongkoo    Principal             Chaeonsi loukea School           Sakkon Nakhon
4. Mr. Adul SriTangrut       Principal            Naduanguittaya School            LooT
5. Mr. Wichal Siriboon       Principal            Lataiwithaya School              Si Sa Ket
6. Mr. Supole Wuthisane      Principal            Pakkardpithayakon School         Nong KhaT
7. Mr. Komol S ethchavanvong Principal            Banpaowitheya School             Chalyaphum
6. Mr. Abhinan Pahamak       Principal            Tachangwitheyskern School        Surat Thani
9. Mrs. Nukul Boonkeang      Principal            Tapolpithayakom School           Phetchabun
10. Mr. Tang Mahothorn        Principal            MakNssunsern School              Chon Burl
Li
11. Mr. Pongpun Chl-wanna     Principal            DoytaoWithayakoe School           Chiang Mil
12. Mr. Sanan Tepsarn         Principal            Huaysakwittyakom School          Chiang Rai
18. Mr. Sa-nguan Kongehoo     Principal            Bangrakumwithay. Suksa School    Phiteanulok
14. Mr. Sompon Tongprang      Principal            Maeraemardwithayakom School      Tak
16. Mr. Montt SrTphetuk       Principal            Chiengdaowithayakom School       Chiang Mal
16. Mr. tawit Martlism        Supervisor           Supervlsory Unit-Region 11       Nakhom
Ratcheima
17. Mr. Pichai Chantr,        Supervisor           Supervisory Unit-Region 12        Chachoongaso
16. Mr. Boonsong Taveekoon    Supervisor           Supervisory Unit-Region 1        Nakhon Pathom
19. Mrs. Naullaor Cosolgan   Supervisor            Supervisory Unit-Region 2         Yale
20. Miss Wanles Lochinda      Project Staff        Office ot Special Projects        Bangkok
21. Mr. Prawat NilIacharamani Project Statf        Secondary School Division         Bangkok
22. Mr. Kauthon Boanpalit    Project Staff         Design and Construction Div.    Bangkok



Annex 2-4
- 41 -
Group III
July 9 - August 6, 1988
Reciplent                    Title                Inetitution                      Province
1. Ur. La-ong Khanongnuch   Principal             Chal Mongkhon Witthaya School    Sukhothal
2. Mr. Kern Jarmpatana      Princlpal             Kanchanadit School              Surat Thani
8. Mr.Pradit Junuantor       Principal            Mae Mo Witthaya School           Lampang
4. Mr. Asanta Nouaintra      Prinlcipal           Khonthi Phitthayakhom            Kauphaeg
S. Mr. Taill Suchjakul       Principal            Bang Kaeo Phittheyakhom School   Patthalung
S. Mr. Pragpb Seengsuwan    Principal             Huai Krot WItthaya School        Chal Nat
7. Mr. Plys Chanasak         Principal           Kokhan Prechaphiban School       Nakhon Si
ThaN_ret
S. Mr. Joy Penaook           Principal            Manl Sevt Uppothen School       Prechin Burl
9. Mr. Cha-oon Malyaporn    Principal            Wiang Suwan Witthayakhom         Narathiwot
10. Mr. Udom Suys            Principal            Pa Coet Wltthayakhom School      Chiang Ri
I1. Mr. Sompong Intareuwan   Princlpal             Thung Tako WIttheye School       Chumphon
12. Mr. Sawet Maneenil        Principal           Khuan Phra Sakharin School       Pattholung
18. Mr. Thanu Nityanara       Principal           Don Sak Phodung Wit School       Surat Thani
14. Mr. W1il Sriprapal       Principal           Thiparet Phitthaya School        Surat Thani
1C. Mr. Pin Polsukh           Principal            Wong Nua Witthaya School        Lampang
16. Mr. Supote Penchahrush   Supervisor           Supervisory Unit4Reglon          Songkhla
17. Mr. Sathian Klannurakes   Supervisor          Supervisory Unit Region 4        Puket
19. Mr. Supakdi Anukool       Supervisor          Supervisory Unit Region 5        Ratchaburl
19. Mr. Tavee Prasoetong      Supervicor          Supervisory Unit Region 6        Lop Burl
20. Mrs. Dusnee Keskanerd  Project Staff           Supervisory Unit                 Bangkok
21. Mr. Cholrechal Ratane-  Project Staff         Secondary Education Divislon    Bangkok
preyoon
22. Mr. Pirpt Konbongkotme   Project Staff         Planning Divislon                Bangkok



Annex 2-4
- 42 -
Group IV
March 19 - April 18, 1988
Recipient                    Titi.                Ifntitution                       Province
1. Mr. Proyongek Intanin    Princlpal             Luangpawparn, KIongdarn          Swat Prakan
Anucorn
2. Mr. Sam-an Kerhit         Principal           BSngkharw Prachasun                Smut Prokan
8. LV. Sun  er   b U boon    Principal            Sakorn Plttayakhom                Chal Nat
4. Mr. Umporn Suwannakorn   Principal             Bang a Witthaya                   Pro Nakhon Si
Athtya
5. Mr. Plod Phosawad         Principal            U - Thai                         Pra Nakhon
O. Mr. Chamrse Suwannaboot  Principal             HaI aw. Phittheyakho              Udon Thoni
7. Mr. 1 ero Phrompakdoe    Principal             Kud - bask Phattanasukeo          Sakon Nbkhon
S. Mr. Chuan Boonoanphon    Principal             Hln - ngm Phitthnyakhoc          Nong Khol
9. Mr. Phichit Sarasuk       Principal            Khampeua Phitthnyn               Sakon Nakhon
10. Mr. Sumat Khamrat         Principal            Srangkhoe Witthaya                Idon Thani
11. Mr. Phichato Wisatoerod   Principal            Khumyal Witthaya                 Ubon Ratcha
thani
12. Mr. Saerawut Boong-thong Principal             Trakoolpratuang Wittayskom       Yasothon
18. Mr. Winal Sookboon        Principal            Plakaw-Witthayanueorn            Ubon Ratcha-
thani
14. Mr. Ksaun Boopastei       Principal            Saharatrungarit                  Nakon Pamanom
1S. Mr. Suwit Abuarat         Principal            Kok - Khaw Pitthakhm             Maha Sarakhan
16. Mr. Chalera Praptl-akeorn Principal            Pratoopo Wittay.                 Pattani
17. Mr. Thannit Chaubpol      Principal            Thakhaa Wittaya                  Chumphon
16. Mr. Monmorn Srti.ong    Principal              PWlakorn                         Phetchabun
19. Mr. Pong Thopchaw1        Supervisor           Supervisory Unit Region 1        Nakhon
20. Mr. Mangkon Prakorn       Suparvtsor           Supervisory Unit Region 6         Lop Burl
21. Mr. Torepong Sarapun      Suporvisor           Supervisory Unit Region 9         Won Thani



Ann x 2-4
- 43 -                                      Page 
R.etpient                    Title                Institution                       Province
22. Mr. Werepong sriputtirin Supervisor            Supervisory U'tt Region 19       Ubon ratcha-
thani
28. Mr. Prsert Ahingeco       Project Staff        Office to   Special Projects      Bangkok



Annex 2-4
- 44 -                                   Page 6
Group V
Aprl 22 - May 10. 1968
Recipient                    Title               ITntitution                        Provinco
1. Mr. Watnn Srleewang       Principal            Uuanguit Wlttha)ykhom School     Rot Et
2. Mr. Singthong Slnghaporn- Principal            Nbde - Witthaya                  Surin
pong
8. Mr. Viwatchal Pet - hong Principal             Musnn Koe-Pitthayakhom           Surirum
4. Mr. Surakit Kittithi-     Principal            Mabit.arathibodi School           Nakhon
raphon                                                                      Ratchaimn
S. Mr. Tavorn Choijuk        Principal            Chmplee Witthaya                 Chalyaphui
6. Mr. Nbronk Nicharngtong   Prlncipal            Piml-duarong Witthayakhcm         Nakon
School                          Ratchasima
7. Mr. Mukoon Duang4ungnoen  Principal            Non - who                         makhon
Ratchasima
9. Mr. Wanakit IntUnDprnpono Principal            Nakernari uduan WitUhiys         St Sc Ket
9. Mr. Udemeek Plntong       Principal            Yangschooeno  Pitthayakhom       S1 So KWe
School
10. Mr. Sompretans Nebtrkom Principal              Sura"ek-Witthayakho School       Chon Surl
11. Mr. Sakdi Soechal         Principal            Tho1ratvitayn School             Prachin Surl
12. Mr. Wle. Wongeuwat        Principal            Pa-akna chumpernwitth.ya          Chumphon
School
18. Mr. Pok Keoken            Principal            Takrietwitthayakhos School       Songkholo
14. Mr. Plak Tongnunk         Principal            Sub" Witthaya School             Songkhla
15. Mr. Srleongkol Srimichal Principal             Wichianprachasnn School          Nakhon St
Thamnarat
16. Miss Tipaye wn Wankaw     Principal            Klongchanuan Wltthbya School    Surat Thnni
17. Mr. Jbruk Wangkuuedh      Principal            Kawloiw-Witthays School          Makhon Sawan
16. Mr. Sompharn Thonpn       Principal            Makeaitthnya School              Ubon Ratcha-
thani
19. Mr. Thanit Subongkot      Supervisor           Supervieory Unit Region 11       Makhon
Ratcha.i.e



Anne% 2-4
- 45 -                                   Page 7
R.epient                    Title                Instltutlon                       Prowince
2B Mr. Chsluay Sukeewad       Supervisor           Supervisory Unit Region 12        Cbhachengo.
21. Mr. Pinyo Chaiduarong     Supervisor           Supervliory Unit Reglon 2         Yale
22. Mr. WIret Klneuwan       Supervisor           Supervloory Unit Region a         Sonkhla
28. Mr. Supit Ku ss kul       Supervisor           Supervisory Unit                 Bangkok
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex 2-4
- 46-                                         -  
Page 6
Group VI
July 8 - August 4, 19E4
Recipient                    Title                Institution                     Province
1. Miss Suchitra Yoyron      Principal           Kapur Wittay.                    Ranong
2. Mr. Supan Wangkulangkool  Principal           Nampud                           Trang
S. Mr. Vija Kltrungruang   Principal            La-oon Wittayekarn               Ranong
4. Mr. Somport Visarathn-   Principal            K.pongpitayakon                  Phennnga
nontkPrincipal
S. Mr. Tanit Palarneombet  Principal            Tongehal Wittaya                 Prachunp
Khiri Khan
6. Mr. Wire Roungratri       Principal            Swang Suta Wittay.              Suphan Burl
T. Mr. Tawan Boon aso        Principal           Koktoonwittaya                   Lop Burl
S. Mr. Vilhien Sookaboreon  Princtpal            Sagnowittayak.e                  Ang Thong
0. Mr. Yungyut Sunpaudon    Principal            Mao-by Wlttaya                   Chlang Mal
10. Mr. Swarng Khumluo       Principal            Lathtnwittaya                    Lnpang
11. Mr. Somblt Voonnot       Principal            Kuddinji Pittaykom              WUon Thani
12. Mr. Siddleak Sopa        Principal            Naklang Suktawit                 Udon Thbnl
18. Mr. Sawan9 YenJol         Princlpal           Kanhal Pittayekom                Ubon Retchn-
thanl
14. Mr. Dham_   k Nol-ebmrt Principal             Baskilek Wittayakoi              Rol Et
16. Mr. Pote Chong o ¢hai    Prinepal            Nonooong Plttayekom              Kalasin
16. Miss Suomll- Jabkov       Principal           Knmtal-ysor Wittays              Nakhon
Retcheasima
17. Mr. Thongin Ngau _       Principal            Sunthornpoo Pittaya              Rayong
18. Mr. Sondul Tamnuo        Principal            Utongwittayakom                  Chon Burt
19. Mr. Uthal Ruttenspong    Prlncipal            Wangehanwittaym                  Rayong
20. Mr. Chsloak Prapant       Principal           Tunghten Pittaykom               Chon Burl
21. Mr. Pravit lZetrakool    Supervisor           Supervisory Unit Region 5        Ratheburl



Annox 2-4
47 -                                  Pa  9
Rocip. nt                   Title               Instittlion                    Province
22. Mr. Maem Sakulpukd<e    Supervlsor           Supervisory Unit Reglon 4      Phuket
28. Mrs. Parichart Srlbunra  Supervisor          Supervisory Unit Region 7      Phitmanulok
24. Mr. Presart 8uanuche     Supervisor          Supervisory Unit Region S      Chiang Mal
25. Mile Plkun Ketpradlt    Project Staff        Ed. Planning Div., DOE         Bangkok



- 48 -                             Annex 2-5
TSILAND
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Local Trainint for LSS Project
Number of Trainees by Course and Fiscal Year
Under Loan Fund
Fiscal Year
Course                            '83    '84    '85    '86    '87    Total
1.  LSS principals seminars            120    240    360    479    476    1,675
2. LSS principals and asst.
principals seminars             240    240    120    120    478    1,198
3.  Regional supervisors                27     28      53      -     60       168
4.  School librarians                  120    120    125    128       -       493
5.  Guidance teachers                  120    120    157    120        -      517
6. Work education teachers3            420    480    380    396       -    1,684
7.  Thai music teachers                  -      -       -      -    286       286
8.  Community resource persons         114    120       -      -       -      234
9. School/community coordinator
teachers                        120    120    119    118        -       477
10.  Equipment maintenance teachers   120        -       -      -       -      120
11. Construction supervision
teachers                        120       -      -       -      -      120



- 49                               Annex 2-6
THAILAND
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Local Training for LSS Prolect
Number of Trainees by Course and Fiscal Year
Under Thai Government Eudget
Fiscal Year
Course                            '83    '84    '85    '86    '86    Total
1.  Construction Supervision            -    120    120    120        -      360
2. A Workshop for Selected School
Administrators and Supervisors
to prepare a Reference for LSS
School Implementation              -      -       -      -     50        50
3. Furniture Procurement                -    120    120    120    120        480
4.  Workshops for Selected INNOTECH
Trainees to Prepare a Guide
for Prospective Participants       -     27       -      -      -        27
Total                          -    267    240    240    170        917



- 50 -
Annex 2-7
ca       ofn oSS  raiaL  nd Aetupl 'Imalmntation
(With Rferennce to Staff Appraisal RPport Dated by  , 1962)
Calendar year.               198          196          1964         1988         l98$         18            1Me       1989
quartere                 JRWUJASS  .WIIJJASCI JWIW JJASO  JRHMJJMO  JRM4JASM  JMVM4JJA58NO JiWqJJAGQ JH4AJ
Profeeional Services
Survey1,                   bbbbbbbb
Tender doument.                 ... *"         ,+ _.  _         +      .* .
Supervielone                         aaa#aa saaaaaaN  asaseaaaa  aasagaa             a            a*r
Ph*me I
Con.tbucti n                    e" esuaeauwauaa a              -
FurnlOure                           eaamyy,y   Ni-
tslp_nO~~~~~~~~~~~ a*_ -SS8S'Z'Y_
*uenat SXI.t_ ...... ....
at-ww -.
.urnlture                                        %maTmm y11-
ulpment                                                        
Conetnaotie ansneazu uEuEuwwRN
eosss m )00=  ..    -..
Fuarniture                                                em' eyyw yy~MVWW
Equlpment                                                             e_    *        w
cWiatIUOtiOA                                                               aaaaeaeaaauxX
Furniture                                                                    yyyyyyyy
eatSBZZZZ ZZZZZZYWY Y 
6wulp_n~~~~~~~t   U'U                                                            *ZS5  7mz_
1E i                .a sTiT1TTzT                                        an TITTTT  eel? T 1TY?       TY  T TT
*    * a       ........... - Prepartion oftender and contrac  y               .... - Poduction ad dalt vey period.
Training        -  Sprian          nd                        t        T      _ Tining.
a               - Tendmrtdonument ende anad petriod                   .        Produtenion of ContIract.   ted
-    em    - S~uarantee Period.



- 51 -                                        Annox 2-8
THAIUND
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ImnIlm ntation Schodule
(Annex 5 of the Report based on PreappraIloI Mission In Aprll/May 1081
and Post Appraisal Miesion In October 1981)
I
Calender yesrs               1031         1982          1983         1984          105          10986
quarters                 JFUAJJASOND JFMAMW J J."SD JFMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASOND
Professional Services
Surveys                             ;;;;;;        ;;;;;;
Tender documents                se e se              sesso.       sossee
Supervislon.                                           _            -
Phase I
Construction                                6383 XXXX XXXXXXX-Y
Furniture                                      a I#SYYYYYYYYY - -
Equipment                    ##                       zz_zz_  
Phase II
Construction                                              8600 XXJOOOOOOOC
Furniture                                                    J sJYYYYYYYYY -
Equipmnt                                                      s##3zzzZZ7Z n-
Phase 1I
Construction                                                           son xxxxxxOO O           _
Furniture                                                                 S 83YYYYYYYYY -
Equipment                                                                    # #ZZZZZZZZ --
Training and Expert                                 TTTTTTTTTTTT TTTTTTTTTTTT TTTTTTTTTTTT
Services
Events
Legend:  I, o, up *, X, Y, Z, T, -, each denotes one       Events:
month of activity                              October 1, 1082 anticipated Date of
- Designs end preparation of tender and             Effectivoness.
contract documents for construction,         December 81, 1085 antlicpated Date of
furniture and equipmnt.                        Completion.
Ml  - Tender and award period.                         Deembr 81, 1986 Propose  Closing
XX   - Constructlon period.                              Date of Loan.
M   - Production and delivery period.
222  - Assmbling and delivery period.
- Guarantee period.



- 52 -                                  Annex 2-9
THAILAND
SECONDARY 'DUCATION PROJECT
Number of Building Facilities Provided
for LSS Project Schools (PHase 1-4)
Fiscal Year 1983-1987
Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4
Type of Buildings                             FY 83    FY 84    FY 85   FY 86-87 Total
Extension of Existing Classroom Buildings
-type 216                    3        -         -        -        3
-type 216A                   7        -         -        -        7
-type 216C                  33       15        37       23      108
Total                    43       15       37        23      118
Classroom & Science Lab Buildings
*CS 213A                                      19       21         8       21       69
*CS 213B                                      31       38        15       22      106
*CS 213C                                       -        -         -        2        2
*CS 217A                                       1        -         -        -        1
*CS 217B                                      19       10       20        10       59
*CS 220B                                       2        3         5        2       12
*CS 208A                                       -        9       30        21       60
*CS 208B                                       -        -       20         5       25
*CS 208C                                           -              4        -        4
Total                    72       81      102        83      338
Workshops
Home Economics                               106      113        97       72      388
Industrial Arts                              106      113      100       113      432
Agriculture                                   74       77        89      118      358
Clothing                                      14        7        20        3       44
Food                                          14        7       20         3       44
Electricity & Drafting                        14        7        20        7       48
Wood & Metal                                  14        7        20        7       48
Total                   342      331      366       323    ;,362
Other
Small Auditorium                             104        -         -        -
Housing                                      120      115
(60)
Multi-purpose                                  -        5         -        -        _
* - 2 storey-buildings of same feature composed mainly of classrooms and science
labs. The last two figures indicate the number of rooms (8m x 8m block). A and
B indicate the number of science lab of 1 and 2 respectively while C indicates
that all are classrooms.



- 53 -
Annex 2-10
THAILAND
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Number of Instructional Units Provided with Furniture
for LSS Prolect Schools
Fiscal Years 1984-1987
Total
number
Furniture   Sc   SP   Li  HE   CL   FL   IA   ED   Ag   NR   FA   Dr  WM  of rooms
Ph.1 FY84  170   72  114  110   14   14  110   14   74  114   72  110   14    1,002
Ph.2 FY85  172  120  120  113    7    7  113    7   77  120   81  113    7    1,057
Ph.3 PY86  185  120  120   97   20   20  100   20   89  120  103  100   20    1,114
Ph.4 FY87  163  120  120  113    7    7  113    7  120  120  120  113    7    1,130
Total   690  432  474  433   48   48  436   48  360  474  376  436   48    4,303
Notes Sc =  Science                           ED -  Electricity & Drafting
SF -  Science Preparation             Ag =  Agriculture
Li -  Library                         NR =  Nursing Room
HE -  Home Economics                  FA -  Fine Arts
CL -  Clothing Lab                    Dr -  Drafting
FL -  Food Lab                        WM = Wood & Metal Work
IA - Industrial Arts



- 54 -
Annex 2-11
THAILAND
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Number of Instructional Units Provided with Equipment
for LSS Proiect Schools (Phase 1-4)
Fiscal Years 1984-1987
Total
number
Equipment   Sc   Ag   Cl   Fd  AS   Li   AO   GI  GO   WC   Me   ER   Dr  of rooms
Ph.1 FY84  184  120   15   15  120  120  120  105  105   15   15   15   15        964
Ph.2 FY85  177  120    7    7  120  120  120  113  113    7    7    7    7        925
Ph.3 FY86  185  120   20   20  120  120  120  100  100   20   20   20   20         985
Ph.4 FY87  165  120    7    7  120  120  120  113  113    7    7    7    7         910
Total   708  480   49   49  480  480  480  431  431   49   49   49   49    3,784
Note:  Sc -  Science                         GI -  General Industrial Arts
Ag -  Agriculture                     GH -  General Home Economics
Cl -  Clothing                        WC -  Wood & Construction
Fd -  Food                            Me -  Metal
AS -  Academic Subjects               ER -  Electricity & Radio
Li -  Library                         Dr -  Drafting
AO - Audiovisual & Office
I



- 55 -
III. PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
IntroductLo
3.01     This part of the project was designed to improve the government's
overall capacity for educational and manpower planning and to help develop
an integrated planning system in which there would be effective coordina-
tion of departmental and ministerial planning and policy formulation within
and between the MOE, NEC and NESDB. It would also strengthen the linkages
between central and regional or provincial planning and management
agencies.
3.02     An integrated planning system would be achieved through:
(a)   entrusting the NEC with responsibility for overseeing and coordi-
nating inter-sectoral planning;
(b)   restructuring and strengthening the Division of Educational
Planning to enable it to formulate sectoral plans and policies and
coordinate development plans of the MOE departments;
(c)   clarifying the planning functions of, and relationship between the
NEC, NESDB and Division of Educational Planning in MOE.
This wculd involve strengthening staff expertise in planning and management
at three levels, i.e., central, provincial and regional.
3.03     ScoDe of the Project.  The Educational Planning and Management
Component consisted of four parts viz, MOE, REO, NEC and NESDB. Subsumed
under MOE was EPD and planning divisions of other departments.   Project
work comprised mainly technical assistance with some equipment procurement
where necessary and provision of physical facilities for REO, the latter
being funded entirely by government budgets.   To provide an overview of
this component of the project, a brief outline Is given below:
NESDB:  Experts' services, local fellowships, overseas and local
staff training.
NEC: Equipment, experts' services, overseas fellowships, overseas
and local staff training.
MOE: Equipment, experts' services, overseas fellowships, overseas
and local staff training.
REO:   Civil works, furniture, equipment, experts' services, and
local training.
3.04     Civil works was provided to REO only, as two REO offices were
rented or loaned facilities and none had facilities for workshop equipment
necessary for their new functions as resource centers.  These facilities
would also include some furniture. Equipment was provided to NEC, EPD and
REO to enable then to function more adequately. Local and foreign experts'



- 56 -
services, would be provided to design and implement programs for local
staff inservice training in planning and management and to assist in proj-
ect implementation. One a slightly different approach for regional plan-
ning, local consultant services would be provided to assist in curriculum
research and development and inservice training and supervision methods.
Overseas and local fellow ships would be provided in the form of short
courses and in related subjects such as statistics, demography, computer
training would focus on operational issues such as manpower and educational
planning techniques, developing an effective management information system,
program or project planning and budgeting, and project monitoring and
evaluation.
3.05     Project Management.   The implementation of the Planning and
Management Component was carried out separately by the NESDB, NEC, MOE and
REO. Coordination of the activities of these components, with the exception
of REO which was self-contained, was regulated by a subcommittee appointed
by the Steering Committee, and depicted in Chart 2 below. The implementa-
tion by the various departments in MOE was carried out individually but
their monitoring by EPD.
Chart 2: ORGANIZATION OF PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
Sixth Education Project
(Ministry of Education)
i Steering Committee .
Lower                       I               Planning and     I
Secondary Education                I                Management       I
Central     _                  Coordinating
Project Unit  I               ... Subcommittee
I             I        P6Ka
I      i
REO    MOE    NEC    NESDB
Project Implementation
3.06     Civil Works.  A two-storey building complex consisting of offices,
meeting rooms and specialized rooms was provided to two REOs (Songkhla and
Lopburi), and two workshops--one for printing, audio-visual and electricity
work, and the other for wood and metal work--were provided to each of the
four REOs in the project (Songkhla, Lopburi, Pitsanulok and Nakhon
Ratchasima). As this was not covered by the Loan Agreement, construction
followed local procedures and budgetary regulations were a deciding factor
in its proceedings.



- 57 -
3.07     Furniture.  Furniture was a very small part and applied to REO
only, most of which was standard type and procured with regular government
funds.   It was mainly office furniture, with some library and shop
furnishings.
Equipment
3.08     Equivment Lists and SDecifications.  This part of the project was
only applicable to NEC, EPD and REO who prepared their own list individu-
ally with close assistance by CPU.  The equipment lists were as follows:
NEC:    Audio-visual equipment
Word processors
Vehicle
EPD:    Office equipment
Computing equipment
Printing equipment
Audio-visual equipment
Vehicles
Air-conditioning equipment
REO:    Office equipment
Audio-visual equipment
Library equipment
Workshop equipment
Vehicles
Gardening equipment
3.09     For NEC and EPD, the equipment purchased was to facilitate local
staff training both in the preparation of training materials and in the
conduct of the courses. For REO, one type of equipment was for production
of printed materials such as books and reports and another for production
of instructional materials such as slides and video tapes. Library books
and equipment was for study and researchl by the REO staff themselves, work-
shop equipment for production of prototypes and instructional media, and
vehicles for transportation of supervisory teams and instructional
materials.
3.10     Preparation of specifications was carried out by the project
implementation unit of the respective project, which took into account
functional requirements as well as budgetary constraints. As the level of
sophistication of the equipment for this component was generally not so
high, familiar or general commercial specifications were modified for
tendering.   This was the task assigned to committees rather than indi-
viduals or project procurement officers, which was a normal practice in
educational projects for which a diversity of equipment items was required.
3.11     Procurement.   Equipment procurement for all these components
employed the local bidding procedures which were acceptable to the Bank.
The phasing of this type of activity was individualized according to needs.
For NEC, all equipment was procured in one phase, but two phases for EPD,
and three for REO. The phasing reflected the availability of counterpart
funds which were allocated by fiscal year, covering 35% of the total cost



- 58 -
of each package. Equipment procurement for REO also took into considera-
tion completion of building construction which relied upon 100% government
funds.
3.12     Problems Encountered.  Problems relative to equipment and furni-
ture procurement were minor and minimal but delay in construction led to
retardation in the use of some items procured.
Technical Assistance
3.13     Technical assistance provided to the Planning and Management com-
ponent was at three distinctive levels, the objectives of which may be
summarized as in the following:
(a)   At the overall policy making level, or the NESDB, the objectives
of the project were:
(i)   To study the constraints and identify the inter-relation
between educational development and manpower planning;
(ii)   To strengthen and upgrade the data and information base
system in support of manpower planning;
(iii)   To incorporate educational development as an integral part
of manpower planning; and
(iv)   To upgrade the capabilities and efficiency of the staff of
NESDB's Human Resources Planning and Social Projects
Division.
(b)   At the educational policy and plan development level, or the NEC,
the objectives of the project were:
(i)   To strengthen internal efficiency through development of
central staff in seven areas of specialization; and
(ii)   To strengthen planning efficiency and potential of the
planning staff at the provincial level by means of
training.
(c)   At the educational strategies and operational plans development
level, or the HOE, the objectives of the project were:
(i)   To recognize the structure of the Educational Planning
Division towards internal efficiency improvement;
(ii)   To strengthen the planning capacity of the various MOE
departments through the development of their staff;
(iii)   To provide support to, and strengthen the project manage-
ment capacity of the Ministry of Education; and
(iv)   To reshape the functions and structure of the regional
education offices (REOs) including strengthening of their
staff.



- 59 -
3.14     To achieve the above-mentioned objectives, experts' services,
fellowships, overseas training and local training were provided as follows:
NESDB
3.15     Ex&erts' Services.  A total of 23 local experts were employed to
undertake studies and propose recommendations in the various fields neces-
sary to achieve the objectives, namely: population distribution, long term
labor supply projection, human resources development in the agricultural
sector, public manpower planning, manpower development in leading in-
dustries, information system development and manpower and educational
planning. Summary of experts' services for the NESDB is given in Annex 3-
1.
3.16     Staff Traintng.   Staff training involved fellowships, overseas
training and local training for a total number of 22 staff members of the
Human Resources Planning and Social Projects Divisions, a summary of which
is given in Annex 3-2.
NEC
3.17     Exnerts' Services.  A total of 11 local experts were employed, one
to provide consultation to the NEC in the development of overall planning
mechanisms, processes, strategies and techniques on the basis of which
training activities and materials for central and provincial planners were
developed.   The other ten experts assisted NEC in the preparation of
materials for provincial training, consisting of self-instructional
modules, trainer's manual and exercises on tle various topics in the field
of educational planning. Three experts from IIEP, Paris were also involved
in the development and conduct of a course for the training of trainers,
the latter being responsible for the training of provincial staff at a
later stage.   A summary of experts' Iservices for the NEC is given in
Annex 3-1.
3.18     Staff Training.  Staff training involved two Ph.D. fellowships,
nine overseas short-term (not in excess of three months) and long-term
courses, and 58 local training courses for central staff members. Also, a
total number of 1,142 provincial staff members were trained in integrated
educational planning at the provincial level.   Coupled with this number
were some 1,000 key provincial administrators (of the Ministries of
Agriculture and Cooperatives, Public Health, Interior and Education) who
participated in a seminar taking place during the first two days prior to
each of the training sessions proper, with an intended effect of internal
efficiency improvement. A summary of staff training for NEC is provided in
Annexes 3-2 and 3-3.
3.19     In central training, one group of staff were sent to AIT for
training in data processing and data management system, another group
worked in collaboration with Chulalongkorn University for measurement and
in-house training on sampling techniques. Meanwhile NEC, in collaboration
with Thammasat University and NIDA, conducted its own course in policy
analysis and development, and with IIEP, another course in educational
planning.



- 60 -
3.20     Provincial training was conducted as a joint effort with EPD for a
total of 1.142 provincial planners throughout the country.   This was
carried out in seven sessions as a compromise to cover the target number
within the target date for acceptable effectiveness of training.
3.21     Experts' Services.  One local consultant was engaged to study and
develop a planning structure for MOE; four experts to analyze and develop a
budgeting system, program structure and project classification; and two
principal consultants with a team of 18 experts to develop an educational
management information system for the Ministry.   The work of these
consultants will be summarized under Project Outcomes.   Also, a local
expert was employed to prepare a set of handbooks and conduct training of
provincial planning staff of the Office of the National Primary Education
Commission (ONPEC).   To assist in the management of the Sixth Education
Project, an expatriate advisor was engaged to work with the CPU.
3.22     Staff Training.  Training of the central staff involved one Ph.D.
and three M.A.'s in educational planning and related fields, 36 overseas
short-term and long-term course participants and nine trainees in a local
training course, all for EPD staff, plus an additional seven trainees in
local training for some MOE divisions. The program also provided training
of one N.A., 17 overseas short-term and long-term course participants, and
64 trainees in a local training course, all for the various MOE depart-
ments.   The staff of the CPU also underwent overseas training, mainly
short-term courses in project management, totalling four in number.
3.23     The first phase of provincial training involved 1,142 staff
members trained by the NEC as mentioned in a previous section. The second
phase of provincial training, then, was modified in both its objectives and
contents to suit the particular needs of some 400 MOE staff who were newly
transferred and recruited for regional, provincial and district offices.
The six-day training course included not only the planning methodology as
in the first phase, but also the three basic functions of the educational
offices, namely, coordination and services, information center, and moni-
toring and evaluation.   This is a spill-over of the provincial training
component r. the project.  Refer to Annex 3-2 also for staff training of
the MOE.
U2
3.24     Experts' Services.  At the inception of the project, the REO was
envisarid to function as an R&D center with four main tasks, namely:
research and development, production of instructional materials, training
of teachers and supervision. Therefore, an expert was engaged at the early
stage of project implementation to study the issue and propose a framework
for REO's function.   As a result, a decision was made to implement the
expert's recommendation by tasking REO with R&D in the context of academic
standards and quality development of secondary schools in its catchment
area, in addition to its previous mandate of inspection and coordination of
educational, religious and cultural affairs in that region.



- 61 -
3.25     Staff Training.  The training of REUw staff involved a long-term
course (three months long) for 12 regional supervisors and a short-term
course (one month long) for 30 regional educatols in Educational Research
and Evaluation, and a long-term course (three months long) for 12 regional
supervisors and a short-term course (one month long) for 30 regional educa-
tors in Instructional Materials Product.on. In addition to these courses
which were funded out of the proceeds of the loan, REO also provided a
number of workshops for the staff of all 12 REOs such as in Research
Design, Instructional Materials Production, Educational Data and Indices,
Test Construction and Development of Local Curricular for Occupational
Education, all of which were funded by the government budget.
3.26     Problems Encountered. One problem common to all components was in
the areas of experts' services and fellowship programs a good part of
which, according to the original plan, was to involve foreign experts.
Pursuant to the Cabinet decree, overseas consultant services including
overseas studying and training should be explored through technical aid
programs from foreign grant sources. All components that had planned to
employ expatriate experts then had to resort to local expertise as much as
possible.  This practice, in turn, led to another problem  in that local
experts were employed full-time in their local jobs and could therefore
only apply part of their time to the project work.  Another problem,
although less important, was the tendency for Ph.D. students to extend
their study time beyond the original estimates, thus affecting both imple-
mentation and cost.  In addition to these problems, some issues also
occurred specific to the individual components, which will be described as
follows:
3.27    NESDB.  There was a qualification problem of a local fellowship
recipient who could not fulfill the requirements and thus his study program
was terminated.
3.28     U&.  Provincial training commenced at a later date than anti-
cipated due to a lack of clear identification of the target group, that is,
who was supposed to be trained to carry out the planning function at the
provincial level. The existing number of NEC staff, which was just suffi-
cient for day-to-day operation in Bangkok, coupled with a decision to
accelerate the coverage of a large target number (1,142) over a short
period of time (12 sessions over 16 months), was a hindrance adversely
affecting the monitoring and follow-up of the trainees.
3.29     M.  The time lapse in adopting the proposals of the first expert
on the restructuring of EPD had a consequential effect on the engagement of
other experts who were supposed to assist the MOE in implementing the
principal parts of his recommendations.  Thus the project experienced a
late employment of experts to develop a budgeting system, program structure
and project classification, and consultants to develop an educational
management information system. This part of project implementation activi-
ties was extended beyond the project closing date. A problem common in
both the N.A. and overseas training programs was the insufficiency of
language fluency that gave rise to communioation and study problems.
3.30    REO.  Reshuffles of staff at all levels during project implemen-
tation resulted in inconsistency of project activities and interpretation



. 62 -
such as a shift from expert's services pertaining to supervision (training
curriculum,   packages and materials) to expert's services pertaining to
inspection, monitoring and evaluation of educational standards and quality.
A change in departmental policy also resulted in an engagement of expert's
services in the construction of instruments for the assessment of educa-
tional standards and quality to serve the purpose of REO's new assignment
in R&D. Frequent reshuffles of REO chief executives also gave rise to a
leadership continuity problem which adversely affected REO's functional
development.
Implementation Schedule
3.31     Eguipment.   Equipment procurement was completed in one phase in
1984 for EPD, but was carried out in three phases for NEC during fiscal
years 1984-1986 and three phases for REO during fiscal years 1983-1985.
Delay was not a major factor in this exercise, although some modification
was made in the light of newly-developed functional requirements.
3.32     Technical Assistance.  The implementation of the technical assis-
tance program was generally slow in getting off the ground partly due to
the change of scope of, and modification of strategy for, the program
initially envisaged at the time of the appraisal.  In fact, the scope of
the overall program was curtailed by almost 50%.   Another problem was
difficulty in obtaining admissions to overseas educational institutions due
to the absence of an overall executing agency for the selection of training
institutions and placement of the students.   Once the arrangements were
finalized, however, this component of the project proceeded quite smoothly.
Some remarks on the implementation of technical assistance were as follows:
3.33     NESDB.  As a result of unsuccessful efforts to conclude their
original overseas fellowship program through DTEC, NESDB switched to local
fellowship programs which did not commence until the second half of the
project's life span.   Consequently,  one fellow  (H.A.  in Economic
Deve^opment) could not complete his two year course (commencing July 1986
and completing June 1988) within the project closing date.
3.34     NBC.   The implementation of central staff training, although
starting quite early, extended long beyond the target dates and thus did
not allow the trained staff ample time, during the project life span, to
take on the planning functions for which they were trained.   This was
particularly the case for fellowships and local training for which the time
lag was about two years behind the planned completion date.
3.35     HU.   The study and development of organizational restructuring
for EPD was completed at an early stage of project implementation, followed
by an experimental study of a provincial planning mechanism which became a
forerunner of the provincial planning model adopted later on. The engage-
ment of local experts at later dates was confined to two areas--budgeting
system (and related topics) and MIS--the scop2e of the former being con-
siderably reduced in line with the needs and contention of the MOE at that
stage.   For the overseas fellowship and training programs, language and
study plans were common problems that affected not only learning but also
costs and completion dates.



- 63 -
3.36     UQ.  Experts' services for REO was about one year behind schedule
for several reasons, e.g., a delay in the selection of some experts, modi-
fication of the strategy and the reallocation of funds to staff develop-
ment.  The first part of training for REO at the early stage of project
implementation provided methodolo&j to its staff, but substantive training
was still needed. Application of the methodology did not follow on imme-
diately perhaps due to the fact that the supervisors who had been trained
belonged to the departments, not REO, and as such were fully committed to
their own tasks.  Previous expectation to rely mainly on regional super-
visors for RE0s activities, therefore, was not fully realized.   This
situation was later remedied by REOs having their own recruits retrained.
It is too early at this stage for REO to function fully. Perhaps, in the
foreseeable future when REOs have been brought to a state of readiness,
they will be equipped to perform their designated functions better.
Project Costs
3.37     Actual Expenditures.   Total expenditure for the Planning and
Management component was 66,406,257 baht equivalent to US$2,572,755. This
showed an under-run of 38.11% against the appraisal estimate of
US$4,157,000 /a. Actual expenditure by category was as follows:
Category                   Baht             US$          Exchange Rate
Equipment/Furniture         13,470,130          528,698            25.48
Technical Assistance        52,936,127        2,044,057            25.90
Total                 66,406,257        2,572,755            25.81
E Rxcluding contingencies.
Project Outcomes
3.38     As the design of this component was to improve educational
planning and management from the policy making level down to the inter-
ministerial, inter-departmental, regional and provincial levels, it would
seem appropriate te summarize the project outcomes in terms of the con-
ceptual, organizational, functional and expertise development at the four
strategic points, namely, NESDB, NEC, MOE and REO.



- 64 -
3.39    NESDB:  Conceptual and Internal Efficiency Improvement.  The out-
comes of technical assistance provided to NESDB may be summarized in terms
of conceptual and internal efficiency improvement as follows:
Conceptual Xmprovement. Conceptual improvement per objectives (a), (b) and
(C) as in section 2.32, was achieved through local experts' services which
were highly satisfactory. The studies and analytical works produced were
presented to seminars of high-level officials for their consideration and
comments. The outputs of the experts were utilized for adjusting the later
phase of the Fifth Plan and for preparing the policy and measures for the
Sixth Plan as well. On the basis of the four objectives of this part of
the project, outcomes may be summarized as follows:
Constraints and interrelationship between educational deve-
lopment and manpower planning: On the basis of findings on
population distribution and migration, a number of reports
provide the linkages between educational development and
manpower planning, particularly in the agriculture, industry
and public service sectors.  In agriculture, the main theme
is on human resource and employment planning in the areas of
crop rotation before and after the cultivation period, which
is to be integrated with provincial plans.  In industry, a
preliminary integrated policy and guidelines for leading
industries (with emphasis on metal work) were proposed and
incorporated in the Sixth Plan.  In public service sectors,
first information on the stock of existing manpower and its
administrative measures were collated, and later the
structure of personnel administration was reviewed and new
guidelines and strategies for planning were proposed.
Information and database systems: Guidelines for the organi-
zation of a computerized information system of a proposed
Human Resources and Employment Information Center were
developed to serve both the public and private sectors. This
essentially entails what information was compiled, how it was
processed, and it could be integrated into a unified system.
Educational develoRment as integral part of manpower
planning:  There were findings that most of the unemployed
had a low educational attainment level, necessitating inten-
sive occupational training. At the higher education level,
students are to be provided up-to-date information on the
labor market through an institutionalized vocational guidance
system.   Also, in the private sector recommandations were
made on the improvement of short courses in occupational
training to cope with the unemployment problem.
3.40     Internal efficien    improvement.  To serve objective (b) as in
section 3.23, strengthening of staff capabilities was carried out which
proved satisfactory. All trainees resumed their work in the Office, taking
the responsibility of policy and project development in social and manpower
areas.   The knowledge and experience they obtained were also useful in
fulfilling the first three objectives of this part of the project.



- 65 -
3.41 U3&: External and Internal Efficiency Inmrovement. The outcomes
of technical assistance provided to the NEC may be summarized in terms of
external and internal efficiency improvement as follows:
External Efficiency through Coordination Mechanism for Provincial
Planning.
3.42     An operational framework for planning has been developed within
the Ministry of Education to provide articulation between the ministerial
and the provincial levels. At the ministerial level there exist the Board
of Directors General on the one hand and the Policies and Plans Committee
on the other. The latter consists of the Minister of Education as chairman
and the Permanent Secretary for Education as vice chairman, with members
who are high-ranking officials of six MOE departments, Secretaries General
of the NEC and the NESDB or their permanent secretary for education is the
committee's secretary and Director of Educational Planning Division is
assistant secretary. This committee is in charge of (a) studying, review-
ing and proposing guidelines for the delineation of policies, plans and
development systems for education, religion and culture; (b) coordinating
the acquisition and utilization of resources; and (c) monitoring and
evaluating the operation of MOE and its departments.
3.43     At the provincial level,  there exists the Sub-Committee on
Education, Religion and Culture consisting of the Governor as chairman,
Provincial Education Officer as vice-chairman and members as follows:
representatives of provincial offices of the MOE departments; representa-
tives of provincial offices of concerned ministries; and at most three
scholars. The Academic Assistant Provincial Education Officer is secretary
to the sub-committee. The sub-committee is responsible for (a) the deve-
lopment of education, religion and culture in the province; (b) preparation
of plans and projects in line with the MOE policies and annual budget
requisition; (c) coordination of resources utilization and plan/project
implementation; and (d) monitoring of implementation activities. A working
group or two may also be created to assist the sub-committee in carrying
out specific tasks that require a special body with technical know-how and
group efforts, the membership of which is not to exceed 15.
3.44     On the ground of the structural facet of the provincial planning
coordination mechanism as above, NEC and MOE further developed the proce-
dural and substantive facets on which the operation of the said mechanism
would be based. The planning process at the provincial level consists of
preparation, analysis of problems and ,ssues, formulation of plans and
detailing of the plans.   This is to be internally integrated among the
various sub-sectors of the MOE as well as with other sectors outside the
MOE such as Interior, Public Health, Agriculture and Cooperatives and
private organizations. The process spells out guidelines for coordination
with these agencies at all levels. The process prescribes characteristics
of desirable plans and details of the planning steps.   The planning
substance involves, inter alia, survey and analysis of economic and social
issues related to education; student projection; personnel and inputs
requirements; project formulation, implementation and evaluation; educa-
tional indices; and a management information system.   These elements of
provincial planning coordination mechanism formed the content and metho-
dology of the provincial training course which culminated towards the close
of the project.



- 66 -
3.45     The attempt to improve planning efficiency had the rather ambi-
tious aim of applying the skills to the preparation of the Sixth Education
Development Plan for the next cycle (1987-1991) within the target date.
This proved to be a success in terms of providing technical know-how to the
planning staff but integration of planning processes and activities at the
provincial administrative level remained an issue, and coordination between
the ministry and the provinces had not yet won the confidence of the pro-
vincial planners due to the ambitious expectation that the information
collected and collated would be fully utilized in the formulation of the
Sixth Education Development Plan. At that stge it was still premature to
made effective use of the information derived out of the training exer-
cises, for the planning capabilities were just newly developed and the
foundation of the planning system had just been laid down and was not yet
firm enough to ensure continued planning efficiency. A long-te.rm challenge
to the Ministry, therefore, arises as to how to bring up the maturity level
of the planning capabilities such that they would manifest themselves into
a stage at which the integration of planning processes and activities is
fully functional and collated data effectively utilized.
3.46     Internal Efficiency through Staff DeveloRment.  A good number of
NEC staff were trained in a stratum of specialized fields useful for educa-
tional planning such as Evaluation, Economics of Education, Educational
Planning and Administration, Policy Analysis and Development, Basic Data
System, MIS and Sampling Techniques.   They have now returned to their
duties, most relavant to their respective fields of training. Some of them
who returned early enough were involved in the preparation of training
materials for the provincial training program.
3.47     MOE:  Structural Reorganization. Internal Efficiency Improvement
and Strengthening Departmental Cagacity. The outcomes of technical assis-
tance provided to NOE may be summarized in terms of organizational restruc-
turing, internal efficiency improvement and strengthening of the planning
capacity of the MOE departments.
3.48     Organizational Restructuring and DeveloDment of Planning Tools.  A
proposal on restructuring of the MOE planning and management system was
submitted by the local consultant whereby (a) planning, monitoring, opera-
tion and evaluation were essentially all to be integrated, (b) planning
articulation was to be provided both horizontally and vertically, and (c) a
management information system to be institutionalized. This necessitated
raising the status of the EPD from a divisional to a departmental one.
Furthermore, another group of local experts also developed a budgeting
system together with a programming structure and a project classification
to guide the allocation of budgets in the context of the Seventh
Development Plan. Finally, the third group of experts submitted a compre-
hensive instrument for collection of data necessary for the management
information network, with a set of handbooks for the implementation of its
different facets plts. computer programs for data processing.
3.49     Internal Efficienca  Improvement.   The oversea- studies program
turned out one Ph.D. in International Development Education and three
N.A.'s in fields related to educational planning. The overseas training
program involving three instrumental areas of planning--educational
planning, project management and management information system--trained 15
staff of EPD.   Local training helped prepare nine EPD staff members to



- 67 -
handle educational planimng it general. All fellows and trainees, with the
exception of two, remained In service with EPD. These staff are now better
qualified for the planning responsibility and provide a high potential for
EPD's new status as a planning department for MOE.
3.50     Strengthening of Planning Capacity for MOE Departments.  The over-
seas studies program turned out one N.A. in organization planning.  The
overseas training program involving educational planning, project manage-
ment and management information system trained 17 staff of other MOE
departments. Under this program also, four CPU staff were trained in proj-
ect management and educational planning. Local training helped prepare 71
departmental staff to handle sub-sectoral planning.   The development of
planning staff for the Office of the National Primary Education Commission
is worth mentioning.   It underwent an elaborate program involving an
engagement of local experts to develop a planning system for primary educa-
tion, development of training curriculum, production of training materials,
detailed preparation of training activities, pilot training, a seminar on
training curriculum improvement, and implementation of a nationwide train-
ing program for some 500 provincial primary pl nners.
3.51     UQ:  Functional. Structural and Staff Development.  The outcomes
of technical assistance provided to REO may be summarized in the following
terms:
3.52     Functional Develogment.   REO now has a dual function of
(a) inspection and coordination of educational, religious and cultural
affairs, and (b) academic standards and quality development of schools in
the region. On the basis of academic development that is a new task, four
basic functions are assigned to REO, which may be conceptualized as an
academic development cycle depicted by the chart below:
chart 3=
Evaluation/Assessment
Production
Super rision                                  of
Instructio 1l Materials
Training
of
Teachers
3.53     Strcgtural Develogment.  REO is composed of four sections, namely,
General Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation, Research and Planning
and Development and Services.   The first two sections deal mainly with



68 -
inspection and coordination matters, whereas the latter two sections deal
with educational development.   Specific responsibilities of the Research
and Planning Section are survey and assessment of local needs; data base
and statistics; preparation of development plans and projects including
priorities and strategies for educational, religious and cultural develop-
ment in the region; and coordination of planning and programming activities
in the region.  Responsibilities of the Development and Services Section
include, inter alia, curriculum and instructional development, in-service
training of teachers, test and measurement and supervision. The functional
framework for REO as depicted in the chart above, then, represents an
integral part of the academic development process in the region.
3.54     Staff Development.  Staff development for REO may be summarized in
two parts, first in terms of manpower and second in terms of staff prepara-
tion. In terms of manpower, each REO has now obtained two Deputy Regional
Education Officers, both designated for academic development matters but
with different emphasis (the first deputy on planning and research with the
second on curriculum, instruction, training and supervision). In terms of
staff preparation, all have been traixed both in methodology and substance
of their respective fields such as:
Educational Research and Evaluation
Instructional Materials Production
Educational Data and Indices
Test Construction
Development of Local Curricula for Occupational Education
sJon-clusions
3.55     Technical assistance provided to the Planning and Management Sub-
project was mostly local in terms of experts' services although staff deve-
lopment was both overseas and local. The cabinet's decree on the use of
grant aids services was not applicable due to differences in the nature of
the assistance required and the services made available by donor
governments.
3.56     An attempt to link educational planning to manpower planning in
NESDB resulted in an abundance of information and recommendations pertain-
ing to the agriculture, industry and public service sectors in the context
of population, distribution and migration. The information and data base
system, which is a must in policy formulation, is now suggested as guide-
lines for organizational and computerization development.   Finally, to
direct proper educational development as an integral part of manpower
planning, intensive occupational training is suggested for a less-educated
populace and an institutionalized vocational guidance system for better-
educated people.
3.57     Coordination mechanism for provincial planning has been attempted
through development of an operational framework, jointly carried out by the
NEC and the MOE, that provides articulation between the ministerial and the
provincial lciels.  The Policies and Plans Committee provides an avenue for
tbe formulation of policies and plans, the coordination of resource alloca-
tion and overall monitoring. It is at the provincial level that the Sub-
Committee on Education, Religion and Culture translates the policies and
plans into concrete action in their own context, with suitable coordination



- 69 -
of resources utilization and plan implementation and project monitoring at
the grassroots level. While this mechanism is not directly the product of
the Sixth Education Project, the proceeds of the loan were used in its
experimental study and later in the development of the planning process and
the substance of planning which provided the basis for the training of the
provincial educational staff throughout the country.
3.58     Although the expert's recommendations on reorganization of the MOE
Educational Planning Division have not yet been fully implemented, there
has been a movement towards that direction. The new approach on provincial
planning, while being treated as a separate issue, will no doubt ease off
some of the problems previously existing. Above all, there is now common
understanding among educational planners, departmental and provincial
alike, as to what steps should be taken and which substantive areas of
educational planning should be involved.  Furthermore, the budget system
and program structure recently developed can be used to facilitate planning
under a system of educational development as complex as Thailand's.
3.59     An attempt to improve internal efficiency in the various planning
organizations may create disappointment to many. This is an area in which
it is difficult to ascertain whether or not a vast investment program like
this one is effective. What one can do at most is to be contented with the
number of staff having been trained in the areas of expertise needed, and
the number of staff retained and performing functions relevant to the
issues having been redressed by the project.   Not until bureaucratic
obstacles have been removed and experience gained by the staff themselves
put to use can the return on investment be evaluated.  The final project
evaluation should be able to shed some light on this.
3.60     While REOs have been envisaged as educational resource centers to
facilitate the upgrading of the quality of education in their respective
locality, much is left to be desired by way of functional development,
readiness of facilities and staff, and clear-cut directions.  Spearheaded
attempts to lay ground for academic development activities such as instruc-
tional materials development and research have yet to pass the conceptual
confusions before they are ready to move towards overcoming technical
issues. The core of staff which has been developed so far shouid continue
to be guided and their confidence be developed. They need both technical
and moral support, and strong leadershbp that can bring them along towards
better confidence and courage in a new direction.   Sustainability of the
envisaged mission of the REOs hinges upon periodical updated training and
perhaps supply of additional equipment, and budget support for their
activities.
3.61     The overall educational planning process in Thailand may be
simplified as follows. The NESDB takes full responsibility in drafting the
five-year economic and social development plan embracing the education
sector, together with policies and directives which are submitted to the
Cabinet for approval. While the plan is being drafted by the NESDB, the
NEC interprets these policies and directives into educational development
policies in congruence with national socio-economic development.   Then,
expn.ditures and enrollment tergets by level and type of education are
elaborated with due consideration to manpower requirement.  Subsequer.tly,
directing offices such as the Ministries of Education and University



- 70 -
Affairs translate the educational policies and directives into plans/
projects and expenditures which are then presented to NEC for analysis.
Next a draft plan is prepared and submitted to the cabinet for final
approval.   Formal coordination is provided through a representation
mechanism established in NESDB, NEC and MOE.   Informal coordination is
carried out through consultation between top administrators of the three
agencies in the formulation of plan, policy and objectives, and through
concerted efforts among planning staff of these agencies in detailing
enrollment, expenditures, plans/projects and wrLting up the draft plan.
I
i
I
!



71 -                              Annex 3-1
Page 1
THAILAND
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary of Experts' Services
for Planning and Management Component
Component and Field                                                   Duration
of Services                   Name of Expert              Date        (Mos.)  Remarks
NESDB
Population Distribution   Suchart Prasith-ratheint  Nov 84 - Oct 85  12    Part-time
and Migration Policy       Suwanlee Piampiti
Long-Term Labor Supply    Nibhon Poapongeakorn        Nov 84 - Oct 85  12    Part-time
Projection                 Chesada Loohawenchit
Public Manpower Planning  Pratya VesaracL             Dec 84 - Nov 85  12    Part-time
Tin Prachyapruit
Dphiavadee Meksawan
Chao Attamana
Manpower Development in   Somchob Chaiyavej           Nov 84 - OCt 85  12    Part-time
Leading Industries         Pornchai Tulyathan
Atchaka Brimble
Chuachan Chongsatityoo
Damri Sukotanung
Information System         Supachai Tangwongsan       May 85 - Apr 86  12    Part-time
Development
Manpower and Educational  Saisuree Chutikul           Dec 84 - Nov 85  12    Part-time
Planning                   Ajva Taulananda
Vlchitra Prompunthum
Ah-ramKotikula
Sumalee Pitayanon
Pramuan Senarith
Development Administra-   Pratya Vesarach             Jul 83 - Oct 83   4    Full-time
tion System in the                                    Jan 84 - Aug 84   8    Part-time
Public Sector
Interlinkage Between a    Sumalee Pitayanon           Oct 83 - May 84   6    Full-time
Comprehensive Manpower
Planning and Education
Planning                                                                                    !
Employment Planning in    Pradit Charsombat           Mar 83 - Feb 84  12    Full-time
Macro Economic
Development Model



- 72 -                               Annex 3-1
Page 2
Component and Field                                                  Duration
of Services                   Name of Expert             Date        (Mos.)  Remarks
NEC
Educational Planning and  Kaw Swasdi Panich          Dec 83 - Dec 84  38    Full-time
Administration                                        Jul 85 - Aug 86
Aug 86 - Oct 87
Educational Planning and  Khunying Aree Kultan       May 85 - Apr 86  24    Full-time
Administration                                       May 86 - Apr 87
Preparation of Training   Ampol Thimasan             May 85 - Jun 85   2    Part-time
Materials on 'Programme
and Project Preparation
and Project Analysis"
Preparation of Training   Veraphol Suvannunt         May 85 - Jun 85   2    Part-time
Materials on 'Opera-
tional Plan Formulation
and Project Administra-
tion"
Preparation of Training   Somwung Pitiyanuvat        May 85 - Jun 85   2    Part-time
Materials on 'Project
Monitoring and
Evaluation'
Preparation of Training   Thienchay Kiranandana      Jun 85 - Aug 85   2    Part-time
Materials on 'The Analy-
sis of Economic Factors
Related to Education'
Preparation of Training   Chainarong Suvarnasara    Jun 85 - Aug 85   2    Part-time
Materials on 'The Study
and Analysis of Educa-
tional Problems in
General by Level and
Kind of Education'
Preparation of Training   Supang Chantavanich        Jun 85 - Aug 85   2    Part-time
Materials on 'The
Analysis of Social
Factors Related to
Education'



Annex 3-1
Page 3
Component and Field                                                  Duration
of Services                   Name of Expert              Date       (Moe.)  Remarks
Preparation of Training   Uthai Boonprasert          Jun 85 - Aug 85   2    Part-time
Materials on 'The
Formulation of Aims and
Policies for Educational
Development at
Provincial Level*
To analyze lesson plans,  Kuakul Cooparat            Jun 85 - Sept 85  4    Part-time
to identify and select
appropriate teaching
aids and to evaluate and
develop various kinds of
teaching aids
Development of Training   Sunthon Sunancha.          Oct 86 - Nov 86   1    Part-time
Module, Unit on Non-
formal Education
Planning
Trainer in Provincial      Ta Ngoe Cha^u             Jun 85 - Aug 85   1    daily
Pilot Project at Rayong   Dieter Bestecher                                   allowances
Claude Tibi                                       and air
Angela Dando                                      fare
MOE
Eduicationai Planning and  Thamrong Buasri            Jun 83 - Mar 84  12    Full-time
Management
Development of Planning   Ampol Timasan              Jan 87 - Oct 87  10    Part-time
and budgeting system at   Thienchay Kiranandana
the central level of      Visuth Kanchanasuk
Ministry of Education      Pramuan Senarith
Development of Data Base  Dilok Bunruangrod and      Jun 87 - Apr 88  11    Part-time
and Information Services  18 persons
Planning and Management   Uthai Boonprasert          Oct 83 - Sept 84 12    Full-time
at the Provincial Level                              Oct 84 - Mar 85   6    Part-time
of ONPEC
Project Administrative    Harold N. van Cuylenburg  Jun 85 - Jun 88  36    Full-time
Advisor



- 74 -                               Annex 3-1
Page 4
Component and Field                                                   Duration
of Services                   Name of Expert              Date        (MHo.)  Remarks
REO                          Chalio Buripakdi           Sep 84 - Sep 85  12    Full-time
Educational Research and                              Oct 86 - Sep 87  12    Part-time
Development
Instructional Material    Wijitr Pakdirath            Nov 87 - Mar 88   6    Part-time
Education                  Tanit Pusiri
Somponse Somjaijarern
Educational Inspection    Kamol Sudprasert            Dec 87 - Mar 88  Sl*   Part-time
lam Toboonliang
Kannikar Chantshirun
Chittreeya Chaisriprom
Instructional Production  Kowit Pravalpruk &          Jan 88 - Mar 88  2Jk   Part-time
for the Assessment of      9 persons
Education Quality



- 75 -                                   Annex 8-2
Page 1
THAILAND
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Suwms" of FelloshlDs and Staff Tralning
For Plannine *nd MUnoement Cooonent
Component and Field                                                Duration
of Services                  Follow or Trainee          Date        (Mo.)  Instutlon/Country
NEDSD
N.A. Local Proorpmwe
Hu"mn Settlement Dowel    Presert Kmonwatenenise    Apr 65 - Nov Be  20    )The Asian
Human Settlement Dowel   Ksemoun Chinnavaso         Apr 65 - Nov 8s  20    }Institute
flet. Computing Science   Boonchal Chetpiroonpen   Apr 86 - Dc 865   8    )Technology
Economic Development      Plyaned Toasen            Jul 86 - Jun 88 24    NIDA
Ovrseas Trainins
Senior Management         Penchan Kekanentedlilok    Jan 85 - Apr 65   8   University of
Programme                 Orasa Boonerl                                     Manchester,
England
Project Monagement        Sew.t Chaijan             May 865 - Aug 86   8    Royal Institute of
Yupayong Chaveno                                 of Public Adminis-
Darinee Plyatenti                                tration, England
Prajak Poosi riveat
Manpower Studies           W11i1  Wongpoonsin         Sept 65 - Dec 85  8   University of
Tupin Rodpong                                    Msnchoeter,
Suwanee K uan                                    England
Eduectlonal Planning and    Yan  Soonthornthua        Apr 86 - Aug 66   a    1 Northwest
Admlnlitratlon              Suledda Strilertpipet                             3 Reglonal
3 Education Asia
Labor Day                   Vunda Kositchalwat        Oct 6o - Jul 87   6      Pacific Regional
Info-Systems
1 Laboratory
3 Oregon, U.S.A.
Local Training



- 76 -                                   Annex 8-2
Page 2
Component and Field                                               Duritlon
of Services                 Fellow or  ailnee          Date        (Moe.)  Instutlon/Country
Computer                   Peeratap Roongehivin      Jul 86 - Aug 86  1     I Al   Chulalong-
Vann. o8ulouk                                   korn University
Tsannnyo Theramatach
Vatcharl Sintuvanitch
Plya Surapanitch
Chup Sukeet
NEC /1
Ph.D. Program              Knjaone Jiratesprasud   Aug 83 - Nov BY 60 1/2 Harvord
Program/roject Monitor-                                                    University, U.S.A.
Ing Evaluation Pol.oy
Analysis and Evoluation
Economles of Education
Piteane  Jeadeehat       Aug 80 - Aug 68 60    University of
Pittsburgh, U.S.A.
Oversea Training
Educational Planning and   Oranooch Cooparat         Jan 84 - Jun 84 6      lIEP Paris, France
Aditnistration             Pornthip Suwnnaroj        Jan 64 - Jun 84 6      lISP Paris, France
Supawadoe Trattenn       Apr so - Jul 86 6      Northwest Regional
Education Asia
Pacific Regional
Info-System Lab-
oratory Oregon,USA
Dat Sas Planning and        Joad Anakhaongkhom       Apr 84 - Jun U4 2      ZIEP Paris, France
Administration              Montri Tentisarl         Apr 84 - Jun 84 2      lIEP Pears, France
Policy Analysis             Uraiv-n Sanghtrun        Dee e8 - Oct 84 11    IIEP Paris, France
Delopmnt Documentation   Kelya Tharatnopakoon    May 65 - Jul 86 21/2
Stritorn Tadthi                           21/2
Program/Project Management NHramon KCittiwiboon      Jan 86 - Dec 8612      University of
Documenttion                                                                Oreon A Stanford
University, U.S.A
Provincial Training Coure Chuachan Chongsathityoo   Mar e4           2 wks  ISP Paris France
Developmnt                  and krunsrl Chitchang                    2 wko
/1  Office of the National Education Commission per their letter of September 29,
1989, has indicated that the above data is incorrect. Please see Attachment
I (page 114) for correct data.



- 77 -
Annox 8-2
Pag S
Component and Field                                                Duration
ot Services                  Fellow or Traineo          Dote        (Moe.)  lnetutlon/Country
Local Training
Date Processing             Konmkiet Sahawanangura    May 8S - Aug 18 4      The Asian
Boonchong Ruangeaead                             Intitute of
Tawe porn Boounmnich                             Technology
Date Management System      Sirwan Booneiri           Aug 83 - Dec 88 4      The Asian
Perapanit Chatinan                               Institute ot
Nuanchnn Poyakul                                 Technology
Meaurement and Sampling    NEC 18 Traines             Sop 86 - Oct 86  2     Chulslongkorn
Techniques                  MOE 6 TraInoes                                   University
Polley Analy*is and              Trotnees             Sep so - Oct so  2     Chulelongkorn
Develop mnt                 NEC 22 MOE a NESD8 1                             University
Educational Planning        NEC 12 Trainee            Jun 84 - Jul 84  1    Rayong Province
(Training of Trainer)      MNE 28 Trainee
UOE
EPD
Ph.D. Progrm
International Development   Athipat Cleesuntorn       Aug 8  - Aug 87 40     Florida State
Education                                                                    University, USA
M.A. Program
Public Policy and           Procha Rttovorn           Sep 84 - Feb 88 16     The InstitutO of
Adainistration                                                               Social Studies,
The Hague,
Netherlands
Measurment, Evaluation,    Sunant  Sangthong          Jn 865 - Aug 86 20     Michigan State
Research (ssIgn                                      ,                       University, USA
Educattonal Intormetion     Srtprabha Kirdkrung       Mar 86 - Mar 87 24     Michigan State
System. Development                                                          Universlty, USA



Annex 8-2
-  78 -                                    page 4
Component and Field                                                  Duration
of S rvices                   Follow or Traine            Date       (Moe.)  Instutlon/Country
DOVE
Organimatioe. Planning A     Sunee Plch eiit            Oct 88 - Sep 65 24     University of
Management In Education                                                        Reading, England
Ovoreas Tralning EPO
Educational Planning A       Ubol banharneupawat        Jon - Jun 84     6     UIEP Paris, France
Administration               Boonlue Tongyoo            Jan - Jun 865    6      UIEP Parts, France
Planning and                 Montri Singhabutr          Oct e6 - may es  8      IIEP Paris, France
Administrative Education
Managemnt Information        Nunnchan Surachalkan       May 84 - Aug 84  8     Royal Institute of
Systems                                                                        Public Administra-
tion, England-
Project Management           Cherdelri Khloakhaw        May 84 - Aug  4  8 
Boonurl Ponachit           May 86 - Aug 85  8               6
Sureerat Cattapan                           8               a
Apichart Chevarunprasert                    8               9
Mendhana Sanckhakrlnao   Oct 88 - Jun U4  6       University of
London, England
Advonced Course in           Rano" Srlromsakul          Apr 87 - Jul 87  8     University of
Educational Planning for                                                       London, England
Technical Education A
Vocational Training
Planning and                 Vinol Teoklo               Oct 88 - Aug 67 10     Michlepn State
Administrative Education                                                       University, USA
Planning Techniques for      Prosern Ratanarat          Sep 68 - Apr 84  6      3 Th- Dnstitute of
Educational Development                                                        ] Socall Studios
3 The Hague,
1 Notherlands
Planning for Rural           Pramote Janekven           Sep 68 - Apr 84  8
Development
Planning Managemn t          Sriv lol Sa jle            Jan - Apr U      a     DNNOTECH
Innovation A Technology      Sakon Chuntup                                     P1llippines



- 79                                     Annex 8-2
Page 5
Component and Flld                                                Duration
of Services                  Follow or Trainee          Date        (Mo..)  Inetutton/Country
Other
EPO
Education&. Planning        Wichln Sassopon          Oct 88 - Jun 84  6     University of
London, England
Educational Planning and    Prakob Yoechombun         Oct 68 - Jun 84  6     University of
Educattonal Policy                                                           London, England
Managmet
Educational Planning        Yenruede Wong4udh         Oct 83 - Jun 84 6      University of
London, England
Vinal Kratuengan          Jan 85 - Jun 86 0      JIEP Paris, Franc.
Planning and                Sune Seranevijalkltkhan  Oct 86 - May 86  8       IIEP Paris, France
Administrative Education
Planning and Developmnt
In Non-Fornml Education     Veerachal Machobthos      Aug 84 - Apr 86  8     Florida State
University, USA
OEC
Educational Administration Charat Nongmak             Jun 86 - Mar 86 10     University of
with Emphasis tn Policy                                                       Missouri, Columbia
Analysis and Deelopment                                                      USA
Educational Administration  Phongpri Liachaichans    Jun 86 - Mar 86 10    University of
with Emphasis In Reserch                                                      Missourl, Columbia
and Evaluation of School,                                                    USA
Management and Education
outco_m
DOE
Planning and                Duangkaaon  oonchanawlwat Jan 88 - Jun 88  6      JIEP Parts, France
Administration Education    Serm Kmolprabbh           Oct 85 - may 86  8      JIEP Parts, France
Planning Mangagment         Angana Pattanapolplboon  Jan 84 - Apr 84  8       INNOTECIE
Innovation and Technology   Takol Nirunsirnch         Apr U4 - Jun 84  a     Philippines 
Nip Sakulkhoo            35p  4 - Doc 84  a



'- 80 -                                Annex a-2
Page 6
Component and Field                                                Duration
of Services                  Fellow or Trolnee          Date        (Mos.)  Inatution/Country
Project Managemont          Luduan Chlyatham          may e5 - Aug 06  8      3 Royal Institue
3 of Public
Administration,
England
MUanagmnt Information       Suwat Suktrinul           May 64 - Aug 64  8
Systems
Financial Management In     Pathoosrat Rionpaisal     Jul 86 - Sep 86  a
Covernmnt
Development Planning        Noppadol Porneukaron      Sep 04 - Apr 86  7      The Institute ot
Techntqun                                                                     Social Studios,
The Haguo,
Netherlands
CPU
Projet Managemnt In         Charmn Namfar             Mar 84 - Jun 04  B      Ministry ot
Civil Works                                                                  Education,
Australia
Planning Management         Thanongj t Thloun        Apr 64 - Jun 84         IDNNOTECH
Innovation and Technology   Surenrat Tungyarit        Sep 87 - Doe 87 8      Philippines
Projoet Manageent           Laddan Smltano             May S6 - Aug 65  8    Royal Institute of
Public
Administration,
England
REO
Local Training
Educational Research and    12 persons                Jul e8 - Oct 08  8    Srlnakarinwirot
Development                                                                   Universlty,
Prasarnit Campus
Production of               12 persons                Jul 63 - Oct 88 8       Srinakarlnwirot
Supplementary                                                                 University,
Instructlonal Materials                                                      Praarnmit Campus
Education Research and      8O persons                Dec 87 - Jan so 1      SIlpekorn
Evaluation                                                                    University
Instructlonal Material      80 persons                Mar s8 - Apr as 1    Srtnakarinwirot
University,
Phita_ulok Cmpun



- 82.-                            Annex 3-3
Page 1
THAILAND
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
NEC & MOE Provincial Training in Educational
Planning and Management
Group         Region                 Date                 No. of Trainees
1              4          13 - 23 November 1985                   80
2              2           5 - 15 March 1986                      64
3              3          14 - 27 May 1986                         80
4              9           7 - 18 July 1986                       81
5             10           4 - 15 August 1986                    110
6             11          25 Aug - 5 Sept 1986                    83
7              1           5 - 18 November 1986                    76
a              5          20 Nov - 3 Dec 1986                      77
9             12          15 - 26 December 1986                  106
10              6          19 - 30 January 1987                    117
11              8          16 - 27 February 1987                   134
12              7          16 - 27 March 1987                      134
Total                          1,142



-83 -
IV.  STUDIES     PROJECT EVAUlATlON
Introductionj
4.01     Part of the loan was apportioned to sub-sectoral studies and           
evaluation of the project.  Originally three major areas vere identified
for priority studies:  vocational and technLeal education and manpower
needs, teacher training, and educatLonal planning. As for project evalua-
tion, the Office of the National Education Commission would undertake
separate mid-term and final evaluations of all components of the project to
assess the planning. implementation and impact of the project components,
determining the extent to which the objectives were being met and identi-
fying the major strengtls and weaknesses of the project.  This orhapter
summa lzes areas of studies, their scope and design, findings, problems
encountered, and policy imptecations and recommetdations (if any), and only
the final evaluation is included as this will provide the latest informa-
tion about the project.
Sub-sectoral StudLes
4.02    Mon-itoring Nechanism for Sub-Sectoral Studies. The implementation
of sub-sectoral studies was monitored and coordinated by a sub-co«nittes
established by the standing Steering Committee for Educational Development
Posjects under Loans. This sub-committee was chaired by a Deputy Permanent
Secretary and the Educational Planning Division was its secretariat. The
areas of studies were as follows:
:.  Improvement of Vocational and Technical Programs in Formal
and Non-Formal Education undertaken by the Department of
Curriculum and Instruction Development from October 1986 to
March 1988.
2.  Research and Development Models for Technician Teacher
Competency Development Pertaining to the Curricula of the
Vocational Certificate, Diploma and Higher Vocational
Certificate undertaken by the Institute of Technology and
Vocational Education from May 1987 to March 1988.
3. Study on Mapping of Private Schools undertaken by the Officee
of the National Education Commission from October 1986 to
March 1988.
4.  Research on Educational Resources Distribution Planning
undertaken by the Educationat Ptanning Division, Office of
the Permanent Secretary for Education from December 1986 to
March 1988.
5.  Research and Development of a Model for Community
Organizations Cooperation in Primary EducatLon undertaken by
the Office of the National Primary Education Commission from
September 1987 to March 1988.



- 84 -
6.   Project Auditing Systems undertaken by the Educational
Planning Division, Office of the Permanent Secretary for
Education from December 1986 to March 1988.
7.   The Second IEA Science Study - Thailand undertaken by the
Institute for the Promotion of Teaching Science and
Technology from October 1986 to March 1988.
8.   Study on Production and Utilization of Teachers undertaken by
the Department of Teacher Education from March 1985 to
December 1987.
Protlems Encountered
4.03     A problem common to all studies was the time-consuming process in
getting a budget releaie for the revolving funds, especially prior to com-
mencement of eP-h study, which took about three months from the date of
application to the date of approval.   Another problem, also shared by
several studies, was unavailability of full time independent educational
researchers and reliance of studies of this nature on the expertise of the
staff of public educational institutions who could work only part-time on
the project. This was the case because experienced and capable educational
researchers are either full-time officials of the public sector or tenure
employees of private organizations, both of which are expensive and who
cannot be released full-time without sacrifice. The two problems together,
became major factors in retarding completion of the studies.
4.04     Cost of Studies.  The cost of the studies is shown in Annex 4-1.
4.05     Summary of Sub-Sectoral Studies.  Summary of sub-sectoral studies
is reported hereupon in respect of design and scope, findingi, problems
encountered and policy implications and recommendations, if any.
1. Improvement of Vocational and Technical Programs in Fomal
and Non-Formal Education
Scope of the Study
4.06     The study was confined to the vocational/technical training
programs which catered to P.6 school leavers from the 1978 Primary School
Curriculum, and the sample institutions were those admitting or likely to
admit graduates of compulsory education. The purpose of the study was to
analyze current situations and related factors, and to identify suitable
programs for occupational training of the learners to meet with their
potential.
Summary of Findings
4.07     There is a great need to provide occupational training to primary
school leavers, especially those who do not continue to secondary educa-
tion. A number of approaches are possible to cater to the different needs
of these learners, such as to:   (a) improve quality of life, (b) ...
increase family income, (c) ... develop the economy of the community, and



- 85 -
(d) ... pursue a specific occupation, etc.  No matter which approach is
used, it should be self-contained and take up a relatively short perlod of
training such as 100 or 200 hours. The model should also stress team work,
self-reliance, responsibility, planning skills, and division of labor. In
organizing the training courses, a number of factors should be given due
consideration, such as the learner's personality traits, his needs, the
nature of the program, instructional organization, organization of work
experiences, management and occupational guidance.
4.08     Some of the models that have been identified for application to
out-of-school youths are as follows:
1.   Basic skill training for a living, stressing basic knowledge
and skills and working habits as a minimum requirement for
school leavers whose age does not exceed 16.
2.   Occupational training to generate income in the village, to
upgrade existing occupations to a suitable level for a com-
munity of around 100 households.
3.   General basic vocational training, to provide common basic
skills in, and favorable attitudes towards, a particular
group of occupations in preparation for a particular trade or
self-employment.
4.   Training for employment or self-employment, to provide self-
employment or employment by others.
5.   Occupational training for a better standard of living by
improving the skills for their initial occupations or
training them in new skills necessary for a new occupations
that generate higher income.
6.   Specific skills training of the intereat groups in handicraft
and industrial arts.
7.   Continuing training for farmers' children who have completed
P.6 but do not continue formal schouling and have their own
farms, by upgrading farming occupations through new
technologies.
8.   Specialized skills training, for 1-3 years, for P.6 school
leavers aged 15 or older to enable them to produce a good
standard/quality of work.
9.   Community-oriented occupation development for self-reliance
by means of community concerted efforts to study and resolve
problems through training in a local or nearby institution.
PoliC Imnlications and Recommendations
4.09     The piloting of any model identified in this study should take
into consideration five major factors, namely:



- 86 -
1.   The learners themselves, in terms of their needs, interest,
aptitude and ability.
2.   The curriculum, in terms of its suitability and responsive-
ness to the needs of the learners and the locality.
3.  The instructional process, in terms of capable teachers and
the mode of learning that will provide adequate knowledge and
skills for occupation and further self-learning.
4.   The practical aspect of learning, in terms of direct work
experiences and improved production.
5.   The managerial skills, in terms of team work which involves
cooperative planning, sharing of responsibility and team work
habits necessary for small scale enterprises that may
possibly lead to entrepreneurship.
2. Models for Technician Teacher Competency Development Pertaining
to the Vocational Certificate. Diploma and
Higher Vocational Certificate Curricula
-Scope of the Study
4.10     The study admed at analyzing the curricula of all programs at all
levels of technician education including technician teachers degree pro-
grams in all institutions; competency testing of technician teachers in
ITVE, DOVE and KNIT; and conducting an opinion survey of vocational educa-
tion experts. On the basis of these activities, desirable competencies of
technician teachers would be identified, the level of competencies and
factors associated with low-level competencies be determined, and models
for development of pre-service and post-service technician teachers be
proposed.
Summary of Findings
1. A model for in-service technician teachers development, called
Performance-Based Training Model, as opposed to welfare-oriented training,
was proposed to upgrade and refresh in-service teachers. The most critical
steps of the model involve the identification of areas, types, competencies
and individuals for which training is necessary and analysis of the levels
of competencies that need upgrading to acceptable standard levels.   The
next logical steps involve curriculum design, material preparation,
personnel and facilitie4 preparation, conducting of training, supplementary
training, Job placement and post-evaluation.
2.   A model for pre-servica training called Competency-Based
Curriculum Construction Model was proposed for application in the indi-
vidual institutions.   The most critical steps of the model involve
(a) analysis of teachers' tasks in a particular teaching area,
(b) derivation of tasks into competencies, and (3) derivation of competen-
cies into topics to be studied by the students.  The next logical steps



° 87 -
involve development of courses, instructor training, teaching and
evaluation.
3. A proposed model for technical teachers preparation and utili-
zation for the country suggests an establishment of a Policies and Plans
Commission to determine such matters as training objectives, turget
numbers, qualifications, salary scales, equipment requirements, and student
admission. The curriculum should take into account the students" academic
background and competency requirements; provide core coursos and options;
involve more participation by enterprises for practicum; and provide an
euvironment for self-learning.  The graduates should be issued a certi-
ficate of competency based on a qualifying test.   The utilization and
development of teachers should be monitored by a standing committee to
ensure proper staff recruitment, administration, development, and welfare
services.
3. Manning of Resources in Private Education
Scope of the Study
4.11     The study looked at pre-primary, primary, secondary and vocational
private educational institutions in terms of their condition, services,
environments, resources, and resource utllization with a view to ascer-
taining their distribution and coverage.
Summary_g oFDdiUa
1. Distribution and enrollmont. One-third of the schools and 50%
of the students are in Bangkok Metropolis, constituting 6% of the school
attending age group.   The student profile showed 27% In pre-primary
classes, 9% primary, 12% lower secondary, 8% upper secondary and 41%
vocational.   Over the period 1984-1986 th-re was a decline in overall
enrollment.
2. Sharing of resources. Most schools offered several levels of
education, were operated by individuals on their oWn land, and teaching was
by degree teachers. Most schools received government subsidies which went
to provincial schools at a greater proportion than those located in
Bangkok.   Fees levied by Bangkok schools were higher.   Other sources of
income were funds raised by alumni and money collected from food and
stationary sold to students.   Some forms of community reciprocation were
such as permission for thc use of facilities, exemptions of school fees and
scholarships. In the main, private schools are faced with a diversity of
problems ranging from instructional facilities to noise interference.
3.  Parents' attitude toward school.   Most parents were middle
claps families and sent their children to private schools because of their
proximity and reputations for discipline and academic standards. Group-
operated schools scemed to gain more confidence from oarents than
individually-operated ones did.  Most parents would continue .ending their
next children to private schools.



. 88 -
Policy Implications and Recommenoations
1. A policy on expansion of government schools ald/or enrollment
in urban areas should be in favor of the accommodation capacity of private
schools, that is, the expansion should be frozen to allow existing private
schools to continue.
2.  The NOE should review the criteria for establishment of
-rivate schools to favor long-term stability and development of the
schools, as the tendency now is towards acceptance of group-operated
institutions.
3. Assistance should be provided to private schools in the form
of long-term low interest loans or interest-free credits to enable them to
procure facilities and education equipment adequate for their staff and
student instruction, thus raising the standard of private schools to be on
par with public institutions.
4.   Library facilities and personnel should be included as a
standard criteria for approval of secondary and post-secondary school
establishment. At the primary and lower level, these may be put forth as
an alternative requirement.
5.   A continuing staff development scheme for private school
adr'.nistrators and key teachers should be provided by the OPEC through
cooperation with local universities with a view to improving administrative
and instructional efficiencies.
4. Educational Resources Distribution Planning
Scope of the Studv
4.12     The nature of this study, carried out in the school year i986, was
a general resources survey of all levels of educational institutions under
the MOE covering mainly the adequacy of teachers and equipment with a view
to ascertaining trends in the needs and utilization of these resources and
proposing guidelines for their effective use.
Summarv of Finding3
1.   Primary Education.   Baseline data showed 31,334 primary
schools under the ONPEC with 337,118 teachers and 6,728,762 students. The
number of teachers showed an imbalance of nearly 4%, which was most pro-
nounced in the northeast as indicated by a high teacher-to-student ratio
(1:21), although some surplus was evident in other regions especially the
central plain.   Basic furniture--blackboards,  desks and chairs--was
generally sufficient, while instructior.al equipment and materials were
generally insufficient especially in the northeast. Of a major concern is
the school library which did not exist in 43% of the schools and this lack
was most acute in the northeast.
2.  Secondary Education.   Baseline data showed 1,713 secondary
schools under the DGE with 92,913 teachers and 1,599,743 students. Degree



- 89 -
teachers constituted about 80% of the total number, the latter still facing
a 6% imbalance, especially in industrial arts, science and physical educa-
tion. Educational equipment was generally adequate.
3. Vocational Education. Baseline d.ata showed 186 colleges under
the DOVE with 14,772 teachers and 241,034 students.   Degree teachers
constituted about 75% of the total number.  TIe teacher-to-student ratio
averaged 1:18, but varied vastly from 1:10 for agricultural colleges to
1:19 for technical colleges, 1:21 for vocational colleges, and 1:28 for
polytechnic colleges, hence indicating general staff imbalances in those
colleges with higher ratlos.   Staff imbalances also occurred in specific
fields such as electronics, electricity, computer science, marketing,
animal husbandry, fishery and some academic fields such as English and
physical education, although the percentage was low (2-4%). The findinga
on instructional and office equipment showed that the supplies were still
insufficient. Many existing items were rather obsolete or out-of-order and
some were not relevant to the requirements of the lessons.  t. list of
equipment items most frequently cited as shortages was appended to the
report, with class.fication by type of institutions and subject areas.
4. Technology and Vocat'onal Education. Baseline data showed 37
campuses with 3,876 teachers and 59,582 students.   The rank order of
student enirollment placed industrial technician educa0ion first and
business education second, while agriculture and handicraft/arts were the
next largest fields. Other fields such as technician edueation, business
administration, home economics and engineering were minor groups.   Like-
wise, the distribution of teachers followed the pattern of student
enrollment.   The number of teachers with qualifications below graduate
degrees constituted 78%, thus indicating room for expedition of staff
development.   The teacher-to=student ratio did not seem to be a valid
indicator of staff adequacy as classes were operated in two shifts, with
the morrinz, shift showing an average ratio of 1:9 and the afternoon shift
1:3.   Conclusively, the findings revealed quite adequate human resources
for the ITVE, and shortages became concealed in the aggregate profile. In
terms of instructional equipment, some items were reported by rany campuses
as commonly lacking.
4.   Teacher Education.   The aggregate profile of 36 teacher
colleges under the Department of Teacher Education showed 5,633 teaching
staff members, 47,716 bona fide students and 6,760 pupils of demonstration
schools. The proportion of teachers classified by their educational quali-
fications was 45:73:7 compared to the standard requirament 20:70:10 for the
undergraduate:master's:doctoral degrees.   Whereas the teacher-to-student
ratio was 1;9 compared to standard 1:15, the average teaching load was 10
periods per week, about the same as standard. Department heads expressed
needs for more teachers specializing in music, dramatic arts, agriculture,
mathematics and computer.   More supportive staff were needed to relieve
teachers of clerical work. Office equipment--particularly desks, cabinets
and typewriters--and slide projectors and audio systems were needed.
5. Fine Arts Education. The 11 schools of fine arts under the
Department of Fine Arts had 753 teachers and 6,902 students, showing a
ratio of 1:9.   For highly specialized training such as this, the small
ratio was justifiable in terms - small group practice. It happened that a
vast number of posts (469) had not been filled to lighten the load on the



i 90 -
teachers.   Aside from this, some shortages were reported in academic
sutbjects in whtch teachers taught as many as 20 periods per week. Costumes
and Thai/folk musical instruments %ere reported to be lacking quite
substantially.
6.  ftfiicat Educatlon.  The decrease in the teacher-to-student
ratic in 17 colleges of physical education was so drastic that it became a
litt:le over 1:1 in some colleges.  As the demand for physical edvcatior.
teachers had declined, the issue of staff surplus would have to be
seriously tackled.  Some alternatives such as teaching across colleges or
institutions and conducting research studies on new techniques in physical
education development could help in utilizing the staff more actively. At
this stage the colleges added security personnel training to their two
standard programs, namely, physical education and health education.
Policy ImDlications And Recommendation.
A. Educational Personnel
1.   Ministerial standards and measures for mutual  inter-
departmental planning on the distribution of staff should be developed to
maximize their utilization.
2.   A feasibility study of inter-departmental sharing of human
resources should be first carried out before the scheme is widely imple-
mented, as this seems to be obstructed by the staff's own limitations,
rules and regulations, and oudgeting procedures.                                      k
3.   There should be a good in-service program for teachers
involving local plants or enterprises for keeping pace with new skills and
developments.
4.  The placement of teachezs in vocational/technical education
should give credit to work experience in much the same way as educational
qualifications.
5.   The study program of physical education colleges should
include such other fields as coaching, sports science, industrial hygiene,
child and elderly care, etc.
B. Educational Materials and Equipment
1.  Quality, suitability, investment and obsolescence s'ould be
duly considered in educational equipment procurement.
2. Priority should be given to the northeast in the allocation of
budget for equipment procurement.
3.  Standards for educational equipment should be developed and
constantly revised to keep up with technological advancement and actual
use, especially in industrialized areas or accelerated developing zones.
As such equipment is rather expensive, budget support should be corres-
pondingly generous.



- 91 -
5. A& lod2l for Communitv Organizations Cooperation
in Primary Education
Scope of the Study
4.13     This study investigated the development and current status and
issues of the local educational committees, including their inputs on
quality development of primary education, with,a view to deriving an effec-
tive model consisting of a curriculum, training methods, activities and
materialt for the development of a more efficient local organization. The
three basic questions to be answered by the study were ... (a) To what
extent the committees were carrying out their designated task, ... (b) What
were the key factors affecting their task and in what manner, and ...
(c) How effective was the program for the development of the educational
committee cooperation?
Summary of Findings
4.14     The extent to which the committees were carrying out their task,
including their work satisfaction, appeared to be rather low, although they
were quite committed to the school and provided cooperation with genuine
responsibility and commitment to the school activities. Key factors asso-
ciated with work effectiveness w :e mutual consultation and collaboration
on the one hand, and task understanding and performance on the other. The
training curriculum and methods were highly effective irrespective of the
school's location.
Policy Implications and Recommendations
4.15     On a short-term basis, the ONPEC should train the members of the
Education committees and concerned school staff members in order to
mobilize the high potential of these human resources.   On a long-term
basis, the ONPEC should set forth a clear-cut policy and objectives to
elicit the cooperation and support of this community organization by
revising the NOE;s Educational Committees Regulation B.E.2525, especially
in matters related to the roles and duties and scope of work.   In like
manner, the role of the school itself should also be revised to enable it
to serve as secretariat to the committee. It would be desirable to specify
the minimum qualification of the committee members more precisely, such as
a minimum educational attainment of a literacy level. The qualifications
committee member who is responsible for the student and cultural affairs
should also be reconsidered (as this is quite a specialized field of public
services).
6. Project Auditing Systems
Scope of the Study
4.16     This study aimed at testing and evaluating and monitoring the
project auditing system in three district primary and secondary schools in
three provinces with a view to deriving the most effective model for



- 92 -
nationwide adoption. Three policy statements were chosen as the substan-
tive content to test applicability of the auditing model which is charac-
terized by ...(a) an optimum degree of self-evaluation, with external
evaluation only performing the motivation role, ...(b) common agreement on
a set of criteria for evaluation, ... (c) criteria of achievement of the
basis of readiness of the staff and potential of the agency, and ...
(d) the necessity for a clear picture of the achievement of the entire
system.
Summary of FindingsF
4.17     The testing of the model showed two aspects of findings.  On the
substantive aspect, the teachers' comprehension of the three selected
policy statements was quite adequate; the participants' attitude towards
the model was favorable, with some reservations about the policies' practi-
cability and implementability; and the supervisors, as exteinal evaluators,
viewed the model as a helpful tool in clarifying the goal and selecting
areas of school work for motivation. On the conceptual aspect, the model
s'howed a high potential as a practical and useful tool to enhance the
principals and teachers to draw a clearer systematic work plan with clear
views of stages of successful implementation of the policies.   What
remained to be considered was the flow of information between the imple-
menting agencies and the policy-making bodies, and dissemination of educa-
tional innovations to help create a better measure towards the achievement
of the policy goal.
7.  Second IEA Science Stdy
Scone of the Study
4.18     The study involved elaborate analysis of the science curricula in
use in the country, with the main focuses on the objectives, selection and
organization of the science content, teaching and evaluation methods. The
intended curricula were compared with those actually implemented in class-
rooms, the achievement and attitudes of students as curricular outcomes
were studied, and the relationship among student, teacher, classroom pro-
cesses and other factors was examined.   Two target populations were
included, grade 9 students and grade 12 students. The translated version
of the international instrument was used together with another form locally
developed.
Summary of Findings
4.19     The science curricula in use in Thailand placed emphasis on
content to the extent similar to those adopted in IEA member countries.
All scientific processes were present in the Thai science curricula, but
some were treated as minor. Learning behavior was more practice oriented
with the teachers playing the assisting role. Generally speaking, science
teaching and learning in public schools was better than that in private
schools, particularly in laboratory activities. Students' achievement in
the cognitive domain in better equipped schools was better than that in
less equipped ones.   Students' achievement in scientific skills and



- 93 -
processes was moderate, with higher scores of public school students than
those of private schools students.   Students' attitude was favorable,
although they thought that science was a difficult subject.
Policy Implications and Recommendations
1.   Curricular Content.   Some topics present in the science
curricula of IEA member countries but absent in Thailand's
science curricula, should be studied for inclusion in revised
curricula.
2.   Scientific Skills and Processes.   Some topics that were
neglected in Thailand's curricula should be considered for
inclusion in revised curricula.
3.   Instructional Process.  The instructional process should be
more student-oriented, that is, it should be more active in
science activities.
4.   Curricular Outcomes.  Disadvantaged schools, that is, private
and rural schools, should be better equipped with staff,
instructional materials and environment to provide equality
of opportunity for science learning. This should be based on
a readiness/adequacy survey of the schools to identify their
areas of needs.
5.   Students' Attitude.  An in-depth study should be carried out
to identify factors explaining why science is regarded by
students as a difficult subject
8. Production and Utilization of Teachers
Sacoge of the Study
4.20     This study aimed at analyzing teacher competencies with a view to
proposing a model for teacher pre-service and in-service education towards
the development of such competencies. It also looked at the administrative
and supervision efficiency of teacher education and utilization for the
purpose of proposing a more appropriate alternative structure. It finally
looked ahead on the future roles and status of teacher education and
utilization.
Summary of Finding&
1. A general survey of teacher education. The future Thai educa-
tion system was described as an optimistic one, pointing out a smoothing
out of many issues that were permeating the system such as the aims of
education, universal education and the student-teacher relationship.
Teacher education would be highly professional with special measures for
the selection of students. The existing system was here to stay, but with
upward extension to offer graduate degree programs. Pre-service training
would decrease, while in-service training would increase.



- 94 -
2.  Develonment of teachers with desirable com2etencies.   Self-
rating of primary school teachers showed their general teaching abilities
were mostly good, except that some of the most recently developed skills
were just adequate such as the enquiry mode of teaching and sociometrics;
their teaching competencies in the various experience areas were good, and
their "teacher characteristics" were also good.   What remained to be
improved was their teaching behavior which still relied heavily on talking.
For secondary school teachers, their subject-matter knowledge was good, but
they were weak in knowledge' about the technicality of education such as
curriculum development, community relations and educational innovations.
Also, their teaching behavior such as test and measurement, the use of
teaching materials and class control needed improvement. A model for the
development of primary school teaching competencies was proposed encom-
passing curriculum revision, guidelines for efficient teaching, training
programs for supervisors and teaching coordinators, and in-service training
programs. A proposed model for development of secondary teacher competen-
cies was different in that pre-service and in-service programs had dif-
ferent emphasis, the former being more discipline-oriented and the latter
process oriented.
3.   Administrative.  supervisory and institutional efficiency.
Teachers roles, responsibilities, and teaching loads were examined and
findings showed that most of these traits were good or quite good. A pro-
posed model of educational administration and supervision instigated a
replica of the national government with three main levels of administra-
tion: the central body being responsible for policy making, the provincial
body for administration, and the local body for implementation.
4. Future status and roles of teacher education in education and
national development.  The status and role of teacher education institu-
tions should be regionalized with a clear-cut dividing line of responsibi-
lity. Institutions that operate degree programs should be transferred to
the Ministry of University Affairs, whereas institutions that offer
programs lower than the bachelor's degree level should remain in the MOE.
Evaluation of Sixth Education Project
1. Scope and Design
4.21     The evaluation of the Sixth Education Project was undertaken by
the NEC through two separate sub-committees, cne for each component, con-
sisting of experts, representatives of universities and agencies concerned,
and a representative of the respective component.
4.22     The summative evaluation of the LSS component aimed at evaluating
the physical and substantive implementation with focus on four major issues
viz access, relevance, quality and efficiency. The summative evaluation of
the P&M component aimed at determining the achievement of its objectives
and identifying the strengths and weaknesses of the project as a basis for
future educational planning and policy formulation.   An evaluation of
project impacts was excluded because it was still too early for the impact
of the project activities to come into effect.



- 95 -
2. Summary of Findings
4.23    LS.  Access to Lower Secondary Education.   The criterion of
selection based on low transition rates from primary to lower secondary
education to improve access was generally adhered to, with the exception of
certain locations where this criterion was superseded by other factors such
as adequacy of P.6 feeders to justify enrollment expansion.  Increase of
enrollments effective only during the early yeass of project implementation
and the number of students could not be sustained over later years.
Improvement of educational access, in terms o( the P.6 to A.1 transition
rate, occurred in phases 1-3 but not in phases 3-4 and disparity in access
to secondary education seemed to be aggravated rather than reduced, perhaps
resultant upon social and economic disparities that adversely affected the
parents' attitude towards secondary education.
4.24     Relevance of LSSs. With buildings, furniture, equipment and staff
training provided, the project schools offered work/occupational courses in
agriculture, home economics and industrial arts in greater degrees, but
fine arts in lesser degrees. To be specific, about half of the number of
project schools offered masonry and auto-mechanics, about 2025% clothing,
metal work and handicraft, and 8-15% drafting, wood work, food and
electricity.
4.25     In terms of community development activities, the schools provided
more cultural services than information dissemination, and mobile library
services were least relevant.  Community participation in school develop-
ment activities was supportive rather than initiative, except in sports and
games.
4.26     Proiect Efficiency. Physical implementation of the project--civil
works, equipment and furniture--was generally satisfactory, with some
delays and missing items, particularly in equipment procurement. Workman-
ship and quality varied but were generally acceptable, with some items not
quite appropriate or slightly damaged in the course of transportation.
Aside from technical and logistic problems pertaining to delivery and
installation, the synchronization of the three facets of physical implemen-
tation showed some internal incompatibility in terms of the time frame.
The involvement of regional supervisors was useful for instruction but less
useful for community development activities.
4.27     Oualitv of LSS Schools.  There was an indication of the LSS
students' academic improvement in the Thai language and science as shown by
the higher post-test scores in these subjects. While the quality of the
LSS schools' instructional programs and community involved activities had
an edge over non-LSS schoola', there was still room for improvement.
Plannine and Nanagement
4.28     Improvement of Educational Planning.  Inter-ministerial educa-
tional planning required streamlining coordination of the NEC, NESDB and
MOE. Due to difficulties in implementing recommendations on reorganization
of the EPD, a plan of coordination improvement was not prepared until the
final year of project implementation. The clarification of the planning
functions and responsibilities of the three agencies was satisfactory but
the procedures of implementation remained unclear; nor did it specify the



- 96 -
scope and timing of operation.   Structural reform by the government is
widely felt to be greatly needed to avoid duplication of some functions and
responsibilities.
4.29     The plan to restructure and strengthen the Educational Planning
Division of the Office of the Permanent Secretary for Education involved
changes of status quo of many agencies and amendment of many laws and
regulations. The improvement of EPD, therefore, was firstly carried out in
the form of manpower upgrading and it was not until much later that an NOE
policy was declared to support the restructuring of EPD into a fully-
fledged department to be called the Office of Policy and Planning.
Parallel to this decision, MOE also restructured its administrative system
on education, religion and culture.   The operational guidelines per the
restructured system were broadly set, but the functions and responsibili-
ties of the planning division for each MOE department were not clearly
spelled out. With the functions and responsibilities of the planning divi-
sions conforming only to the extent the existing rules and regulations
allowed, emphasis was given to the improvement of cooperative planning,
resources utilization and evaluation towards more integration and better
linkages between central and provincial training. At the central level,
the new structure still needed further delineation, the administrative
bodies revamping, and the line-item budgeting system replaced.   At the
provincial level, cooperation among various agencies seemed more promising
except that clear-cut policy from their home departments was not received.
Technically speaking, the Provincial Education Office was still under-
staffed, the duration allowed for provincial training too short, and, as a
consequence, provincial planning turned out to be more of a collection of
disjointed plans rather than an integration of development programs and
projects.
4.30     Staff development through fellowship programs.   Changes were
necessary in implementing the fellowship programs, particularly for the MOE
and NESDB to suit some inherent individual and institutional factors, thus
affecting the number of recipients, timeframe, and number of man-months.
In the main, the fields of studies were consistent with the original plan
and emerging requirements and retention of trained staff was the rule
rather than the exception.   Virtually all recipients returned to their
posts and applied new knowledge and skills to their work.
4.31     Training in Education and Manpower Planning Techniques.   The
training of central and provincial staff of the MOE aimed mainly to provide
additional experience and ability in educational planning and its results
were adequate, although quite behind schedule. Seminars organized during
the first few days prior to each of the training courses helped acquaint
the provincial planning staff with the new administrative structure and
planning system of the MOE.
4.32     Provision of equipment.   The equipment provided to EPD, NEC and
REO was generally adequate and consistent with the project objectives,
although at a lower cost.
4.33     Imirovement of regional management.   The project REOs were
restructured to accommodate technical aspects of education, but their func-
tions and responsibilities were not adequately delineated.   Operational
procedures and coordination with supervisors of different departments were



- 97 -
not spelled out.  The increase of REO's staff fell short of requirements
due partly to unclear functions and responsibilities and inadequate tech-
nical performance.   Staff training was superfluous in quantitative terms
(except in cost), but rather limited quantitatively.   The equipment
intended to facilitate the REO's functions was installed rather late due to
delay in construction of the REO complex, thus giving rise to under-
utilization which was in turn aggravated by a lack of technical staff.
Studies
4.34     Under the Sixth Education Project three main areas were identified
for priority studies--pre-service and in-service training, vocational and
technical education and manpower needs, and educational planning.
4.35     In the early stages of project implementation only four studies on
pre-service and in-service teacher training (referred to on page 4-2 as
Study No. 8-editor) were approved. Studies in other designated areas could
not be undertaken because of staff time constraints and lack of administra-
tive support. However, in the later stages of the project more support was
forthcoming and finally seven studies were approved including two on voca-
tional and technical education and manpower needs, two on educational plan-
ning and three in other areas.
4.36     The issues of all eleven studies (or eight studies as on pp. 4-1
and 4-2-editor) were consistent with the project objectives to find solu-
tions to educational problems and to develop education along the lines of
the Sixth National Education Development Plan (1987-1991).
4.37     Because the studies commenced late, and their administration and
financial systems were complex, they could not be completed on schedule and
were, in fact, delayed for one and half years. The fact that the financial
administration of the studies had to observe IBRD loan disbursement proce-
dures and Thai procurement financial regalations created inflexibility and
consequent delay. Thus the completion of the studies and the termination
of evaluation came at the same time, making evaluation of the quality and
applicability of the studies impossible.
Cost of Evaluation
4.38     The cost of evaluation was 1,499,810 baht equivalent to US$58,131.



- 98 -                                   Annex 4-1
Page 1
THAILAND
SDIH EoucaTIoN PROJECT
Education ProJect 6 Loan 2176-T:t
List of Studies
That Budget
Flold of Study                       Agency           Cost (Saht)    Estimated Coated
1. Improvement of Vocational and  Department of Curriculum    677,728.06            -
T ehlrcal Programe In Forml   and Instruction
and Non-formal Education        Development (MOE)
2. Reserch and Devolopment         The Institute of            607,776.66           -
Models for Technician Teacher   Technology and
Competency Development          Vocational Education
Pertaining to the Curricula of
the Vocational Certificate,
Diploa and Higher Vocational
Certificate
S. Sudy on Mapping of Private    National Education            866,1086.0           -
Schools                         Commisslon
4. Re _e rh on Educatlonal         Education Planning          787,027.89            -
Resouree Distribution           Division (MOE)
Planning
5. Research and Development of a  Office of the National    1,680,124.00      815,868.20
Model for Community             Primary Education
Organizations Cooperation In   Comlislon (MOE)
Primary Education
S. Project Auditing Sytetme        Education Planning          467,262.42            -
Divislon (MOE)
7. The Second ISA Sclnce Study -  Institute for the           871,976.60           -
Thailand                        Promotion of Teaching
Science and Technology
(PTST)
9. Study on Production and         Department of Teacher     2,288,989.89            -
Utilization of Teacher.         Education
7,866,987.89           -
Tote I



- 99 -
V. PROJLa  QMES
Completion of Key Covenants
5.01     Completion of key covenants in the Loan Agreement may be sum-
marized as in the table b6low.
Comgletion of Key Covenants
Completion
Due Date      Agency            Condition to Fulfill                    Date
July, 1982      NEC    Review plans for coordinating inter-minist-   January
erial and departmental planning vith World    1982
Bank supervision mission.
Jaunary 31,            Prepare and furnish to the Bank the recom-
1983                   mendations and final plans for the
following:
BBC      (1) for NEC to effectively oversee and         October
coordinate inter-ministerial educational  1987
planning, and
(2) for the EPD of MOE to effectively over-   October
see and coordinate departmental           1987
educational planning.
December      DGE      Prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan on      January
1983                   utilization of teachers.                       1984
December      MDE      Undertake a study and prepare recommenda-      February
1984                   tions for incentives suitable to attract and  1985
retain teachers in rural areas, and furnish
such recommendations to the Bank for an
exchange of views and to develop appropriate
measures.
October of    DGE      Furnish to the Bank annual progress reports   March
1984 through MOE       on the implementation of the teacher           1988
1987                   incentive plan and teacher utilization
measures.



- 100 -
Completion
Due Date      Agency             Condit,on to Fulfill                    Date
Soonest, but  Aud-     Have all accounts and statements for each       Annually
not later     itors    fiscal year audited by independent auditors
than March             acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the
31, after              Bank certified copies of the financial
previous                statements and the report of such audit.
fiscal year
December 31, NEC       Prepare and furnish to the Bank a rid-term    November
1985                   review in scope and format satisfactory to    1986
the Bank and incorporating the views of the
department and agencies concerned with the
Project.
Proiect Costs and Disbursements
5.02     Proiect Costs,.  Actual expenditures totalled 2,801,639,544 baht or
US$109,041,242 equivalent on the basis of US$1 - 25.69 baht, against the
appraisal estimate of US$148,555,000 LS. Expenditure by category is shown
below.
Category                         Baht             US$            Rate
Professional Services Li              25,256,415      1,051,533       24.02
Civil Works                        2,135,892,628     83,412,579       25.61
Furniture Lc                         248,589,325      9,419,487       26.39
Equipment                            306,407,953     11,803,817       25.96
Experts                               23,681,799        924,000       25.63
Fellowships/Training                  61,811,424      2,429,826       25.44
Total                     2,801,639,544    109,041,242       25.69
L&   Excludes contingencies.
Lb   Includes Baht 14,350,000   US$624,474 from Project 4 funds.
La   This item is 100% Thai government budget.



- 101 -
Disbursement of I=RD Funds
5.03     Total IBRD funds disbursed were US$42,760,654 or approximately
57.878 of the loan funds viz US$73,892,000 (US$75,000,000 less front end
fee US$1,108,000). Actual disbursements by category are shown below.
Allocated            Disbursed
Category                   (USO)                 (USO)           %
Civil work                      47,321,000            30,912,979     65.33
Equipment                       15,788,000             8,079,022     51.17
Consultants' Services            4,433,000             1,338,827     30.20
Fellowships/Training             4,242,000             2,429,826     57.28
Unallocated                       2,108,000                -            -
Total                     73,892,000            42,760,654      *7.87
Excess Punds
5.04     Earlier in this report it was mentioned that there was one devalu-
ation of the Thai baht during the life of the project.  This devaluation
coupled with savings in the civil works, equipment and technical assistance
categories significantly affected the financial aspect of the project,
re:4ulting in an unusually large amount of surplus fimds. In all, US$30.799
million were released as being surplus to requirements and this represented
just over 40% of the entire loan.
5.05     It is also worth mentioning that a front end fee amounting to
US$1.108 million was imposed on the loan for Education Project 6, the first
and only occasion on which such an imposition was applied to an education
project in Thailand.
ATTAINMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES--A SUMMARY
Lower Secondary Schools
5.06     School Environs Develonment.   The sites of all project schools
were adequately developed to provide a playground and landscape, .oads,
safe water supply, power electricity, and pools for vegetable and animal
farming projects wherever applicable. This provides not only an environ-
ment conducive to better teaching and learning, but also a good example to
the community in environmental improvement for quality of life.
5.07     Infrastructure.   Building facilities provided to LSS schools
included classrooms, general science labs, libraries, specialized activity
rooms and shops which, in the case of small- and medium-sized schools
included general shops, home economics and agriculture, and, in the case of
large-sized schools included wood and metal, electricity and drafting,



- 102 -
clothing and food, and agriculture units. Schools ln phases 1 and 2 were
also provided with an auditorium and one or two staff houses out of the
savings on low bid prices of Part B construction.
5.08     Furniture and Eauipmeut.  To make the infrastructure provide! to
project schools fully functional, furniture was supplied to 4,303 class-
rooms and educational equipment to 3,784 workshop units for 13 academic and
work education subject areas at the lower secondary school level, including
library and audio-visual equipment.   Thus, all 480 schools are now ade-
quately equipped for effective teaching for some 334,800 potential students
set forth as the target number.
5.09     Staff Development.   Overseas training was conducted by INNOTECH
for 102 LSS school administrators, 24 supervisors and 11 departmental staff
who were involved in the project.   These persons were trained in the
community school concept and the planning for its implementat4on in the
Thai setting. Most of these persons stayed on in the project anu provided
a smooth transition from the project stage to routine operation.   Local
training was conducted internally by the DGE, involving the staff of the
LSS schools who were responsible for many different duties including
administrators, teachers, librarians, community development coordinators
and work education teachers in home economics, agriculture and industrial
arts. This local training program was professional and functional training
in nature, and most trainees carried on with the duties that were origi-
nally assigned to them.   Properly utilized,  these staff could become
instrumental in the expansion of the implementation of the community school
concept throughout the country. Coupled with the infrastructure and educa-
tional equipment as mentioned earlier, the trained staff play a viable role
in tackling the various issues identified as permeating the secondary
educational system.
5.10     The Role of LSS Schools in Community Development.  The LSS schools
have been assigned three functions--teaching students, educating the public
and providing community services.   In performing the third function, the
schools allow the community to make use of the school premises, facilities
and equipment including personnel for various activities such as gather-
ings, fairs, ceremonies, mother's day, sports, agricultural exhibitions and
public meetings by local government agencies. Although this function is
secondary to student teaching, it plays a vital role in encouraging the
public initiative as well as providing a closer tie with the surrounding
community.   Whereas the concept of community development may not be
realized with the school acting as a sole agent, the LSS schools have
demonstrated a high potential as a helping hand in deliberate community
development efforts. Based on a history of secondary schools as college
and university preparation institutions, it seems difficult and undesirable
to discourage them from upward extension to offer upper secondary classes.
No matter what some of these schools may aspire to, the secondary role of
community development, in which rural schools have an edge over their urban
counterparts, is here to stay and perhaps this function should manifest in
the same direction as their aspirations, that is, community sarvices in
academic and tecbnical matters.
5.11     Teacher Utilization.  A challenging efficiency issue in secondary
education is illustrated by the teacher utilization rate in classroom
teaching which was found to be low at project appraisal. An increase in



- 103 *
the utilization factor would mean fewer teachers at an appreciable saving
on their salaries and a higher teacher-to-student ratio, but freezing the
teaching staff growth during project implementation would mean a sarcrifice
in the quality of practical subjects instruction. If a portion of the bulk
of academic subjects teachers were to be replaced by new recruits to obtain
instructional quality in practical subjects teaching, then these replaced
teachers would become surplus. Under these circumstances, redistribution
of in-service teachers is to be attempted together with recruitment of new
ones.
5.12     Teacher Incentives.  Without offsetting the measures to increase
the workload and teacher-to-student ratio in rural secondary schools, an
attempt was made to apply incentives to teachers to attract them to teach
in these schools by providing accommodation at the school premises which
resulted in one house for every two LSS school teachers, medical treatment
benefits and household drugs, and utilities. Motorcycles were provided to
30 LSS schools each year.   A personnel management measure provided a
concession for special salary increment for these teachers, plus a 108 top
up for teachers working in 23 severely disadvantaged districts. A publi-
city campaign was carried out in the forms of monthly newsletters and mass
media to keep them abreast of news and technology of the outside world.
Planning and Management
5.13     NESDB Conceptual and Internal Efficiency Improvement was attempted
through local experts' services which were highly satisfactory.   The
studies and analytical works produced were presented to seminars of high-
level officials for their consideration and comments. The outputs of the
experts were utilized for adjusting the later phase of the Fifth National
Economic and Social Development Plan and for preparing the policy and
measures for the Sixth Plan es well.
5.14     NESDB Internal efficiency Improvement was attempted by means of
strengthening staff capabilities. All trainees resumed their work in the
Office, taking the responsibility of policy and project development in
social and manpower areas. The knowledge and experience they obtained were
also useful in fulfilling the first three objectives of this part of tihe
project.
5.15     NEC External Efficiency through Coordination Mechanism for
Provincial  Planning.   An operational framework for planning has been
developed within the Ministry of Education to provide articulation between
the ministerial and the provincial levels. At the ministerial level there
exist the Board of Directors General on the one hand and the Policies and
Plans Committee on the other.   The latter consists of the Minister of
Education as chairman and the Permanent Secretary for Education as vice
chairman, with members who are high-ranking officials of six MOE depart-
ments, secretaries General of the NEC and the NESDB or their representa-
tives, and at most three scholars outside of the MOE. A deputy permanent
secretary for education is the committee's secretary and Director of
Educational Planning Division is assistant secretary. This committee is in
charge of studying, reviewing and proposing guidelines for the delineation
of policies, plans and development systems for education, religion and
culture; coordinating the acquisition and utilization of resources; and
uonitoring and evaluating the operation of MOE and its departments.



- 104 -
5.16     At the provincial level,  there exists the Sub-Committee on
Education, Religion and Culture consisting of the Governor as chairnan,
Provincial Education Officer as vice-chairman and members as follows:
representatives of provincial offices of the MOE departments; representa-
tives of provincial offices of concerned ministries; and at most three
scholars. Tne Academic Assistant Provincial Education Officer is secretary
to the sub-committee.   The sub-committee is responsible for, inter alia,
preparation of plans and projects in line with the MOE policies and annual
budget requisition, coordination of resources utilization and plan/project
implementation, and monitoring of implementation activities.   A working
group or two may also be created to assist the sub-committee in carrying
out specific tasks that require technical know-how.
5.17     The planning process at the provincial level consists of prepara-
tion, analysis of problems and issues, formulation of plans and detailing
of the plans, to be internally integrated among the various sub-sectors of
the MOE as well as externally with other sectors outside the MOE.   The
process spells out guidelines for coordlnation with these agencies at all
levels.   It prescribes characteristics of desirable plans and details of
the pla4ning steps.  The planning substance involves, inter alia, survey
and analysis of economic and social issues related to education; student
projection; personnel and inputs requirements; project formulation, imple-
mentation and evaluation; educational indices; and a management information
system.   These elements of provincial planning coordination mechanism
formed the contont and methodology of the provincial training course which
culminated towards the close of the project.
5.18     The attempt to improve planning efficiency had the rather ambi-
tious aim of appl.ying the skills to the preparation of the Sixth Education
Development Plan for the next cycl, (1987-1991) within the target date.
This proved to be a success in termis of providing technical know-how to the
planning staff but integration of planning processes and activities at the
provincial administrative level remained to be tackled.
5.10     NE  Internal Efficiency throu2h Staff Development.  A good number
of -SC staff were trained in a stratum of specialized fields useful for
educational planning such as Evaluation, Economics of Education,
Educational Planning and Administration, Policy Analysis and Development,
Basic Data System, HIS and Sampling Techniques. They have now returned to
their dutiei most relevant to their respective fields of training. Some of
them who returned early enough were involved in the preparation of training
materials for the provincial training program.
5.20     MOE Organizational Restructuring and Development of Elanning
Tools.  A proposal on restructuring of the MOE planning and management
system was submitted by the local consultant whereby (a) planning, moni-
toring, operation and evaluation were essentially all to be integrated,
(b) planning articulation was to be provided both horizontally and verti-
cally, and (c) a management information system to be institutionalized.
This necessitated raising the status of the EPD from a divisional to a
departmental one.  Furthermore, another group of local experts also deve-
ioped a budgeting system together with a programming structure and a
project classification to guide the allocation of budgets in the context of              u
the Seventh Development Plan.   Finally, the third group of experts sub-
mitted a comprehensive instrument for collection of data necessary for the



- 105 -
management information network, with a set of handbooks for the implemen-
tation of its different facets plus computer programs for data processing.
5.21     MOE Internal Efficiency Im2rovement.  The overseas studies program
turned out one Ph.D. and three M.A.'s in fields related to educational
planning. The overseas training program involving three instrumental areas
of planning- -educational planning, project management and management
information system--trained 15 staff of EPD. Local training helped prepare
9 EPD staff members to handle educational planning in general. All fellows
and trainees, with the exception of two, remained in service with EPD.
These staff are now better qualified for the planning responsibility and
provide a high potential for EPD's new status as a planning department for
MOE.
5.22     Stren thninuf Plaring Ca. acitv for MOE Dep-rtments.  The over-
seas studies program turned out one M.A. in organization planning.   The
overseas training program involving educational planning, project
management and management information system trained 17 staff of other MOE
departments. Under this program also, four CPU staff were trained in proj-
ect management and educational planning. Local trsining helped prepare 71
departmental staff to handle sub-sectoral planning.   The development of
planning staff for the Office of the National Primary Education Commission
underwent an elaborate program involving an engagement of local experts to
develop a planning system for primary education which culminated into a
nationwide training program for some 500 provincial primary education
planners.
5.23     REO Functional Development.  REO now has developed a dual funccion
of inspection and coordination of educational, religious and cultural
affairs, and academic standards and quality development of schools in the
region. On the basis of the latter task, four basic functions are assigned
to REO, which may be conceptualized as an academic development cycle con-
sisting of evaluation/assessment, production of instructional materials,
training of teachers and supervision.
5.24    RHO Structural Development.   REO is composed of four sections,
namely, General Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation, Research at.d
Planning and Development and Services. The first two sections deal mainly
with inspection and coordination matters, whereas the latter two sections
deal with educational development.   Specific responsibilities of the
Research and Planning Section pertain to development of plans and projects
for the region, whereas those of the Development and Services Section
include curriculum and instructional development, in-service training of
teachers, test and measurement, and supervision.
5.25     REO Staff Development.   Each REO has now obtained two Deputy
Regional Education Officers, both designated for academic development
matters but with different emphasis--the first deputy on planning and
research with the second on curriculum, instruction, training and supervi-
sion. In terms of staff preparation, all i.ave been trained both in metho-
dology and substance of their respective fields such as educational
research and evaluation, instructional materials production, tsst construc-
tion, and development of local curricula for occupational education.



- 106 -
Studies and Evaluation
5.26     Sub-Sectoral Studies.  The implementation of sub-sectoral studies
was monitored and coordinated by a sub-committee established by the stand-
ing Steerin-g Committee for Educational Development Projects under Credits/
Loans. This sub-committee was chaired by a Deputy Permanent Secretary and
the Educational Planning Division was its secretariat.   Eight areas of
studies included:
(a) Improvement of Vocational and Technical Programs in Formal and
Non-Formal Education undertaken by the Department of Cutrriculum
and Instruction Development.
(b)   Researeh and Development Models for Technician Teacher Competency
Development Pertaining to the curricula of the Vocational
Certificate, Diploma and Higher Vocational Certificate undertaken
by the Institute of Technology and Vocational Zducation.
(c)   Study of Mapping of Private Schools undertaken by the Office of
the National Education Commission.
(d)   Research on Educational Resources Distribution Planning undertaken
by the Educational Planning Division, Office of the Permanent
Secretary for Education.
(e) Research and Development of a Model for Community Organizations
cooperation in Primary Education undertaken by the Office of the
National Primary Education Commission.
(f)   Project Auditing Systems undertaken by the Educational Planning
Division, Office of the Permanent Secretary for Education.
(g)   The Second IEA Science Study--Thailand undertaken by the Institute
for the Promotion of Teaching Science and Technology.
(h)   Study on Production and Utilization of Teachers undertaken by the
Department of Teacher Education.
5.27     Findings and recommendations of these studies are summarized in
Chapter 4, and, due to a large volume of detail, will not be repeated in
the present chapter.
5.28     &:&luati n.  The evaluation of the Sixth Education Project was
undertaken by the NEC aimed at evaluating the physical and substantive
implementation of LSS with focus on four major issues viz access, rele-
vance, quality and efficiency, and determining the achievement of P&f's
objectives including the strengths and weaknesses of the project as a basis
for future educational planning and policy formulation. An evaluation of
project impacts was excluded at this stage.



- 107 -
FindinUs on LSS
1. Improvement of educational access, in terms of the P.6 to M.1
transition rate, was effective only during the early years of project
implementation and the number of students could not be sustained over later
years. Disparity in access to secondary education seemed to be aggravated
rather than reduced, perhaps resultant upon social and economic disparities
that adversely affected the parents' attitude towards secondary education.
2. LSS schools offered work/occupational courses in agriculture,
home economics and industrial arts in greater degrees, but fine arts in
lesser degrees.   About half of the number of project schools offered
masonry and auto-mechanics, about 20-25% clothing, metal work and handi-
craft, and 8-15% drafting, wood work, food and electricity.
3. LSS schools provided more cultural services than information
dissemination, and mobile library services were least relevant. Community
participation in school development activities was supportive rather than
initiative, except in sports and games.
4. Physical implementation of the project was generally satis-
factory, with some delays and missing item.   Worlmanship and quality
varied but were generally acceptable; with some items not quite appropriate
or slightly damaged in the course of transportation. Aside from technical
and logistic problems pertaining to delivery and installation, the syn-
chronization of the three facets of physical implementation showed some
internal incompatibility in terms of the time frame. The involvement of
regional supervisor was useful for instruction but less useful for commu-
nity development activities.
5. there was an indication of the LSS students' academic improve-
ment in the Thai language and science, but, while the quality of the LSS
schools' instructional programs and community involved activities had an
edge over non-LSS schools', there was still room for improvement.
Findings on Planning and Management
1.   Interministerial educational planning required streamlining
coordination of the NEC, NESDB and MOE. Due to difficulties in implement-
ing recommendations on reorganization of the EPD, a plan of coordination
improvement was not prepared until the final year of project implementa-
tion. the clarifieation of the planning functions and responsibilities of
the three agencies was satisfactory but the procedures of implementation
remained unclear; nor did it specify the scope and timing of operation.
Structural reform by the government is widely felt to be greatly needed to
avoid duplication of some functions and responsibilities.
2.   As the plan to restructure and strengthen the Educational
Planning Division of MOE involved changes of status quo of many agencies
and amendment of many laws and regulations, the improvement of EPD was
carried out in the form of manpower upgrading. Under existing rules and
regulations, a compromised solution was to emphasize the improvement of
cooperative planning, resources utilization and evaluation towards more
integration and better linkages between central and provincial training.



- 108 -
At the central level, the new structure still needed further delineation,
the adminlstrative bodles revamping, and the line-item budgeting syste&
replaced.   At the provincial level, cooperation among various agencies
seemed more promlslng except that clear-cut policy from thelr home depart-
ments was not recelved.   Technically speaklng, the Provinclal Education
Offlce was still understaffed, the duration allowed for provincLal training
too short, and, as a consequence, provincial planning showed the absence of
an integration of development programs and projects.
3. Changes were necessary in implementing the fellowship programs
to suit some inherent factors, thus affecting the number of reclplents,
timeframe, and number of man-months.  In the main, the fields of studies
were consistent with the original plan and emerging requlrements. Virtual-
ly all recipients returned to their posts and applled new knowledge and
skills to thelr work.
4. The trainlng of central and provincial staff of the MOE was
adequate to provide additional experience and ability in educational plan-
ning, although quite behind schedule. Seminars organized during the first
few days prior to each of the training courses helped acquaint the provin-
cial planning staff with the new administrative structure and planning
system of the HOE.
5.  REOs were restructured to accommodate technical aspects of
education, but their functions and responsibilities were not adequately
delineated, thus affecting the increase of REO's required staff.   Staff
training was superfluous in quantitative terms, but rather limited qualita-
tively.   The equipment intended to facilitate the REO's functions was
installed rather late due to delay in construction of the REO complex, thus
giving rise to under-utilization.
Findings on Studies
1.  In the early stages of project implementation most studies
could not be undertaken, except pre-service and in-service teacher train-
ing, due to staff time constraints and lack of administrative support. In
the later stages more support was forthcoming and finally seven studies
were approved including two on vocational and technical education and man-
power needs, two on educational planning and three in other areas.
2.  The issues of all studies were consistent with the project
objectives to find solutions to educational problems and to develop educa-
tion along the lines of the Sixth National Education Development Plan
(1987-1991).
3. Late commencement and complex procedures delayed the studies
for one, and half years. The fact that the financial administration of the
studies had to observe IBRD loan disbursement procedures and Thai financial
regulations created inflexibility and consequent delay. Thus the comple-
tion of the studies and the termination of evaluation came at the same
time, making evaluation of the quality and applicability of the studies
impossible.



- 109 -
CONCLUSIONS
5.29    The Sixth Education Project was concluded within the agreed time
frame, although there were some delays during implementation. there was no
extension of the project closing date.
5.30     In terms of cost, there was a saving of US$31,131,346 equivalent
to approximately 42% of the loan (less front end fee), with the physical
aspects of all components/categories implemented. During project implemen-
tation the superfluity of the contingencies was detected and a major por-
tion of them was returned to the IBRD at suitable time, thus saving the
government a good amount of commitment charges.
5.31    The main problems encountered were of the same nature as those
experienced with other programs and projects of the government whether
funded by external sources of government budget in the same period of time.
they pertained to the quality of civil works, satisfactoriness of equipment
and furniture, adequacy of human resources in some fields, and effect of
staff reshuffles on continuity.  There were also other problems stemming
from the country's economic and social situation, the administrative
structure, and the need for structural change.   these were not project
implementation problems per se but they had significant effect on the
attainment of project objectives, especially those with respect to substan-
tive development of education.



COMM=NTS  MNo  THE BORRuOWR (1)       -     -                          ATTACN       I
Page 1 of 3
.N. 1102/ /194j4
omtc  of the National Educatlon CommIIon
Sukhothal Road. BangkokS, Thailand.
J' September, 19f9.
Mr. Graham Donaldson
Chief of Agriculture, Infrastructure
and Human Resottrces Division
Operations Evaluation Department
The World bank, 1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433, U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Donaldson,
Regarding the draft completion report of the Sixth Education
Project (Ln. 2178-TH), I am afraid that some data in annex 3-1 (page 73 )
and 3-2 (pages 76 &77 ) are mistakenly put. I am enclosing the correct
data for the report revision.
Thank you for your kindness in sending me copies of final
report later on. It will be very useful to our future project planning
and implementation.
Yours sincerely,
(Dr. Peasm  %*SpSUMUd)
Sectetary - Ge"eral



She Corrections on page 73 & 77*
page   :  column      line               errors                  corrections
 4                             A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
73          2     *17 - 39   Ta Ngi ru                     Ta Ngoc Chau
:  :  :   : Dieter Berster,              Dieter Beatecier
:   :   :   : Angola Dando  :   Claude Tibi
Angela Dlndo
77          5          8    * Cbulalongkor             A Chulaondkorm
The elevnt crrecion  havelbeongmade
:          :           4          :                         A                           :
*          .           .          A                         . 
* The relevanlt corrections have been made.
OA
I 0



Correct data on page 76 (NC)
-        -- -- - __  -- -   - --- --- ---- --- ---- --- __ __  __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _  - -- ----------------------------------____ _ -________
,Ceuponent and Field         :                           :                  :Duration:
fellow or Trainee  :         Date                   I: nstitution/Country
of Services                                                             :(os.)
iiD.                                     .                                .            .Pg
.                          .                  .                S
*d     4in  lmn    nd'rncc    OPm                       :.a  84-u         4             4                                4P ais    rac
* !.D       r                *                           i 4 
i ProProject          .SuIC ad-ee T3iratmasprau  'Apr 8  - Ju  86          3       M2M ar,r U.ivrsty A..I.
:System                        ontri Tanti.Ap-r 4 &               -Junua4          2     4P :  :  :  :a:
i Rolicy Anlyi IZuatind       Mralwane  JSasgairu        :De  83 - Oct 884        6 11     {Uhs  of London,gh ,.K  an
^~~                                          ~     ~~~ ~ ~~~ *  4                    4P
iData./roJect              :ra i   n  Jitthaspson      : Aug 83 - Dec 84        12       U nIRvarUi ve rsity ieo
Rcn.at ofEuto        n   PtansJsdaSttag8     Ag8  :                          6           niferdsity ofrPittsyrh
:                      andinia  Trainin  b anCosa tb:ity       84 - Jun 844 :    2 w     :   RP PRris, France:
:PlynAssn  runari   Chtteirug    Marc 83 - Oct 84   :    11    : U ofI LoParn, Uran ne
Course Develop  met                                                            2 ws ::TIEP Paris, France
iDatBase anageuent           esd i alyaihamtngpkon   :pr 84 - Jun 84 s          2-    : HP Parisub, Frapnce
:yten                       :t4nr   atsr                :A    4-Jn8  :            2    :                                 :TPPrs,Fac
*                             .                          .                  .                                             4  
* ProroPolicy AnlsiNndiraiwn Sangbirubn                  JaDe  836- Oct 84 i    12    . Uhvri of Lonon  &.K  iand
'i~~~~~~~~~      ~~~~~ Rv*ato  i                 .                                                                4 uSfr   nvriy  
:  ous Development            :rnr  Cb                          a   4               k       IeP Paris, France               
*                            .                                     .        .            .                                4
*                            :                           :                  :            : 
*                4                           4                  4      1     .                                4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _____  _ ___. _  .......  .___ ____ ____ ........................................._._
*~~                                   4



- 15 -
COhuhfdTBMM  3ER N03,UM (2)                                       AT&lUU31T II
(Page 1 of 3)
MOE 0205/  42M; 35                                   Minisity of Education
Bangkok 10300, ThailAnd
October .10 .1989
Mr. Graham Donaldson
Chief of Agriculture, Infrastructure
and Human Resources Division
Operations Evaluation Department,
The world Dank,
Washington, D.C.
USA.
Dear Sir,
Re : Thailand-Sixth. Educational Project
(Ln.2178-TH) Project Completion Report
With reference to your letter dated August 23, 1989 under the above
topic, the Office of the Permanent Secretary received sane information fram
the Department of General Education which we would like to propose as additional
data for the Project Completion Report which is the primary document for the
evaluation process of the Project. The details of additional data and necessary
adjustments are as follows:
Page IV  line 7  : Furniture was supplied to about 4,000 schools...
Corrections      : Furniture was supplied to about 4,000 classroome...
Additional data  : The comparison of transition rates from primary
for item 4, page   to lower secondary education in all over the
IV                 country and in districts where project schools
located
1983        1987      increase/decrease
All over the country              41.21       41.32          +0.11
District level (Where project
school situated)               34.44       34.58          +0.14
Phase 1                           22.53       22.87          +0.34
Phase 2                           37.66       38.37          +0.71
Phase 3                           31.13       34.48          +3.35
Phase 4                           44.69       43.81           -0.88
According to the table, the over all transitional rate of the country
and at district level (comparing between the first year and last year of the
project), is increasing only 0.11% and 0.14% respectively. Since phase 4
which is the last phase of the project only begun during the evaluation period,
so the transitional rate of this phase was 0.88% lower than that of the first
year of the project.



- 117 -
ATTACHMENT II
(Page 2 of 3)
Page 3 (d) - The report might noed some additional figure of number
of trainees  local and overseas, as well as seminars
held in various occasions. The figure of trainees is
totally 8,026 , consisting of 7889 local trainees and
*37 overseas traineen.The breakdown of overseas trainees
Is shown on Annex 2-3 page 2-22 of the Project Completion
Report.
- Another item should be added is data concerning the
supervision of the project schools devided by educational
regions. This is shown in the following table.
Education        Phase 1         Phase                    e3  Phase              4
regions     No.of No.of        No.of  .o-.of        No.of No.of         No.of   No.of      Total
schoolS upervision schools *Supervision  school Supervision schools Supervisiorn
1                                                  12      42          1        5        47
2                           3          3                               2        2         5
-. -    ._  ..                                                                             _
3                           31         217                             24       72      289
4                            1         6                               15       44       50
5                          16          62          2      8            7                 70
6                            3         24         14       84          9        36       144
7       13       45        35          101         -       -           4        10      156
8       16      111        18          126         -       -           14       42      279
9       30      150          -                     19     57           12       24      231
10       30      135         2           8          26    61            17       21      225
11       31      114          -         _           29     57            S        5      176
12       _        _         11          11          18      28          10       39        78
Total       120      555         120       558         120    337          120      300      1,756
48
-   ____________  ___________                ~~school



- 118 -
ATTACHMENT II
(Page 3 of 3)
Page 4    Another point we would like to confirm under Project Impact
is that the evaluation per se should not emphasize on the
implementation process. Rather, it should consider carefully
on the impact and product of the project in improvement of
quality and efficiency of lower secondary education as well
as the improvement of relevancy of the curriculunn to be
responsive to the real needs of local people.
I hope additional data and suggestions made so far, would
be of some use to the adjustment of the Report.
With best regards,
Sincerely yours,
"7  C,
(Ruang  Chareonchai)
Deputy Permanent Secretary
I
I



