FILE                                     Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3330-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
SIXTH (SECONDARY) EDUCATION PROJECT
May 20, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Baht (B)
US$1.00     =  B 23
B1          =  $0.04
B 1 million =  $43,478
WRIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)    =  2.47 acres
1 meter (m)       =  3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)  =  0.62 miles
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DGE    - Department of General Education in the MOE
MOE    - Ministry of Education
NEC    - National Education Commission
NESDB  - National Economic and Social Development Board
REO    - Regional Education Office
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
SCHOOL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
SIXTH (SECONDARY) EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          The Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:            $75 million, including the capitalized front end fee.
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 11.6% p.a.
Project
Description:    The project would support the Government's development
strategy to improve access, quality, relevance and efficiency
in secondary education and to strengthen the Government's
education planning and management capacity. The project
would provide: (a) workshops, academic facilities, furniture,
equipment, teaching-learning materials, in-service staff
training and technical assistance to some 480 existing
secondary schools in relatively disadvantaged rural areas;
and (b) furniture, equipment, materials and technical
assistance to the central, regional and provincial planning
agencies of the Ministry of Education, the National Education
Commission and the National Economic and Social Development
Board (NESDB). Project beneficiaries will include not only
the 335,000 rural secondary students served by the project
schools each year but also future generations of Thai
students at all levels who will benefit from systemic
improvements in educational planning and management. The
major risks associated with the project are that it may
prove difficult to recruit sufficient qualified staff to
teach work education subjects in project schools, and that
the schedule for school upgrading might prove overambitious.
Improved incentives and training of rural teachers, increased
efficiency in the use of teachers, and the establishment of a
mangement staff development program should minimize these
risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
Local   Foreign   Total
…---- ($ million) ---
Lower Secondary Schools
Workshops                             34.1      20.2      54.3
Academic facilities                   57.8      30.8     88.6
Planning and Management
Ministry of Education                  0.8       1.3       2.1
National Education Commission          1.0       0.5       1.5
NESDB                                  0.2       0.3       0.5
Studies                                0.3       1.2       1.5
Contingencies
Physical                               8.4       4.4      12.8
Price                                 38.5      14.6     53.1
Total Project Cost                 141.1     73.3    214.4 /a
Bank's front end fee                     -         1.1       1.1
Total Financing Required           141.1     74.4    215.5
Rounded Total                   141.0      75.0    216.0
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
…----(t$ million) -----
Government                          141.0        -     141.0
IBRD                                   -      75.0      75.0
Total                             141.0     75.0    216.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY        1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
…--------------- ($ million) --------
Annual          1.1    15.4    18.5    20.0    18.5         1.5
Cumulative      1.1    16.5    35.0    55.0    73.5    75.0
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 3706-TH, dated May 18, 1982
/a This includes $27.9 million in taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF THIAILAND FOR
A SIXTH (SECONDARY) EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $75 million to help finance a
Sixth (Secondary) Education Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% p.a.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand:  Toward a Development
Strategy of Full Participation" (Report No. 2059-TH) was issued on September
18, 1978. Subsequently Thailand's economic situation deteriorated, and an
economic report entitled "Coping with Structural Change in a Dynamic Economy"
(Report No. 3067-TH), which proposed a medium-term strategy to deal with the
problems was discussed with the Royal Thai Government in September 1980 and
issued on January 8, 1981. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        Frequent changes at the top levels of government have character-
ized recent political developments in Thailand. General Kriangsak Chomanan
was Prime Minister from November 1977 to February 1980. His third cabinet
resigned following increasing public and parliamentary criticism of its
economic policies. General Prem Tinsulanonda was elected by the National
Assembly as Prime Minister after receiving the support of nearly all major
political parties.  General Prem's government, formed in March 1980,
included leaders from the political parties which supported him. General Prem
soon announced his government's policies on a number of issues including
economic and social development. These policies place high and immediate
priority on accelerating rural development, raising rural incomes and
improving health and education.  Particular emphasis was given to generating
more jobs, and a rural public works program, similar to the 1975/76 Tambon
Program, was included as a major element in the strategy. The Government also
*             committed itself to containing inflation, although it recognized the need for
a substantial adjustment of energy prices and most public enterprise tariffs.
/1 Part I is substantially the same as that included in the President's
Report (P-3175-TH) dated April 12, 1982 for the Fourth Telecommunica-
tions Project (Loan 2143-TH) approved by the Executive Directors on
May 13, 1982.



- 2 -
Furthermore, it decided to institute reforms in monetary and fiscal policy and
to reduce the trade deficit through improved export performance and
development of domestic energy resources.
4.        After a period of political consolidation, during which an attempt
was also made to inform the public better about the need to take corrective
measures, the Government began to take steps to implement these policies in
the fall of 1980. In March 1981, however, the Social Action Party and other
coalition parties withdrew from the cabinet on an issue of handling fuel oil
contracts and a new cabinet was formed comprising members of the United,
Chart Thai, and Democrat parties as well as a number of technocrats. Shortly
thereafter there was an attempted coup by a group of military officers which,
however, failed. During much of the summer of 1981, the political position
of the second Prem cabinet appeared to be weak, particularly in the wake of
the devaluation of the baht against the dollar in July, which resulted in
much public criticism. Since then, however, the Prime Minister's position
strengthened, not least because of the relatively favorable economic
developments, especially in the agricultural sector. Parliament passed the
FY82 budget nearly unanimously. In December 1981, the Government's parlia-
mentary basis was broadened significantly when the Social Action Party
rejoined the cabinet.
Past Economic Trends and Recent Changes
5.        The 1960s and early 1970s were a period of unprecedented economic
development in Thailand, with GDP growth averaging 7-8% per year (or 4 to 5%
per capita). Real agricultural growth of nearly 5% per year, based largely
on an expansion in cultivated area and development of new crops in response
to export opportunities, was a major factor contributing to these develop-
ments as well as to a sustained growth of exports. An increase in the
investment level from about 20% to 27% of GDP contributed to rapid indus-
trial growth. Investments were largely financed by domestic savings, keep-
ing the debt service ratio quite low. The incidence of poverty was reduced
substantially, from about 57% in 1962/63 to about 31% by 1975/76. However,
poverty still remains a problem, and significant regional disparities exist,
with the Central Region, including Bangkok, not only having the highest per
capita income, but also being much better served by roads, telecommunica-
tions, schools, public health and other services than the other three regions,
the North, the Northeast and the South. Considerable variations also remain
within regions: farmers who have diversified into the new cash crops have
in many cases succeeded in crossing the poverty line, while the incomes of
those unable to shift out of subsistence rice culture have stagnated. By
the mid-1970s it became apparent that Thailand was facing increasingly
difficult problems of development, including the lack of new arable land to
continue to absorb the rapidly growing labor force, and an emerging balance
of payments constraint as a result of deteriorating terms of trade. In
order to deal with such problems the country needed to shift its pattern of
growth from one based on the extension of land under cultivation and on



-3-
import substituting industries to one based on increasingly intensive use of
land and on industries producing for domestic and export markets under
competitive conditions.
6.        In the past three years Thailand's development problems have been
compounded by adverse external factors including oil price increases, a
resurgence of inflation and slow growth in developed countries. A relatively
high rate of overall growth was maintained (8.7% per annum between 1975 and
1978, 6.0% in 1979 and 6.3% in 1980) but this was accompanied by accelerating
inflation, large fiscal and external deficits and growing dependence on
foreign borrowing. Consumer prices increased by 8% in 1977 and 1978, by 10%
in 1979 and by 20% in 1980. The overall Central Government deficit reached
4.4% of GDP in 1980. Notwithstanding continued rapid export growth, the
current account deficit came close to 5% of GDP in 1977 and 1978, but it rose
to 7.5% of GDP in 1979 and 7.2% of GDP in 1980; consequently there has been a
rapid accumulation of Thailand's initially low external debt.
7.        Over the years 1975-78 the Government was slow in responding to the
changing internal and external conditions, but, beginning in 1979, policy
adjustments were undertaken at a gradually accelerating pace. They included
sharp increases in prices for most petroleum products and electricity;
measures to increase government revenues; amendments to the usury laws, which
permitted an increase in interest rates; and the introduction of regulations
to increase financial stability and exercise more monetary restraint. In the
second half of 1980, the Government began to give serious attention to
developing a longer-term comprehensive program for the economy, and continued
to implement necessary, but politically contentious, economic decisions. In
October 1980 price controls were lifted on 29 of 36 goods. In the same month
the Government started on a reform of the tariff structure, reducing import
duties on 10 categories of electrical goods by between 10% and 60%. In
November, retail prices of sugar, which had fallen out of line with inter-
national prices, causing domestic shortages, were increased by 60%. In a
number of successive steps, electricity and petroleum prices were increased
further, and by mid-1981 they were nearly two-and-a-half times as high as at
the start of 1979. During the first half of 1981, charges for other public
services (water, transport, communications) were increased substantially
(mostly by at least 50%). During this period, the Government also introduced
various fiscal measures designed to limit the central government deficit.
8. Despite the effect that these measures inevitably had on the price level
and on effective demand, economic performance in most areas appears to have
been good during the first nine months of 1981. Agricultural production and
incomes increased rapidly, due to favorable weather and, until recently,
agricultural export prices (which a domestic rice price support program
helped to reflect in farmgate prices). The demand and interindustry effects
of a buoyant agricultural sector are stimulating the other sectors of the
economy, largely compensating for the reduced stimulus from the public
sector. Thus, while some sectors of the economy, notably construction, are



- 4 -
weak, the authorities do not foresee a general recession. At the same time,
price pressures have lessened considerably; on a June to June basis, the
increase in the Consumer Price Index of 24% for 1979/80 was reduced to 12%
for 1980/81. Because of reduced inflation and increased nominal interest
rates, real interest rates on 1-2 year time deposits have now become
positive, and private commercial borrowing entails a substantial real cost.
9.        The one area in which the situation did not improve in the first
half of 1981, was the balance of payments.  The trade deficit in that period
was $1.6 billion, about $0.5 billion more than in the first half of 1980.
Some deterioration was to be expected, as the deficit in 1980 had been below
,trend as a result of a bulge in imports of non-oil intermediates in 1979,
which led to a below-normal level of such imports in 1980. In addition,
exports in the first quarter of 1981 fell below the trend, while the capital
account was negatively influenced by high interest rates abroad. In July,
the pressure on the balance of payments became so strong that the Government
decided to break the longstanding link of the baht to the (then rapidly
appreciating) dollar, decreasing the dollar value of the baht by about 9%,
but keeping the trade-weighted exchange rate of the baht approximately at
the level of the preceding year. Subsequently, the trade deficit has
started to decrease, but for the year 1981 as a whole, it is still likely
that the current account deficit will be somewhat higher than the 1980
deticit in absolute amount, although it may be slightly lower (6-7% of GDP)
in relative terms.
Development Prospects and Constraints
10.       In the coming decade, many of the Dositive features which contri-
buted to Thailand's rapid socio-economic development over the past two
decades will continue to do so. These factors include a relatively
equitable distribution of rural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to
economic incentives and improved technology, provision of infrastructure by
the Government, and the dynamism of the private sector in both industry and
agriculture. Also, major gains have been made in family planning in recent
years, slowing the annual rate of population growth from about 3% during the
1960s to an estimated 2.2% in 1979 (but only affecting labor force growth
two decades later). A new favorable factor is that the first phase of the
infrastructure to tap the substantial natural gas reserves in the Gulf of
Thailand was completed in September 1981, enabling a gradual but significant
reduction in Thailand's dependence on foreign oil.
11.       Against these favorable factors, however, three major negative
ones must be recognized. Firstly, partly as a result of external influences,
Thailand's current account deficits reached, over the years 1979-81, levels
which are unsustainable in the medium term and therefore must be reduced.
Secondly, the outlook for the world economy is not favorable, and tendencies
toward protectionism are increasing, thus limiting the opportunity to
increase exports (unless offset by effective domestic policies). Thirdly,
the exhaustion of land reserves threatens to severely constrain the growth
in agricultural production, exports and absorption of labor.



12.       In response to the challenges posed by the general economic out-
look for Thailand, the Government has searched intensively for policy
alternatives which would correct the fiscal and external imbalances without
undue consequences for the growth of incomes and employment, especially for
the poor.  Its efforts are reflected in the Fifth Five-Year Plan, which
covers the period October 1981 to September 1986. The major (and inter-
related) objectives are equity, financial stability, and national security;
growth is seen as a derived rather than a primary objective. The Government
aims at reconciling these objectives over the five-year period of the Plan,
partly through a reduction in lower-priority expenditures, which is already
being implemented, but mainly through medium-term structural adjustments
which improve production incentives and increase the efficiency of the
economy, and improve its competitiveness, both in the external and domestic
markets.
13.       To assist it in realizing these objectives, the Government has
sought the assistance of the IMF and the Bank. Agreement was reached with
the Fund on a major standby program, which covers a two-year period starting
in April 1981, and amounts to SDR 814.5 million. In addition, the Fund in
July 1981 provided Thailand with SDR 186 million under its Compensatory
Financing Facility. With regard to the Bank, the Government has requested
assistance in further developing and implementing the structural adjustment
program, incorporated in the Fifth Plan, through a series of structural
adjustment loans. An appraisal mission for the first such loan visited
Thailand in August/September and the loan was approved by the Executive
Directors on March 2, 1982.
Financing Requirements
14.       While the Government is making considerable efforts to improve
the efficiency and effectiveness of its spending, the implementation of
policies needed for a satisfactory rate of economic and social progress
will require continued growth in the absolute level of public expenditures,
though they are expected to remain constant relative to GDP. Much greater
efforts will be required to mobilize both domestic and external resources
than in the past. The Government's domestic revenue, as a percentage of GDP
(about 14% for 1978 to 1980), is low compared to other developing countries
at similar levels of development. Recently the Government has taken steps
to revise the tax structure and to improve collections. Further tax
measures are planned, particularly in the area of improved tax administra-
tion and structure. The goal is to increase Central Government revenues to
about 18% of GDP by 1986, thus substantially reducing the budgetary deficits
and thereby limiting the reliance on foreign financing. In addition, the
financial situation of state enterprises, which has already improved
substantially in the wake of recent tariff increases, is expected to
continue improving as a result of appropriate pricing policies.
15.       Despite these fiscal policy measures and the ambitious structural
adjustment policies to be implemented in the agriculture, industry and energy
sectors, the demand for external resources will increase. Macroeconomic



projections indicate that the current account deficit will remain at levels
over $2 billion per annum, but will decline as a share of GDP to about 4% in
1987. Even the realization of this target will require large amounts of
external borrowing, totalling about $25 billion over the period 1982-87, of
which about half is expected to be in the form of public and publicly guaran-
teed debt. Assuming a significant level of concessional assistance, total
debt service payments as a percentage of exports of goods and non-factor
services will rise from 11.6% in 1980 to 17.9% in 1987. Given the
diversification of Thai commodity exports and the continued expansion of
agricultural and manufactured exports expected as a result of appropriate
structural adjustment policies, these debt service requirements should be
sustainable.
16.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks, have
been expanding their programs to meet a larger part of Thailand's growing
resource requirements. The rest has been financed through syndicated loans
and bond issues. The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy Commit-
tee to coordinate and approve all foreign borrowing by the public sector. The
Bank of Thailand is improving its procedures for recording private borrowing
abroad in order to keep track of total foreign debt. External agencies,
including the Bank Group, have in recent years increasingly concentrated on
project lending to Thailand in some sectors that have high social benefits,
but low foreign exchange savings or earnings. To achieve the level of
external resource transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in selected
projects where the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local
currency expenditures.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
17.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of March 31, 1982, had received 69 IBRD loans (including
two third window loans) and six IDA credits, totalling (net of cancellations)
$2,558 million in loans and $125 million in credits. As of that date,
$1,337.3 million remained undisbursed on effective loans and credits. No IDA
credits have been extended to Thailand since FY79. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as well as
the status of Bank Group projects under implementation.
18.       The sectoral distribution of Bank loans and IDA credits, in dollar
terms, has been as follows: 30% for energy; 28% for agriculture and rural
development; 17% for transportation; 6% for telecommunications; 5% for urban
development; 4% for education; 1% for industry; 2% for population/ health/
nutrition; and 6% for structural adjustment lending. Overall implementation
of Bank projects in Thailand has improved steadily during the past five years.
Thailand's disbursement ratio increased from 17.7% in 1977 to 24.9% in 1981.
These rates are better than the Bank-wide average and the rates for other



- 7-
countries in the region. In 1981, the Bank-wide average was 21.5% while the
ratios for two comparator countries, the Philippines and Morrocco, were 17.9%
and 11.7%, respectively.
19.       Over the past six years, the Bank has shifted its lending in
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastructure
projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY75) to a program
which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's efforts to
reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since FY76,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications and
industry have accounted for about 60% of Bank Group lending and about half of
these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed to benefit the
rural population.  The proportion of Bank lending to the agricultural/rural
development sector has trebled, accounting for about 30% of lending operations
since FY76. The design of projects in this sector has also changed, from
exclusively large irrigation projects to a more balanced program covering
irrigation (including land development and support services to the farmer) and
a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outside the central flood
plain (including rubber replanting, livestock, agricultural extension,
research and credit, and rural development).  Projects in the social sectors
which, prior to FY76, were limited to three in education, accounting for 6% of
the program, have both diversified and grown.  In recent years education,
population and low-income housing projects have accounted for about 10% of the
program.
20.       For the future, the Bank's assistance objectives are to support the
Government's development efforts, as articulated in its Fifth Five-Year Plan
for the period 1982-1986, to address: (a) the long-term issues of poverty
alleviation, promotion of employment, and reduction of income disparities; and
(b) the medium-term issue of restructuring the Thai economy through the inten-
sification of agriculture, efficient development of the industrial sector,
promotion of domestic energy conservation and development, increased public
resource mobilization, and improved institutional capacity in the public
sector. In addition to these two broad objectives, Bank assistance in
Thailand also aims at moving from project-specific to sectoral lending,
especially in agriculture, industry, energy, and education, and at strengthen-
ing the local Thai capacity for policy analysis and formulation.
21.       In implementing this strategy, projects in the areas of agriculture
and rural development will seek to generate employment and income growth
particularly among the poorer farm households in the rainfed areas of the
country and will support the structural adjustment process by aiming at
continued growth of agricultural production and exports through intensi-
fication. Lending for transport and communications will increasingly aim at
expanding the rural road system and thus be in support of agricultural and
rural development for the medium and longer term. In the urban development
and human resources sectors, Bank lending will be geared to strengthening
the long-term capacity of Thailand to transform itself efficiently from a



- 8 -
primarily agricultural and rural economy to a relatively more industrial and
urban economy, while also supporting the Government's goal to address basic
human needs in the more disadvantaged rural and urban areas of the country.
Lending in the energy and industry sectors will be designed to support
structural adjustment and growth through the efficient development and
utilization of domestic energy resources and the strengthening of the
financial infrastructure. Finally, structural adjustment lending will
strengthen the Government's structural adjustment program through studies,
development of action programs, and policy actions in the areas of agri-
culture, industry, energy, fiscal policy, and institutional development.
22.       Bank loans and IDA credits to Thailand, disbursed and outstanding,
amounted to $1,063.2 million as of March 31, 1982. As of December 31, 1980,
Bank and IDA debt disbursed and outstanding accounted for 11.7% of total
debt (disbursed and outstanding), while the Bank Group's share of total debt
service payments amounted to 8.3% in 1980. This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall external debt (18% of GDP in 1980) and the
declining shares of Bank debt in total debt, and of Bank debt service in
total debt service.
23.       As of March 31, 1982, IFC had made commitments totalling $110.6
million in nine projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been primarily
in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed at
mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller enter-
prises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been
enhanced by expanding private sector investment activity, and consultations
with the Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may
be needed. These areas include very large and complex projects such as a
proposed soda ash project to serve the ASEAN community, projects in the
petroleum and downstream petrochemical sector, and projects in the agricul-
tural sector. A tantalum processing project and a shrimp farming venture
are being considered by IFC management.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Overview
24.       Thailand's education system has expanded rapidly during the last
decade. In 1980 primary enrollment had reached 7.4 million, representing
about 97% of the age group 7-12. Enrollment ratios are 39% at the lower
secondary level (grades 7, 8 and 9), 9% at the upper secondary level
(grades 10, 11 and 12), and 3.6% for higher education.
25,       Responsibilities for educational administration and planning are
shared among several central government agencies. Educational administra-
tion of primary, secondary and postsecondary (nonuniversity) education,
including teacher training, is under the Ministry of Education (MOE). The



- 9 -
Office of University Affairs, with the status of a ministry, oversees
government universities and private colleges.  For supervisory purposes the
MOE has grouped the country's 71 changwats (provinces) into 12 regions with
offices in each region. Educational planning is carried out by each of MOE's
operating departments, by its Division of Educational Planning in the
Under-secretary's Office and by various divisions in the central planning
agency, the National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB). The
National Education Commission (NEC) has a policy-formulation brief, with
responsibility for the review and evaluation of the education system at all
levels.
26.       Public education is supported almost entirely by central government
funds, claiming about 20% of the national recurrent budget, or $1.24 billion,
in 1980. Private schools, enrolling about one-fifth of students at the
secondary level, receive some subsidies from the Central Government and must
conform to standards set by the MOE. At the primary and secondary levels
expenditure for improving facilities is inadequate as is expenditure on other
quality improvements (teaching/learning materials and teacher upgrading).
27.       Secondary schooling has been reoriented from preparation for post-
secondary education to preparation for employment. In 1978 a new diversified
secondary curriculum was introduced which supplements traditional academic-
subjects with occupational subjects, including work education. Implementation
of the new curriculum will be completed in 1983. The new diversified
curriculum requires all students to take at least four periods a week of work
education subjects, and in other subject areas there will be an increased
emphasis on practical and manual activities to balance with theoretical or
academic subjects.
Issues in Secondary Education
28.       In view of the rapid social and economic changes taking place in
Thailand, the Government has decided on accelerated and universal improvements
in secondary education. Enrollments in general lower secondary education in
Thailand expanded rapidly during the 1970s, from about 600,000 in 1972 to
about 1.3 million in 1980. A slower but still substantial rate of expansion
is envisaged for the Fifth Plan period, to about 1.6 million in 1986. If this
expansion is to be successfully carried out substantial changes are needed in
the secondary sector (a) to improve the education system's performance
relating to access, relevance, quality and efficiency; and (b) to strengthen
the MOE's planning and management capacity.
29.       Access.  Access to lower secondary education is an important issue
both in absolute terms and in terms of regional disparities.  Because of
rapidly rising primary enrollments and a slower expansion of secondary
school places in recent years, the transition rate from primary to secondary
fell from 61% in 1978 to 46% in 1980. Intake in grade 7 was held down in the
same period to accommodate the enrollment bulge caused by the transition from



- 10 -
the old to the new secondary cycle and total lower secondary enrollments,
which fell in 1981, are expected to rise again in 1982. The target for the
expansion of public lower secondary education adopted by NEC for the Fifth
Plan period implies an annual enrollment increase of 6.5% over the period
1980-86.
30.       Although regional disparity in secondary enrollments narrowed
significantly between 1973 and 1980, considerable imbalances remain in
participation rates between and within regions. Thailand's north and
northeast regions generally, and Yala province in the south particularly,
lag behind the rest of the country. Access disparity is also evident within
different administrative levels. Only 10% of tambons (subdistricts) are
served by secondary schools, thus making access to secondary education
difficult for much of the rural population. The Fifth Five-Year Plan gives
priority to improving access to secondary education in the most disadvantaged
regions in order to narrow disparities in secondary enrollments.
31.      Facilities.  Not only are there proportionately fewer secondary
school places in rural areas, but the quality of existing rural secondary
school facilities, particularly those limited to the lower cycle, tends to be
much lower than that of the larger urban schools. Lacking adequate buildings,
equipment and resource materials, such schools find it difficult to accommo-
date student demand or to attract sufficiently qualified teachers. Based on
the results of a comprehensive school-mapping exercise, the MOE has developed
three basic models for the improvement of lower secondary schools; they are to
be upgraded to accommodate 4, 6 and 8 classes in each grade, with a maximum
class size of 45 students.
32.       Relevance and Quality.  The 1978 diversified secondary curriculum,
with its emphasis on work-related activities, is meant to provide a more
relevant education to the majority of students than the traditional curri-
culum, which stressed academic subjects and prepared students for higher
education. But implementation of the 1978 curriculum has been hampered by two
main issues which also adversely affect the quality of education: inadequate
preparation of teachers to teach the new curriculum and insufficient provision
of materials, equipment and physical facilities as logistical support. There-
fore, high priority is being given to the provision of improved practical
facilities, appropriate instructional materials and equipment, and adequately
trained teachers in the particularly disadvantaged lower secondary schools.
33.       Internal Efficiency and Teacher Utilization.  While the internal
efficiency of secondary education in Thailand is high, as indicated by high
transition rates from one grade level to the next, the teacher utilization
rate in classroom teaching is low.  An average teacher has only 16 teaching
periods or 13-1/2 hours out of a maximum of 35 periods or 29 hours per week.
The rest of the teacher's time is spent on preparation work and extra-
curricular in-school activities, including administrative tasks. The low
average teaching load is reflected in the low teacher-student ratio of 1:18 in
1980 compared with 1:22 in 1976, despite the fact that the average class size
has remained at over 40 students.



- 11 -
34.       The low teacher utilization rate reflects faulty planning and
management. Overall efficiency would be improved by raising the
teacher-student ratio which would require teachers to spend more time in
direct contact with students. A teacher-student ratio of 1:18 in 1986 would-
cost $456 per student enrolled, compared to $373 at a ratio of 1:22, a
difference of 22% per student. The cumulative difference in teacher-years
over the period 1982-86 would be 87,800, corresponding to an estimated saving
of about $175 million. Such a saving would more than offset the increased
staffing costs resulting from the introduction of the new curriculum. This
issue is being addressed under the proposed project (para. 52).
Management Constraints
35.       The principal units of the MOE involved in the planning and
management of secondary education are the Department of General Education
(DGE), the Division of Education Planning, the regional education offices and
the provincial education offices. There is no strong central agency to direct
and coordinate educational planning and administration either within the MOE
or between the MOE and NEC and NESDB. Competent management of scarce
resources requires a better integrated system of planning, monitoring and
evaluation than presently exists. The fragmented responsibilities for
management of the sector have resulted in a weak articulation of planning
activities of the different departments of the MOE and an ineffective
allocation of resources among subsectors and among projects.
36.       Central Planning and Management.  The main issue in the manage-
ment of the education sector as a whole is the inefficient allocation and
utilization of resources. Generally, short-term budgetary considerations take
precedence over long-term objectives and broad development policies. There is
no effective annual planning to serve as the bridge between long-term planning
and annual budgeting. This may be explained by the absence of both a
comprehensive management information system and continuous sectoral planning
to provide the operational framework for setting priorities and targets,
outlining strategies and programs, and guiding project planning and budgeting.
MOE's educational management responsibilities have outgrown the capabilities
of the Division of Education Planning, which consequently has suffered a loss
of influence and effectiveness. The MOE's departments, with their own
separate planning units, tend to bypass the Division and deal directly with
NESDB or the Budget Bureau, the two national agencies concerned with resource
allocation. As the Division of Education Planning is weak, there is
practically no coordination among and within various educational levels.
37.       While the NEC has responsibility for the review and evaluation of
the education system at all levels, it has no control over the MOE's
departments. It also lacks qualified staff in planning. Policy is formally



- 12 -
enunciated in the Five-Year Plan, but the fragmented planning system is not
conducive to a comprehensive translation of national education policy into
viable programs and projects. The weakness in planning is compounded by the
lack of a reliable national data base for systematic analysis of sector
issues.
38.       The MOE's lack of sectoral development strategies and plans has
been an impediment to the efficient use of resources for educational and
manpower development in Thailand. The causes are the shortage of planning
expertise in the agencies concerned and the lack of consistent coordination
in social and economic planning between these agencies. The planning agencies
require strengthening through staff development and through a better articu-
lation of their planning functions.
39.       Provincial Planning.  The weaknesses of central educational planning
are duplicated at the provincial level. In the 71 provinces the provincial
education offices in theory represent the Office of the Under-Secretary of
State of the Ministry of Education and should serve as coordinating agencies
for all MOE departments at the provincial level. In practice, however,
individual provincial departments and educational institutions report directly
to the MOE's central agencies. There is no linkage between provincial
agencies, and the provincial planning units lack trained and experienced
planning staff.
40.       Regional Management.  Each of the 12 educational regions has a
regional educational office (REO) responsible directly to the Office of the
Under-Secretary of State for Education in the MOE. The REOs presently have
four main functions: (a) coordination of activities by institutions and
agencies at regional level under the MOE and other ministries relating to
education, culture and community development matters and general guidance of
educational development in line with official policies; (b) supervision of
vocational, physical and general (academic) education; provision of in-service
teacher training; and implementation of technical jobs initiated by the REOs
or delegated by the departments of the MOE; (c) production and distribution of
teaching-learning materials; and (d) research and evaluation, including
designing standardized tests, with the focus on topics relevant to regional or
local issues. There are substantial difficulties in carrying out these
diverse functions. The REO's power of coordination is limited by the MOE's
centralized decision-making process, which requires that significant matters
be referred back to the departments concerned in the MOE. The functions and
responsibilities of the REOs need to be rationalized, and their effectiveness
improved through staff development.
Government Development Strategy
41.       Under the Fifth Development Plan (1982-86) the Government's main
objectives for the education sector are to:



- 13 -
(a) expand educational opportunities and improve quality in formal
and nonformal schooling, in response to local occupational and
cultural needs and to labor market demands; and
(b) improve and maximize efficiency in educational management.
Consistent with these objectives, the Government seeks to expand and improve
educational services in the underserved sections of the population, especially
in rural areas and urban slums. In secondary education the distinction
between academic and vocational streams is to be blurred by the new curri-
culum which places due emphasis on work education and other occupational
subjects. As a step toward achieving universal education through grade 9,
the Government plans to increase the participation rate in lower secondary
education, covering the age group of 13-15, from 39% in 1980 to 46%
in 1986, with corresponding enrollments projected to rise from 1.3 million to
1.7 million. Simultaneously the Government plans to strengthen the planning
and management capabilities of central, regional and provincial planning
and management agencies. To achieve these objectives the Government plans
to replace temporary, dilapidated buildings and to provide some 400,000
new places as well as workshops, laboratories and other facilities together
with adequate equipment and materials for teaching work education and general
subjects. To meet the goal of improving efficiency in educational management,
the Government plans to introduce needed organizational changes in selected
central and regional planning or management agencies in step with projected
staff development in planning and management skills. The proposed project
would assist the Government in meeting these objectives.
42.       Bank Grop Participation.  Five Bank loans/credits, totaling
$106.9 million, have been made to the education sector in Thailand. These
projects have pursued three main objectives, viz. manpower development,
quality improvement and more equitable coverage. More than half of the
loan/credit funds have been allocated to general education, with emphasis on
secondary and postsecondary education. This reflects the relatively heavy
input in diversified secondary education. The first project was completed in
1973, the second and third in 1980 and the other two are in various stages of
implementation. To date, the projects have succeeded in achieving substantial
institutional development at Kasetsart University, the National Curriculum
Development Center and within adult education; quality improvements in
secondary and higher agricultural education;. and more equitable coverage of
secondary education. The projects have been less successful in producing
middle-level skilled manpower since many graduates continue on to higher
education. The projects have further shared in inefficiencies in
implementation, leading to substantial procurement delays (averaging over two
years) under the second and third projects. These delays have resulted
largely from staff inexperience, underbudgeting, and cumbersome procurement
procedures, problems which have gradually been overcome.
43.       Future Bank Group education lending is expected to concentrate on
four objectives: (a) increased equity by expanding opportunities for basic
education; (b) improved quality of education through improvements in



- 14 -
curriculum, instructional materials, teacher training, school administration,
and educational mass media (particularly radio); (c) middle- and high-level
skill development to meet manpower needs in key sectors such as agriculture
and energy; and (d) strengthened educational planning and management
capabilities.
44.       An OED Project Performance Audit Report (No. 770, dated June 13,
1975) has been prepared on the First Education Project (Loan 471-TH). The
major audit finding of relevance to the present project is the need for more
efficient use of teachers to improve student/teacher ratios. Under the
present project the Government will prepare and implement a plan to improve
teacher utilization. Further, the project will strengthen central planning
with the object of improving the allocation of teacher resources. Audit
reports on the second and third education projects are under preparation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
History
45.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government with UNESCO
assistance. It was preappraised in April/May 1981 and appraised in October
1981. Negotiations were held in Washington from May 3-7, 1982; the Thai
delegation was led by H.E. Kasem Sirisumpundh, Minister of Education. A Staff
Appraisal Report dated May 18, 1982 (No. 3706-TH) is being circulated
separately. Supplementary data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives
46.       The proposed project would assist the Government in pursuing two
broad objectives: (a) to improve the lower secondary education performance
in disadvantaged areas relating to access, relevance, quality and efficiency
by (i) providing new and renovated classrooms, new workshops and laboratories,
materials, in-service staff training and technical assistance; and (ii)
improving teacher utilization through an increase in the average weekly
teaching periods; and (b) to strengthen the national capacity of education and
manpower planning and management by introducing systemic improvements and
providing technical assistance, training, equipment and materials to the
central, regional, and provincial planning agencies of MOE, NEC and NESDB.
Project Components
47.       Improvement of Facilities.  To improve quality and access in secon-
dary education, about 480 relatively disadvantaged lower secondary schools in
rural areas have been selected for assistance. Under the project, the schools
would be provided with new classrooms to replace existing temporary facilities
and/or meet projected enrollment requirements, as well as workshops, labora-
tories and other facilities which will enable the new diversified curriculum



- 15 -
to be introduced. Needed equipment and furniture would also be provided.
During negotiations, it was agreed that the Government would select the
schools to be upgraded in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank
(Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
48.       Teaching Programs.  With the proposed upgrading of facilities, it
will be possible for all project schools to follow the new lower secondary
curriculum, with work education subjects emphasizing practice rather than
theory. The syllabus would be adapted to the needs of the students and the
community and would take advantage of agricultural activities and nonfarm
enterprises in the surrounding area to provide students with opportunities for
field work.
49.       In-service Staff Train.  To improve the quality of teaching and
learning in project schools, about 3,720 teachers and administrators would
be provided in-service training in content and teaching methods in home
mechanics, home economics, agriculture and industrial arts. Part-time
community teachers would be recruited to teach specific skills such as
tailoring, hairdressing, and small engine repair. This approach has been
successfully used by the Nonformal Education Department in the operation of
"interest group" courses for the out-of-school population. About 540 staff
would be provided training in maintenance and repair of equipment, both at the
School Equipment Center in Bangkok and at regional centers. Another 3,160
nonteaching staff, including principals, librarians, school counsellors and
community development officers, would be provided short training in their
respective areas of responsibility.
50.       The principal training agency would be the Supervisory Unit of the
DGE in conjunction with other agencies concerned such as the Departments of
Vocational Education, Nonformal Education, and Community Development. In
order to train a maximum number of staff with limited resources, "echo-
training" would be used whereby central supervisors would train regional
supervisors from the 12 regional centers, and they in turn would train the
teachers in their respective regions. All training courses would be held in
step with the development of the project schools. Seminars for principals,
assistant principals and practical arts department heads would be held at
selected regional centers by the DGE's Supervisory Unit. Outcomes of the
seminars would be used as the basis for further improvement of training and
curriculum implementation in the following phase.
51.       Output.  When fully operational, the project schools would enroll
about 335,000 students (26% of total lower secondary enrollments) and are
expected to graduate about 111,000 students (24% of total lower secondary
graduates) each year. About 80% of lower secondary graduates are expected to
continue their education at the upper secondary level.
52.       Teacher Utilization.  As mentioned above (paragraph 34), poor
teacher utilization at the secondary school level adds significantly to
educational costs. For example, an increase in the average weekly teaching
periods from the current 16 per week (13-1/2 hours) to 18 per week (15 hours)



- 16 -
would allow an increase in the average teacher/student-ratio from 1:18 to 1:20
(without necessarily increasing class size) and reduce the expenditure on
teacher salaries significantly. Meeting these targets would translate by 1986.
into annual recurrent expenditure savings of $3 million for the project
schools or over $17 million for all lower secondary schools. During negotia-
tions the Government agreed to prepare and furnish to the Bank, by
December 31, 1983, a plan to improve teacher utilization and thereafter carry
out such plan in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Bank (Section
3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       Teacher Incentives.  Rural schools find it difficult to attract
sufficiently qualified teachers for a variety of reasons: distance from
amenities of urban communities, reduced opportunities for supplementary
income, and relatively poor physical facilities and teaching materials. The
project is addressing this issue for project schools by improving the class-
room environment through improved facilities and materials. The Government
already provides housing and scholarships for rural teachers but additional
incentives are required to offset the natural attraction of urban locations.
During negotiations, the Government agreed to carry out a study on incentives
suitable to attract and retain teachers in rural areas and submit its
recommendations to the Bank by December 31, 1984. After an exchange of views
between the Government and the Bank, appropriate measures would be taken
(Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Planning and Management
54.       This project component would improve the Government's overall
capacity for educational and manpower planning and help develop an integrated
planning system in which there would be effective coordination of departmental
and ministerial planning and ;3licy formulation within and between the MOE,
NEC and NESDB. It would also strengthen the linkages between central and
regional or provincial planning and management agencies.
55.       Central and Provincial Staff Development.  The objective is to
develop an integrated planning system that would coordinate the management of
resources at ministerial level as well as between central and provincial
units. This would be achieved by (i) entrusting the NEC with responsibility
for overseeing and coordinating interministerial planning; (ii) restructuring
and strengthening the Division of Educational Planning to enable it to formu-
late sectoral plans and policies and coordinate development plans of the MOE
departments; (iii) undertaking a study to clarify the planning functions of,
and relationship between, the NEC, NESDB and the Division of Educational
Planning; and (iv) providing technical assistance and training in planning and
management. During negotiations the Government agreed that it would, by
January 31, 1983, submit a plan to the Bank for expanding NEC's responsibili-
ties and for strengthening the Division of Educational Planning in MOE, and
thereafter implement the plan after exchanging views with the Bank thereon
(Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
56.       In order to strengthen staff expertise in planning and management,
training would be provided for the Division of Educational Planning,
departmental planning units, the Office of the National Primary Education
Commission, the Central Procurement Unit, and the 71 provincial planning units
of the MOE; the Population and Manpower Planning Division of NESDB; and the
NEC.- Overseas and local fellowships would be provided to these agencies for
short courses as well as higher degree studies in manpower and educational
planning and related subjects. Local staff training programs would focus on
operational issues such as manpower and educational planning techniques,
program or project planning and budgeting, and project monitoring and
evaluation. These programs would be carried out at the central and regional
levels by DGE for about 130 secondary school management personnel and at the
provincial level by the NEC for 1,245 provincial planning staff. The project
would provide some equipment to the Division of Educational Planning.
57.       Regional Management.  To improve regional management, the project
would provide technical assistance and training to help rationalize the
management and organization of REOs as well as to improve capabilities in
school supervision, curriculum research and instructional materials develop-
ment. The project includes the provision of 3 man-years of local consulting
services for this purpose, and a total of 4 man-years of local fellowships.
58.       The project would also strengthen the REOs in the four major
geographical regions: Region 3 (Songkhla-south), Region 6 (Lopburi-central),
Region 7 (Phitsanulok-north), and Region 11 (Nakhon Ratchasima-northeast) by
providing office equipment and furniture and reference materials for
curriculum development and production of teaching-learning materials. The
government has already started work on improving the REOs in these four
regions as the first phase of a plan to improve the management of all 12 REOs
in the country. The objective is to enable the REOs to improve the quality
and effectiveness of secondary education through more comprehensive
supervision of schools and inservice teacher training, production and
dissemination of supplementary instructional materials, and research into
local educational problems. During negotiations, the Government agreed on a
staffing plan for the four project REOs which would enhance their effective-
ness (Annex B to Schedule 2 of the draft Loan Agreement).
59.       Studies and Preparation of Future Projects.  Financing for approxi-
mately 100 man-months of foreign consultants and 80 man-months of local
consultants would be provided to assist the Government with planning and
management studies and preparation of future projects. Three major areas have
been identified for priority studies: vocational and technical education and
manpower needs, teacher training, and educational planning.  Provision is made
for other studies to be included in the course of project implementation.
Terms of reference for specific studies would be agreed between the Government
and the Bank.
60.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The project would provide funds for
about 80 man-months of foreign/local consultants to establish procedures for,
and implementation of, monitoring and evaluation of the project. In addition,
the NEC would undertake separate mid-term and final evaluations of all project
components.



- 18 -
61.       Technical Assistance.  A total of 51 overseas and 4 local fellow-
ships, amounting to about 42.3 man-years and 6 man-years, respectively, would
be provided to the MOE, NEC and NESDB for developing staff expertise in
planning and management. Local and foreign consultant services would be
provided to design and implement programs for local staff inservice training
in planning and management for the MOE, NEC and NESDB, and to assist the MOE
in project implementation. For the REOs, local consultant services would be
provided to assist in curriculum research and development, and in training and
supervision methods. Terms of reference for this assistance would be agreed
between the Government and the Bank.
Cost
62.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about $214.4 million
with a foreign exchange component of about $73.3 million (34%). Taxes and
duties amount to about $27.9 million. Estimates of construction costs are
based on bids for construction of buildings similar to those proposed for the
project. Site development costs are estimated at 17% of construction costs;
the cost of engineering and architectural services included in the project
for 280 schools (services for 200 schools are being financed under Loan
1271-TH) is estimated at 1.5% of the cost of civil works and covers soil
investigation and laboratory tests and reports at $870 and $220 per site
respectively; topographical surveys of 180 man-months at $945 per man-month,
and of working drawings of about 100 man-months at $820 per man-month. The
salaries of clerks of works are estimated at 0.5% of the cost of civil works
(240 man-years at $2,610 per man-year); and furniture at 10% of construction
costs. Equipment estimates are based on preliminary equipment lists which
were reviewed during appraisal and found reasonable. The cost of teacher
training for the project's lower secondary school teachers is estimated at
B 2,000 (about $90) per trainee, and allowances are made for planning and
management, studies, evaluation and monitoring, and for the preparation of
future projects. The cost of foreign consultant services, including salaries,
housing allowances and airfares is estimated at $8,000/man-month. The cost of
local consultant services is estimated at $2,500/man-month.  Foreign
fellowship costs are estimated at $1,500/man-month and local fellowship costs
are $500/man-month. Costs for these components are in line with current
costs. The unit building cost would amount to about $130 per sq m (April 1982
cost), which is within the unit cost for similar buildings in the region.
63.       Contingency Allowances.  The contingency allowance of $65.9 million
includes: (a) physical contingencies amounting to 8.6% of the base cost
(in April 1982 prices); and (b) price contingencies averaging 33% of the base
cost and physical contingencies. Price contingencies were calculated on the
basis of the implementation schedule agreed between the Government and the
Bank and assume the following annual rates of inflation: for foreign costs -
8.0% in 1982 and 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7.0% in 1985 and 6.0% in 1986; for local
costs - 12% in 1982 and 1983, 10% in 1984, 9% in 1985, and 8% in 1986.



- 19 -
64.       Recurrent Cost.  Full recurrent expenditures for project components
would commence in 1984, amounting to about B 188 million ($8.2 million) per
year. Annual incremental recurrent costs for 1984-87 are based on the comple-
tion of 120 schools in each of the preceding years.  Assuming that total
recurrent expenditure for secondary education will grow at 14% annually over
the Fifth Plan period as projected by Government, incremental recurrent
expenditure generated by the project would account for.1O% of the total
estimated recurrent expenditure for secondary education in 1987.
Financing
65.       The financial plan provides for a Bank loan of $75.0 million,
including the capitalized front end fee, equivalent to the foreign costs or
40% of total project cost net of taxes. The Government would finance all
local costs, including all recurrent expenditures.
Implementation
66.       Responsibility for implementing the project would rest with the
Office of Under-Secretary of State for Education. A Central Procurement Unit
(CPU) was established in this Office under the Fifth Education Project (Credit
913-TH) to provide support services and coordinate project implementation
carried out by line units in the MOE for all externally financed projects.
The CPU would continue to perform this role, including preparing quarterly
progress reports to the Bank. While the CPU would assume responsibility for
overall coordination, the DGE would be directly responsible for implementing
the lower secondary schools component of the project, and the Division of
Educational Planning, NEC and NESDB would be responsible for implementing
their respective staff development programs under the planning and management
component.
67.       DGE architects have prepared preliminary designs of the workshops
and academic facilities which have been reviewed and are acceptable to the
Bank. Working drawings and tender documents are under preparation for the
first phase of the project covering about 120 schools on the basis of detailed
surveys and soil tests now underway by DGE, assisted by consultants. Tenders,
review of tenders and award of contracts for the first phase would be com-
pleted by January 1983; construction would start in February and be completed
within a year. Each subsequent year, another 120 schools will be built. The
DGE architects will supervise construction work at regular intervals and check
progress, and clerks of works will supervise construction daily. Procurement
of furniture will be phased with construction. The training elements of the
project, studies, evaluation and monitoring, and preparations for future
projects would be phased over four years, 1983 through 1986. The proposed
project would be completed by December 31, 1986.



- 20 -
Procurement
68.       Civil works and procurement of furniture and equipment would be
grouped to the extent practicable to increase competition in bidding. Civil
works contracts (totalling an estimated $165 million) would be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding but foreign contractors would be permitted
to participate. Thailand has a well-developed construction industry and
foreign firms not already established in Thailand are unlikely to bid due to
the relatively small bid packages ($200,000-1,000,O00), the mixture of
alterations and new works under the contracts, and the 480 scattered
construction sites. Local contractors have won all civil works contracts in
past education projects.  Bidding would follow current government procurement
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Prior Bank review would be required on
contract awards above $700,000 equivalent for civil works.
69.       Equipment packages of $100,000 equivalent or more (totalling about
$18 million) would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. In bid comparison, domestic
manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% or the existing
customs duty, whichever is the lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing
imports. Equipment which cannot be grouped to form packages of $100,000 or
more, and furniture, would be awarded without prior Bank review on the basis
of local competitive bidding in accordance with current government procurement
practices acceptable to the Bank. Miscellaneous items of equipment, in
packages not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, subject to an aggregate total not
exceeding $2.5 million equivalent, may be purchased through local procurement
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Books and journals (totalling about
$726,000) would be procured through direct purchase after negotiations for
discount.
Disbursements
70.       At the request of the Government, academic facilities would be
financed exclusively from Thai budget. The proposed loan of $75 million would
be disbursed on the basis of: (a) 80% of the cost of construction and site
development for workshops; (b) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of imported
equipment, books and journals, 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally
manufactured equipment, books and journals and 65% of the cost of equipment,
books and journals procured locally; (c) 100% of the cost of professional
services, consultant services, and training. All disbursements would be fully
documented except disbursements for civil works contracts not requiring prior
Bank review and local training, which would be made against a statement of
expenditure, documentation of which would be available for inspection by Bank
supervision missions. Based upon experience of implementing previous Bank/IDA
projects, the MOE has satisfactory capacity to use the statement of expendi-
ture procedure. The DGE architects would certify the completion of the stages
of construction. Disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31,
1987, one year after project completion.



- 21 -
Accounting
71.       Accounts would be maintained in accordance with sound and generally
recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank.
Auditing would be performed by independent auditors appointed in consultation
with, and acceptable to, the Bank.  Annual audits would be submitted to the
Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Benefits
72.       The secondary school component would provide improved classroom
facilities, workshops, equipment and materials and in-service training for
some 3,240 teachers in work education subjects to help prepare students for
productive employment when they leave school. By focusing on the smaller
rural schools, the project will improve access of rural students to a
practical education which will enhance their income earning potential. By
1987 a target of about 335,000 students would be served by the 480 schools
involved in the project.
73.       The project would strengthen the Government's overall institutional
development by improving the effectiveness of planning and management in the
MOE, NEC and NESDB. The provision for staff development would strengthen the
Government's capacity for effective planning, appraisal, monitoring and
evaluation of sectoral and intersectoral projects and programs and advance the
goal of developing an integrated planning system within and between
ministries. The training of provincial staff in planning techniques would
also strengthen linkages between provincial planning units and central
planning agencies. Four of the regional education offices would be provided
with equipment and materials and technical assistance for organizational and
staff development to improve their effectiveness in school supervision,
in-service teacher training, research, and production of local instructional
materials. The improved effectiveness of the REOs would be part of the
overall strategy to improve the quality, relevance and efficiency of secondary
education. Teacher utilization in the project schools would be improved with
a possible recurrent cost saving in 1987 of about $3 million for the project
schools or over $17 million for all lower secondary schools. This could lead
to improved efficiency in the use of teachers in secondary education as a
whole. Improved teacher incentives would result in the rural lower secondary
schools getting better qualified teachers.
Risks
74.       There may be some difficulty in recruiting sufficient numbers of
qualified staff to teach work education subjects in the project schools but
this risk is mitigated by in-service training of existing staff to teach work
education, improved incentives to rural teachers and improved efficiency in
the use of teachers in classroom teaching. An additional risk is that the
implementation program, requiring 120 schools to be upgraded each year for
four consecutive years, might strain the manpower of the DGE but this would be
relieved by improved management capacity through the project's planning and



- 22 -
management staff development program. Despite these risks, the project is
justified by its expected contributions to the quality, relevance and
efficiency of lower secondary education, widening access to secondary
education in deprived areas, and strengthening the Government's planning and
management capacity.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed
in Section III of Annex III.
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
By: Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 20, 1982



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                                     Page 1 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEjAGES
LAND AHEA (IHUUS,AND SQ . IS. )                                                          -  MOST RECENT EStIMATE) a
- TUTAL             5i4.0                                  MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      178.1              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   100.0       210.0      590.0                1136.1                   1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF CUAL EQUlVALENT)       62.5        204.3     376.3                1150.6                   1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MIU-YEAR (THUUSANDS) 27229.0       36499.0   45475.0                     *
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 12.5          13.2       14.2                  40.8                     64.2
POPULATION PRUJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        68.2
STAllIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        i03.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Eli.                       53.0         71.0      88.5                 373.1                      34.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    210.3         247.5     250.0                2382.8                      94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.7         46.2      42.4                   39.8                     40.7
15-64 YRS.                          52.6         50.8      54.5                  56.7                     55.3
b5 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.7          3.0       3.1                    3.5                      4.0
POPULATION GRKJIH BATE (PERCENT)
TOIAL                               2.6          2.9       2.4                    2.3                      2.4
URBAN                               4.4          3.5        3.2                   3.8                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      44.0         39.5       30.9                  29.7                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       15.8        11.3        7.9                   7.5                      8.4
GROSS REPRUDUCTION RATE               3.2          2.9        2.1                   1.9                      2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       202.9/c   761.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           7.6      39.0                  44.1
FUOD AND NUTRLTION
INDEX OF FouD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (19b9-71=IOO)           92.0        100.0     124.0                 123.7                     108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    96.0        103.0     105.0                  112.6                    107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           43.0         50.0      49.0                  62.5                      65.8
oF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        10.0         15.0      14.0                  19.7                      34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      15.6          9.6        5.9                   4.8                      7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    50.8          57.1       62.0                  64.0                     64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..        86.0jd    68.0                   50.2                     70.9
ACCESS TU SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         17.0      22.0                   45.9                     65.7
URBAN                                ..         60.0       49.0                  68.0                     79.7
RURAL                                 ..        10.0       12.0                  34.4                     43.9
ACCESS Tu EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
IOTAL                                ..         17.0      40.0                   53.4                     59.9
URBAN                                ..         65.0      58.0                   71.0                     75.7
RURAL                                 ..         8.0      36.0                   42.4                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           8003.8       8462.6    8154.1                 4428.7                   1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4900.0       7058.4    3542.0                 2229.7                   1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1351.0/e      897.8      814.2                 588.5                    471.2
URBAN                                 ..       176.3     519.5                  579.6                    558.0
RURAL                                 ..     13910.7    1268.5                 1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        31.0       44.8                  36.7
hOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.S/e        5.8        5.5
URBAN                               5.3/e        5.8        5.5
RURAL                               5.6/e        5.8        5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ,.        2.4
URBAN                                ..           ..        2.2
RURAL                                ..           ..        2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..         18.9
URBAN                                 .         86.1
KURAL                                ..          9.0



-24 -                                                     AE  
Page 2 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEyAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSlED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 83.0         81.0      82.0                    99.8                    101.7
MALE                  88.0        85.0       85.0                  100.6                    103.0
FEMZALE               79.0        77.0       78.0                   98.8                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 13.0         17.0      28.0                    53.5                     35.3
MALE                  16.0        20.0       29.0                   58.4                     34.9
FEMALE                10.0        14.0       27.0                   48.6                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENXOL. (% OF SECONDARY)    19.0          24.0       17.0                   21.1                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            36.0         22.0      28.0                    34.2                     29.6
SECONDARY                          20.0         16.0      27.0                    31.7                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         68.0        78.6       84.0                   86.5                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0          5.1       6.4                    12.7                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          6.0         76.0      131.0                  174.1                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.2          6.6      17.6                    50.6                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  11.0         20.5         ..                  106.8                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        1.7                    4.3                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13958.0       17010.0   21547.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   48.3         47.3      46.5                    37.4                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              83.7         79.9       76.6                   50.2                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.4          6.0       8.7                   21.9                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.3         46.6       47.4                   40.2                     31.8
MALE                                 52.7         49.3       50.9                   49.8                     49.0
FEMALE                               49.8         43.9      43.9                    31.1                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9          1.1        1.0                    1.1                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8/f        23.8/g    14.0/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.97         49.7]j    42.27..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.2/f         6.1/&     7.6/h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.9/f        15.9/g    19i.17
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLLTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     159.0                  248.6
RURAL                                 ..          ..     106.0 a                 193.7                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     115.0                  249.8                     513.9
RURAL                                ..           ..     110.0 L                234.3                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       15.0                   21.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      34.0                    32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Covernment program only;  /d 1964-65;  /e 1962;  /f 1962-63;  /g 1968;  /h Preliminary data for 1975-76;
due to lack of data on national basis, the methodology for aggregating the available regional data
overstates incomes of low income groups and understates incomes of higher income groups.  Thus, this
data is not suitable for any analytical comparisons.
/i   Estimates for 1977.
May, 1981



ANNEX 1
- 25 -                                                                                         Page 3 of 5
MEIyy`IONS OF SOCIAL IDtCITOlaP
Noons:  Although rho -ass are draws Onus   ...r.. generally,  taged the ussr I-hrrrtc   n  rolnuh.c..ac..oald  als  an soe    hot they  wy oat he lase-
sarosllyonarhlehesar-ath  lak  f sanar acd   eflitoo   andrsonptsaa   h  d teertosrorhe   La tolrtr   she data    hu data .r                                        Irn
thc½te     oeu  ednslcrurs   nagoltaud,icdssarorrnds, -ad caat -let~aia   or d4ffcoceons ho--aroo.trlcs.
fc  cacoo    rsp    t   I   hyrr   ore   oroo  of the sba- o  toatoy and 727   soo                         gr..up steh  -osohat highc- sont  h              Is hao  toc toasry groa
oftoeah  r    str    rry   o   'Ep salt             Epo   01Opornen    group sheer "Middle frost. Iarts dfrlld and Co-ddle EastI  tn ohaco                          IfrIsua
sos  turur1 Ieflaes-lohd tfsu   grop too  the argeachpltoa eghdaltooasas                                                      e sh  -dur-to  rod shows oshy' ohas11
as  rfofre   utnurT  0dophatot   a   htsdotr.  Ilsoc the ttrg   ud oa-rrlir   aong the  oldilo-o  depends ow to. a-alehthlil pat doat
as tO  tha oosato0 sad ref ercarieic r t                                n-   1  .               1            ~,Iarag           -I    a
LAND1 ARfA Ithooaatd squ.                                                                                ositoao lor HPioat hod -  ot-W1  uis-.l, srdurl-h1lrr   (tota,
Total    Tot.,  surf arc u-oso-pojSig  ass area wad Oslat   oos.uhsaWrnh  Oohkh                                                           Irfe   ras-tat  nuder  f -loopiral hoOt
grrtoal - F-:ruatn aT   a-rxltr-l area used soaac                 op-entally                      stae-spsllosas  posture geare    us a-re-iotAd  hospItall Sad ne-
f2rsas   atra.r           ahr  ksdittrhar gardess on to 1    fallo    1978 data.                     haP1n7 lltaio   orotor    ' hepate la are aatablaht ntpnetrysafd
ha a     _brt use phrcia.   Poacllnhse-ta prsoidig p-saips ITttaa
lIP PEP _CAPITA (Mfl)   GNOP per  uIaot-aa    thtet  ahtpie,tl                                              t-tr  apbptiloudd.faa   hoehatals%,,,P, hntr,alue eR
oslated hp sane -sorrlo   arthsd aS Worldls   Alsaf1-79hais) 1911,                                      oa  eas -i   sotr  asa peresstal  sf Sd hy             -osa -c  bhue by a
1970, and 1979 dana,.                                                                                  reasoo   Sairtana , .srse, elidoife, st-o . ,hith offor Is-pet e'Ir o`rrne
dathor and pras.d a, isOe    sg f ne-als carlhit-e.  Pa  seta
aetgieptol.ranrl  osA ho-,olsadathrscc                                                          c  Irara  hnra1aauroahsaanesehaadaea
trlotyl oi        grc   o   ua   t-rlert per -aplro; 196f. 190.sr.11                                    retr.   Ip-oltee    hspreaeloldd only udte  total.
data.                                                                     Adorennorspro lasyltal ta   - Total rneof rdls-l-an to or Oli-h-Sog
Iran hospitals da-ide hy theruser sO beds
POPULAtTIO ANIt VTo.ITALTATISTtCS
Tota "'Po...lat-  P11-Teen  (tod-adla   - As at July 1; 1960, 19ff, ash 1779                       POtOitE
data.                                                                                              ho-soo tact at nostl-od Ireorara prohanod  -  oa,ara,ad ru 1al
Urha- Popstantis  (per-eac at rota) - Patio  of orhb  rothlpplta;Ahsoala  -oaitea of a goap of iscdioihsj  who share  Ii-ag  quat"r
ditfferret dellasator  of arIas areas ry aftllsa  s-bihllry -E dotI                                  aedh alnos  mels   A hoonden or ladger nay so may aon he arrlsded  to
p  ~ ~        ~          s-:lr   os-her; oarS,  971  so~~~~~~~ad 1979  I.                                                    rho hoa-shld   uretr Psrro            poaea.
Popoatls  hr  ear2110 -lrrrt pplahopea) erru.s. one hIIe  or111hr of penso-s ret trn   oaltht   o  rcIape    uattfor
-ese- and I             faa r Id --1peay   raitleta, a7.  pe-ars   Thle p....-                     OsoveSloa  dollaswthoeroot  I   haa    aotota   eset
oRet  tar I.Ptll-y SIt  ohas tho   thre lsRi              asotg  a        e to                     ofs toL, unar oe roa  Oweltloagr renpecrl.ehy-
fertIlIty.  feaorlag "S S..toa     - se  uSIili.past a77hy    Y..ts-. pThoranPe.-                           t_ld'ib    t    atiiyi                       fgq        -.    eetg
hashsasregus  hot  -tn,a   one, adI thlese      e' uhost -ihso dar  of sdtanaldtll sfEATIOp
fert-lal      redsfr  oseatspupSo   Idjte  trtlocat RatIos
the ItIa ,ratedI. Is eq alto thedath roa,,  aed alsol the aigo stroorae r-                           erlon   Raloe   nsepleyhe   spretgso   epr
o1fsoes erlat resdltsar lorar.yli. The ronotr  pplla  Ie  s                                          sco-ted  Es-lt u..tIernf         dsto    orlme   a   eae   1   er
theablnte  soase ioss,lnaf  the pothjrated oharaotrrlts  h ate    ppaate                             otrolle,nos  pupta are  Ie tho or4oboe        .. th   Seto p rho-tage. fe'a'
Isth  yar11h,an    e  os  o  doWe  f  otlsataetoshta Iteosodars n,,hoo=                                       - toa,mlessdlegI  -                   -rop t Ida   ln;oordr
nheat I...      1,,I1'l bas.baorthad te1to a  hear difour.   poe                                                                                     If  poe pr ina..tpilateofar t
Pet  tIlsaypooht0: t   nshn   The yea iales storsosary SPoplttspoada   aeri                                                  cororlhn"ethrI"fgg  snsldnfr-uI
.Stie.a ero  masthedb7,  Iasualply  tfh ..                                                                            haI 12 pesos ofII     age bsrnenphoedneaeiooSohspI ar  gena
Lbpohattoyes.r 200oh Iao                              friiylt    .Se lade
Pe  a. he.-   Ol-rrpp.sru   a   qaerunto11    strs   tErrr oalt.  -rrllruo t Irersot of.. yeaaro    -                                                         dtw  Iitoaallacltutoaoi
tona  are; 191017   ash1979dato  Thhere-altoyp...ib                                            r,de ra nra,hlete,o  othet prore-amssls  oprae -lP.  -
OOSI. he. Laralsrlthral  so..o.tds  aorfu   goalua   l                                                  aly o as 1  teps7tneote of  agtordory                            ..srltortors
ony;197,h70as  17  datIIPpl_traed                                                                                     aI-rmn,cOsoaao-Ietsoer   coldi
Populatos Ags arooros  (peroes) - ElIdnac  7-14tese)  eshtgag   75 pfrlnot y aolssa1                              o    ad     Vt-n yruhr   ftesol ts in th
Ioossh 6aloare 97t parsrdse19                   eonnaesthdperppu                                   seps-dlglae
lotto; 190, 191, sd 199data ddale  lespraetdoru       Iaraeaot   faiiel as - iproadtan  ettr
Pe,ultlat Ireet gti-to lo       e  - tot - C"-d as nob drwl  oesI            total er-IIaerely                              s dI.tatal adul  popudla ttiItIn age      ersah  ot
pear  op196to-e  too a 1978 d.61.  dOtr-ft.Taol11t71-79
P..lalui- forS 195-I,hhlJR   al 191-79.               -1    lll,lll8-a~1                            Pssaarilots (per ahcosso,y  teepl. dicide- Pass,enge  ten  ror- rl-  irnh
Erodetlo    - hahn fortoca) -  na  elrSe hrth   per thesasf Iaf. nfl-ear                             oars  nsot g s   thn1        uh    ano      ealde    salsts,hase   o
po 1als 96 t, l9 ft,   od 1979   data.                                                          Adllttlrtehrral -e --a.Lie.edIt    abet    ad.  
Orosa leprasurn sen sans-hoerage  soh r -of doghasrah eana  etllI. leeiad-roe   esleeI toterln   nodt p,It-er   hargsrw oo   ai
yerlipp rates;.  farul  1ron-yer0      rroe 19  ahlrt In9 1-960   91   a   99                         oreotlsaolhlloalg
Pes,alt - Planta-hsRterora-.               b-o-a A ( .oo ..t  - inr-th rsue oof attnaptpos           ft ReMPT ONe   e    hoadpplro)-  Pnoaeafrhsdatt
sOd lrE-uono  de... e  urh                  1  I        i,h er  thnhaa.o..tn..hfat d pasfo  pdoygran   geors  pahtoa   per nh...Sht poprl...os; stashes   etnedT h.reonscra
Pa       960ylsa 1970enr    Stdron7tofSwrtedsno-nnntaitsrlo                                      iostrly csdayorhhioaltansaflctsa
won. eatof  Rhl-I(,rar     ago-bd Il-l ye-. nr .thel oner thlnuuaendsi Icid-ro  asdi Scspre  Croa laco e    osn  o lAtll  those ath  as..eiegeolre-di
lade  o  Pool P -uuoloy o-arCapit   19-ag71= 07i.  - T960s of9per rod 19 salE9enoA-st                                  A beliahr  erd asopeha       asdo   h   shno
prosa- osofallfod ossdttes   Poth                 ttcooa..e sd)-A..  -eed ash feel  pealret   ellrin `the y"or,-i"`la                                  asast,ets nor leine-It         tenow
dcusuhed     i er ls.    oeredplulte f soe  pe..lay goilo p (.g. sagansagrso                oal ohl        ice.      2 d  ~~S
lasnoad od  opor) ehtohace odille ia~d taolo    lean   (e..tg.  efc I rend                  a      Ii.rI  yl    h               -g!' t         fTVSe            i     f.
tatotl  arrgapeloor  runsegls;19h-h,  971  sd      d97  hatsI.                   Total Lb   or   auood)-lsclthyatr-eaos   nlla
Potfra hild supply-o salaries 4   y Ilr erto  hresoteesots)-  frae   trmarlfoo                                          nmloe   o           ldr    ocenSho- ethetS,,-S mo.,
all    -d -poaula  of .benae fo    uylcaellea   so                    per op.n-o1aniop poaattoril   of ..all  -egos.tef-apopass  Inefitad    sIsptriodione
prrhas   Aollll  sophisosponalasstl   podunlr,  mpotslP,'n roe npaal-                          91 Od iR eel  1979 Iota.                       1    I    Sde
,rad-totrao    Is fod -nodentog,  eel- tosses SIdeasnedholn aItc oeel                             Ag      ltd (iokrt en..I  -   yahrnfaeIfaig   tnt  ry,hotlp   o
hto.acol  lard; I.,I 191h,' 190  and ; .6-6,170   1977 data.T t197  sad. 1979ie dots...S )-E -                                                      ly-i         -     ,-.-
soPar      yo  (o   e   o.   e    upyo  soa   us. tafco  onrhcoe fr.  Pt-ootdryaae.                                    ac  on.td  anb  asrald, rle h-c-lecah  held-seer as-
50rorort  far oI  roltfrle   -ntlhil4e    hy,  lOR   prrle f. ,ar napitc                           pa-eoiogc   of..t. ralf maile sadgemalDefi oti... I  -r al    - riage     po Ialy;
aSoareo  6   ooso dtrtdA-olalto-ppper dayIi  sad-ti snar  ofa animle. as16,9, _p                                 ot.l.  1979   17 lg..Tes  eon hoeda  Il'   antiprlnrae
palnct proteIn  of shlthi .1-ktraNs sh ppll ho urIna          al proteIn. eThnsossscd              lnlotgg-roea labnr of.rthe  ppolrlco  aol lan  nine1 t.brend,
tolsalpt sret  as d   ooi e f  n  arth  ooole~g.d, proose.   I  PAR tlb.is. she Wirl-           TAuoml lpeaert   lth L-bbtlr             a    fpoysl grloro tro 15 ad 6t5 sadet
hId (aeI-)OoalyRc hit~-afPpe rChf.al    Aooldoit e                              thosdI              oad .trse   ftPoas -n sous   (lat  Is panh ash  I  late) ! ltnatrdr r-Ich1960
trc    sod      19ias  ore5of  t97hhre;  1970  71 ort d 1979a dor.9o doe                                 tolo
Life layunsoop  r floth  peers)     A Iteg  suolt  of yelarno  lif   prem-liagTefloIn    ntae   are sang_ - appoooie   med asuresopney   ,J,es,
lalsot nrtellty Iore d'pa    Nhoath  .plyosf featd  uP tofears at.e  arSE 5-ntmtd  holt-Ptn R.-  a                                   ioel(Il te   toitoS-I Iha  aof           rtn
her rofIpraple (total,-arIas, ashlcoral)  -th  fesnopahle  -ooecalno safe.ep-trlolle
pertantagec     ~ of h hirt hspe t..oe   h oao dlcn E norhara p- 0m The..O tyd  easctioem e-of the -rooty f ra th                                  esep-ais, derad    hoeril  the renAl
easIlere   as hIlag status-       75sowl  ooor  of  tha  hose  Icd 23ra  areas                    fnle     Polt Ielo Ablco.. n Poer   noelvl pret                                  ra
ocaosll s-treaS  -ul  u,age sltef          hos.f r       shnohdere ..d  y  A of the 'Tsahird     aEnd roDral       nl    li -     Reacro  atino Ifoo.plasisod d rorelwh   are  aolol ...
doro  hwatoed      r ,d1t ay   don961 rto6 at  pas1o7al  day ir9f7rdateg thetp e  r'.                                   ..   fl.
faty   sae    e hr. _r.aI              ~        Ptk     PIya   .dd
-1. --Ipeoir Itout esla lasdrarel Pasrsnday        cooredr65        a
thel (ashaiog      shdaoe, 14     r '   aut  I0   ..tdeua  neArn-o   of hamseopert.n..                                                        fowInoIh fo enh d kto-s-al DensdIbylrios a
agetrh ett-nae  by,,. rae- as         aeso  the  eeif-prIInrOa  ao  sii.ga.-                                                              pusoir.   2 anslraw  sad       ...   40oesls p enotea
Eat   dasta hlotuas    f-nsatb                                                                                                                                   1901 17    ,d17   dt.Ifh.. hl.
urasslp  .a..le   frs St      atalBaoo h.       aleriY lere  l.          f       iig              _~eE1- g                 ..IaeVr                                   fI-t    ee
Polabor tentrao  Pnna9d s- dPapultda Ir...I cobelo,pa-IoIn
maeahfmleglat oes, p as a  odut-ed.baol  tcsrttaori os...c.



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
PoDulation         46,5nn (mid-1930, thousands)
CNP per Canita   U5S670 (1990)
THAILANI, - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million TISS at              Average annual increase (%)                        Share of GDP at market prices (5)
current prices)                   (at constant prices)                                  (at current prices)
Indicator                         590n /a       1960-70  1970-79  1975-80  1980-85/b  19R5-90/b   1960                1970          1975         19o/a
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic Product         32,865            9.4        6.3       7.7        6.8         7.3      100.0         100.0         100.0        lo.n
Agriculture                   9,S72            5.5       5.3       3.9         4.2         3.8       39.8          28.3         31.5          26.2
Industry                      7,499           11.5       7.8      11.7         8.6         9.0       18.7          25.3         24.8          27.5
Services                     13,326            9.0       7.1       7.8         7.5         8.3       41.5          46.4         43.7          46.3
Consumption                    25,716            7.3        7.0       7.7        4.9         6.2        95.7         78.7          79.3         77.6
Gross investment                 9,166          15.8       3.8        8.9        7.0         6.7        15.7         26.2          25.4         27.9
Exports of GNFS                 8,211           10.5       1.6       14.1        9.9         9.1        17.4         16.7          19.1         25.0
Imports of CNFS                10,229           13.9       3.7       10.5        4.9         5.6        18.9         21.5          23.7         31.1
Gross national savings          6,995           13.7       4.1        6.9        9.q         8.4        14.1         21.5          20.7         20.7
Composition of merchandise trade (%)
(at current prices)
1060   1970   1975   1980/a  1985/b  1990/h
EXTERNAL TRAnE
Merchandise exports             6,657             9.5       9.n      14.7       10.2         9.3    100.0  100.n  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0
Primary                       3,795            4.2       6.6      10.8         6.1         5.n      97.8   80.5   77.3   60.2    46.6    37.4
Manufactures                  2,872           29.2      20.9      25.n        14.6        12.7       2.2   19.5   22.7   39.8    53.4    62.6
Merchandise imports              9,987          11.S        3.3      10.1        5.2         6.0    10.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0
Food                            3 03           4.3      -2.7      11.2         S.0         6.0       9.6     9.4    4.4    3.4        3.2      3.1
Petroleum                     2,924           11.8       5.0       8.6        -1.0         3.4      10.9    9.9   22.1   31.4    26.9    26.S
Machinery & equiipment        2,110           16.1       9.9       4.4         7.8         7.n      29.3   36.1   35.8   23.5    25.2    25.4
Others                        3,750           10.1       1.0      19.7         7.8         7.0      54.2   49.7   37.7   41.7    44.7    49.f0
1975       1976       1977       1978        1979       1990/a
PRICES
GCP deflator                                          100.0      103.3       112.1      121.9      135.0       154.0
Exchange rate                                          20.4       20.4        20.4       20.3       2n.3       20.5
Export price index                                    10.n       97.3        99.4      107.4      129.3      151.0
Import price index                                    100.0      105.5      113.4       122.3      141.4      176.0
Terms of trade index                                  100.0       92.2        97.6       87.8       90.8       86.0
As S of GCP
196n           1970            1979            1980/a
PUBLIC FINANCE /c
Current revenues                                        13.6            13.9            13.2            14.5
Current expenditures                                    10.6            12.6            11.7            14.1
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                              +3.0            +1.2            +1.S           +0.4
Capital expenditure                                      4.3             9.8             3.4            3.9
Foreign financing                                        n.2             0.05            0.n6            0.2
1960-70         1970-75          1975-R0          1980-85/b           1989-90/b
OTHER TNDICATORS
CNP growth rate (5)                            8.4              6.2              6.9              6.7                7.5
C1EP ner capita growth rate (5)                5.2              3.4              4.4              4.4                5.4
ICOR                                           2.9              4.0              3.4              4.1                3.8
Marginal savings rate                          0.29             n.23             0.21             n.34               0.3
Import elasticity                              1.7              0.6              1.3              0.64               0.77
/a Preliminary.
lb Projected.
/c Central government only.
December 14, 1981



ANSNEX I
Page 5 of 5
THAILAND - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at cuirrent prices)
Actral                                                              Projected
Indicator                          1970      1975     1976     1977     1978      1979   1980/d    1981      1992     1993      1994     1985     1986     1987      1961
BALANCE0 OF PAYMENTS                                                                                                                                                      _
Exports of -oods aod nonfactor
services                                  1,109   2,796    3,490   4,029    4,976   6,494    8,211    9,061  10,562  12,783  15,236   19,251   21,790  25,894   51,414
Of wVhch:  'lerchandise f.o.b.               686   2,178   2,959   3,456   4,041    5,233   6,657   7,333   6,573  10,397  12,491   14,963  17,832  71,221  42,574
Imports of goods  -nd nonfactor
services                                 -1,430  -3,487  -3,992  -5,066  -5,9n5  -8,170 -10,229 -11,022 -12,319 -14,384 -16,833 -19,706 -23,115 -27,186 -52,347
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.h.            -1,148  -2,839  -3,146  -4,244  -4,909  -6,822  -8,987  -9,704 -10,929 -12,909 -15,049 -17,679 -20,808 -24,557 -47,913
Net factor incoe fron, ahroad                   23         4      -63      -97    -261      -477     -703    -740    -933  -1,152  -1,4315  -1,773  -2,183  -2 646  -5,122
Net transfers                                   40       A1        24       40       41       61       353      342      347      373      402       433      467      505      697
Current accoont balance                       -250    -606      -441  -1,094  -1,149  -2,092  -2,367  -2,359  -2,343  -2,380  -2,630  -2,790  -3,037  - 3,443  -5,358
Private direct investment                       43       86        90      106       51        53       55       60       65       70        75       s0       90      100       140
MLT loans (net)                                 32      111       188      205      644      995   2,093    1,732    1,916   2,273   2,515    3,005    3,238   3,412    4,019
Official                                      31       93      109      212       285      439      460      639       808      919      955   1,016    1,081    1,169    1,599
Private /a                                    10       19       89       -7       360      557   1,633   1,093   1,108    1,354   t,56i)   1,999    2,157    2,243    3,321
Other capitol /b                                93      356      242       792      490   1,036       223       867      762      437      440       160      159      381      799
Change in reserves                              82       52      -79        -9      -36        R         -      300      400      400      400       450      450      450      500
International reserves                         906   2,007    2,113   2,208   2,558   3,102   3,026    3,526    3,926   4,376   4,726    5,176   5 626   6,076   8,076
Reserves as months imports                       R         7        7        5        5        5         4        4        4        4         3        3        3        3
PXTERNIAL CAPITAL ANO lIST
Gross lisbursements
Concessionat loans                            11       43       52        80      153      233      222      311       410      475      466      488      518       558      960
)AC                                         11       40       45       53        84      167      158      269      340       377      359      379      405      429       589
IDA                                         -         3        7        9         5        4        4        9       14        18       19       is       10         5        0
Other                                        -        -        -       18        68       62       60       34       53        80       88       94      103      112       371
Sonconcessional loans                        196     403       556       559   1,160   1,792    2,395   1,930    2,000   2,6a3    3,269   3,986   4,563   5,229    8,373
Official -snort credits                      7        -        -       54       44       127      16Q      150      13A        86       89       88       95      113       195
1360                                       10        41       43       65      103       139      143      250      346      442       524      584      645      718      873
Other 'sltilatersl                           ?       37       46       33       46        36       93       77      107       149      1Sf,     225      265      302      470
Priv-te  hublirle 1aaranteed                17       39      0o0       57      396      691       717      597      455      415       462      449      440      500      5on
Private nonga-ranteed                     143       196      367      349      571      799   1,288        856      954   1,581   2,008    2,640   3,118    3,596   6,329
Total gross 'lishoeseseots                   lss      536      0n9      636   1,313   2,025   2,617    2,241   2,410   3,161    3,735   4,474   5,081    5,787    9,333
Ixterval Debt (fixed-term)
e:,lic debt vaitstaodiog it
disbursed                                    328      622      929    1,084    1,816   2,91s    4,063   4,928    6,072   7,216   8,298   8,250  10,425  11,599    n.a.
OFficial                                  291       549      466      917   1,270    1,638   2,098    2,737    3,545   4,464    5,419   6,435    7,515   8,685  14,440
Private                                     37       68      1S6      151       520   1,064    1,694   2,189    2,527    2,732    2,869   2,815   2,910   2,014           n.a.
Private no-guoranteed debt
o,,tstnoding and disbursed                382      730       '85      e8o      930   1,241   1,922    2,845   3,615   4,743   6,167   8,329  10,292   12,530              n.a.
Total debt outstanding and
disbursed                                 710   1,352    1,613    1,974   2,755   4,062   5,985    7,771    9,687  11,850  14,475  17,479  20,717  24,129  41,571
Undisb-rsed debt                             118      666      840   1,401    1,9n2   2,358   3,204    3,066    3,386   3,734   4,087   4,514    5,001   5,459    7,710
Deht Service
Total service pavments                       162      378      199       443      708      954   1,250   1,149    1,325    1,913   2,490   3,011   3,733   4,647    6,614
Interest                                    16       35       44      126      199       325      461      640      831   1,019   1,260   1,544   1,890   2, 272   4,200
Payments as T esPorts of goods and          14.6    13.5      11.4     11.0      14.2    14.7      15.2    12.7    12.5    15.0         16.3     16.5    17.1       17.9    16.8
nosfactor services
Average interest rate on no- loans
(0) /c                                         6.8      7.5      7.8       7.0      6.7      7.3     11.5    10.5    10.7        11.3     11.6    11.q       12.5    12.3      12.4
Official                                     6.R      7.4      7.7      6.2       9.3      5.3        -         -        -        -        -        -         -        -        -
Private                                      6.0      9.5      8.1      8.2       9.8      9.6        -         -        -        -        -        -         -        -        -
Average vatarity of sea lonse
(Teats) /c                                    I8.9    27.9      17.4      14.8    17.3    17.1       14.1      15.6     15.9     14.8    14.2    13.7        13.5    13.1      67.8
Official                                    : .4    24.2      20.7    19.3    22.3    23.6             -        -        -        -        -         -        -
Private                                     11.2      7.0      7.3      8.1       9.4     10.6        -         -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -
Bank Irors Zxposure (07
10RD DO)/total  OT                         22.6     20.0     19.3     17.5      l .S     13.7     11.3
T51R  disb-rsenents/tal  ro-
dibharse-ents                             9.5       7.7      7.1     10.2      7.8       6.9      5.5
IBR0 debt service/total debt
service                                  11.1       6.5      9.0     10.0      7.9      7.0       6.3
IDA DOD/total 0D0                              -      0.3      0.7       1.0      0.9      0.7      0.5
IDA disbarsesests/total gross
disbursements                                -      0.5      1.1      1.4      0.4       0.2      0.2
ISA debt service/total debt
service                                      -      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0-      0.0
As " of debt outstanding
at end of 1979
Maturity struscture of debt o,itstanding
'rinciDal doe within S years                                                                    28.4
Principal dse within 10 years                                                                   61.3
Interest str,sct,.re of debt oatstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                    b.6
/a  Due to change in classification, projected data for 'private MLT loans" tnclude so.e of the category 'other capital'.
7    "Other capisl  iscludes net use of IMF f,onds and net flow of short-term  capital.
7c  Historical dait  dnos not inc,lude nonguaranteed private debt.
/d Preliminary.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Loan or                                                                  Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                  Less Cancellations
Number Year         Borrower                          Purpose        Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Thirty three loans and three credits fully disbursed                 639.20  31.74         -
1149   1975   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    95.00         -   39.51
1198T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rural Dev.    21.00(TW)   -    3.01
1199T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Livestock       5.00(TW)   -    0.54
1243   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rubber         50.00        -    4.83
1271   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education      31.00        -    8.29
1327   1976   Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand                             Industry       25.00        -    0.03
1393   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Agriculture   28.00         -    3.10
1468   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    55.00         -   18.53
1485   1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          50.00        -    6.90
767   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Population         -   33.10/a 16.00
1519   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Highways      110.00        -   26.03
1527   1978   Provincial Electricity Authority        Rural Elect.  25.00         -    4.79
1556   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Housing         8.60        -    6.03
1620   1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           90.00        -   80.75
1630   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    17.50         -   14.21
1638   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Urban Trans.  16.00         -   12.67
1662   1979   State Railway of Thailand               Railways       16.70        -    9.10
1690   1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          80.00        -   43.79
913   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education          -   35.00   29.00
929   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Agriculture        -   25.00   21.23
1752   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Ag. Extension 40.00         -   34.13
1770   1980   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          80.00        -   42.17
1773   1980   Petroleum Authority of                  Natural Gas
Thailand                               Pipeline   107.00/b       -   10.55
1787   1980   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    80.00         -   73.59
1816   1980   Kingdom of Thailand                     Ag. Credit    19.00         -   12.41



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
Loan or                                                                Amou-nt ($ million)
Credit                                                                 Less Cancellations'
Number   Year         Borrower                   Purpose            Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
1852     1980   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand       Power                72.no    -        45.08
1863     1980   Provincial Waterworks
Authority                  lWater Supply         40.00    -         39.71
1870     1980   Kingdom of Thailand            Housing             29.00    -         28.46
1871     1980   Provincial Electricity         Rural Elec-
Authority                     trification       75.00    -          72.57
1889     1980   Kingdom of Thailand            Inland Waterways   53.00    -          52.62
1918     1980   Kingdom of Thailand            Ports               47.00    -         47.00
1922     1980   Kingdom of Thailand            Ag. Research        30.00    -         29.95
1947     1981   Kingdom of Thailand            Potash Engineering  8.90    -            7.73
1956     1981   Industrial Finance Corp.
of Thailand                 Industry            30.00    -         10.18
2000     1981   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand       Power              100.00    -        100.00
2022     1981   Kingdom of Thailand            Irrigation          57.00    -         56.50
2035     1981   Kingdom of Thailand            Provincial Roads   35.00    -           34.27
2078     1982   Kingdom of Thailand /c         Tree crops         142.00    -        142.00
2097     1982   Kingdom of Thailand Ic         Structural
adjustment       150.00    -        150.00
Total                                                       2,557.90  124.84  1,337.26
of which has been repaid                                    279.36    2.85
Total now outstanding                                       2,278.54  121.99
Amount sold /d                       68.63
of which has been repaid          50.88                      17.75
Total now held by Bank and IDA                              1,968.78  121.99
Total undisbursed                                           1,271.03   66.23
/a  Of which $3.1 million is Norwegian grant participation.
/b  Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 million).
/c  Not yet effective.
/d  Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



-30 -                    ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amounts ($ million)
Year        Company               Type of Business           Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.      Materials                 0.30        -       0.30
1964/  Industrial                Development                    -    0.39       0.39
1970     Finance Corporation       Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group         Cement and
1975/                              Construction
1978/1979                          Materials                28.33    4.24      32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company       Money and Capital
Limited                  Market                        -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                   Processing               2.50    0.20        2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries         2.00        -       2.00
1979/  Bangkok Glass Industry
1980     Company, Limited        Glass Containers            4.85    0.34       5.19
1979/  Siam City Cement          Cement and Construc-
1981     Co. Ltd.                  tion Materials           63.00    4.00      67.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                 -    0.15        0.15
Total gross commitments                            100.98    9.61    110.59
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           65.71    2.71      68.42
Net held by the Corporation                         35.27    6.90       42.17
Total undisbursed                                   25.00    -          25.00



- 31 -                   ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of March 31, 1982)
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
In general, reasonable progress has been achieved to date, but
the completion of major work programs planned for this year will be
important to the project's success. Actions are being taken to resolve
difficulties relating particularly to management, staffing, contracting and
budgeting. IDA staff are giving cl½se attention to these problems in an
effort to help resolve them.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Project completion is now expected by mid-1985, two years behind
schedule, due to slow progress in on-farm works. Construction work on the
diversion dam is complete and works on the distribution systems are proceeding
well. All studies financed under the project are proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is almost complete. Rehabilitation and on-
farm development works for Part A of the project on about 13,000 ha were
completed in 1981 bringing the total area developed to 48,000 ha, compared
to 51,000 in the appraisal schedule. Under Part B, rehabilitation works
are progressing satisfactorily.  Under Part C, 65 km of service roads are
being constructed. All physical works are expected to be completed in 1982
in accordance with the appraisal schedule. Under Part D, a feasibility
study for about 175,000 ha in the Stage II area of Maeklong was completed in
March 1980 and a study for a possible Third Stage Chao Phya Irrigation
Improvement Project was completed in December 1980.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



- 32-                   ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date:
April 25, 1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Project implementation is about one year behind schedule due to
initial delays in procurement of equipment and supplies. Procurement of
equipment is now proceeding smoothly. Construction of main and secondary
canals is progressing satisfactorily but on-farm works are well behind -
schedule. Two new diversion dams have been built in the Lam Takhong project
area, and work on canal rehabilitation is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1787 Eleventh Irrigation Project; $80 Million Loan of
January 17, 1980; Effective Date: April 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project is about one year behind schedule due to delays in the
appointment of consultants. Satisfactory progress is now being made in
procuring equipment and vehicles. Canal rehabilitation work is progressing
satisfactorily, but on-farm works are behind schedule due to delays in
design work.
Loan No. 2022-TH Twelfth Irrigation Project; $57 Million Loan of
August 13, 1981; Effective Date: November 11, 1981;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1987
Consultants were appointed in September 1981. Surveys and mapping
have been completed for 10,000 ha, and 8 km of main and lateral canals have
been constructed. A contract for construction of about 60 km of main and
lateral canals is due to be awarded in 1982. Good progress is being made
in developing a Plan of Action for strengthening the Royal Irrigation
Department.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of Februar} 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 28, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Construction of almost 600 km of village access roads is complete
and is under way on the remaining 700 km. The road maintenance program is
being carried out at an acceptable rate with good quality work using
equipment procured under the project. The village water supply component
has provided 2,600 freshwater wells. The agricultural extension component
was completed in 1978 and subsumed into the National Extension Project (Loan
1393). The upland crops component is being satisfactorily completed and
research work is being continued by the National Agricultural Research
Project (Loan 1922). The village electrification component has been
completed with electrification of about 475 villages. The land settlement
component is essentially complete; cash incomes of pilot cooperating farmers
were roughly doubled in the project period, and settlement cooperative
placed on a sound footing.



- 33 -                   ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project continues to make fairly good progress particularly
with legume seed production, artificial insemination and private pasture
development. However, disbursement remains behind schedule and the original
loan closing date of June 30, 1981 was extended by 12 months to June 30,
1982.  The Department of Livestock Development is developing plans for
transferring project activities into the work programs of the regular divi-
sions of the Department, and these transfers should be completed before
June 30, 1982 as part of a departmental reorganization plan.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement diffi-
culties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in agreeing on the
formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. The replanting rate over
the project period has been slower than that envisioned at appraisal, but for
1981 about 65,000 ha were replanted - 30% above the target of 50,000 ha.
Management and the general level of staff efficiency at the Office of the
Rubber Replanting Aid Fund is satisfactory. Bank disbursements for the
project are expected to be completed before June 30, 1982.
Loan No. 1393  National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Delays in staff recruitment experienced in the early days of the
project have now been overcome and the "T and V" system is operating
reasonably satisfactorily. Vehicles, including motorbikes for village-level
extension workers, remain in short supply. Shortages of audio-visual aids
and counterpart funds for day-to-day operations are also adversely affecting
progress. Subject matter specialist training is being given priority atten-
tion. Civil works construction is nearing completion and disbursement has
improved considerably in recent months.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date: December 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is off to a reasonable start in seven
provinces and disbursements are ahead of appraisal estimates. Subject
matter specialist training is being given priority attention, as also is the
relevance of the information being disseminated to farmers through the "T and
V" system.



-34 -                   ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan No. 1816 Agricultural Credit Project; $19 Million Loan of
April 30, 1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Overall Bank disbursements for the project are ahead of schedule.
The Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives' (BAAC) ongoing term
lending in the North and Northeast, to be financed under the project, is
progressing well. Implementation of works under the specified lending
component, however, has been slow. The most critical factor affecting the
financial viability of BAAC is the interest rate levels for agriculture.
Satisfactory progress has been made by the Cooperative Promotion Department
and the Cooperative Auditing Department in their training activities and in
the construction of regional and provincial staff housing.
Loan No. 1922 National Agricultural Research Project; $30 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date March 20, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1989
The loan became effective in March 1981, but a budget deficiency
in the first six months, which coincided with the last six months of the
Government fiscal year, seriously affected project implementation, which was
negligible, although much useful preliminary planning was accomplished. The
recent approval of a project budget for FY82 and the pending approval by
Cabinet of the reorganization plan for the Department of Agriculture should
enable implementation to proceed satisfactorily in the latter part of FY82
after allowing for a delay of about nine months from the appraisal report
schedule.
Loan No. 2078 Second Tree Crops Project; $142 million Loan of
January 29, 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
The loan has not yet been declared effective.
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory and is expected
to be completed by the original Closing Date. All civil work contracts have
been awarded and nearly completed. Equipment and furniture is under
procurement. Nearly all fellowships have been awarded. Staff training
programs are on schedule but need to be improved, as does supervision by the
Ministry of Education of its nonformal education programs.
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28,
1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is being implemented in three phases. Acquisitions of
sites and design work has been completed. Construction of workshops
included in phase one has been completed, and equipment contracts have been



- 35 -                  ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
awarded. Phases two and three will be completed mid-1982 and mid-1983,
respectively. Project staff has been appointed or designated. Curricula
are being developed. Technical assistance agencies have been contracted and
staff training programs are being conducted as scheduled. The studies under
the project are progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 767  Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27,
1978; Effective Date: July 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Under new management, the project is moving ahead smoothly and
rapidly, and disbursements have improved considerably over the past year.
Project implementation is now running, on the average, about 12 months
behind the appraisal schedule. Six of the ten national level training
facilities have been completed.  Of the 430 rnral health facilities, 374
have been completed, 33 are under construction and 23 had to be deleted.
The final round of procurement of equipment and furniture is currently
underway. Most training, information/education/communication, and
population-related research and evaluation activities have been completed on
schedule. The Innovative Village Nutrition Activity has been successfully
launched and Government is about to approve the use of most of the remaining
funds for Innovative Activities for testing new ideas in continuing
education and the role of mass communication in health education are about
to be approved by the Government.
Loan No. 1556  Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is about eighteen months behind schedule
because of difficulties encountered with the largest contract. The National
Housing Authority (NHA) has terminated the existing contract and steps are
underway to hire a new contractor to complete the work. Good progress,
however, has been made on the various policy concepts on which the project
is based, and NHA's financial management has been strengthened through
technical assistance.
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
There has been a significant improvement in all aspects of the
project. While no action seems probable on area road pricing, progress has
been made in implementation of the bus lane system, parking
restrictions/charges, experimentation of staggered work hour system and
noise abatement. Construction is now underway on several traffic
improvement schemes. Since November 1981, contracts worth $6.3 million have
been awarded; further contracts for $10.3 million equivalent are to be
awarded in the next 3-6 months.



- 36 -                   ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Loan No. 1870 National Sites and Services Project; $29 Million Loan of
August 8, 1980; Effective Date: January 7, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
This project expands the National Housing Authority (NHA) programs
initiated in Bangkok under the Bangkok Sites and Services and Slum
Improvement Project (Loan 1556-TH) and extends the sites and services
program to five regional cities. Design and procurement are proceeding
satisfactorily. Construction has commenced in Bangkok and the regional
cities.
Loan No. 1863 Provincial Water Supply Project; $40 Million Loan of
November 25, 1980; Effective Date: January 4, 1982;
Closing Date: April 3, 1986
Engineering consultants were appointed in January 1982, about one
year later than originally expected due to the Borrower's inexperience in
hiring outside consultants. A UNDP-financed adviser has been appointed
to assist the borrower in these and related matters.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
The project has been completed on schedule. The three units of
turbine generators are operating satisfactorily. Good progress is being
made under the transmission line and substation components associated with
the project.
Loan No. 1527 Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Work has been started on 3,480 villages, out of which 2,100
villages have already been electrified. The load promotion program started
in April 1981. Disbursements have accelerated and are very close to initial
appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Effective Date: May 23, 1980.
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is about two months behind schedule because of poor
soil conditions encountered during foundation piling. Field works are now
proceeding satisfactorily, and project execution is expected to catch up
with the original schedule.  The first unit is targeted for commissioning in
July 1983, as scheduled.



- 37 -                   ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan No. 1770 Khao L,3Qm Hydroelectric Project; $80 Million Loan of
June t., 1980; Effective Date: September 17, 1980;
Closing Date: February 28, 1985
The project is about cT.e year behind schedule because of unexpect-
edly poor rock foundation, but works are now underway satisfactorily.
Disbursements are close to appraisal estimates. Construction of the
resettlement program started at all five sites.
Loan No. 1871 Second Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $75 Million
Loan of November 14, 1980; Effective Date: August 20, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Construction started in 262 villages for the first nine provinces.
Seventeen villages have been electrified. Procurement is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2000-TH Power Subsector Project; $100 Million Loan of July 8,
1981; Effective Date: October 26, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Bids for the diversion tunnel will be issued in July 1982, and
main civil works in May 1983 for the Chiew Larn Hydroelectric component of
the project.
Loan No. 1773 Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; $107 Million Loan of
February 15, 1980; Effective Date: May 27, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Good progress was made with the overall physical works and major
project components, including the offshore pipeline and onshore main line
which have been completed on schedule. The pipeline started operations
in September 1981, and all physical works should be completed by mid-1982.
The project is being completed on schedule and below the original cost
estimate.
Loan No. 1852 Mae Moh Lignite Project; $72 Million Loan of June 17, 1980;
Effective Date: September 17, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Procurement of equipment is proceeding satisfactorily. However,
the borrower, in its last progress report dated January 1982, indicated
little progress in civil works.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The loan is almost fully disbursed. Only $29,000 remain against
an outstanding letter of credit.



- 38 -                   ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan No. 1956 Fourth IFCT Project; $30.0 Million Loan of April 15, 1981;
Effective Date: June 18, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1984
The project is proceeding well. By the end of March 31, 1982, an
amount of $23.2 million has been committed and $19.8 million disbursed,
considerably faster than originally estimated.
Loan No. 1947-TH Potash Engineering Project; $8.9 Million Loan of
March 4, 1981; Effective Date: December 29, 1981:
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The loan became effective on December 29, 1981 and is proceeding
well.
Loan No. 1519  Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project:  $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All construction contracts have been awarded and work is over 80%
completed. However, for three of the roads the bidding and awards were
delayed about 10 months to synchronize with bidding and award of contracts in
March 1979 on a link road financed wholly by the Government. Completion of
the project may thus be delayed about twelve months. The maintenance equip-
ment has been procured and with recently increased budgetary allocations,
progress with the road maintenance program is improving. The studies are
nearing completion. Detailed engineering of roads for construction under the
Provincial Roads Project (Loan 2035-TH) has been completed and is underway on
roads for future projects.
Loan No. 2035-TH Provincial Roads Project; $35 Million Loan of
August 13, 1981; Effective Date:  December 1, 1981;
Closing Date December 31, 1985
Contracts have been awarded on 19 roads, and are expected to be
awarded shortly on the remaining four. Proposals have been obtained for a
Transport Study.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Mainly due to slow progress in procurement of equipment and
material, project execution is behind schedule. Contracts are placed or being
placed for all originally agreed Bank financed items, and most of the
contracted equipment and material has been delivered. An amount of about



-39 -                   ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
US$2.9 million remains unallocated. Disbursements are about two years behind
schedule and an extension of the Closing Date to June 30, 1983 is being
considered. Operational efficiency is in general good; however, availability
of passenger and freight cars was below appraisal target. The financial
position of SRT remains unsatisfactory despite the 35% and 73% tariff
increases for passengers and freight respectively in June 1981, mainly because
of a subsequent severe decline in freight traffic.
Loan No. 1889 Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project; $53 Million Loan
of August 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 10, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The construction contract for improvements to the Chao Phraya
River has been awarded and the contractor is in the process of mobilizing.
Consultants have been appointed for design and construction supervision of
the various project components and work is underway. Acquisition of land for
port sites is still incomplete.
Loan No. 1918   Bangkok and Sattahip Ports Project; $47 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date: August 12, 1981
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of project components concerned with the Port of
Bangkok are progressing satisfactorily with construction work underway and
selection of consultants to provide technical assistance to the Port
Authority of Thailand in process. Work at the Port of Sattahip is temporarily
in abeyance pending completion of the Master Plan Report now being prepared
by consultants financed through bilateral aid (Australia). The appointment of
consultants for the design of the Bang Su Container Freight Terminal has been
long delayed. With Bank concurrence, consultants were selected and contract
negotiations completed by the State Railway of Thailand but approval from
higher authority is not yet forthcoming, causing serious delays in the
implementation of this project component.
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to a delay in the borrower's decision on standardization of
switching equipment and subsequent delays in issue of bid invitation and in
evaluation of bids, the project is currently about 18 months behind schedule.
Recent progress has been satisfactory, with TOT awarding contracts for most of
the Bank financed items. The financial condition of the borrower continues to
be satisfactory.
Loan No. 2097 Structural Adjustment Lending; $150 million Loan of
March 15, 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The Loan has not yet been declared effective.



- 40 -                          ANNEX III
THAILAND
SIXTH (SECONDARY) EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable o!' hey Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:           14 months.
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:         MOE and UNESCO.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:  August 1980.
(d)  Date of first Bank mission to consider
the project:                              April 1981.
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:  October 1981.
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:         May 7, 1982
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:               September 1982.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The Borrower has agreed:
(a)  to select the schools to be upgraded in accordance with criteria
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 47);
(b)  to submit to the Bank, by December 31, 1983, a plan for improving
teacher utilization in secondary schools (para. 52);
(c)  to carry out a study on incentives for teachers in rural areas
and submit its recommendations to the Bank by December 31, 1984
(para. 53);
(d)  to submit to the Bank, by January 31, 1983, a plan for expanding
NEC's responsibilities and for strengthening the Division of
Educational Planning and thereafter implement such plan after
exchanging views with the Bank (para. 55); and
(e) to improve the staffing of the four project REOs (para. 58).



