LOAN NUMBER 2178 TH
Loan Agreement
(Sixth (Secondary) Education Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                 , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2178 TH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     42            , 1982, between KINGDOM OF
THAILAND (hereinafter led   he Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings titerein set forth
and the following additional terms have the follc !ng meanings:
(a)  "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education, or
any successor thereof;
(b) "NEC" means the Borrower's National Education Commis-
sion, or any successor thereof;
(c) "NESDB" means the Borrower's National Economic and
Social Development Board, or any successor thereof;
(d) "CPU" means the Central Procurement Unit established
within MOE or any successor thereof; and
(e) "Fifth Education Plan" means the Borrower's plan for
the development of its education sector set forth in its Fifth
National Economic and Social Development Plan dated October 1,
1981.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventy-five million dollars ($75,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in res-
pect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Ageement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the Bor-
rower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to one million one
hundred and eight thousand three hundred seventy-four dollars
($1,108,374). The fee    shall be payable    in  such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall specify. In the event that the Bank
shall not have received full payment of the fee by the Effective
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required for the
full payment of the fee in the currency or currencies specified
for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal am' ount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the


﻿-3-
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its MOF, NESDB and NEC with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate educational, engineering,
administrative, architectural, and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, staff, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall select the schools to be
upgraded under Part A.1 of the Project in accordance with cri-
teria satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall carry out the training
included in Parts A.1(c), B.1(b) and (c) and B.2(a) of the Pro-
ject it. accordance with plans, selection criteria and terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts A.1, 2 and 3, B.1(a), B.2(a), (b) and B.3 of the Pro-
ject, the Borrower shall employ engineering, education and plan-
ning consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Bank; such employment to be made in accordance with the
principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain and operate the
CPU, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, with powers and
responsibilities adequate to coordinate the execution of all


﻿-4-
Parts of the Project and with duly qualif ied and experienced
staff in sufficient numbers.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3,07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their prrparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest.
(b) The torrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
(c) As part of the information to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to paragraph (b) (iii) above, the Borrower shall cause
NEC to prepare and furnish to the Bank a mid-term Project review
by December 31, 1985 in scope and form satisfactory to the Bank
and incorporating the views of the departments and agencies of
the Borrower concerned with the Project or any part thereof.


﻿-5-
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
Section 3.08 (a) With respect to Part B.1(a) of the Project,
the Borrower shall, not later than January 31, 1983, prepare and
furnish to the Bank for an exchange of views the following plans:
(i) for NEC    to effectively oversee and coordinate
inter-ministerial educational planning; and
(ii) for the Education Planning Division of MOE        to
effectively oversee and coordinate interdepart-
mental educational planning;
(b) The Borrower shall promptly carry out said plans after
the exchange of views with the Bank, and thereafter periodically
review with the Bank the progress achieved in carrying out said
plans and modify them as appropriate to achieve the purposes set
forth in paragraph (a) hereof.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:
(a) establish and carry out satisfactory procedures for
monitoring and evaluating the Project including the numbers and
types of teachers trained under the Project; and
(b) establish a monitoring team within the MOE with duly
qualified and experienced staff in sufficient numbers and author-
ity adequate to carry out the responsibilities set forth and
referred to in paragraph (a) hereof.


﻿-6-
Section 3.10. With respect to the teacher incentive study
included in Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall, (i)
prepare recommendations for incentives suitable to attract and
retain teachers in rural areas and furnish such recommendations
to the Bank not later than December 31, 1984 for an exchange of
views; and (ii) promptly thereafter, carry out such recommenda-
tions of such study as the Borrower shall deem appropriate.
Section 3.11. With respect to Part A.2 of the Project, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank by December 31,
1983 a plan on utilization of teachers for an exchange of views
with the Bank and thereafter carry out such plan in accordance
with a schedule satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank not
later than six months after the end of each academic year, annual
progress reports on the implementation of the recommendations and
the plan referred to in Sections 3.10 and 3.11 of this Agreement.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary *o acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for pur-
poses related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
r_alization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and


﻿-7-
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such 1en, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, soleiy
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and       (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt waturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordauce with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the oper-
ations, resources and expenditures, of the departments or agen-
cies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate accounts with respect to the Project and including those
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure;
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures; and (ii) enable the Bank's represen-
tatives to examine such records.


﻿-8-
(c) The Borrower shall have all such separate accounts and
financial statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(d) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (i) certified copies of the financial
statements as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the
foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors: (A) on the sepa-
rate accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and
(B) in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, as to whether the proceeds of the
Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and
(e) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning said accounts, financial statements,
records and expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date it   et o  ;    , is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-9-
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok 2
Thailand
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINANCE                         82823 MINANCE TH
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 10433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America     as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
fing Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works in-         42,000,000          80%
cluded in Part
A.1 (a) of the
Project
(2) Equipment               15,000,000
and materials
(a) directly                               100% of foreign
imported                              expenditures
(b) locally                                100% of local
manufactured                           expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) procured                               65%
locally
(3) Technical assis-        10,000,000          100%
tance, consul-
tants' services
and training
(4) Fee                      1,108,374          Amount due
(5) Unallocated              6,891,626
TOTAL     75,000,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other ttian the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 12 -
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eli-
gible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve access,
relevance, quality and efficiency of secondary education in
Thailand and to strengthen the planning and management capacity
of the Borrower in the field of education.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Secondary Schools
1.   Upgrading  of about 480 lower secondary schools in
disadvantaged rural areas to facilitate the application of work-
related subjects in accordance with the Borro'wer's Fifth Educa-
tion Plan through:
(a) provision of about 1,560 agricultural, home economics
and industrial arts workshops, including necessary
furniture and equipment;
(b) expansion oi academic facilities to meet the projected
enrollment   requirements,    including   provision   of
furniture and equipment;
(c) provision of in-service training for:
(i) about 3,720 teachers and administrators;
(ii) about 540 teachers and school staff in equipment
maintenance and repair; and
(iii) about 3,160 non-teaching staff to upgrade skills
in their areas of responsibility.
2.   Improvement of teacher utilization nationwide.
Part B:   Planning and Management
1.   Strengthening of educational planning through:
(a) clarification of the planning functions of, and
the relationship between, the Educational Planning
Division in MOE, the NESDB and the NEC, including


﻿- 14 -
the undertaking of a review of the mechanisms for
educational planning;
(b) provision of about 40 man-years (about 50 persons)
of overseas fellowships and about 6 man-years (4
persons) of local fellowships in the fields of
manpower and educational planning and related
fields to staff of MOE, NESDB and NEC in accor-
dance with Annex A to this Schedule;
(c) provision of training in manpower and educational
planning techniques for:
(i) about 25 man-years to central planning staff
(130 persons) and
(ii) about 235 man-years to provincial planning
staff (about 1,245 persons),
all in accordance with Annex A to this Schedule;
and
(d) provision of office equipment to the Educational
Planning Division.
2.   Strengthening of the management of regional education
offices in Songkhla, Lopburi, Phitsanulok and Nakorn Ratchasima
through:
(a) rationalization of their functions and responsi-
bilities; improvement of their management and
organization and capabilities in school sapervi-
sion, curricula research and instructional mate-
rials development, inter alia, through provision
of about 4 man-years of local fellowships; and
(b) strengthening of their staff, by September 30,
1985, substantially in accordance with Annex B to
this Schedule; and
(c) provision of equipment, furniture and materials
for curriculum and teaching aid development.


﻿- 15 -
3.   The carrying out of:
(a) studies in specialized fields, including, inter
alia, teacher incentives, vocational and technical
education and manpower needs, teacher training and
educational planning;
(b) monitoring and evaluation of the Project; and
(c) preparation of future projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986.


﻿- 16 -
ANNEZ A
Planning and Management Staff
Development Program
Fellowships            Training
Overseas       Local          Local
person m/y person m/y       person    m/y
MOE
Educational           11   12.7    2     3.0      78      19.5
Planning
Division
Other Depts.           7    5.8    -      -       65*     16.3
Department             6    2.4    2     3.0       -       -
of General
Education
Office of              2    1.7    -      -       73      36.5
National
Primary
Education
Commission
CPU                    4    20     --
Regional               -     -     -      -       12       4.0
Education
Office
Sub Total             30   24.6    4     6.0     228      76.3
NEC
Central             11   10.7    -      -       51*      5.8
Provincial           -     -     -      -     1080     175.0
NESDB                 10    7.0    -      -       14*      3.5
Total (MOE+NEC+
NESDB)         51   42.3    4     6      1373     260.6
*    Central Staff


﻿- 17 -
ANNEX B
REGIONAL EDUCATION OFFICE STAFF
Number of              Number of
Departments and            present staff         additional staff
designations         R3   R6   R7   R11*     R3   R6   R7   R11*
Regional Ed. Office
Reg. Ed. Officer       1    1    1    1
Asst. R.E. Officer    1    1     1    1       1    1    1    1
Technical staff**      -    -    -    -       5    5    5    5
Support staff        10   10   10    11       4    4    4    4
Dept. of Gen. Ed.
Chief Supervisor      1    1     1    1       -    -    -    -
Supervisors          27   25   22   23        2    4    7    6
Dept. of Phys. Ed.
Chief Supervisor       1    1    1    1       -    -    -    -
Supervisors           4    3    4    4
Dept. of Voc. Ed.
Chief Supervisor      1    1     1    -         -       -    -
Supervisors           2    5    3    -        2    -    1    5
Total             48   48   44    42      14   14   18   21
*    Region  3 = Songkhla, Region     6 = Lopburi, Region     7 =
Phitsanulok, Region 11 = Nakhon Ratchasima.
**   Includes  statisticians,   researchers,  supplies   managers,
specialists   in  planning   and  evaluation  and   personnel
administration, printers and designers.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 1988
through August 1, 2002                      2,500,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section J.04


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                 1.75%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                 3.50%
More than six y- .rs but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                                 6.40%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen years
before maturity                                 9.30%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen years
before maturity                                10.45%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                11.60%


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraphs
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the
case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   To the extent possible, goods shall be grouped into con-
tracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the


﻿- 21 -
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Kingdom of Thailand may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the pro-urement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Kingdom of Thailand if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank thft the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in the Kingdom of
Thailand equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in conection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported


﻿- 22 -
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C,
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid, shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
and civil works may be procured through local competitive bidding
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Miscellaneous items of equipment estimated to cost not more
than $50,000 equivalent may be procured through local procurement
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, provided, however, that the
aggregate amount of equipment so procured shall not exceed
$2,500,000 equivalent.
3.   Books and journals may be procured on the basis of nego-
tiated contracts with the suppliers of said books and journals.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $700,000 or more and all contracts for
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bid-
ders.


﻿- 23 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrowaer shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
4.   With respect to each contract not governed by thn preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  2 FZ    day of  "    , 198,.
FOR SECRETARY


