Donnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
c R  /ŽH- K-'&
Report No. P-4499-WSO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SUR 2.4 MILLION
TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF WESTERN SAMOA
FOR THE
AFULILO HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
March 25, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaLion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Western Samoa tala (WS$)
WS$1 = 100 sene
Average 1986              October 1986
US$1 - WS$2.2376          US$1 = WS$2.2496
WS$1 = US$0.4469          WS1 $    US$0.4445
(The value of the tala is determined by a reference to a basket of
currencies of the country's major trading partners. In this report a rate of
US$1.00 = WS$2.2 has been used which was the rate prevailing at the time of
the appraisal mission's visit.)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
UNITS AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                    =    3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (ki)               -    0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square  kilome er (Nm2)      =    0.3861 square mile (mi2)
1 cubic meter (m ,             =    35.3147 cubic fqet (ft3)
1 kilowatt (kW)                =    1,000 watts (10i  W)
1 megawatt (MW)                =    1,000 kilowatts (103 kW)
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)          =    1,000 watt hours (103 Wh)
1 gigawatt hour (CWh)          =    1 million kilow tt hours (106 kWh)
1 kilovolt (kV)                -    1,000 volts (10i  V)
1 kilovolt-ampere (kVA)        =    1,000 volt-amperes (i03 VA)
1 megavolt-ampere (MVA)        =    1,000 kVA
1 barrel                       =    42 gallons or 159 liters
I ton of oil equivalent (toe) =    10.2 million kilocalories or 7.29
barrels of crude oil
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                   -    Asian Development Bank
DBWS                  -    Development Bank of Western Samoa
DP5                   -    Fifth Development Plan (1985-1989)
ECU                   -    European Currency Unit
EEC                   -    European Economic Community
EIB                   -    European Investment Bank
EPC                   -    Electric Power Corporation
GDP                   -    Cross Domestic Product
NEC                   -    National Energy Committee
UNDP                  -    United Nations Development Program
WSEC                  -    Western Samoa Energy Committee
WSTEC                 -    Western Samoa Trust Estates
Corporation



FOR OMCL USE ONLY
WESTERN SAMOA
AFULILO HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Credit mnd Project Summary
Borrower:                Independent State of Western Samoa
Beneficiary:             Electric Power Corporation (EPC)
Amount:                  SDR 2.4 million (US$3 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Colenders:               The Asian Development Bank (ADB) has approved a loan
of SDR 4.428 million (US$5.4 million equivalent) from
its Special Fund Resources. The European Economic
Community (EEC) and European Investment Bank (EIB) are
providing a grant equivalent to US$4.745 million and a
loan equivalent to US$2.54 million, respectively.
Under the cofinancing arrangement with IDA in the
Pacific Islands, ADB is taking the lead role in
project appraisal, monitoring and supervision. In
addition, a technical assistance grant of US$200,000
from the ADB will be provided.
Relending Terms:         The proceeds of the IDA Credit, the ADB loan and the
EID loan wiLl be onlent t6 EPC at an interest rate of
9.65% p.a. for a term of 25 years including a grace
period of five years. The Government will bear the
foreign exchange risk on the credit and loans. The
EEC grant will be made available to the Government
under the terms of the Lone Convention and will
constitute the Government's equity in EPC.
Project Description:    The project, which will heLp develop Western Samoa's
hydro resources to replace high-cost diesel generated
energy, is consistent with the Government's policy to
reduce dependence on imported fuel. It consists of:
(a) civil works including a composite dam, an intake
structure, a pipeline, a surge chamber, a tailrace, a
powerhouse and a switchyard; (b) installation of eLec-
trical and mechanical equipment including a 4 MW
turbine generator, auxiliary equipment, a step-up
transformer and switchgear; (c) construction of 23 km
of 22 kY transmission line and upgrading of a 28 km
section of a transmission line from 22 kV to 33 kV;
and (d) provision of consulting services for detailed
engineering and construction supervision.
The principal benefit of the project will be a
decrease in the cost of electricity supply. The
project will directly benefit the consumers in Upolu,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforTance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
consisting of about 7,500 families and 1,100 business
estabLishments.
No unusual or significant risks relating to the con-
struction of the proposed project are expected.
DetaiLed studies of potential seepage have confimed
the likely integrity of the reservoir bed.
Estimated Project Cost:                            Foreign    Local    Total
------- …($ 'O00)
Site investigation incLuding
land acquisition                              190       205        395
Civil works                                    4,950       920      5,870
Electrical and mechanical equipment            3,320        130     3,450
Transmission lines                               960       255      1,215
Consulting services                            1,335        110     1,445
Base Cost /a                               10,755     1,620    12,375
Contingencies
Physical                                    1,530       215      1,745
Price                                       1,205       575      1,780
Total Project Cost                         13,490     2,410    15,900
Interest during construction
and other charges                             100     1,200      1,300
Total Financing Required                   13,590/b   3,610    17,200
Financing Plan:                                    Foreign    Local    Total
------- (US$ 000)
IDA                                            3,000          -     3,000 /c
ADB                                            5,400          -     5,400
EEC                                            4,190       555      4,745 /d
EIB                                            1,000     1,540      2,540 fl
Government/EPC                                     -     1,515      1,515
Total                                      13,590     3,610    17,200
/a   The project is exempt from taxes and duties.
rS   Includes the IDA Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance of US$290,000
and prior technical assistance provided by ADB.
/c   Includes refinancing of the PPF advance.
7&   The Government, EEC and EIB have agreed to apportion their contributions
to project financing as described herein, and not as previously described
in the ADB Appraisal Report, No. SAM: Ap-16, November 1986.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:                            ---(US$  million)
IDA   FY        1988    1989    1990    1991
Annual                                           0.6    1.7      0.5     0.2
Cumulativje                                      0.6    2.3      2.8     3.0
Economic Rate of Return:            11%
Appraisal Report:                   ADB Appraisal Report, No. SAM: Ap-16,
November 1986.
Map No.:                            IBRD 18848



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF WESTERN SAMOA
FOR THE AFULILO HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
development credit of SDR 2.4 million (US$3.0 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms to the Independent State of Western Samoa to help finance the
Afulilo Hydroelectric Project. The proceeds of the credit would be onlent to
the Electric Power Corporation (EPC) for 25 years, including five years of
grace with interest at 9.65% per annum. The foreign exchange risk would be
borne by the Government. IDA would cofinance the proposed project with the
Asian Development Bank (ADO) (US$5.4 million), the European Economic Community
(EEC) (US$4.745 million) and the European Investment Bank (EIB) (US$2.54
million).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic memorandum, "Western Samoa: Development Issues and
Prospects" (No. 2168a-WSO) was dated December 29, 1978. Since then, IDA staff
have held periodic discussions with the Government on the economy and have
participated in IMF missions. The following paragraphs reflect information
received through chese contacts. Economic data are contained in Annex I.
3.        Western Samoa is a small island country in the South Pacific that
has been irdependent since 1962, following a period as a United Nations trust
territory administered by New Zealand. The country has a population of
161,000, most of whom live on the two main islands--Upolu and Savai'i (see
map). The population is homogeneous, almost all of it being of Samoan
extraction. The rate of population growth is quite low, about 0.6% p.a., due
to a substantial amount of emigration. Through the extended family network
and the social services provided by the Government, basic needs are relatively
well satisfied and social indicators approach, and in a number of cases equal,
Western standards. The main harbor is in Apia, the capital city and the only
major urban area, which is located on Upolu Island. The islands have
reasonable transportation infrastructure (with some gaps), comprising a road
system to serve agriculture and industry, ports and shipping services. The
international airport is being expanded to allow for future growth in trade
and tourism.
4.        Although it is difficult to obtain a precise measure of non-
monetized subsistence activities, per capita GNP is estimated to be around
US$660 (1985). Subsistence (non-monetary) production provides the Samoans
with sufficient access to shelter, food and clothing. Adult literacy is
almost universal. Most children have nine years of basic education and at
least three years of high school education. A good coverage of health
services has been achieved through district hospitals and village clinics.



-2-
5.        Agriculture, including forestry and fishing, is the most important
sector of the economy and accounts for over half of employment and domestic
output. Close to 90Z of total exports are directly or indirectly based on
agriculture. The majority of the population practice subsistence agriculture,
which contributes around 40% of GDP. The manufacturing sector currently
accounts for only about 6% of CDP and 5% of employment. The most important
and successful manufacturing operation has been a copra crushing mill, which
processes nearly all marketed copra into coconut oil and copra meal for
export. Soap, matches, beer and cigarettes are also produced. Tourism, while
having potential for further development, currently accounts for only around
3% of GDP.
6.        A special feature of the Samoan economy is emigration.  While
emigration results in significant foreign exchange earnings through remit-
tances, it has deprived Western Samoa of some of the benefits of investment in
social services such as health and education and has, in addition, adversely
affected agricultural productivity by reducing the supply of skills for com-
mercial agriculture.
Recent Economic Performanc:
7.        The economy experienced difficulties in 1980-82, showing negative
GDP growth, high inflation (around 20%), a deteriorating external payments
position, and a large public sector deficit. Inadequate planning and manage-
ment, particularly in the public sector and plantation sector (especially
Western Samoa Trust Estates Corporation (WSTEC)) were compounded by depressed
commodity prices and adverse weather conditions which further weakened the
performance of the agricultural sector. Output in the manufacturing sector
also declined because of shortages of both raw materials and foreign exchange.
Deteriorating terms of trade and excess monetary creation associated with an
ambitious infrastructure development program caused severe external payments
difficulties. International reserves declined sharply and external payments
arrears (largely for petroleum) amounted to about US$15 million by the end of
1982, equivalent to one year's merchandise exports. Domestic financial
conditions also worsened during 1980-82. Government expenditure--to a
considerable extent the counterpart for externally financed investment--
increased at a higher rate than revenue, resulting in a sizable budget deficit
which was largely financed by domestic borrowings from the banking sector.
8.        To overcome these economic difficulties, the Government adopted in
early 1983 the first of two successive stand-by arrangements with the IMF. A
series of adjustment measures were undertaken: (i) a number of discretionary
tax increases were introduced and expenditure restraint was exercised through-
out the recurrent budget; (ii) devaluation of the tala (the local currency) of
17Z in 1983 and 12% in 1984 to improve external competitiveness; (iii) a
moderation of credit and monetary expansion through the strict imposition of
credit ceilings and an upward adjustment in nominal interest rates (4-6% in
1983); and (iv) a substantial reform of the structure of import duties and
excise taxes to lower the effective rate of protection and encourage exporting
activities.



-3-
9.        These policy initiatives did restore a measure of stability to the
economy. Real CDP growth resumed in 1983 at 0.5% and accelerated in 1984 to
2.1%. The rate of inflation moderated to under 12% in 1984 from over 18% in
1982. Tax revenues rose from about 18% of CDP to almost 281 in 1984, and as a
result the budget deficit decreased from 15.62 of CDP in 1982 to under 8% in
1984. Moreover, the curtent-account deficit was reduced to 11.31 of CDP in
1984 from 18.1% in 1982.' In addition, a positive overall balance was
achieved, allowing the accumulation of international reserves equivalent to
slightly under three months' imports from a negligible reserve level in
1982.  It is important to note that this economic recovery was aided substan-
tially by the trend in international copra prices, which translated into a
more than 50% improvement in the terms of trade during the 1983-84 period.
10.       The economy's gains during the 1983-84 period were consolidated
during 1985. Real CDP growth increased to 3% p.a., as domestic demand grew
from the maintenance of producer prices for copra, and increased remit-
tances. Inflation also declined further to about 9Z p.a. Despite a signifi-
cant terms of trade deterioration (about 302) which worsened the trade
deficit, the current account deficit decreased only slightly, as remittances
and tourism receipts increased. While an economic crisis has been averted by
government action, the structural adjustment process to address the current
account and public sector deficits, as well as rekindle economic growth, is
still ongoing.
11.       During 1986, the economy continued to adjust from the turbulent
period of the early eighties, even though the price of copra suffered steep
declines. In order to lower the current account deficit and improve public
sector finances, the Government held total expenditures in nominal terms at
the level of 1985, through stringent cuts in the public investment program.
This effort was aided by higher than anticipated public revenues, which arose
from a sharp rise in external grants resulting from a larger-than-budgeted
STABEX grant from the EEC. Therefore, the overall budgetary position recorded
a surplus of 3.6% of GDP, the first surplus on the fiscal account during the
eighties.
12.       The cutbacks in public expenditures and overall budgetary restraint
also contributed to an easing of pressure on the balance of payments. This,
coupled with a sharp decline in the cost of imported petroleum, curtailed
import payments sufficiently to offset the drop in export earnings, which
occurred because of falling copra prices. Moreover, the resilience of the
inflow of private remittances contributed substantially to a reduced current
account deficit.  These remittances, which accounted for only 38% of imports
in 1982, financed nearly 60% in 1986 and were more than 1501 higher than
export earnings. As a result of these factors, the current account deficit
declined from 11% of CDP in 1985 to 4.5% in 1986. The lower deficit combined
with higher official transfers pushed the overall deficit into a larger
surplus and allowed reserves to increase to a record five months of imports.
1/   This definition of the current account deficit excludes official
transfers.



-4-
13.       While the effect of slumping comodity prices was offset in the
balance of payments by other factors, the effect upon the real sector was more
pronounced. Lower producer prices for copra dampened production and CDP
growth slowed to under 2%. Moreover, the decline in public investment, while
strengthening the balance of payments and fiscal accounts, contributed to the
deceleration in economic growth by depressing activities in the construction
and related sectors. Inflation also slowed by 2% to 7% in 1986, reflecting
the relative stability in world prices, tariff reductions, and the
appreciacion of the tala vis-a-vis the currencies of Australia and New
Zealand.
External Debt
14.       The external debt situation has mirrored the movements in the
balance of payments position during the eighties. External debt outstanding
and disbursed increased by 23% over the 1981-83 period. As tise external pay-
ments situation eased in 1984 and 1985, total government and government-
guaranteed debt stabiLized at US$65 million by end-1985, which represented 74%
of GDP. With the increase in current account receipts in the mid-eighties,
the debt service ratio was 19% in 1985.
Development Issues and Prospects
15.       With the adjustment process slowly coming under control, the
priority for the government is to reawaken economic growth. Primary attention
needs to be devoted to the agriculture sector in Western Samoa, which is the
mainstay of the economy, and which suffers from low productivity, management
problems, constraints imposed by 1.and tenure arrangements, variable prices for
the major products, inelastic market demand and labor shortages. The govern-
ment is making efforts to improve management, raise treecrop productivity and
explore the possibilities for crop diversification. But these are areas where
continuing attention will be required over the medium term. Growth in the
industrial sector has been constrained by the small size of the domestic
market and a way around this will need to be sought in a more outward looking
strategy. Although gross receipts from tourism have been increasing, substan-
tial further investment would be required to upgrade hotel accommodations and
tourist-related services for tourism to play a more significant future role in
the economy.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN WESTERN SAMOA
16.       In view of the immediate fiscal and balance of payments difficul-
ties, the Government's attention in recent years has been focussed on
implementing macroeconomic reforms and a stabilization policy. Some measures
to increase productivity and to address key development constraints have been
implemented (e.g. the cocoa replanting program and project assistance to
strengthen key agricultural institutions such as WSTEC). Under the Govern-
ment's Fifth Development P-an (DP5, 1985-87), a concerted effort is being made
to revive plantation output, diversify and increase the role of agro-
industries in the economy, and improve basic infrastructure. With the short-



term adjustment problems being contained, the Government is in a position, in
the context of DPS, to turn its attention to the critical institutional and
infrastructural constraints, which interfere with the growth of the productive
base.
Lending Strategy
17.       IDA's basic lending strategy in Western Samoa has been to broaden
the productive base of the economy, provide supportive infrastructure and
strengthen major institutions. Close coordination with major aid agencies in
the region, notably ADB, is a feature of the Bank program in the Pacific. The
present project is consistent with this strategy. During PY88 IDA staff will
assist the Government in examining options for export diversification and
possible expansion of associated agroindus;ries.
Objectives of Previous Lending
18.       Since Western Samoa became a Bank Group member in June 1974, five
IDA credits, totalling US$18.9 million, have been approved, of which three are
cofinanced with the ADB. The Highway Project (Cr. 535-WSO) approved in 1975
and completed in 1981, concentrated on upgrading the basic road infrastructure
to facilitate agricultural development. The First (Cr. 951-WSO) and Second
(Cr. 1080-WSO) Agricultural Development Projects, approved in 1979 and 1981,
respectively, aimed at improving smallholder agricultural practices and the
performance of the kesy agricultural institution, WSTEC. In FY85, a US$2.0
million credit (Cr. 1582-WSO) was approved for the Development Bank of Western
Samoa (DBWS) to financ'4 subprojects in the agriculture, industry and services
sectors. The DBWS Droject is intended to promote investment in smallholder
agriculture and agro-based industries and to improve the Government's
industrial policy framework, together with measures to strengthen the institu-
tional capacity of DBWS. A US$2.5 million credit (Cr. 1657-WS0) was approved
in FY86 for a Multiproject in the agriculture, industry and infrastructure
sectors to strengthen and diversify the country's economic base. Among the
four ongoing projects (Agricultural Development I and II, DBWS and the
Multiproject) the agricultural projects are suffering from managerial and
financial constraints. The experience indicates that the design of projects
in Western Samoa need to take into account staffing and financial
constraints. This has been done in the preparation of the proposed hydro
project. The DBWS project and the Multiproject are progressing
satisfactorily.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND THE POWER SUBSECTOR
Resources
19.       Biomass and hydropower are the two main indigenous energy resources
in Western Samoa. Their potential has yet to be fully identified and
investigated. The country has substantial natural forest cover (54% of the
land area), and active afforestation programs are underway on Savai'i and
Upolu, aided by finance from the ADB and the Government of New Zealand. No



- 6 -
hydrocarbon deposits have been found. Known geothermal resources are small
and distant from markets. The solar regime is favorable, but the economic use
of solar energy is limited to water heating, some rural lighting, and
communications.
20.       Biomass fueLs accounted for 77% of energy consumption in 1983.  Met
per capita consumption was estimated at 0.51 toe, which is comparable to other
Pacific island countries such as Solomon Islands (0.44 toe) and Vanuatu (0.53
toe). Dema:ad for petroleum products fell from a level of about 35 million
liters in 1980 to 31.7 million liters in 1981. It has stagnated since then
because of the economic slowdown in the country. The transport sector is the
largest petroleum user, accounting for 65% of total petroleum used. Power
generation uses another 24%, but its petroleum requirements have steadily de-
clined as hydro generation has expanded. Future petroleum demand is expected
to grow at 2%, biomass demand at 2.5% (including increased demand for process
heating), and electricity demand at 4% per annum.
Sector Organization
21.       After the oil price increase of 1973, the Government of Western
Samoa established the National Energy Committee (NEC) in 1976 to provide
support for energy planning and poLicy formulation. NEC functioned largely as
an ad hoc committee with the involvement of various government departments but
without central administration.  In 1984, the Government reorganized NEC into
the Western Samoa Energy Committee (WSEC) with the Prime Minister as
Chairman. WSEC is to review and approve energy policy measures and to resolve
the principal issues in the energy sector. A Work Group and an Energy
Planning Unit provide support to t:ie WSEC. The Work Group has the
responsibility for executing WSEC's decisions. The Planning Unit, reporting
to the Prime Minister, is responsible for planning and formulation of energy
policy and has a close relationship with the Electric Power Corporation (EPC)
(para. 22) in formulating and implementing new projects in the power
subsector.
The Power Subsector
22.       Electricity supply is the responsibility of E3P, which provides
about 80% of Western Samoa's production of electricity.-   EPC is a wholly
Government-owned statutory corporation. It is an autonomous body governed by
a seven-member board, which determines the general policies of EPC. The
Minister of Public Works, who is also the Deputy Prime Minister, is Chairman
of the board. The six other members include representatives from the business
sector and the legal profession. The General Manager, who has the executive
role in supervising and coordinating the functions of EPC, is appointed by the
Head of State and reports to the board. He is assisted by an expatriate Chief
Engineer, a local Financial Controller, and an Administrative Manager. As of
the end of August 1986, EPC had a staff of 299, comprising 166 engineering/
technical staff and 63 accounting/administrative personnel.
2/   A smaLl number of licensees provide the remainder.



- 7 -
23.       Generating Facilities.  At the end of 1985, EPC'u installed
generating capacity amounted to 20.8 MW, comprising run-of-river hydro plants
(8.5 MW) and diesel plants (10.9 MW) on Upolu, as well as diesel plants (840
kW) and the purchase of 600 kW from the Asau Sawmill (which uses waite wood
fired steam generation) on Savai'i. EPC has had difficulty in maintaining its
diesel plants due to lack of spare parts and trained technicians. Several
units cannot be used continuously at full load, and diesel generatinR capacity
has been derated by about 3 MW. In addition, the considerable difference
between wet and dry season river flows coupled with negligible storage cause
the firm capacity of the existing hydroelectric plants during the dry season
(July - September) to be only a fraction of that in the wet season.
24.       Transmission and Distribution Facilities.  At the end of 1985, EPC's
system included about 788 route-km of overhead transmission and distribution
lines and about 4.5 km of underground cables. The transmission system is
standardized at 22 kV with primary distribution of 6.6 kV and 2.2 kV. The
system has about 22 MVA of substation capacity.
25.       System Operation.  System losses account for about 16% of total
generation. Of these, station use and high voltage (RV) transmission losses
account for about 5% while technical losses at the distribution level
including meter errors account for 6% and non-technical losses, such as
unmetered supplies and meter tampering, for 5%. Measures being taken by EPC
for improved metering, rigorous inspection, meter calibrating facilities and
additional staff are expected to reduce these losses.
26.       Market Conditions.  About 65% of the population on Upolu is
connected to the electricity system. During 1961-79, sales on the island grew
at about 10% per annum. In 1980, peak power demand was 5.8 MW, and energy
sales were 23.7 CWh. The combined effect of recession and a large tariff
increase in 1981 reduced growth in energy sales to about 2% between 1980 and
1982. Sales in the Upolu area grew at about 4% in 1983, 9% in 1984 and 4% in
1985, reflecting higher levels of economic activity, the growth of medium-
scale industries and commercial establishments, and the increased number of
domestic consumers. The relatively large growth in electricity sales in 1984
was due to the new Mormon temple. In 1985, the Upolu system peak demand
reached 6.26 MW, and energy sales were 28.71 GWh, which represented a system
load factor of about 63%.
27.       On Savai'i, electricity operations in the Salelologa system began in
1979. Peak demand was 280 kW, and energy sales were 0.82 CWh in 1985, which
represented an average system load factor of -bout 42%. The first full year
of metered sales for the Asau system an Savai'i was 1982. Sales have grown
rapidly, and in 1985, amounted to 0.267 GWh compared with 0.051 GWh in 1982.
With assistance from the United Nations Capital Development Fund, work is
underway to extend transmission lines to increase access to electricity of the
Savai'i population from the current level of 58% to about 70%.
2B.       EPC regularly reviews and revises its demand forecast.  The current
forecast, prepared in 1985, covers the period 1986-90. Electricity energy
consumption in Western Samoa is dominated by hotels, industry and commercial
enterprises. Developments expected in the near future incLude upgrading of



the Faleolo airport facilities, a copra oil refinery, two new major hotel
complexes, a fish processing plant and a few large commercial buildings.
Establishment of an industrial zone and a fruit processing plant are also
envisaged. Completion of eve" a single major hotel, e.g., the one promoted by
Nauru (326 rooms), will increase energy demand in the Upolu system by as much
as 152. Considering these factors and taking into account historical trends,
forecast CNP and population growth rates of 2Z and 1Z, respectively, an income
elasticity of demand of 1.5 and some price effect, sn average growth rate of
about 42 per annum in peak demand are forecast for Upolu during 1986-95. The
average system load factor is expected to remain at about 63%, and system
losses are conservatively assumed to be 15%. Energy demand in Savai'i, where
tranmission line expansion is currently underwayt is forecast to grow at an
average rate of about 121 per annum, and is expected to reach 1.6 GWh by 1990.
29.       Development Program.  The program for the Upolu system in 1986-95 is
based on least cost options and was prepared by EPC with the assistance of
consultants. The system, although small, will feature by 1990 a mix of
generating plants consisting of run-of-river hydro, storage hydra and diesel
plants. In 1985, the Upolu system had a derated installed capacity of 16.02
MW, with a wet season firm capacity of 11.22 KW and a dry season firm capacity
of 5.8 MW. System capacity and energy availability is adequate to meet the
energy demand during the wet season, but during the dry season firm capacity
is insufficient to meet the peak demand. Consequently, the need for
ndditional capacity to meet peak demand is considered urgent.
30.       Several alteriatives for generating energy in the dry season have
been investigated, with the aim of displacing high-cost diesel generation.
They included substitution of diesel oil by coconut oil, dual fuel engines to
burn a mixture of wood gas and diesel oil, wood-fired steam turbines, the
Afiamalu pump-assisted storage scheme and the proposed Afulilo hydropower
storage scheme. Substitution of diesel oil by coconut oil was not actively
pursued because it was found to be uneconomic. Construction of a wood-fired
plant is not considered technically feasible because a continuous supply of
the required quantity of wood to fuel the plant cannot be assured. The
Afiamalu pump-assisted storage scheme was also found to be uneconomic.
Consequently, a key feature of the Upolu system's operations wiLl be the use
of the proposed Afulilo scheme for storage of water during the wet season to
use during the dry season for generating hydroelectric energy to supplement
the run-of-river hydroelectric energy supply, which would otherwise be limited
by reduced streamflow in the dry season.
31.       Available capacity of the Upolu system by 1991 is planned to be
increased by 4 KW, with a dry-season capacity of 8.8 MW and an expected peak
demand of 8 MW. The supply of energy to the system will be largely based on
hydroelectric units, with diesel capacity serving as a standby reserve for
operation during peaking and emergency conditions. A 600 kW gasifier/diesel
engine generating project for Savai'i is under consideration and expected to
be funded by EEC.
32.       The existing transmission system on Upolu has adequate capacity.
Although the 25 km transmission line from Apia to Ta'elefaga is a vulnerable
link in the system, EPC has the capability to repair quickly any transmission



line fault. The uprating from 22 kV to 33 kV of the transmission line between
Tanugamanono and Lalomauga under the proposed project will enable voltage to
be maintained at a satisfactory leveL when transmitting the full power output
of 3.5 MW from Lalomauga and the proposed additional 4 MW output from
Afulila. However, when the Vaipu basin is developed to produce another 4 MW
output, it will be necessary to build an additional transmission line. Mean-
while, EPC is undertaking with its internal resources the rehabilitation of
old sections of the transmission and distribution lines to improve reliability
of supply. EPC's distribution system is adequate to cope with present demand,
and will be expanded wis'lh its own resources aS demand increases.
Government Energy Policy and Strategy
33.       The Government's energy policy is to develop indigenous sources of
energy as substitutes for petroleum imports, promote competitive pricing in
oil supply, and conserve energy through demand management. Its domestic
pricing policy for petroleum products encourages efficient use of transport
vehicles, the main users of imported petroleum fuel.
34.       In the power subsector. the Government intends to meet the demand
for electricity at an economic price. It has given priority to development of
indigenous, renewable energy sources, mainly hydro but also including wood
wastes, that would reduce dependence on imported diesel fuel and to
improvement of the distribution system that would minimize losses. During
1980-85, Western Samoa reduced its independence on imported diesel oil for
electricity generation. While in 1981 electricity generation required
approximately 1.5 million gallons of diesel oil, it now has been reduced to an
estimated 0.7 million gallons annually. The Government will continue its
strategy of reducing diesel requirements for electricity generation and
substituting indigenous energy resources for imported petroleum. As part of
this strategy, the Government intends to replace existing diesel generation by
hydropower capacity not only because of the high cost of imported petroleum
but also because of the increasing cost of maintaining the aging diesel
generators. It also intends to extend power supplies to rural households and
industries as required by economic and resource capability.
Role of the Bank Group in the Sector and Rationale for IDA Involvement in the
Project
35.       The Bank Group, in association with UNDP under the Energy Sector
Assessment Program, conducted a study entitled "Western Samoa: Issues and
Options in the Energy Sector" (Report No. 5497-WSO, June 1985). This study
supported the Government's objectives of substituting indigenous energy
resources for oil imports and the need to design a least-cost system expansion
strategy. The proposed project is consistent with this objective and, by
further lessening diesel import requirements for electricity generation, is
expected to result in savings of 15% of total export receipts per annum
(paras. 43 and 53).



- 10 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       After reviewing the Energy Sector Report (pars. 35), the Government
approached several multilateral institutions WSDB, IDA, and EEC/EIB) for
assistance in financing the proposed project.-   The project was prepared by
Manders, Raikes and Marshall (UK) with financing from ADB and from a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) advance by IDA. Following a review of the informa-
tion and data available on geological/hydrological aspects contained in the
feasibility reports on the Afulilo-Fagaloa hydropower scheme, IDA joined ADD
in May 1986 in a fact-finding mission for the project. The mission
recommended additional site investigations to confirm the geotechnical
soundness of the geological structure associated with the project. These
investigations, which were financed from tine PPF, have been carried out and
the results have been found to be satisfectory. The technical design of the
proposed water impounding structures are considered appropriate to the
conditions prevailing at the site. The overall design of the scheme is
conventional and conforms to sound engineering practice. ADB is providing
funds for EPC to engage an ADB-approved independent geotechnical expert to
review the design of the civil works, including the dam, and to make periodic
inspections during construction. The expert will advise EPC on matters
concerning the safety and maintenance of the dam. Negotiations for the IDA
credit were conducted by telex from February 5 to March 10, 1987. Mr. Kolone
Vaa'i, Secretary, Treasury Department, negotiated on behalf of the
Government. Supplementary project data are contained in Annex III.
37.       The ADB report entitled "Appraisal of the Afulilo Hydroelectric
Project in Western Samoa", (No. SAM: Ap-16 dated November 1986), is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Objectives and Scope
38.       The proposed project will support the Government's energy policy of
developing indigenous renewable energy resources for generating electricity at
an economic cost to displace high-cost diesel-based electricity. The
electricity output of the project will supplement electricity generated from
run-of-river hydro stations during the dry season when output from such
stations is reduced because of low stream flows, necessitating high-cost
diesel generation to meet electricity requirements.
39.       The following components will be included in the project:
(a) construction of a composite gravity concrete/rockfilled dam, an
intake structure, an intake tunnel, a pipeline, a surge chamber, a
tailrace, a powerhouse and a switchyard;
3/   ADB had provided three loans totalling US$17.5 million to EPC over the
1973-84 period and six technical assistance grants to the power sector.



- 11 -
(b)  installation of electrical and mechanical equipment including a 4 MW
turbine-generator, auxiliary equipment, a step-up transformer and
switchgear;
(c) construction of 23 km of 22 kV transmission line and upgrading of
28 km of line from 22 kV to 33 kV; and
(d) provision of consulting services for detailed engineering and
construction supervision.
40.       The project will develop the Afulilo basin to provide storage for
about 10 million m of water for generation of electricity to supply the power
system on Upolu. A composite dam with a central concrete spillway, concrete
wings and rockfill abutment 8§ m long and 20 m high to impound the reservoir
with a surface area of 2.5 kmn will be located just upstream of Afulilo Falls
at an elevation of 350 m. The center section of the dam will have a gated
spillway with two spillway radial gates 10 m long and 3 m high, with a design
flood flow of 150 m3 per second. The low level outlets in the concrete
section will allow the river flow to pass during construction of the main
dam. When the dam is completed, this outlet will be closed by a gate that can
be opened to allow the reservoir to be emptied, if necessary. The hydraulic
discharge will be conveyed through an intake tunnel 60 m long below the left
abutment, through a low-pressure pipeline of 2.5 km descending south of the
falls, across the flat Vaipu basin and over a low saddle through a surge
chamber, and through a high pressure pipeline of 1.4 km along the Fagaloa
Divide. The pipeline will connect an above ground powerhounc situated in
Ta'elefaga at Fagaloa Bay with one 4 MW generating unit operating under a
static head of 310 m.
Cost Estimates and Financin Arrangements
41.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$17.2 million equiv-
alent (exclusive of import duties and taxes), of which the foreign exchange
cost is US$13.59 million (about 80%) including US$390,000 for recovery of
technical assistance previously provided by ADB and a PPF provided by IDA, and
US$100,000 for service and other charges during construction financed by ADB
(para. 36). The local cost is estimated at US$3.61 million equivalent (about
20%). The cost estimates are based on 1986 prices and include appropriate
provisions for price escalation, which are assumed to be as follows: foreign
costs, 4Z per annum; and local costs, 9% for 1987 and 8% per annum there-
after. Physical contingencies of 20% for the civil works, and 10 for the
other items have been provided.
42.       Project costs will be met by (a) the proposed IDA credit of
US$3 million equivalent; (b) an ADB loan of US$5.4 million equivalent from its
Special Fund resources; (c) an EEC grant of ECU 4.8 million (US$4.745 million
equivalent), which includes US$0.555 million to finance part of the local
currency cost of the project under the Lome III Convention; and (d) an EIB
loan equivalent to US$2.54 million. The Government/EPC will provide
US$1.515 million equivalent. Although the proposed project represents 11% of
the Government's development expenditure during the 1986-90 period, the
project is expected to yield significant benefits in terms of facilitating



- 12 -
agricultural, industrial and tourism related growth. Savings from the
project, which are estimated to be about US$2.2 million per annum (15Z of
export earnings) arising from reduced diesel fuel imports, will more than
offset the increase in debt service payments, estimated at US$400,000 per
annum.
43.       The Borrower will be the Independent State of Western Samoa, which
will onlend the proceeds of the IDA Credit to EPC. The IDA credit, the ADB
loan, and the EIB loan will be onlent with a fixed interest rate set at 9.65Z
per annum (i.e. ADB's current loan interest rate of 7.65Z, plus a 2% premium)
with a repayment period of 25 years, including a grace period of 5 years. The
on-lending rate is approximately equivalent to domestic interest rates for
long term devu-lopment finance in the country and, due to the continuing
decline in inflation rates, is expected to be positive in real terms. The
Government has agreed to bear the foreign exchange risk on the loans, against
which EPC will pay to the Government a charge of 2% per annum on all outstand-
ing foreign loans, included in the 9.65% interest rate. A Project Agreement
will be concluded between IDA and EPC. The Government and EPC will sign a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement acceptable to IDA. The signing of this Subsidiary
Loan Agreement will be a condition for the effectiveness of the proposed
credit. Fulfillment of the conditions pursuant to the effectiveness of the
ADB loan is also a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit. The EEC
grant will be made available to the Government under the terms of the Lome III
Convention for the direct financing of components of the Project.
Project Management and Implementation
44.       The EPC will be responsible for implementing the project over four
years. To supervise the day-to-day implementation, EPC is expected to
establish, by April 1987, a Project Office headed by a full-time Project
Engineer, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to AD3 and IDA,
responsible to the General Manager. EPC will be assisted by consultants for
project implementation in detailed engineering design, preparation of speci-
fication and tender documents, tender evaluation and construction supervi-
sion. Engineering consultants with hydropower experience and qualifications
will be engaged by EPC. In addition, an independent geotechnical expert will
be appointed to review and advise EPC periodically on matters concerning the
dam and the reservoir to be constructed under the project. The selection of
consultants is expected to be completed in April 1987, following which the
prequalification of bidders for the civil works will be undertaken. Contracts
for the civil works, electrical and mechanical equipment and the transmission
line are expected to be awarded by June 1988. All consultants will be
selected in accordance with ADB's guidelines on the use of consultants, which
are closely modelled on IDA's guidelines. An assurance has been obtained that
arrangements satisfactory to IDA will be made for periodic inspection of
project works after project completion with the assistance of independent
engineering experts acceptable to IDA. EPU will: (a) propose such arrange-
ments not less than one year before completion; (b) promptly furnish to IDA
the conclusions of each inspection; and (c) promptly make the recommended
repairs and modifications in maintenance and operating methods.



- 13 -
Land Acquisition
45.       Most of the land in the project area is uninhabited and belongs to a
few villages in the surrounding areas. Since these villages will receive
electrical connections financed under the project, no difficulties in the
release of the land are foreseen. Resettlement will be minimal. Both the
Government and EPC have assured IDA and ADB that they will acquire the land
necessary for the proposed project in a timely manner. Acquisition of the
land has been made a prior condition to the award of any civil works contract.
Procurement
46.       Procurement of all goods and services for the project will be
grouped into suitable contr&ct packages consistent with the financing plan.
The civil works will form one contract package, and will be let following
international competitive bidding. Bidders for civil works contracts will be
prequalified before bidding takes place. All bidding packages for civil works
estimated to cost over US$500,000 will be subject to ADB's prior review of
procurement documents. The foreign exchange costs of civil works will be
financed by IDA and ADB and the local costs by EIB. The procurement of goods
and services to be financed jointly by IDA, ADB and EIB will be undertaken
based on international competitive bidding. Suppliers and contractors
normally eligible to compete for the supply of IDA-financed items will be
eligible to compete in those cases where IDA is jointly financing procure-
ment. ADB's guidelines, which have been modelled on IDA's guidelines, will be
used for all procurement of IDA- and ADB-financed items. Procurement of goods
and services out of the proceeds of the proposed EEC grant will be subject to
EEC procedures.
Disbursements
47.       The IDA credit will be disbursed against (a) 100% of foreign expen-
ditures for civil works; and (b) 1OZ of foreign expenditures for consultant
services. The advance from IDA's US$290,000 PPF plus accrued charges will be
refinanced through the credit. Withdrawal applications will be reviewed by
ADS under procedures specified in a letter of credit administration to be
agreed between IDA and ADB, and disbursement from the IDA credit will be made
upon ADB's telexed advice. The project completion date is June 30, 1990, and
the closing date is December 31, 1991.
Financial Performance
48.       EPC recorded net financial losses during 1979-85 because of high
system losses, large fuel expenses and foreign exchange losses due to
depreciation of the tala against major currencies. Despite these unfavorable
developments, EPC's debt-service ratio was maintained at a satisfactory level,
except for 1983 when it fell below 1.3 times, and EPC's short term liquidity
remained generally sound. The self-financing ratio covenant of 20% was met
for the first time in 1985.
49.       Current financial projections suggest that EPC's performance will
improve in the period 1986-90, and its liquidity position will continue to



- 14 -
remain sound. The Government has agreed that EPC may write off the existing
unrealized foreign exchange losses on outstanding foreign loans. In addition,
the foreign exchange risk on the proposed IDA credit, ADB loan and EIB loan,
relent to EPC, and all existing foreign loans will be borne by the Govern-
ment. In consideration of this, EPC will pay the Government an annual charge
of 2% per annum on all outstanding loans (para. 43). The two covenants,
previously included under ADB projects requiring EPC to maintain a minimum
debt-service ratio of 1.3 times and a self-financing ratio of at least 20%
will be applicable under this project to ensure that EPC mobilizes sufficient
internal resources for its future capital expenditure. In addition, a third
covenant requires EPC to earn a 5% financial rate of return by 1990 and an 8%
financial rate of return by 1995 on its revalued average net fixed assets in
operation.
Tariff Policy and Structure
50.       EPC has a single flat rate tariff for all consumers.  The tariff
rate has been increased more than threefold from 8 sene per kWh in March 1978
to 28.1 sene per kWh in July 1983. Since then, it has remained at the same
level. Compared to other tariff levels in the region, EPC's rate is among the
highest. In the light of the expanding operations of the Upolu and Savai'i
systems, EPC's tariff structure and level of tariffs will need to be
reexamined. The Government has agreed that a study of EPC's tariff structure
and level will be undertaken and financed under the EEC grant for this
purpose. The results of this study will be reviewed with IDA and the agreed
recommendations will be implemented by EPC.
Accounting and Auditing
51.       EPC's accounts are properly maintained and generally satisfactory,
but some areas need improvement. These relate to accounting and auditing
procedures, training of staff, and computer facilities. Consulting services
will be provided through a technical assistance grant of US$200,000 from ADB,
that will complement the proposed project, to strengthen EPC's accounting
system and staff training. EPC's Internal Audit Unit was established in 1982,
but its activities have been limited because of a lack of staff and an audit-
ing manual. The consultant under the ADB technical assistance will assist EPC
in preparing an audit manual and will provide on-the-job training for EPC
staff. For several years, EPC's financial statements have been audited by a
private auditor and the final audit report has been certified by the Govern-
ment's Chief Auditor. Such arrangements are acceptable to IDA. The audit
performance has been satisfactory, although the subuission of the audited
accounts to ADB has been somewhat delayed. EPC will send copies of its
audited accounts to IDA within nine months after the end of each fiscal
year. EPC will prepare and furnish a Project Completion Report to IDA within
six months of credit closing.
Justification and Risks
52.       The proposed project is consistent with the Government's long-term
energy policy which is to deveLop indigeneous renewable energy resources to
replace high-cost oil-based thermal power generation, thereby contributing to



- 15 -
foreign exchange savings and to improvement in the country's overall balance-
of-payments position. The net foreign exchange savings resulting from hydro
power generation are estimated at US$2.2 million a year. The principal
benefit of the project for the EPC will be a decrease in the cost of supply of
electricity. The project will generate up to 24 GWh of hydroelectric energy
which will be fed into EPC's supply system. It will save diesel generation
costs of about US$2.6 million per annum during the economic life of the
project. Consumers of electricity on Upolu island, consisting of about 7,500
families and 1,100 businesses and other establishments, will directly benefit
from the project. The island is the home of most of the country's population,
the seat of Government, and the location of most of the country's industrial
and commercial establishments. Apia, the capital of Western Samoa with a
population of about 34,000, is located on the northern coast in the central
part of the island. It is the only major urban area in the country and
contains the main harbor. Apia is served by an international airport at
Faleolo, 35 km away, whose runway and landing facilities have recently been
upgraded to meet expected tourist growth in the coming years. The project is
part of the EPC system's least cost expansion program. Its financial rate of
return is estimated at 12Z and economic rate of return at llX. Demand for
part of the project's energy production already exists, and the economic
return is considered acceptable. The project will create direct employment of
3,000 man-months during construction. Twenty persons will be employed
permanently after the powerhouse is commissioned.
53.       No unusual or significant risks relating to the construction of the
proposed project are expected. In view of a possible higher seepage level
than estimated in the feasibility study of 1982, further site investigations
were carried out in July/August 1986. The results were satisfactory, and the
recommendations have been incorporated into the design, which will allow
proper water management of the reservoir. EPC will undertake, with the
assistance of experts, periodic inspection and maintenance of the dam,
waterways, earthworks and reservoir banks after construction (para. 44).
Environmental Aspects
54.       The environmental aspects of the project have been given due
consideration. The effects of the project on the environment include the
discharge of fresh water from the powerhouse at Ta'elefaga into Fagaloa Bay
and possible impaired quality of reservoir water due to decomposing vegetation
during inundation. However, Department of Forestry officials confirm that no
rare or endangered plant or animal species occupy these areas, and the
Department of Fisheries has confirmed that the discharge of fresh water into
the Fagaloa Bay will not significantly affect fisheries. Provisions for
watershed management under the project include mon.iLoring water run-off and
sediment loading of the watershed, assessing the severity of soil erosion, and
recommending soil conservation measures if found necessary. Appropriate
provision will be made in the design of the Ta'elefaga powerhouse to ensure
that the noise level will be tolerable. Appropriate safety measures will be
implemented during construction.



- 16 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articleo of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
March 25, 1987
Washington, D.C.



- 17-
WhSTEUI ESO     - EMMNWIC IWICATUS                                    Comntry Grape    EAST ASIA
............................WCntry nuns                             WESTEU SAMO
Ann:        I
Mid-19M  PapuLation (theusancis.): 161                                                                                         Page:    l Ot 3
1965 Per Capita GNP In US:          660                                                                              Oate PrepArud:    MACH 196
A. Sharm  of Gross Domestic Procdxt                             B. Growth Rates (% per  nam~)
(traI curreflt price &btm)                                     Cfram cattant price dota)
1965     197       1960      19        i96p    1966s             196573  IM1-80  1950-854    lWSp    19136e
Gross Dwttle Product m.p.                .        .       100       100       100        ...                           .      -1.0      3.0        1.5
Not lIwdirect Taxs                             .      13.3        ..        .         ...
AgricuLture                                    ..     39.9        ..         .        ...
Irtutry                             .         ..      10.6        ..        .        ...
(of Such Moafacturirig)                       ..       4.5         .        .         ...                          .         .
Services                             .        ..      36.2        ..        .        ...
Pesaurce Salutem                         .        .      37.6    -29.7    -38.1          ...
Expcrtsof GNFS                       .2..                5      26.2    252          ...                           .       6.4
Imports of GNFS                     .         ..     62.6      55.9      63.3                                              9
Total Experditures                       .        .     137.6    129.7    138.1          ...
Total CasAptlon                      .         ..    104.6   1100.2    106.9         ...
Private Cormuiptiat.n.                            86.9      a3.7'    88.7                              -        -
GeneraL Govenun                             .      17.7      16.6     18.2        .                    .        .        .
Gross DOmes-tic Investnent            .       ..      33.1      29.5     31.2        ...                            .     15.4
Fixed investwust                 .          .        .         .        .          .
Chwuge  in Stock                                                         -  . .  .  . .                .       -
Grass Dcmestc Saving                    .         ..     -4.6      -0.2      -6.9        ...
Neit Factor Income.                           ..        .        5.2      6.6        ...
Rat Cuwrrent Transfers               .        ..      16.7      20.9     26.8         ...
Grass Natioaml Swvirg                   2.        .         .      5.9      26.6         ...
in miLlions of LW'ls                 1965      1973      1980      1914     1VBSp    1986.
(at ocomtart 1M  prices)              ....     -- --     ----       ---
CGras Domestic Product               .        ..       103        ..         .       ...
Capaity to Import                     .        .        2                   .        -                    .        .       2.4
Term  of Tradie Adjustwu             . n                 0        ..        .        ...
Grass Domstic In .                   ..       ..       103        .                   ..
Cross NationaL Product..                       .        ..        -.                  ...
Gross Natioral Imcai                 .        .                    .        ..        .                   .        .         .        -
........... 1990 -100) ----------                              ......Inftatfon Rates CZ pas.)------
C. Price  "irces                     1990      198       1903      1984      lflSp    19866            1965-73  1973-80  1990-S4    lBSp    196
Consumer Prices (IS 64)                100    142.6       166    185.7    202.6    216.8                   3.9     11.4      16.9       9.1        1.0
lAotesste Prices. (IFS 63).                       ..        .        ..         .        ...
IUrpticit GOP Deflator                 100    140.5        .          .        .         ..
Implicit Expenditures DefLator         100      141        .          .        .         ..                           .        -
0. Other Irdicators                         1965-73             1973-80            l9O-USp            .......................
Growthi Rates. (Zp.a.):
PqpuLatain                                   2.1                 0.7                0.6
Labr Force                                    -
Cross Natioali Income p.c.....-
Private CwanuFption ps...-
Import Etasticitr.
Imports (G4MFS) / GDP Cap)                    .                   .-
MarginaL Savings. Rates:
Gross NatiomuL Savirig
Gross Dcuietic Savirig                        .-
IGOR (period averages):
e = estijmated date
Share of TotaL                       1965      1973      1980       M8P                                        p = preL imuirary data
Labr Force in:                        ----     ---       ...
Agriculture
Indzr
Servces
Total                                                                                              . . .. .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .



-18-
LESTERN Sm        - EmWUIC INIDIUTCRS                                      Amex:   I
...................................                                        Pa:    2 of 3
Volume Index (1980 u 100):                    VaLue at Current Prices (mililons US$):
...................................... ........ .............  .....................................................  .............................
E. Merchwdise Exports               1980     192      193       1984     1985p    1986.   1980      1982      1983     1984     1985p    1986.
CcOaut Pro      ..cts              100.o      i.i     57.2     58.6      77.0    47.1   9073.0  6025.7  854S.6  11598 0   7631.4   3510.1
Cocoa                              100.0     49.5    136.4     41.9      37.3    55.4  3296.a   818.1   2999.6   1229.0   1049.9   1405.5
Bans                               100.0     41.2     44.2       ..        ..       ..    482.9   238.5    264.0       14.4     12.2      18.8
Tara                               100.0    166.8   131.1    163.2   262.1    232.4   1436.9  1808.4   1540.4   1497.5  2279.4    1921.7
Marfacture
Other Exports                                                                            2720.2  3621.2  3204.9   3472.7  3467.4   2657.2
Total Merchandse Exports FOB                                                            17009.7  12511.7  16554.5  17511.6  1447.3   9513.2
F. MerchilsmIm lports \1
........................... ..............................
Food                                                                                     9061.3  8663.2   866.5
POL ard Other Enorgy                                                                    1K37.0  7488.5  7481.9
Other Iports                                                                            42747.5  33577.4  33550.6
Other Corsaw  Goods                                                                   8029.1  6112.9  6108.3
Other Incerudlate Goods                                                              23508.2 21596.6  21579.9
Capital Good                                                                         11210.1  5867.8  5862.4
Total Merchandise Inmorts CIF                                                           62245.7 49729.0  49689.3  50717.5  51254.4  48686.6
G. Terms of Trade (1980 m 100)      1980     1982     1983      1984     19B5p    1986e
...............................      ...     ....                                               Notes:
Merch. Exports Price Indx     .       ..       ..
HMrch. Ilports Price Index            ..       ..       ..                                      .1 No volune data are aviitlbte for inports
MLerdwadise Tenrs of Trade            ..       ..
USS millions Cat current prices):
H. Balance of Panamts               1980     1982     1983      1984     1985p    1986e
...............................     ....  .  ....     .... ....... ...............
Exports of Goods and NFS              26       22       27       29        26       24
Merchadise (FOB)                   17       14       18       20        16       11
Nm-Factor Service                   9        8        9        9        10       12
*nports of Godas rd lFS               72       58       57       58       58        57
Nwchanise (FOB)                    57       45       U        46        47       49
Ncn-Factor Services                t5       12       13       12        11        a          e = estimted data
p = preliminary data
ResaLrce Balance                     -46      -36      -30      -30       -31      -33
Met Factor Inc*ne                     -3       -2       -2       -2        -2       -2
(intrest per DRS)                  2         1        1        1        2
Net Current Transfers                 19       19       20       21        24       31
(worlcers renittances)                19       19       20       21        24        0
Current Account Balane               -30      -20      -12       -11       -9       -4
Long-Tenn Capital Inflow              6         0        4        5         1       10
Direct Inestment                    0        0        0        0         0        0
Official Capital Grants            17       13       17       12        11       12
Net LT Loans (DRS data)             8        5        1        8        -1
Other LT inflows (Net)           -18       -19      -15      -15       -10       .
Total Other Itaes (Net)              22        22       11        9        12        4
Net Short-ten. Capital            20        18       11        8        10        1
Capital Ftows M.E.I.                0        0        0        0         0        0
Errors wsn  Onissions               2        4        0        1         3        3
Chwxes in Net Reserves                 1       -1       -3       -3        -3      -10
Net Credit fron IMF                -1        0        3        4         2        0
Other Reserve Chages
( - indicates increase)            2        -1       -6       -8        -5     -10
As shares of GDP:
Resource Balance                -41.3   -33.4   -29.9   -30.2   -35.5   -37.4
Interest Pa,ments                2.1         1        1      1.4      1.9
Current Account Balance         -26.8   -18.1   -11.7   -11.3    -10.7    -4.5
M1nioranam Items:
Internat'L Reserves (mil. 1IS$)       3         3        7       11        14
Reserves inc. Gold (mi. USS)           3        3        7       11        14
Official X-Rate (LOJ'sAWI)          0.92     1.21     1.54     1.84      2.24     2.22
Index Real Eff- X-R Base 1980       100   106.68    98.87    95.49    88-55         ..
GDP (millicns of current USS)        112      108      1OD       99       88        88     --------- - -- ---_-_-_



-19-
WESTERN SNU  - EWIIOIIC IDICATORS                                           Arnex:   I
........................... .....................      >                    Page:    3 of 3
Shares of GDP (X)                                      Growth Rates (X p.a.)
.............................. ; ...... ;............................... . ..............................  ..............................................
1. Bueet (Contral Govermnnt)    1960         1982     19U      1984      WISp    19866               1980 - 83         1984     1965      1986e
Ourrent Receipts                    24.2     21.7    28.0       33.4     35.5     39.0               22.2              40.3      15.5       9.7
Current Experditures                20.5     22.2     22.6      22.8     21.6     21.7               12.2              20.3      18.3       3.4
Current Budget SBatme                3.7     -2.6      9.2      14.2     14.5     17.3             -104.6              81.0      11.7      18.8
Capital Receipt.                    12.5     11.0     14.1      10.0     11.4     11.6               12.3             -17.0    24.9         0.9
Capital Expenditures                30.5     24.0     28.3     31.7      26.1     25.3               13.1              31.6   -10.4        -3.3
Overat Deficit                     -14.3   -15.6      -5.0      -7.6    -0.1       3.6               -B.9              77.9   -98.5
ExtemaL Borrowirg (nat)              7.0      3.5      4.0       5.8      1.0     -1.3               -1.9              72.1   -81.9   -231.6
Dmstic Borrowiri                     7.2      3.2      5.1       2.9    -0.4       0.8               -6.7              17.6  -10.0        800.0
Domestic Non-Bank Financing          4.0      5.7     -2.8      -0.7      0.3     *1.7              143.4              33.3   *115.4    *300.0
Damstic Bonk Firncing                3.2      8.9      2.2       2.2    -0.1      -0.9               -2.2             -72.7  -150.0    *666.7
Debt Outstadigr  £ Disbursed CUSS msl.)
J. Exterral Capital Flows,Dcbt      ----------------------------------------------    ------------------------------------------.
erd Debt Burden Ratios           1980     1982     1983      1984     19Sp    1986e    1980       1962     1983     1954     1985p    1986.
Pblic L Ptblicly GuarC ateed LT        8        5        2        8         `1      ..       55        60       60       64       65
Official Creditors                 10        6        3         6        0       ..       47        56       57       60       62
Multitateral                    10        6        4        7         1        .       34       44        47       53       55
of Sich 1B5)                 ..       ..       ..       ..        ..       ..        ..      ..        ..
of uich IDA                   2        1        1        1         1       ..        6         .        9       10        I0
BiLateral                       0         1       -1       *1        -1       ..       13       12        10        7        7
Private Creditors                   2       -1       -2        2        -1       ..        8         5        3        4        3
Swpliers                         1        0        0        0         0       ..        0        a         0        0        0
Firncial Markets                -1       -1       -2        2        -1       ..        8        5        3         4        3
Private Non-Guaranteed LT             ..       ..       ..       ..                 ..        ..        .
TotaI LT                               8        5        2        8        -1       ..       55       60        60       64       65
IMF Net Credit                        -1       -1        2        3         0       ..        3        4         6        8        9
Met Short-Term CapitaL                20       18       11        8        10        1        1        4         7        2         1
Total including IMF & Net ST          27       22       14        19        9       ..       59       69        73       75       76
Bartk and IDA Ratios                19B0     1982     1963      194  PJB5p    1986e   .. ...........................
-------------------  ----  ----            .....         Notes:
Share of Total Long-Term DOD
1. IBRD as X of Total                 ..       ..
2. IDA as X of Total               11.45    14.07     14.9    14.75    15.49
3. IERD+IDA as X of Total          11.45    14.07     14.9    14.75    15.49
Share of Total LT Debt Services
1. IERD as X of Total                  .       ..
2. IDA as X of Total                   0     3.45     2.56     2.63      1.,2
3. lURD0IDA as X of Total              0     3.45     2.56     2.63      1.92
DOD-to-Exports Ratios
1. Long-Term DebcJExports         215.2   276.81   222.97   221.65   240.61
2. IMF Credit/Exports              12.91    19.25    21.78    27.88    34.69
3. Short-Tern Debt/Exports         3.91    18.33    25.84      6.88     3.69
4. LT.INFIST DMD/Exports         232.03   314.39   270.59   256.41   278.99         ..          e = estimuted data
p = preLiminary data
DQW-to-GDP Ratios
1. Long-Term Debt/OP               49.1    55.53    60.22    65.32    74.11
2. IMF Credit/GP                   2.95      3.88     5.88     8.22    10.68
3. Short-Tenr Debt/GDP              0.89      3.7     6.98     2.03      1.14
4. LT+IHF*ST DOD/GDP               52.94    63.41    73.08    75.56   85.93
Debt Service/Export
,.... . . . . . . . .
1. PubLIc & Ouaranteed LT             18    13.29     14.4    13.09    19.19
2. Private Non-Granteed LT            ..       ..        ..      ..        .
3. Total LT Debt Service              18    13.29     14.4    13.06    19.19         .
4. IF Repwrchases + Serv Chgs.
5. Interest Only on ST Debt
6. Total (LT+INF+ST Int.)                                                                   .................................  ---------------



-20-                                    ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF WESTERN SAMOA
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1986) Ts
Amount (US$ million)
Credit                                                                 (less cancellations)
number     Year    Borrower             Purpose                        IDA      Undisbursedlb
One credit fully disbursed                                              4.4
951-WS0    1979    Western Samoa        Agriculture Development        8.0            2.52
1080-Wso    1981    Western Samoa        Agric. Development II          2.0/c          1.24
1582-WSO    1985    Western Samoa        Development Bank of W.S.       2.0ld          2.37
1657-WS0    1986    Western Samoa        Multiproject                   2.5/e          2.79
Total                                       18.9            8.92
Of which has been repaid                            -              -
Total Now Outstanding                       18.9             -
Amount sold         -
Of which has been repaid                            -
Total Now Held by IDA                       18.9             -
Total Undisbursed                             -             8.92
B. STATEMENT OF IPC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1986)
None.
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
lb Amount expressed here is US$ equivalent of undisbursed SDR amount at current exchange
rate.
/c  Credit amount is SDR 1.6 million (equivalent to US$2.0 million at time of
negotiation).
Id  Credit amount is SDR 2.1 million (equivalent to US$2.0 million at time of
negotiation).
le  Credit amount is SDR 2.3 million (equivalent to US$2.5 million at time of
negotiation).



^21-                                  ANNEX III
WESTERN SAMOA
AFULILO HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: T'metable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:          24 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                        EPC and Manders, Raikes and
and Marshall (UK)
tc)  First presented to the Bank:                March 1986
(d)  Departure of the ADB Appraisal Mission:  September 1986
(e)  Completion of IDA Negotiations:             March 10, 1987
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:              August 31, 1987
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
Annual participation in ADB project supervision missions.
Section III: Special Conditions:
(a)  Special conditions of effectiveness would be that:  (i) the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Jovernment and EPC has been
signed; and (ii) the conditions precedent to the effecciveness of
the ADB loan have been fulfilled (para. 43).
(b)  EPC will be required to:
(i) carry out dam and waterway maintenance in accordance with
advice obtained by EPC from independent expert dam inspectors
(para. 44).
(ii) maintain a minimum debt-service ratio of 1.3 times (para. 49);
(iii)  maintain a self financing ratio of at Least 20% (para. 49);
(iv) maintain a 5Z financial rate of return by 1990 and an 8% finan-
cial rate of return by 1995 (para. 49);
(c)  The Government will undertake a study to review the tariff struc-
ture, and implement the recommendations in consultation with ADB and
IDA (para. 50).
(d)  EPC and the Government will acquire all land and Land rights before
award of any civil works contract (para. 45).



17j O4q                                                                                        172.W                                          11I'4
WESTERN SAMOA
aUl#llUPDW9\  J   Yol;pou                                                                       P PAVED ROADS
a g lo SerstaruirX IMPROVED ROADS
PLANTATION ROADS
-i       p \   \UNIMPROVED ROADS
.....  .. FERRY
V"    A                                                                                                      AIRPORT
\   5   A   V   A   I ' I              <    EFIp                                                                  RIVERS
-,abC -  \)4 .INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES               1s4-
,  tologs         SOUTH PACIFIC OCEAN
lag.                  Ottaiuul           t.   rnDaTifutil                 Fa aeaIl
APO. MA I/SLAND     Me;iliho'
NANVONO ISLAND
-72°40                                          1202                                                          $pit                                           Fa!*Fit
FiIaIttM             JLI12~~ATW &     . STVWJTMA   IAn               FASAtaO  AY
ss^Ftsedlerl                   t{z4$eltY^j  |                 fX'' lU~~~~~~~~~~~aivb  EjVrrstr0t    SoaEl  Ic¢    t^Ifl4
JAPAN                                             IU.  k F;                                                                                                        Shmfi;g'db
CIIINA          I/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                    m.s ~~~~~~~~~~~U   POL    U                    VMSst
NORTH PACIFICOCEAN        HAWAI                                                                                                                 S.iWVea
/onolulu                                                                                               /                             Itfi
PHILIPPINEs                                                                                                                                                                              C4sT Pp
PAPUANEW0UINEA              a                                                      SOUTH PACIFIC OCEAN
INDONESIA                                                                   N /u SIMm 1249!
WESTERN SAMOA Po Pago hgo                            n                                                                                 Cla SI
FJI b's         TAHtTi                          tr4  Fwsiu
FIJI                               CI'f122~~~~~~~wo fVr*bix2*4 Sp"                                                           4    8    12    M 
D       "~'~"AUSTRALIA                    TONGA                                  If  riYnwtsoa&,                                                                     0    t
.   .% 3z   3   SOUTHPA C/IFC OCEAN                 &     rrw      m                                                                                                                     _
a                      SYonA:Aucmd NElWZEALAND                                                                           172w                                            11°r






