                                             CONFORMED COPY


                                      CREDIT NUMBER1781 WSO
                                                 (Amendment)




 AGREEMENT AMENDING

Development Credit Agreement


       (Afulilo Hydroelectric Project)




                   between


      INDEPENDENT STATE OF WESTERNSAMOA


                      and


     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION




              Dated May 26, 1993

                                              CREDIT NUMBER 1781    WSO
                                                          (AMENDMENT)

          AGREEMENT AMENDING  DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated   May 26, 1993, between INDEPENDENT STATE OF
WESTERN SAMOA (the Borrower)  and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIA-
TION (the Association) .


aJune
  Development
      WHEREAS :Credit
                (A) the Borrower
                     Agreement (Afulilo Hydroelectric Project)
                                and the Association have entereddated
                                                                   into


assisting in the financing of
     18, 1987 (the Developmentthe
                                Credit Agreement)   for the purpose of
                                   project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development  Credit Agreement (the Project) ;

      (B)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project by
increasing the amount made available under the Development Credit
Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights KSDR 800,000) ;

      (C)   the Project will be carried out by the Electric Power
Corporation  (EPC), with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, -the Borrower will make available to EPC the proceeds
of the Credit, includingthe
defined) as  provided  in  theDevelopment Financing (as hereinafter
                               Additional
                                            Credit Agreement and this
Agreement ;

       (D)   the Borrower has requested the Asian Development Bank
(ADB) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of the
Project by increasing the amount made available under the ADB Loan
Agreement by an amount equivalent to two million dollars
($2,000,000) (the Additional ADB Loan) ;

       (E)   the Borrower has requested the Commission of the European
Community (EC) to provide additional grant assistance towards the
financing of the Project by increasing the amount made available
under the EC Agreement by an amount equivalent to one million four
hundred thousand  dollars ($ 1,400, 000) (the Additional EC Grant) ; and

of theWHEREAS  the Association has agreed,   on the
Borrowerforegoing,terms and conditions set forth in
                     to provide such additional assistance
                                                    basis, intertoalia,
                                                                     the
          upon the                                     the Development
Credit Agreement, this Agreement, the Project Agreement     dated June
18, 1987 between the Association and EPC, and the   Agreement Amending
the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and EPC;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows :

                                 ARTICLE I

          Amendments of     the Development Credit Agreement

      Section 1 .01 .  Section 1 .02 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended by deleting the "and" at theofend    of Subsection (h), sub-
stituting " ;
a new Subsection (j)for
             and"          " ." at the end    Subsection (i) and adding
                        as follows :

             "(j)
      the Development`Amending Agreement' means(Afulilo
                                                 the Agreement  Amending
                            Credit Agreement               Hydroelectric
      Project) between the Borrower and the     Association, dated June
      18, 1987 ."

      Section 1 .02 .  Section 2 .01 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended to read as follows:

      Borrower, on the termsThe conditions
             "Section 2 .01 .
                                 and                         referred to
      in the Development Credit Agreement,
                                    Associationsetanforth
                                                 agrees toorlend to the
                                                              in various
      currencies equivalent to three million       twoamount
                                                    (thehundredequivalent
                                                                 thousand
      Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,200,000)              Credit), which
      includes an additional amount in various
      to eight hundred thousand Special     Drawingcurrencies
                                                    Rights (SDR 800,000)
      (the Additional Financing) ."

      Section 1 .03 .  Section 2 .03 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended to read as     follows :

      or such later date asThethe Association shall
             "Section 2 .03 .       Closing Date  shall beestablish 1994
                                                           June 30,
                                                                    . The
      Association shall promptly notify the Borrower       of such later
      date ."

of theSection   1 .04 .A proviso is added  at the end of Section 2 .04 (b)
       Development     Credit Agreement reading as follows :

      Additionalprovided,
             " ;    Financinghowever,accrue
                                        that commitment   charges on the

      after the date     of theshall         from a date sixty (60) days
                                 Amending Agreement ."

      Section 1 .05 .  Section 3 .01 is amended by renumbering  paragraph
(d) therein as paragraph (e) and by adding a         new   paragraph (d)
therein:

                                 - 3 -


            "(d)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of      the
      Additional Financing to EPC under an amendment to           the
      Subsidiary Loan Agreement     to be entered into between the
      Borrower and EPC, under   terms and conditions which shall have
      been approved by the    Association and which  shall include an
      increase in the
      equivalent to   theamount of the Subsidiary Loan in an amount
                          proceeds of the Additional Financing."

      Section 1 .06 . A new  Section is added to Article III of the
Development Credit Agreement to read as    follows:

            "Section 3 .07 . Without limitation to the obligations of
      Agreement, theunder
      the Borrower          Section 3 .01 of the Development Credit
                       Borrower shall, or shall cause EPC to, prepare
      and furnish to the Association, by   September 30, 1993, for its
      review and comments, a certified copy    of the audit report of
      the records, accounts and financial statements   of EPC referred
      to in Section 4 .01 (b) of the Project Agreement,   covering the
      period of time from January 1990 to June 1992    ."

      Section .1 .07. The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Development
Schedule 1 toCredit   Agreement is amended to read as set forth in
               this Amending Agreement .  The percentages of expendi
tures to be financed    as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Amending
Agreement shall be
ditures incurred onapplicable   in respect of payments made for expen-
                      or after the date of this Amending Agreement .


                              ARTICLE II

                      Effective Date ;Termination

      Section
effective until2evidence satisfactory to the Associationnot
                 .01 .  This Amending   Agreement   shall       become

been furnished to                                           shall have
                    the Association that :

behalf of thethe
      (a)        execution and delivery  of this Amending Agreement on
              Borrower have been duly authorized
necessary governmental                             or ratified by all
                         action;

Project(b)  the execution   and delivery of the Agreement Amending
        Agreement has
legally binding upon EPC
                       beeninduly authorized or ratified by EPC andthe
                                                                    is
                              accordance with its terms ;

      (c)    the amendment
for in Section 1 .05 of  thistoAmending Agreement has been executed
                                the Subsidiary Loan Agreement provided
                                                                     on
behalf of theandBorrower   and EPC in a manner satisfactory     to the
Association ;

Borrower andall
       (d)
tional ADB Loan andand Additional EC Grant,Amending
              ADB,conditions Borrower and EC
                         the  precedent to theproviding
                                                agreements between the
                                                         for the Addi-
those related to thethe                       respectively, other than
                      effectiveness of this           Agreement, shall
have been fulfilled .

      Section 2 .02 . As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to Section 2 .01 of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished
to  the Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory
Association of counsel acceptable to the     Association showingto   the
                                                                 :


has been dulyonauthorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
       (a)       behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement

on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower
in accordance with its terms ;

Agreement hasonbeen duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
       (b)       behalf of EPC, that the Agreement Amending the Project

delivered on behalf of, EPC and is legally binding upon EPC in
accordance with its terms ;   and

       (c)   thatSectionamendment to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
                   the
provided for
authorized or inratified 1 .05 of this Amending Agreement has been duly
                         by the Borrower and EPC and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and EPC in accordance with its terms .

effectSection
           the2 date upon which the Association dispatches to the
                 .03 .This Amending Agreement shall come into force and
Borroweronnotice of its acceptance of the evidence required by Section
2 .01 of this Amending Agreement .

into force and effectIfbythisdate forty five (45) days after the date
       Section 2 .04 .          Amending Agreement shall not have come
                            a
of this Amending Agreement, this Amending Agreement and allAssocia-
                                                                obliga
tions of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the
tion establishes a later date for the purposes of this      Section . If
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions    of this
Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full
force and effect,     as if this Amending     Agreement had not been
executed .

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the partiescaused
                                       hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have
to be signed in their respective names in thethis  Amending Agreement
United States of America, as of the day and yearDistrictabove written .
                                                         of Columbia,
                                                 first




                               INDEPENDENT STATE  OF WESTERN SAMOA




                               BY     /s/ John H.  Cosgrove
                                           Authorized Representative




                               INTERNATIONAL  DEVBIAPMENT ASSOCIATION




                               BY     /s/ Gautam S . Baji
                                             Regional Vice President
                                               East Asia and Pacific

                            SCSBDULS 1

             Withdrawals of the Proceedsof the Credit

     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category :


                          Credit
                           AmountAllocated
                                  of the
                                                    $ of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Catecrorv            SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1)   Civil works               2,500,000       100% of foreign
                                                expenditures

(2)   Consultants'                300,000       100% of foreign
      services                                  expenditures

(3)   Refunding of Project        230,000       Amount due
      Preparation Advance                       to Sectionpursuant
                                                           2 .02 (c)
                                                of the Development
                                                Credit Agreement

(4)   Unallocated                 170,000

                                3,200,000
      TOTAL

