0 FFi iA. I
DOCUMENJTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1781-WSO
Development Credit Agreement
(Afulilo Hydroelectric Project)
between
INDEPENDENT STATE OF WESTERN SAMOA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated        ~äune.    \S         , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1781-WSO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        tre.*_, 1987, between
INDEPENDENT STATE OF WESTERN SAMOA (the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
VHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Electric Power
Corporation (EPC), with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to EPC the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(C) the Borrower has obtained from the Asian Development
Bank (the ADB) a loan (the ADB Loan) from the ADB's Special
Funds resources in various currencies equivalent to four million
four  hundred   twenty-eight  thousand   Special  Drawing  Rights
(SDR 4,428,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement dated December 24, 1986,
(the ADB Loan Agreement) entered into between the Borrower and
the ADB;
(D) the Borrower has also obtained from the ADB a technical
assistance grant (the ADB Grant) up to the equivalent of two
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
dated December 24, 1986 (the ADB Technical Assistance Agreement)
entered into among the Borrower, EPC and the ADB;
(E) the Borrower has applied to the European Economic
Community (EEC) and the European Investment Bank (EIB) for
financing assistance for the purposes of the Project;
(F) the ADB has entered into an agreement with EPC for the
purposes of carrying out the Project (the ADB Project Agreement);
(G) the ADB and the Association intend to enter into an
agreement, a copy of which agreement will be furnished to the
Borrower (the Administration Letter), making arrangements for the
ADB to process applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the
financing to be provided severally by the ADB and the Association
and regulating certain other matters of common interest in
connection with such financing; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and EPC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and EPC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)  "Subsidiary  Loan Agreement" means    the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and EPC pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time;
(c)  "System" means the assets and facilities presently
operated by EPC and includes the Project facilities;
(d) "EPC" means the Electric Power Corporation and any
successor or successors thereto;
(e) "Governing Laws" means the Electric Power Corporation
Act (1980) (as amended by the Electric Power Corporation Act
Amendment Act 1981, the Appropriation Act 1983 and the Electric
Power Corporation Amendment Act 1986) and such other Act or Acts
as enacted or as may be enacted by the Borrower concerning EPC's
responsibility, inter alia, for the operation of the System


﻿-3-
and such other laws or regulations which may govern at any time
the operation of the System;
(f) "Other Financiers" means EEC, EIB, ADB, and, except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, any other international or
government institution (other than the Borrower or an agency of
the Borrower) which makes funds available to the Borrower or EPC
for purposes of the Project;
(g) "Other Agreements" means the various agreements between
the Borrower or EPC and Other Financiers whereby the Other Finan-
ciers have agreed to make available funds to the Borrower or EPC
for the purposes of the Project;
(h) "Project facilities" means all equipment and facilities
to be provided under the Project; and
(i) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pur-
suant to an exchange of letters dated July 8, 1986 and July 17,
1986 between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agrement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to two million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 2,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions specified by the Association.


﻿-4
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancel.ed.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates ov, which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit A*,count or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annuma on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1997, and ending November 15,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 2006 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.


﻿-5-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. EPC is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause EPC to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
EPC therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable EPC to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) In the carrying out of the Project and operation of the
Project facilities, except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall perform, or cause to be performed, all
obligations set forth in Schedule 6 to the ADB Loan Agreement,
other than in paragraph 6 thereof. References to the "Bank" in
such Schedule shall be read for the purpose of this Agreement to
be references to the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
to EPC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and EPC, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association which shall include
interest at the rate of nine 1nd thirteen-twentieths per cent
(9.65%) per annum, a repayment period of twenty five (25) years,
including a grace period of five (5) years, and provisions to the
effect that the foreign exchange risk of the relending will be
borne by the Borrower.


﻿-6-
(d) The   Borrower shall exercise    its rights under    the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Asso.,iation and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedules 4
and 5 to the ADB Loan Agreement provided always that suppliers
and contractors in countries in respect of which withdrawals from
the Credit Account may be made pursuant to Section 5.01 of the
General Conditions shall be eligible to compete in providing such
goods, works and consultants services. References to the "Bank"
and the "Loan" in such Schedules shall be read for the purposes
of this Agreement to be references to the Association and the
Credit, respectively.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records   and   reports,   maintenance   and   land  acquisition,
respectively) shall   be carried out by EPC pursuant to Section
2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) and 3.02
hereof, the provisions of Schedule 6 and of 4 and 5, respec-
tively, of the ADB Loan Agreement shall continue to remain in
force and effect as if said provisions were fully set forth in
such Sections, notwithstanding the termination of the ADB Loan
Agreement, or the Administration Letter.
Section 3.05. The Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, delegat to the ADB under an administration letter, for
the duration of such period as may be set forth in the Adminis-
tration Letter, any or all of its functions and responsibilities
under Articles II, III Pnd IV of this Agreement and the Borrower
shall comply with the provisions of the said Articles as if the
ADB is substituted for the Association therein. The obligation of
the Borrower to comply with said Articles II, III and IV shall


﻿-7-
continue in force and effect notwithstanding any termination or
suspension of such delegated functions and responsibilities to
the ADB under the Administration Letter.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) ensure that all records (contracts, orders, in-
voices, bills,   receipts   and  other  documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until at
least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made;
and
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred       to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied,
by   independent   auditors  acceptable   to   the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
ture submitted during such fiscal year, together


﻿-8-
with the procedures and internal controls involved
in their preparation, can be relied upon to sup-
port the related withdrawals; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) EPC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date  of  the Development   Credit Agreement, an    extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
EPC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c) The Governing Laws or any provision thereof shall have
been amended, suspende6, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of EPC to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of EPC or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) The financial assistance from any of the Other Finan-
ciers referred to in Recitals (D) and (E) hereof shall have
become liable, at the option of any of the Other Financiers, for
suspension or termination, or a default shall have occurred in
the performance of any oblIgation of the Borrower or EPC pursuant
to any of the Other Agreements or in the performance of any
obligation of the Borrower or EPC pursuant to any agreement
concerning the Project with any of the Other Financiers.


﻿-9-
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and EPC; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
ADB Loan, other than those related to the effectiveness of this
Agreement, shall have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by EPC, and is legally binding upon EPC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and EPC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and EPC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agrer -nt, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Treasury Department
Government of Western Samoa
Apia, Western Samoa
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINSEC                             233 TREASURY SX
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex;
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INDEPENDENT STATE OF WESTERN SAMOA
By/51               -F'6 ,    tACx'-kCk
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Byls                 'RS5Vk    Ck%etkCr
Acinj Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed*
(1)  Civil works              1,820,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(2) Consultants                  80,000         100% of foreign
services                                   expenditures
(3) Refunding of                230,000         Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(4) Unallocated                 270,000
TOTAL               2,400,000
*    The per cent for expenditures in Categories 1 and 2 may be
reduced under the Administration Letter to the extent
proceeds of the ADB Loan are made available for the same
expenditures.


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreige, expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to generate electricity
from water stored in the Afulilo reservoir and to displace
diesel-generated electricity hitherto required to supplement
energy generated from run-of-the-river power stations, parti-
cularly in the dry season.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
(i) constzuction of civil works including composite gravity
concrete/rockfill dam, intake structure, intake tunnel,
pipeline, surge chamber, tailrace, power house and
switchyard;
(ii) installation of electrical and mechanical equipment
including a turbine-generator (4 MW capacity) auxiliary
equipment, step-up tranformer and switchgear;
(iii) construction of transmission lines - 6 km of 22 kV
transmission   line  from   Ta'elefaga   to  Lalomauga;
12 km of 22 kV transmission line from Ta'elefaga to
Lotofaga; 5 km of 22 kV spur lines; and upgrading 28 km
section of 22 kV tranimission line to 33 kV between
Tanugamanono and Lalomauga; and
(iv) provision of consulting services.
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 1990.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


