OF ICI AL
DOCU M ENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1781-WSO
Project Agreement
(Afulilo Hydroelectric Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION
Dated         une. \               , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1781-WSO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         Swnw    k1           , 1987, between
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT   ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)   and
ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION (EPC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Independent State of Western Samoa (the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to two million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 2,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Cre.t Agreement, but only on condition that EPC
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and EPC, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to EPC on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
(C) the Borrower has also applied to the ADB, the EEC,
and the EIB for financial assistance for the Project with the
proceeds of such financial assistance being made available to
EPC; and
WHEREAS EPC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) EPC declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, EPC shall perform all obligations set forth in Schedule 6,
other than those in paragraph 6 thereof, to the ADB Loan Agree-
ment to the extent that they are applicable to EPC. References to
the "Bank" in such Schedule shall be read for the purpose of this
Agreement to be references to the Association.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Section 3.02
of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. EPC shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. EPC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, EPC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section  2.05. (a)   EPC  shall, at    the  request  of  the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to


﻿-3-
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) EPC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by EPC of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. For the purposes of Section 2.01 (b) hereof
the provisions of Schedule 6 of the ADB Loan Agreement shall
continue to remain in force and effect as if said provisions
of such Schedule were fully set forth in such Section, notwith-
standing the termination of the ADB Loan Agreement or the
Administration Letter.
Section 2.07. The Association may, by notice to EPC,
delegate to the ADB under the Administration Letter, for the
duration of such period as may be set forth in the Administration
Letter, any or all of its functions and responsibilities under
Articles II, III and IV of this Agreement and EPC shall comply
with the provisions of the said Articles as if the ADB is sub-
stituted for the Association therein. The obligation of EPC to
comply with said Articles II, III and IV shall continue in force
and effect notwithstanding any termination or suspension of such
delegated functions and responsibilities to the ADB under the
Administration Letter.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EPC
Section 3.01. EPC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. EPC shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.


﻿Section 3.03. EPC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. EPC shall promptly notify the Association of
any proposal to amend, suspend or repeal any provision of its
Governing Laws.
Section 3.05. Without limitation on the generality of the
provisions of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, EPC shall:
(a) with the assistance of independent engineering experts whose
qualifications  and  experience  shall  be   reviewed  with  the
Association, periodically inspect or cause to be inspected   the
dam, waterways, earthworks and reservoir banks and their
appurtenant structures constructed    under  the  Project  after
completion, under arrangements satisfactory to the Association
and in accordance with appropriate engineering practices, in
order to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the
condition of such structures and earthworks, or in the quality
and adequacy of earthworks which may endanger the safety of such
structures and earthworks; (b) propose to the Association the
arrangements for inspection, not less than one year prior to
expected completion; (c) furnish, or cause to be furnished to the
Association, promptly after each such inspection, the conclusions
thereof including the conclusions of said engineering experts;
(d) make, promptly after each such inspection, all necessary
repairs of such structure and earthworks; and (e) make all neces-
sary modifications in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or
methods of operation of such structures and earthworks, all to be
in accordance with appropriate engineering practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) EPC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) EPC shall:


﻿- 5 -
(i) have its records, accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income   and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing  principles   consistently  applied,  by
independent    auditors    acceptable   to    the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concernIng said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) In addition to annual audited financial statements
referred to in paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section, EPC shall
furnish to the Association:
(i) within six (6) months after the end of each fiscal
year, unaudited annual financial statements on its
operations for saLh fiscal year; and
(ii) by December 31 of each year, its approved budget
for the following fiscal year and its updated
five-year financial projections.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, EPC shall from time to time take all such measures as
shall be required to produce, starting from its fiscal year 1987
and thereafter based on a five-year moving average, funds from
its internal sources as contribution to the capital expenditures
at a level equivalent to not less than twenty per cent (20%) of
its capital expenditures.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) above:


﻿- 6 -
(i)  "five-year moving average" shall mean the average
of the amount of two fiscal years preceding, two
fiscal years subsequent and the respective fiscal
year in consideration, applied both to the
numerator and the denominator;
(ii) the term "capital expenditures" shall mean any
expenditure incurred on account of fixed or
capital assets, including interest charged to
construction financed under a loan contract, but
excluding interest during construction financed
from funds from its internal sources; and
(iii) the term "funds from internal sources" shall mean
the difference between:
(A) the   sum   of  net  operating   revenue, net
non-operating income, and any other cash
inflows other than funds for financing
capital expenditures; and
(B) the   sum  of   all  expenses   of  operations
including   maintenance  and   administration
(excluding depreciation and other non-cash
operating   charges),   interest  and   other
charges on debt (excluding interest during
construction financed under a loan contract),
repayment of loans (including sinking fund
payment, if any), all tax payments or pay-
ments in lieu of taxes, all cash distribu-
tions or surplus and any other cash outflows
other than capital expenditures.
(c) EPC shall from time to time take all necessary measures
(including adjustments of its electricity tariffs) as shall
provide EPC with revenue sufficient to cover all operating
expenses including taxes, depreciation, interest payments and
other charges on borrowings.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, EPC shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of
such debt the internal cash generation of EPC would be less than
1.3 times the estimated maximum debt service requirement.


﻿- 7 -
(b) Por the purposes of subparagraph (a) above:
(i)  toe  term "debt" means any indebtedness of EPC
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred, (includ-
ing that portion of any such debt payable within
one year from the date of any debt-service ratio
calculation), provided that debt shall be counted
only to the extent that it is drawn down and
outstanding;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred under a loan
contract or agreement or other instrument provid-
ing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument;
(iii)  the term "debt-service requirement" shall mean the
aggregate amount of debt amortization (including
sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other
charges on debt, other than interest and other
charges on debt which are financed under any loan
to EPC; and
(iv) the term "internal cash generation" shall mean the
sum of net operating revenues, net non-operating
income, and other cash inflow other than funds for
financing capital expenditures, less the sum of
all expenses of operations including maintenance
and operation (excluding depreciation and non-cash
operating  charges)   and  taxes,   but  excluding
interest and other charges on debt.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, EPC shall from time to time take all such measures as
shall be required to set and maintain rates for the sale of
electricity at such level as shall be required to generate
revenues sufficient to achieve a minimum annual rate of return of
at least five per cent (5%) on its revalued net fixed assets in
operation on a graduated basis by fiscal year 1990; and at least
eight per cent (8%) by fiscal year 1995 and for each fiscal year
thereafter.


﻿-8-
(b) For purposes of sub-paragraph (a) above:
(i) the annual return will be calculated by using
the net operating income of EPC for the year in
question as the numerator, and one-half of the sum
of the revalued net fixed assets in operation at
the beginning and at the end of such year as the
denominator;
(ii) the   term  "net  operating income" will    be the
difference  between net operating    revenues and
operating expenses;
(iii) "net op-rating revenues" will be those revenues
arising from all sources directly related to EPC's
operations, and "operating expenses" will be all
the direct costs of operation of the electricity
operations including administration, maintenance
and taxes, if any, and provision for depreciation,
but not interest; and
(iv) "revalued net fixed assets in operation" will be
the value of such assets less accumulated depre-
ciation as shown in EPC's property accounts which
will reflect changes in value due to changes in
prices or in currency exchange rate or similar
factors in accordance with a method of valuation
satisfactory to the Association.
(c) EPC shall carry out when necessary, but in any case at
least once every fiscal year, a review of its rates in order to
determine whether they are adequate to provide EPC with the
revenues referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-9-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of EPC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 25 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
EPC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
For EPC:
Electric Power Corporation
P.O. Box 879
Apia, Western Samoa
Cable address:                    Telex:
EPCO                              263 EPCO SX
APIA
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of EPC, or by EPC on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed
by its General Manager or such other person or persons as the
General Manager shall designate in writing, and EPC shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPRENT ASSOCIATION
By/6                  -"S4
Pf.ir Regional Vice President
Asia
ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION
Byuh ?,ori tAnctAc                     a
Authorized aepresentative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


