Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15087-LE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
NATIONAL ROADS PROJECT
June 13, 1996
Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of February 1996)
Currency Unit = Lebanese Pound (LL)
US$1.0 = LL 1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)      =  3.281 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)  =  0.621 miles (mi)
I metric ton (mt)  =  2204 lbs.
ABBREVIATIONS
CBR           =      California Bearing Ratio
CDR           =      Council for Development and Reconstruction
CEGP          =      Conseil Executif des Grands Projets
DGHB          =      Directorate General of Highways and Buildings
DOR                  Directorate of Roads
DOT           =      Department of Tenders
EAL           =      Equivalent Axle Load
EBM           =      Expenditure Budgeting Model
ESIB          =      Ecole Superieure d'Ingenieurs de Beyrouth
GIS           =      Geographic Information System
GOL           =      Government of Lebanon
HDM           =      Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
ICB           =      International Competitive Bidding
IRI           =      International Roughness Index
IRR           =      Internal Rate of Return
LR            =      Lebanese Republic
MPW           =      Ministry of Public Works
NCB           =      National Competitive Bidding
NPV           =      Net Present Value
NRP           =      National Roads Project
OCI           =      Office of Central Inspections
PIU           =      Program Implementation Unit
PPU           =      Project Preparation Unit
RDOR          =      Regional Directorate of Roads
RRP           =      Road Rehabilitation Program
SN            =      Structural Number
VOC           =      Vehicle Operating Costs
FISCAL YEAR
(January I to December 31)



LEBANESE REPUBLIC
NATIONAL ROADS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN  AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY    ..............................i-
I.   INTRODUCTION    ......................................1
II.  THE ROAD  SECTOR    ......                  .......... ..              .................
A. The Road Network  .................................1
B. Institutional Framework  ..............................                                             2
C.  Public Expenditures in the Road Sector  ....................                                       3
D.  The Road Rehabilitat.on Program   ........................                                         3
E. Road Sector Performance   .............................                                             4
111. ROAD SECTOR REFORM.                                                                                           4
A. Statement of Road Sector Policy.                                                                    5
B. Road User Charges.                                                                                  5
C. Financing the Road Rehabilitation Program.                                                          6
IV. THE PROJECT ... . 7
A. Project Description.                                                                                7
B. Project Cost Estimate.                                                                              8
C. Financing Plan.                                                                                     9
D. Implementation Arrangements.                                                                        9
E. Procurement .10
F. Disbursements and Audit .11
G. Project Supervision and Monitoring .12
H. Environrnental Aspects .12
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Lebanon during July 1995. The mission comprised Messrs./Mmes.
George Tharakan (Task Manager. MN2PI), Mohammed Feghoul (Highway Engineer, MN2PI), Richard Wong (Project Finance Specialist,
CAPPF), Lama Abu-Odeh (Lawyer, LEGMN) and Rodrigo Archondo-Callao (HDM Specialist, TWUTD). Ms. Tuyet Chuppe (Sr. Staff
Assistant) was responsible for coordinating repor; production. Peer Reviewers were Messrs. Anil Bhandari (EAIIN) and Alfred Watkins
(EMTIE). Messrs. Alastair J. McKechnie and Inder K. Sud are the Division Chief and Director, respectively, for the operation. The Regional
Vice President is Mr. Kemal Dervi$ (MNA).



CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION   ..............                 ..      ...............          12
A. Road Network Characterization   .........................                      13
B. Costs and Benefits  .................................                          13
C. Five-Year Budget Constraints  ..........................                       14
D. Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis ................                  14
E. Project Risks .....................................                            15
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION   ....................                                  15
Text Tables
I Road Network Condition.                                                                2
2 Road Rehabilitation Program.                                                           4
3 Estimated Road Fund Revenues for Three Years.                                          6
4 Project Cost Estimate.                                                                 8
5 Project Financing Plan.                                                                9
6  Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements ...................                      10
7 Disbursements Against Project Components .11
8 Summary of RRP Economic Evaluation .14
Annexes
1.  Statement of Road Sector Policy
2.  Project Description, Cost Estimates, and Financing Plan
3.  Project Implementation Plan
4.  Procurement Arrangements
5.  Loan Disbursement Schedule
6.  Environmental Analysis and Actions
7.  Maintenance and Rehabilitation of Lebanon Road Network - Economic Analysis
8.  Selected Documents in the Project File
Chart 1 - Organizational Chart of the Directorate of Roads
MAP No. : IBRD 27480



LEBANESE REPUBLIC
NATIONAL ROADS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:    Lebanese Republic
Beneficiary:  Ministry of Public Works
Amount:      US$42 million
Terms:       Standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar-denominated single currency loans,
with 17 years' maturity, including 5 years of grace
Project      The project would assist in the implementation of a program of urgently needed road
Description:  rehabilitation works through financing a pilot program comprising components of the
Government's overall Road Rehabilitation Program (RRP), which is to rehabilitate about
3,500 km of the national road network.  The project would also assist in the
implementation of road sector reforms.  Specifically, the project is comprised of:
Component A (US$61.5 m): Pilot Road Rehabilitation Program to rehabilitate about 400
km of international, primary and secondary roads distributed among the four regions of
the country. Component B (US$4.8 m): Technical assistance to: (i) support a Program
Impiementation Unit; (ii) carry out a detailed Road User Charges Study; (iii) assist in the
implementation of the Statement of Road Sector Policy; and (iv) strengthen the
Directorate of Roads in the implementation of the Road Rehabilitation Program.
Component C (US$1.5 m): Equipment, including laboratory equipment, traffic counting
and axle load control equipment.
Benefits:    Detailed evaluation of the national road network, and selection of road sections to be
rehabilitated, has been carried out utilizing the World Bank's Highway Design and
Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-III). The results of these studies indicate that the
rehabilitation works proposed to be implemented under the RRP have very high economic
rates of return. The Modified IRR estimated for the program shows an overall rate of
return of 30 percent.  Additional benefits include: establishment of self-financing
mechanisms for the road sector through the introduction of user charges, employment
generation among poorer segments of society through geographically dispersed road
works, and enhancement of road safety.
Risks:       Implementation risks for the proposed project, as well as for the overall Road
Rehabilitation Program, relate to: (a) the present weaknesses in the implementation
capacity of Directorate of Roads (DOR); and (b) the need to secure significant financial
resources for the rehabilitation program. With regard to the former, the project design
seeks to mitigate the institutional capacity risk through creation of a Program
Implementation Unit (PIU) within the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) with adequate
powers in the areas of planning, resource allocation, procurement and monitoring of
works implementation. In relation to the financing risk, the major uncertainty is a delay
in implementation of the road user charges which could jeopardize financing of the RRP.
These financing risks are mitigated by the Government's commitment to full cost
recovery in the road sector as set out in the Statement of Road Sector Policy.



- ii
Project Cost Estimate
(US$ Million)
Project Components                 Local             Foreign           -Total 
A. Road Works                                22.0               27.0              49.0
B. Technical Assistance
B.1 Technical Issistance co PIU               0.3                0.6               0.9
B.2 Road User Charges Study                   0.1                0.3               0.4
B.3 Implemenration of the                     0.1                0.1               0.2
Statement of Road Sector Policy         1.0                2.0               3.0
B.4 Technical Assistance to DOR                1.5               3.0               4.5
Total Technical Assistance
C. Equipment                                  0.0                1.4                1.4
Base Cost (July 1995)                23.5              31.4               54.9
Physical Contingencies                    3.3                4.1               7.4
Price Contingencies                       2.4                3.1               S.5
Total Project Cost                 29.2               38.6              67.8
Project Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Financing Sources                      Local        Foreign        Total
IBRD Loan                            3.4          38.6          42.0
Government                          25.8            -           25.8
Total                             29.2          38.6          67.8
Commitment Fee:         0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver
Estimated Disbursements:    FY1997    FY1998    FY1999    FY2000    FY2001    FY2002
- -------------------------------- (US$ Million) -------------------------------
Annual            3.6          6.9         12.4        14.3         3.5          1.3
Cumulative        3.6         10.5        22.9         37.2        40.7        42.0
Percent           8.5         25.0        54.6         88.7        97.0       100.0
Economic Rate of Return:    30 percent (Modified IRR) for the overall Road Rehabilitation Program
Poverty Category:               Not applicable
Map No.:                        IBRD 27480
Project Identification No.:    38674



LEBANESE REPUBLIC
NATIONAL ROADS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1   The prolonged 17-year conflict in Lebanon and the consequent neglect of the road network has
resulted in a considerable backlog of maintenance, and about 35 percent of the overall network is now
in poor condition. Failure to address this problem in a timely manner will lead to large economic losses
both due to high vehicle operating costs as well as due to losses of the physical infrastructure which
would then require expertsive reconstruction. It is estimated that reducing "poor condition" roads to about
10 percent of the network, which is about the average for well-managed road networks, would produce
savings for the Lebanese economy of about US$100.0 million/year on account of vehicle operating cost
savings alone. Preservation of the network would generate additional savings by avoiding costly
reconstruction in the future. Urgent action is needed to restore the network and preserve existing road
assets. The Government of Lebanon (GOL) is therefore initiating a major Road Rehabilitation Program
(RRP) to rehabilitate about 3,500 km of roads. The proposed National Roads Project (NRP), which is
to support this overall program by financing institutional strengthening and a pilot program of road
rehabilitation works, is consequently a high priority for the Government in the transport sector.
II. THE ROAD SECTOR
2.1    Roads are critical to the efficient functioning of the Lebanese economy, being the only mode of
internal transport, and the main transportation link with the regional hinterland which is, and will
continue to be, a major factor in the country's development. Furthermore, expenditures on roads is one
of the single largest components of the Government's budget (second only to civil service salaries), and
hence efficiency in the road sector also has significant fiscal implications for the country. This section
gives an overview of the road sector and highlights some of the key issues. A more detailed discussion
of the sector is provided in the project files (Project Working Papers).
A. The Road Network
2.2    Lebanon's road network is extensive and well distributed throughout the country (0.63 km/sq.
km).  Excluding municipal roads, it comprises about 6,330 km subdivided into four categories:
international roads (530 km), primary roads (1,650 kin), secondary roads (1,340 km), and local roads
(2,810 km). More than 80 percent of this network, including all primary roads, consists of two-lane
bituminous roads which are usually narrow and winding with structures varying in width, load capacity
and condition. A detailed inventory made during 1995 of the first three categories revealed that 36
percent of the national network (excluding local roads) is in poor condition, as shown in Table 1 below.



2
Table 1: Road Network Condition a/
(July 1995)
Good                Fair               Poor         Total
Classification         m%                                    k Kiii    %
International Roads        177        38        222       48        63      14       462
Primary Roads              246        16        742       50       503      34      1,491
Secondary Roads            128        11        463       41       532      47      1,123
Total             551        is       1,427      46      1,098     36      3,076
Source: Maintenance & RehaBilitation of Lebanon's Road Network, CDR, 19!3 -.
Note: a/About 450 km of international, primary and secondary roads were not surveyed, as these were located in
the buffer zone in South Lebanon.
2.3    Traffic densities are high on some portions of the network, particularly around Beirut where
traffic volumes in excess of 150,000 vehicles/day are recorded on the coastal highway to the north of the
city. High traffic densities are also found along the coastal highway to the south, and on the highway
from Beirut to the Bekaa valley. The motor vehicle fleet has been increasing rapidly; even during the
war years the fleet grew from about 265,000 vehicles in 1974 to 670,000 vehicles in 1986. Recent
estimates indicate a fleet of about I million vehicles, which for a population of about 4 million indicates
a high vehicle ownership ratio (1 vehicle/4 persons). Rapid expansion of the automobile fleet is partly
attributable to the virtual collapse of public transport systems in the country as a consequence of the civil
war. The Bank is assisting the Government, under a Japan - PHRD Grant funded technical assistance,
in formulating a program to address public transport issues and facilitate private investment in the
delivery of urban transport services.
2.4   In addition to the high traffic volumes, parts of the Lebanese road network are also subjected to
high tr;ffic loads due to the heavy vehicle traffic generated by the reconstruction works now underway.
The results of axle load surveys indicate a significant axle load problem, primarily caused by the transport
of construction materials and the lack of enforcement of axle load controls. Trucks causing the greatest
damage are the 2-axic heavy trucks and the 3-axle rigid trucks, which are the most popular truck types
in the fleet. For 2-axle heavy trucks, 35 percent of the trucks registered single axle loads of 14 to 24
tons, while for 3-axle rigid trucks 50 percent registered axle loads of 14 to 22 tons. The legal limit on
a single axle is 14 tons, but the regulations now in place are complex and difficult to enforce. The
potential benefits of enforcement are, however, very significant.  It is estimated that improving
regulations and enforcement to international standards would result in a reduction in road pavement
damage on the order of between 27 and 44 percent. The proposed project, therefore, proviees for the
installation of weigh-bridges at selected locations to allow implementation of an enhanced system of axle
load controls.
B. Institutional Framework
2.5    The Directorate of Roads (DOR) within the Directorate General of Highways and Buildings
(DGHB) of the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) is responsible for road maintenance. The
organizational structure of DOR within the MPW is shown in Chart 1. Over the war years, institutional
capacity for administration of the road network was severely depleted. This loss of institutional capacity



3
is best illustrated by the reductions in skilled manpower that DOR has suffered: in late 1994, out of 10
established positions at the Grade II level, 9 were vacant, and at the Grade III level, out of 115 positions,
81 were vacant. Overall, DOR now has about 70 percent of its approximately 500 authorized positions
vacant. Any program for rehabilitation of the road network would therefore also have to address the need
to create adequate institutional structures and capabilities.  In addition to DOR, the Council for
Development and Reconstruction (CDR), and the Conseil Executif des Grands Projets (CEGP) also
undertake road works but they mainly undertake larger projects implemented through private contractors
and are not responsible for maintenance.
C. Pnb!ic Expenditures in the Road Sector
2.6   Funding for the road sector is provided under three government budgets: the MPW budget, the
CDR budget, and the CEGP budget. The latter two are for new construction and major works
implemented as large projects. Maintenance funding is provided through the MPW budget and is
implemented by DOR either through contracted works or, to a much lesser extent, through force account
operations using DOR's own labor, plant and equipment. Presently, MPW's road maintenance budget
is around US$60 million per year. About 90 percent of the budget is expended through contracted works,
and there exists a sizeable local road construction industry with 37 private contractors capable of
undertaking road works valued at up to US$10 million per contract.
2.7   In order to assess the adequacy of maintenance expenditures, a comparison was made with other
countries on the basis of average maintenance expenditures per kilometer of network.  Since the
comparator countries have higher standard road networks, it could be expected that their expenditure
levels (per kilometer) would be higher than in Lebanon. On the contrary, however, expenditures for the
Lebanese network are about twice those of the highest cost comparator - Finland. Maintenance of the
Finnish network is tspecially problematic due to climatic factors and the existence of a large lumber
industry which regnlarly moves large numbers of heavy vehicles over the network. The extremely high
cost of maintaining the Lebanese network may be explained by two factors, first, the poor condition of
the network, which requires excessive expenditures to provide a reasonable riding surface, and second,
inefficiencies duc to a lack of systematic planning and control of expenditures.
D. The Road Rehabilitation Program
2.8    Recognizing the urgency to carry out a systematic evaluation of rehabilitation needs for the road
network, the CDR engaged consultants in December 1994 to develop a comprehensive Road
Rehabilitation Program using the Highways Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM) and its
supporting Expenditure Budgeting Model (EBM), which have been developed by the World Bank. The
study was in twc phases. Phase I involved data collection and economic analysis to define the priority
program, and Phase II to prepare detailed designs for the first year program. Data was collected
describing the current roadway characteristics and traffic, the expected traffic growth, the vehicle fleet
characteristics and unit costs, the unit costs of road maintenance operations, and the characteristics of the
maintenance strategies to be evaluated. The analysis is discussed in greater detail in Section V - Economic
Evaluation. Based on this evaluation an overall road rehabilitation program was defined and a detailed
description is in the project files (Project Working Papers). The proposed Road Rehabilitation Program
is summarized in Table 2 below.



4
Table 2: Road Rehabilitation Program
(Distribution per year - Costs in US$ Million)
I  Road  ~YEAR I         EA YEYA  3    -YEAR4                    YEARK S         TOA
Category   km   US$   km    US    k         US$    km    US$   km         $     k          $
Internatl.   50.0   7.5   74.7  10.9  120.4  15.1   88.0   5.3  135.8  12.5    468.9    51.3
Primary    226.7  36.0  318.9  46.7  370.5  42.8  423.0  50.6  294.0  36.5   1,633.1   212.6
Secondary   71.5  10.5  234.7  42.2  371.5  57.2  339.5  57.5  320.8  45.6   1,338.0   213.0
TOTAL    348.2  54.0  628.3  99.8  862.4  115.1  850.5  113.4  750.6  94.6  3,440.0   476.9
% length     1o.            .3          2'- 2- :F-  -    .'r-m7 21                  10 .0
% cost      11.3          20.9         24.2          23.8           19.8           100.0
Source: Maitenance & Rebalihtation of Lebanon's Road Network, CI 3-, -995.
E. Road Sector PerCormance
2.9    Present problems in the road sector are evident from the following observations:
36 percent of the Lebanese road network is in poor condition, as compared with 12
percent on average for well managed networks and 22 percent on average for poorly
managed networks', and is resulting in economic losses of about US$140 million/year.
Annual expenditures for maintenance of the Lebanese network at about US$10,(00/km
is more than twice the level for stable, well maintained networks (US$2,000 to
US$5,000/km), but these high expenditures have not resulted in a significant
improvement in the overall network condition.
High axle loads cause excessive damage to roads, and large numbers of trucks are found
to have axle loads in the 18-22 ton range as compared with a normal design limit of 13
tons - doubling axle loads increases pavement damage by a factor of 16 (4th power).
Bad road conditions (lack of guard rails, signage, etc.) cause many accidents. For July,
1995 the figures were 88 fatalities, which is about 10-12 fatalities per 100 million
vehicle-km compared with European Union rates of 2.7 per 100 million vehicle-km.
To deal with the problems effectively, there is a need to strengthen institutional capacity in the road sector
and this will require both strengthening the existing institution, i.e. DOR, as well as augmenting the
institutional structure to create the accountability and separation of functions, implementation vs.
budgeting and programming, necessary to prevent the inefficiency now evident in the sector.
III. ROAD SECTOR REFORM
3.1    Effective implementation of a rehabilitation program on the scale envisaged under the RRP will
require strengthening of institutional capacity as well as mobilization of additional financial resources for
1/    Infrastructure for Development, World Development Report 1994, World Bank.



5
the roads sector. Weaknesses in the DOR cause expenditures on roads to not achieve commensurate
results due to DOR's inability to resist various pressures to undertake works without adequate planning
and justification. The ability of DOR to re-establish its institutional capacity is constrained by limitations
in areas such as its ability to recruit trained personnel, to enter into contracts, and to mobilize necessary
financial resources. These considerations have led the Government to decide, as an integral part of the
RRP, on restructuring the institutional framework in the road sector. The reforms to be implemented are
set out in a Statement of Road Sector Policy (Annex 1) and are sumimarized below.
A. Statement of Road Sector Policy
3.2    Government recognizes the present institutional weaknesses in the sector, and also that they
represent an opportunity to rebuild the institutional framework based on improved concepts of effective
road sector administration and financing, and increased responsiveness to the needs of road users. At
negotiations. a detailed Statement of Road Sector Policy was agreed. and this statement has been
confirrned bv the Government as its policg for the sector. Key elements of this policy are:
(a)   to develop the national road network in ways that promote regionally and socially
balanced development of the country;
(b)   to preserve the existing road network, which is a major infrastructure asset critical to the
nation's economic well-being, in a cost-effective manner and to enhance its safety and
efficiency;
(c)   to reduce the reliance of the road sector on the Government's recurrent bud,et and
increase efficiency in road use over time by recovering from users the cost of providing
roads;
(d)   to create a strong institutional capacity in the road sector capable of deploying modern
planning, design and management technologies to achieve the objectives of this policy;
and
(e)   to develop the capacity of the road sector to mobilize resources to finance the
rehabilitation and improvement of the road network.
The full te~xt oi the Statement of Road Sector Policy, as approved by the Council of Ministers on May
9, i996, is in Annex 1.
B. Road User Charges
3.3    Success of the proposed reforms in the road sector, and in particular those elements related to
the financing of the sector, requires that the level of user charges established be adequate to provide the
financial resources needed for maintenance of the road network. An efficient structure of user charges
is also essential to providing the right incentives for efficiency in the use of road assets. Important
considerations in setting user charges would be to reduce the environmental impacts of excessive fuel use,
and to recover from heavy vehicles the higher costs they impose through increased pavement damage.
Surcharges on petrol/diesel, vehicle license fees and heavy vehicle fees would be the primary user charges
utilized. As it will be difficult to introduce major changes in user charges at one time, a phased program
of user charge increases is to be developed through a Road User Charges Study, with initial shortfalls



6
in cash flows being covered by borrowings against future revenues. Such a program of user charge
increases, would include appropriate corrections for inflation and productivity enhancements. It should
be noted here that fuel prices in Lebanon are still somewhat below prices in neighboring countries
(LebanoL US$0.35/ltr versus Syria US$0.41/ltr in December 1995). Since the level of road user charges
would be based on assessments of the cost of maintaining the existing network, any network expansion
or other extraordinary expenditures without compensating revenues (e.g., tolls on a new road) would
require either additional increases in user charges or a specific budget transfer. Satisfactory completion
of the Road User Charges study by September 30, 1997 is a covenant of the prorosed Loan.
C. Financing the Road Rehabilitation Program
3.4    Overall financing requirements for the RRP is estimated to be about US$500.0 million, which
would be provided by: the proposed loan for the NRP; GOL's road maintenance budget for an initial
period; and contributions from Road User Charges. Full cost recovery from road users for rehabilitation
and maintenance of the road network will be achieved over a period of three to five years between 1998
and 2003.  The following indicative levels of user charges have been estimated and would be
confirmed/refined in the user charges study to be undertaken during implementation of the project:
(a)    An initial surcharge on fuel of LL 16/ltr in 1998, eventually increasing to LL 48/ltr (in
constant 1995 prices); and
(b)   75 percent of existing Vehicle License Fees, which would be adjusted in 1998 based on
the detailed Road User Charges Study to be carried out by the Government.
Revenues from the above sources would be deposited in a Trust Account at the Banque du Liban called
the Road Fund. Most of these revenues would be used solely for rehabilitation, improvement and
maintenance os the classified network, with the remaining being transferred to the Ministry of
Municipalities as a contribution to their maintenance of internal roads. Projected Road Fund revenues
are shown in Table 3 below. Legislation needed to implement these road user charges and establish the
Road Fund will be submitted to Parliament no later than February 28, 1998 (Annex 1, Statement of Road
Sector Policy). MPW will conduct annual reviews of the road rehabilitation program to ensure that the
program is appropriately prioritized and that works included have an internal rate of return above 15
percent. Prior to creation of the Road Fund. GOL will ensure that the RRP is adeguatelv funded.
Table 3: Estimated Road Fund Revenues for Three Years
(in Current Prices)
v                                   I    Year 1998        Year 1999       Year 2000
Vehicle License Fee                     US$28.Om         US$31.5m        US$34.8m
Fuel Surcharge (LL 16/ltr)              US$15.Om
Fuel Surcharge (LL 52/ltr)                               US$50.7m        US$57.Om
Less 15% to Municipalities              -US$6.5m        -US$12.4m       -US$13.8m
Total Revenues                        US$36.5m          US$69.8m       US$78.Om



7
IV. THE PROJECT
4.1    The National Roads Project's objectives are to: (i) implement a pilot road rehabilitation program
in support of the RRP; (ii) strengthen institutional capacity for maintenance and development of the
national road network; and (iii) reduce reliance on the Government's budget by requiring users to pay
for the provision of roads.
4.2    Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank's strategy in Lebanon is primarily driven by the
country's extensive reconstruction needs which, after the long civil war and the consequent neglect of
infrastructure development, calls for efficient utilization of very limited public resources for rebuilding
the country's infrastructure. The proposed project is consistent with this overall country assistance
strategy, which was discussed by the Board on June 30, 1994, and which, inter alia, supports
rehabilitation of infrastructure and strengthening core functions of public administration. With a view
to minimizing budgetary impacts, the project seeks to assist the Government in rehabilitating its road
network with a significant portion of the needed financial resources being mobilized from road users,
rather than funded from the general budget. More importantly, the project creates the institutional
structures critical to future development of the road sector, and the Bank is in a unique position (given
its experience across countries) to assist the Government in this difficult area.
A. Project Description
4.3    The National Roads Project would help finance a three-year pilot program of urgently needed
road rehabilitation works and the necessary technical assistance in support of the Government's Road
Rehabilitation Program. The main components of the proposed project are:
A.    Road Rehabilitation Works. A three-year pilot program to rehabilitate about 400 km of
selected international, primary and secondary roads distributed among the four Regional
Directorates of Roads.
B.    Technical Assistance to:
(i)    support the MPW's Program  Implementation Unit (PIU) in planning and
programming   works,  preparing   guidelines  for  and  reviewing
feasibility/environmental studies, undertaking all procurement actions necessary
for the project, and monitoring outputs;
(ii)   carry out a detailed road user charges study to recommend the level and structure
of tariffs;
(iii)   assist in the preparation of laws and regulations to implement the Statement of
Road Sector Policy; and
(iv)   strengthen the capacity of the Directorate of Roads to develop and implement the
Road Rehabilitation Program, including preparation of feasibility/environmental
studies and supervision of works.



8
C.      Equipment.  Procurement of vehicles, computers, office equipment, road laboratory
equipment, traffic counting equipment and axle-load control equipment for better
management of roads.
A more detailed description of the project is presented in Annex 2.
4.4     The road rehabilitation works will be carried out in accordance with design standards established
for the Road Rehabilitation Program (a detailed description of the program is in the Project Working
Papers). All the works will be carried out on existing alignments, except for minor improvements to
meet design standards and for traffic safety. Rehabilitation will consist mainly of pavement strengthening
and drainage improvements. Road intersections will be corrected and "blackspots" will be eliminated to
reduce road accidents, and on all project roads safety barriers, road signs, and road markings will be
provided. To increase the level of service of the road network, the carriageway of the classified roads
will be widened as rights of way permit, or when the required expropriation does not require
resettlement, to achieve the minimum objective of 7 meter wide carriageway and 1.5 meter wide
shoulders for international and primary roads, and 6 meter width and 1.5 meter shoulders for secondary
roads. It is expected that this pilot program will be implemented in three successive groups of projects
to be launched during the first three years of the RRP. Roads to be rehabilitated under the project in the
first year have been selected and their details are provided in Annex 2.
B. Project Cost Estimate
4.5     The estimated total project cost is US$67.8 million, including physical and price contingencies,
with a foreign component of US$38.6 million equivalent, or 57 percent of total project cost. Costs were
estimated at July 1995 prices and include physical contingencies of 15 percent for the road works
component. Costs have been estimated based on average costs per kilometer (based on bids for road
works of similar magnitude and nature) and for consultant services (based on average staff-month costs
for foreign and local consultants). For the calculation of price contingencies, it was assumed that the
foreign cost will increase by 2.6 percent per year. Given that the Lebanese economy is highly dollarized,
local costs were estimated in US dollars and price contingencies for local costs were estimated using the
same rate of 2.6 percent a year. The project cost estimate is provided in Table 4.
Table 4: Project Cost Estimate
(US$ Million)
Foreign as   Percenage
Project Components                Local     Foreign     Total    Percentage of  of Total Base
__________________________________[   I       I_______    ~~~~Total         cost
A. Road Works                                   22.0       27.0       49.0         55             89
B. Technical Assistance
B.l Technical assistance to PIU                  0.3        0.6        0.9
B.2 Road User Charges Study                      0.1        0.3        0.4
B.3 Implementation of the Statement of Road
Sector Policy                               0.1        0.1       0.2
B.4 rechn;cal Assistance to DOR                   1.0       2.0        3.0
Total Technical Assistance                  1.5        3.0       4.5          67             8
C. Equipment                                     0.0        1.4        1.4         100             3
Base Coat (Jiiy 1995)              Z3.S       3          3 S          57
Physical Contingencies                        3.         4.         7455
Price Contingencies                            .         3.         5.          561
Total Project Cost                29.        3.        67.           57



9
C. Financing Plan
4.6    The Bank will finance US$42 million, or 62 percent of project cost, and the Government will
finance US$25.8 million. The Bank loan would finance 60 percent of the civil works costs, 75 percent
of the technical assistance services, and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment and supplies
procured under project Component C. The financing plan is presented in Table 5 below.
4.7    Loan Terms. The borrower has selected LIBOR-based variable rate US dollar single currency
loan termrs. These terms were considered to be the most appropriate for the Government's overall
liability management.
Table 5: Project Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Project Components           IBRD         %        GOL   |   %    |  Total
A. Road Works                           36.9        60       24.6       40        61.5
B. Technical Assistance                  3.6        75        1.2       25         4.8
C. Equipment                             1.5       100        -          -         1.5
Total Project Cost           42.0        62       25.8        38       67.8
D. Implementation Arrangements
4.8    A Program Implementation Unit established within MPW will oversee the project. The PIU will
be responsible for coordinating implementation, monitoring progress (including preparation of progress
reports), and processing disbursement requests. All procurement under the project will be carried out
by the PIU. Performance of the project in meeting its objectives would be measured against indicators
which are set out in Annex 3. Key indicators related to specific project objectives are summarized below:
*     Objective (i): effectiveness of pilot rehabilitation program would be measured against
monitorable targets set for:
- timely implementation of pilot rehabilitation program;
- percentage of network in good condition; and
- percentage of vehicle - kilometers on poor condition roads.
*     Objective (ii): institutional strengthening would be monitored against production of
annual works program using an appropriate pavement management system; and
*     Objective (iii):  full cost recovery in the road sector would be monitored against
implementation of road user charges.
Agreement on the monitoring and reporting of the above key indicators was obtained at negotiations.



10
E. Procurement
4.9    'ithe project components, their estimated costs, and the procurement arrangements for the elements
to be financed by the Bank are detailed in Annex 4 and are summarized in Table 6. The Bank-financed
civil work; and equipment would be procured under the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits. Consulting services financed under the loan would be procured in accordance with the
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the Bank as Executing Agency.
The Ministry of Justice has confirmed that the Ministry of Public Works will be able to apply
procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank, and to follow the Bank's Procurement Guidelines once
Parliament ratifies the Loan Agreement. which requires the use of Bank's Guidelines for all procurement.
4.10   All civil works contracts would be awarded using ICB procedures, and procurement
documentation and decisions relating to all civil works contracts would be subject to prior review and
approval by the Bank. Pre-qualification of contractors for all civil works contracts would be required.
Contracts for equipnment and materials, not exceeding US$200,000 each, would be procured through
international shopping procedures based on the comparison of three price quotations from at least two
countries. The total aggregate value of such contracts would not exceed US$1.0 million. All contracts
exceeding US$200,000 would be subject to prior review and approval by IBRD. For consultancy
assignments financed by IBRD 4.mder the project, there would be prior review for contracts worth
$100,000 and above for contracts with consulting firms and $50,000 and above for contracts with
individual consultants. This would result in prior review of about 90 percent of Bank-financed
procurement.  During negotiations. agreement was reached with the Government on the above
procurement arrangements and those set out in Table 6.
Table 6: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
Procurement Methods    Non-Bank       Total
Project Elements             ICB    NCB    Other        Financed      Cost
1. Civil works                            61.5                                    61.5
Road Rehabilitation Works (Component A)  (36.9)                               (36.9)
2. Goods                                  0.5              1.0 a/                  1.5
Equipment (Component C)               (0.5)            (1.0)                  (1.5)
3. Services                                                4.8 b_                  4.8
Technical Assistance (Component B)                    (3.6)                   (3.6)
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~36
TOTAL                             62.0              5.8                    67.8
(37.4)          (4.6)                   (42.0)
Notes: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts which would be financed by the proposed IBRD Loan.
a/   International Shopping (IS).
b/   Consulting services will be procured under the Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency.



11
F. Disbursements and Audit
4.11   The proposed Bank loan will be disbursed against the project components as shown in Table 7.
Withdrawal applications for contracts valued at more than US$200,000 for goods and works, US$100,000
with con5ulting finms and US$50,000 for individual consultants, will be presented in English for
disbursements. Disbursements for contracts valued at less than US$200,000 for goods and works,
US$100,000 with consulting firms, and US$50,000 with individual consultants, will be made on the basis
of Stateinents of Expenditures (SOEs). During negotiations. it was agreed that documentation to support
exrenditures financed under SOEs or otherwise will be maintained in English by the MPW and made
avaiiable for review by Bank supervision missions. It was also agreed that annual audit reports of project
accounts and SOEs will be prepared and submitted in English by auditors acceptable to the Bank within
six months of the end of each fiscal year.
4.12   Special Account. To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government will
open a Special Account in the Central Bank, to be operated by the MPW under terms and conditions
satisfactorj to the Bank. The Bank would make an initial deposit of US$1.0 million in the Special
Account. Once total withdrawals from the loan have reached US$4.5 million, the authorized allocation
for the Special Account would be increased to US$2.0 million. The MPW will submit replenishment
applications for the Special Account on a monthly basis, or when half the authorized allocation has been
used, whichever comes first. The replenishment applications will be supported by the necessary
documentation: a bank statement of the Special Account and a reconciliation bank statement of the Special
Account against the Bank's records. Replenishment of the Special Account would follow Bank
procedures. The Special Account would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. The audit report, in English, would be submitted to the Bank for review and approval within six
months of the end of each fiscal year. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the above
orovisions for the operation and auditing of the SRecial Account.
Table 7: Disbursements Against Project Components
Amount of            Percent of
Category                         Loan Allocated        Expenditures
l_______________________________________________          (US$)            to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                                        29,400,000              60%
(Component A - Pilot Road Rehabilitation Program)                                       l
(2) Goods                                               1,400,000          100% of foreign
(Component C - Equipment)                                               expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
85% of local
expenditures for items
procured locally
(3) Consultants' Services                               3,375,000              75%
(Component B - Technical Assistance)
(4) Unallocated                                         7,825,000
TOTAL                                         42,000,000



12
4.13   Disbursement Schedule. A schedule of disbursements, based on a projected effectiveness date
in December 1996, is given in Annex 5. It is anticipated that the proposed project will be completed in
about 66 months and disbursements would essentially be completed by June 30, 2002. Including a 12-
month contractor's maintenance period, the closing date is set for June 30, 2003. Due to the relatively
uncomplicated nature of the works to be financed, the estimated disbursement schedule is shorter than
the standard disbursement profile for a transport sector project.
G. Project Supervision and Monitoring
4.14  It is estimated that over the project execution period 14 supervision missions would be needed,
with one large project inception mission initially, to launch the project. Total staffweeks for supervision
is estimated to be in the order of 100 staffweeks distributed among a project team (transport economist,
highway engineer, project finance specialist) and other specialists, such as an HDM Specialist, an
Institutional Development Specialist, a Procurement Specialist, etc. Project supervision would be based
on the agreed set of Project Monitoring and Development Indicators presented in Annex 3.
4.15   Mid-Term Review. A review of the project will be carried out within three years of the date
of effectiveness but no later than June 30, 2000. This review will be based on the various monitoring
indicators agreed for the project.
H. Environmental Aspects
4.16   The project has been processed as an environmental Category B project since it involves only the
rehabilitation of existing roads with minor realignments, within existing rights of way, to improve safety.
For the road rehabilitation works, key issues addressed in the environmental analysis are the quarrying
of stone and location of borrow areas. The most important recommendation of the environmental analysis
is that an environmental unit be established within the DOR to monitor environmental impacts of the
proposed project, and other projects in the sector, and to develop guidelines for the implementation of
mitigatory measures. The environmental analysis and actions includes an Environmental Mitigation and
Monitoring Plan (Annex 6) for the various environmental impacts which are likely to arise during road
rehabilitation works.  During negotiations. agreement was reached on the establishment of the
environmental unit and on implementation of the mitigation plan.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.1   This section presents the economic evaluation of the overall RRP and of the individual road works
components selected for the first-year pilot program to be financed under the proposed project. The
economic evaluation is based on studies carried out by consultants engaged by CDR to develop a cost
effective rehabilitation program. The studies utilized the HDM model and its associated EBM model,
developed by the World Bank, to assess maintenance and rehabilitation strategies for the existing network
and to optimize these strategies under budgetary constraints in order to determine the best possible
allocation of funds. The HDM model simulates road deterioration and computes the road maintenance
and vehicle operating cost streams for each of the strategies being evaluated, as well as the economic
indicator used to compare these strategies, i.e., the net present value (NPV) of benefits to society. The
EBM model is an optimization program used to select, under budget constraints, for each road a strategy
that maximizes the net benefits to society of the group of roads being evaluated. Details of the analysis
are presented in Annex 7, and the following provides a summary.



13
A. Road Network Characterization
5.2    Based on road inventory data and road condition and traffic surveys carried out, the network was
divided into more than 300 uniform sections, with an average length of 9 km and uniform characteristics
with respect to traffic, condition and road width. Road condition was assessed using the International
Roughness Index (IRI). According to the results of the roughness survey, about 13.1 percent of the
network surveyed is in Good condition (IRI < 4), 47.8 percent in Fair condition (4 < IRI < 6), 35.7 percent
in Poor condition (6<IRI <9) and 3.3 percent in Critical condition (IRI>9). To evaluate the whole
Lebanese network the road sections needed to be classified into homogenous "representative links"
according to the following criteria: (a) four road condition levels - Good, Fair, Poor and Critical; (b)
seven traffic volume ranges based on the Average Daily Traffic (ADT < 400, 400-1000, 1000-2000, 2000-
3000, 3000-5000, 5000-10000, and > 10000); and (c) four road width classes (one lane, narrow two
lane, two lane, and four lane). In total, 112 (4x7x4) representative links were established from the
combination of the variables described above. Traffic growth rates of 4 percent p.a. from 1995 to 2004
and 3 percent p.a. from 2005 to the end of the analysis period were assumed.
B. Costs and Benefits
5.3    Both construction costs and vehicle operating costs were converted to economic costs by
eliminating taxes, duties and subsidies. Distortions due to exchange rate variations were eliminated by
expressing the unit vehicle operating costs in US dollar terms and by computing the project costs
(construction and future maintenance) in US dollars (see Annex 7, Tables 7.2, 7.3 and 7.4).
Vehicle Operating Costs
5.4   In order to establish the Vehicle Operating Costs (VOC) for the common vehicle types in
Lebanon, a vehicle operating costs survey was carried out around the Greater Beirut area. The vehicle
fleet was characterized by six vehicle types: cars, pickups, buses, medium trucks, heavy trucks and
articulated trucks. For each vehicle type, financial costs of fuel, tires, new vehicle prices and labor costs
were collected. In order to arrive at economic costs, shadow pricing techniques have been used to adjust
financial costs and thus eliminate the effects of transfer payments (mainly taxes, import duties and
subsidies). Annex 7, Table 7.2 shows the vehicle characteristics and economic unit costs used in the
analysis. Annex 7, Table 7.3 shows typical unit vehicle operating costs at different levels of road
roughness obtained using the Vehicle Operating Cost model of the HDM.
Rehabilitation Strategies
5.5    A series of feasible periodic maintenance and rehabilitation operations (four overlay thicknesses
and two reconstruction types) were identified and the corresponding unit costs and characteristics were
defined. Annex 7, Table 7.4 shows the unit costs of maintenance operations used in the analysis. For
links in fair to critical condition, an optimal rehabilitation operation, based on engineering principles, was
adopted as the first periodic action and this action was assumed to take place either in the first year
.1997) or postponed to the second through the eighth years. Also, for each link a different (lower
standard) first periodic operation was evaluated taking place on the same years. In all cases, after the
first periodic action is executed, it was assumed that it would be followed by condition-responsive
overlays of 6 cm activated at roughness of 4.0 IRI.



14
C. Five-Year Budget Constraints
5.6   The rehabilitation strategy for the network was evaluated using the EBM model for a number of
budget scenarios; the changes in NPV and average roughness of the network are shown in Annex 7,
Figures 1 and 2. In all cases, the recurrent expenditures as well as the periodic expenditures after year
7 were left unconstrained. The no-budget constraint case presents the theoretically optimal solution,
which is not practical because it produces an unequal distribution of the program. In this case, most of
the expenditures take place in the first year followed with few expenditures in years 2 to 5. A uniform
budget constraint of US$60 million/year represents a more practical solution that yields an expenditure
program of about US$254 million in the first five years. A number of budget constraints (US$50 million
to US$10 million per year) were tested to assess the effect on the overall program and study the resulting
changes in the network condition. Based on these assessments, the final rehabilitation program was
developed using a set of budget constraints over five years, which took into consideration the build-up
of iriplementation capacity and the objective of early completion of the rehabilitation program. This
selected budget scenario (Scenario H in Annex 7), called for budgets of US$35 m, US$45 m, US$50 m,
US$55 m and US$50 m in years 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, respectively.
D. Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
5.7   The economic evaluation and the sensitivity analysis is shown in Annex 7, Table 7.5; the results
are summarized  in Table 8 below.   As can be expected, the economic returns of a
rehabilitation/maintenance program are extremely high. For the overall rehabilitation program, the NPV
for the selected expenditure program (Scenario H in Annex 7) is on the order of US$3,300 million for
an expenditure of US$498 million (constant 1995 US$). The internal rates of return (IRR) are
consequently high (> 100%), but suffer from the implicit assumption that the benefits generated during
the course of the project can be reinvested at the rate of return of the investment elsewhere in the
economy during the life of the project, which is unlikely in view of the high returns being generated.
Therefore, the modified IRR has been calculated, which assumes that returns are reinvested at the
opportunity cost of capital in the economy (around 12%); this yields a much lower (modified) IRR. The
modified IRR estimated for the Road Rehabilitation Program is 30 percent. Table 8 shows the results
of changes in costs and benefits. The high returns are not significantly affected by a 15 percent increase
in costs and decrease in benefits, whose combined effect reduces overall NPV to US$2,772 million and
the IRR to 28 percent.
Table 8: Sununmary of RRP Economic Evaluation
Modified             NPV E 12%
Internal Rate of Return    Discount Rate
(%)                (US$ Million)
1. Base Case                                   30.0                   3,334
2. 15 percent Increase in Costs                29.0                   3,304
3. 15 percent Decrease in Benefits             29.0                   2,804
4. Combined (2) and (3)                        28.0                   2,772
5.8    More generally, the project's benefits can be viewed in relation to the overall Lebanese economy.
The efficiencies expected would translate to net savings of about US$140 million per year in reduced
vehicle operating costs and road maintenance expenditures once the RRP has been implemented and the



15
proportion of poor condition roads has been reduced to about 15 percent of the network. From a fiscal
point of view, the road user charges established under the RRP will reduce the burden on the
Government's budget imposed by road maintenance expenditures. Funding road maintenance from user
charges would result in budget savings on the order of 2-3 percent, which would help reduce the present
high budget deficit (38 percent of expenditures in 1996).
5.9    The road sections selected for the first year pilot rehabilitation program (see Attachment 1 of
Annex 2) have an NPV, at a 12 percent discount rate, of US$137.3 million for an expenditure of
US$20.6 million. These road sections were selected from the overall RRP so as to provide an adequate
distribution of the pilot program among the four Regional Directorates of Roads, and are not necessarily
the sections with the highest rates of return. In general, it has been agreed that the RRP will use a
minimum 15 percent threshold IRR for approving road works to be included in the annual rehabilitation
programs.
E. Project Risks
5.10   The major risk for the NRP is the country risk attached to all projects in Lebanon. If present
trends continue, these risks should reduce as the country enjoys increasing political stability and as
progress made in the Middle East peace process. Implementation risk for the proposed project, as well
as for the overall Road Rehabilitation Program, relate to: (a) the present weaknesses in the
implementation capacity of DOR and the consequent need for institutional reform; and (b) the need to
secure significant financial resources for the rehabilitation program. With regard to the former, the
project design seeks to mitigate the institutional capacity risk through establishment and support for a
Program Implementation Unit with adequate powers in the areas of planning, resource allocation,
procurement and monitoring of works implementation. In particular, the procurement authority of the
Ministry of Public Works, which is critical to effective implementation of the project, has been confirmed
by the Government.  In relation to the financing risk, there is the possibility of  delays in the
implementation of the road user charges and in the establishment of the Road Fund. These delays could
jeopardize financing of the RRP but would not affect implementation of the NRP-funded works
themselves. Increases in fuel taxes in July 1995, which increased fuel prices by 38 percent, makes
establishment of the Road Fund and implementation of road user charges in the near term difficult for
the Government. These financing risks are mitigated by the Government's commitment, set out in a
detailed Statement of Road Sector Policy, to implement full cost recovery and to achieve self-financing
in the road sector through a system of road user charges.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1    Since this project concept already constitutes a significant challenge for the Government in
developing new processes to improve the effectiveness of roads administration, issues to be addressed
under the project have been restricted to those that are critical to the implementation and sustainability
of the project. The following were agreed at loan negotiations:
(a) Actions taken prior to Board Presentation:
(i)    Government has confirmed the Statement of Road Sector Policy (para. 3.2); and



16
(ii)    Government has provided to the Bank the Ministry of Justice's legal opinion
confirming that the Ministry of Public Works will be able to apply procurement
procedures satisfactory to the Bank and to follow the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines, once Parliament ratifies the Loan Agreement, which requires the use
of Bank Guidelines for all procurement (para. 4.9).
(b) Actions to be taken during project implementation:
(i)    The MPW will conduct a Road User Charges study to establish an appropriate
level and structure of road user charges and will submit the results for review by
the Bank no later than September 30, 1997 (para. 3.3); and
(ii)    MPW will conduct annual reviews of the Road Rehabilitation Program (RRP) to
ensure that the program is appropriately prioritized and that works included have
an internal rate of return above 15 percent, and the Government will ensure that
the RRP is adequately funded (paras. 3.4 and 5.9).
bas.ed on the above agreements, the proposed project would provide a suitable basis for an IBRD Loan
to the Lebanese Republic of US$42 million at the Bank's Standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US
dollar-denominated single currency loans, with 17 years' maturity, including 5 years of grace.



Annex I
Page I of 3
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
NATIONAL ROADS PROJECT
Statement of Road Sector Policy
Approved by the Council of Ministers on May 9, 1996
1.    The Government of Lebanon, with a view to achieving improved efficiency in the roads sector,
adopts this Statement of Road Sector Policy as the guiding principle for the future development of the
sector. The objectives of the Government's Road Sector Policy are as follows:
(a)   to develop the national road network in ways that promote regionally and socially
balanced development of the country;
(b)   to preserve the existing road network, which is a major infrastructure asset critical to the
nation's economic well-being, in a cost-effective manner and enhance its safety and
efficiency;
(c)   to reduce the reliance of the road sector on the Government's recurrent budget and
increase efficiency in road use over time, by recovering from users the cost of providing
roads;
(d)   to create a strong institutional capacity in the road sector capable of deploying modern
planning, design and management technologies to achieve the objectives of this policy;
and
(e)   to develop the capacity of the road sector to mobilize resources to finance the
rehabilitation and improvement of the road network.
This Statement of Road Sector Policy sets out and elaborates the mechanisms and policies by which the
Government intends to achieve the above policy objectives.
1. Regionally and Socially Balanced Economic Development
2.     In developing the country's road network, and in all decisions related to the planning,
programmning and execution of road works, the Government will ensure that the expenditures incurred
provide net economic benefits sufficient to merit the use of scarce resources, and that these expenditures
promote regional and social balance in the economic development of the country. Promotion of regional
and social balance through expansion of the road network to areas needing improved access, through
works programs which increase employment opportunities, or through contracting arrangements which
encourage the growth of a diverse and dynamic road construction industry, are therefore considered
worthwhile activities within this policy framework for the road sector. In furtherance of this policy, the
Government will require that all major works planned for the road sector, including new investments,
rehabilitation and capacity improvements, will be subjected to social and environmental impact analysis
and to detailed economic cost-benefit analysis.



Annex I
Page 2 of 3
II. Preservation of the National Road Network
3.    In recognition of the fact that the national road network, among the nation's most expensive
infrastructure assets, has deteriorated as a result of neglect during the war and now more than a third of
the network is in poor condition, that timely maintenance avoids costly reconstruction later, that the
present poor condition of the network imposes excessively high costs on road users and results in
economic losses in the order of US$150.0 million per year, and that misuse of the network by some users
imposes unacceptable costs on all users, the Government places a high priority on the rehabilitation of
the road network and on the prevention of damage to roads caused by overloaded vehicles. The
Government's policy is to ensure that:
(a)    maintenance of the road network is adequately funded, and is accorded a high priority;
(b)    rehabilitation of the road network will be conducted in a systematic manner with
economically justified programming of works to address priority needs; and
(c)    a system of axle load controls, including the establishment of truck weigh stations at
appropriate locations on the road network, will be implemented.
Implementation of a Road Rehabilitation Program (RRP) designed to restore the national road network
is therefore accorded a high priority by the Government.
III. Cost Recovery in the Roads Sector
4.    The traditional "public goods" approach to funding the road sector from the general tax revenues
of the Government is now widely recognized as unnecessary since the major determinant of the cost of
provision and upkeep of a modern road network is the motor vehicle; and the motor vehicle user can be
charged for road use through a number of mechanisms, such as a road user surcharge on motor fuels,
vehicle license fees, and other such cost recovery mechanisms.
5.    Full cost recovery from road users for rehabilitation and maintenance of the road network would
be achieved gradually over a period of three to five years between 1998 and 2003. Specific road user
charges to be used to achieve full cost recovery, would be developed through a detailed Road User
Charges Study to be completed by September 30, 1997.
IV. Strengthening Institutional Capacity in the Roads Sector
6.    Cost effective implementation of a rehabilitation program on the scale envisaged under the Road
Rehabilitation Program will require strengthening of institutional capacity in the roads sector.
Weaknesses in the DOR cause expenditures on roads not to achieve commensurate results. The capacity
of DOR has been severely diminished owing to the loss of personnel during the war years, and the ability
of DOR to re-establish its institutional capacity is constrained by limitations in areas such as its ability
to recruit trained personnel, to enter into contracts, and to mobilize necessary financial resources. These
considerations require, as an integral part of the RRP: (i) the strengthening of DOR in its role as
implementing agency responsible for construction, maintenance and improvement of the classified road
network; and (ii) the establishment of the necessary institutional set-up mandated to mobilize resources
for the road sector, monitor their efficient use and remain responsive to the needs of road users.



Annex I
Page 3 of 3
7.     Upon finalization of the results of the road user charges study, and its approval by the
Government, the Government will prepare draft legislation to implement the road user charges and
establish the necessary institutional change. Such legislation shall be submitted to Parliament by February
28, 1998.
8.     Upon implementation of the road user charges, and subject to the approval of Parliament,
revenues from such charges would be deposited in a Trust Account at the Banque Du Liban called the
Road Fund. A portion of these revenues would be used solely for the rehabilitation, improvement and
maintenance of the classified network, with the remaining being transferred to the Ministry of Municipal
and Rural Affairs as a contribution to their maintenance of internal roads. The proportion to be allocated
to the classified network would be determined as part of the road user charges study. The road user
charges established would be appropriately adjusted for inflation on an annual basis, and would be subject
to change by the Council of Ministers acting on the recommendations of the Minister of Public Works.
9.     Upon approval of the road user charges study by the Government, the Government will send to
Parliament a draft law.  Upon its approval by the Parliament, the Government will establish an
institutional set-up under the tutelage of the Minister of Public Works, designed to:
"Implement a system of road user charges which will mobilize the financial resources
needed to improve the existing national road network and enhance its safety and efficiency,
and to ensure the efficient utilization of these resources"
This institutional set-up would be responsible for financing the rehabilitation, improvement and
maintenance of the classified road network, and establish procurement rules based on competitive
tendering, and would be authorized to approve contracts awarded in accordance with these rules.
V. Transitional Arrangements
10.   Prior to the introduction of the institutional change, the Ministry of Public Works will establish
a Program Implementation Unit (PIU) which will be responsible for the overall planning, programming,
budgeting and monitoring of the initial implementation of the Road Rehabilitation Program. In carrying
out its functions, the PIU will consult with a committee of road users appointed by the Minister of Public
Works.



Annex 2
Page I of 5
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
NATIONAL ROADS PROJECT
Project Description, Cost Estimates, and Financing Plan
1.    The National Roads Project would help finance a three-year pilot program of urgently needed
road rehabilitation works and the necessary technical assistance in support of the Government's Road
Rehabilitation Program.
I. Project Description
2.    The main components of the proposed project are:
A.    Road Rehabilitation Works. A three-year pilot program to rehabilitate about 400 km of
selected international, primary and secondary roads distributed among the four Regional
Directorates of Roads.
B.    Technical Assistance to:
(i)   support the MPW's Program Implementation Unit (PIU) in planning and
programming  works,  preparing  guidelines  for  and  reviewing
feasibility/environmental studies, undertaking all procurement actions necessary
for the project, and monitoring outputs;
(ii)   carry out a detailed road user charges study to recommend the level and structure
of tariffs;
(iii)  assist in the preparation of laws and regulations to implement the Statement of
Road Sector Policy; and
(iv)   strengthen the Directorate of Roads capacity to develop and implement the Road
Rehabilitation Program, including preparation of feasibility/environmental studies
and supervision of works.
C.    Equipment. Procurement of vehicles, computers, office equipment, road laboratory
equipment, traffic counting equipment and axle-load control equipment for better
management of roads.
3.    With the assistance of consultants, the Ministry of Publics Works selected about 3,500 kilometers
of road sections that require rehabilitation and has undertaken an economic evaluation to identify those
of highest priority. About 400 kilometers of road sections would be included for rehabilitation under the
project as a pilot road rehabilitation program. The pilot program will be implemented in three successive
groups of projects to be launched during the first three years of the project in order to technically and



Annex 2
Page 2 of 5
economically improve the rehabilitation and pavement strengthening strategies recommended by the RRP
preparatory studies (see Project Working Papers). The road sections selected for the first year of the pilot
program are shown in Attachment 1.
4.     The pilot road rehabilitation projects will be carried out in accordance with the design standards
established for the Road Rehabilitation Program (see Project Working Papers). All the works will be
carried out on existing alignments, except for local improvements to meet standards requirement and those
for traffic safety consideration. Rehabilitation will consist mainly of pavement strengthening and drainage
improvements. Road intersections will be corrected and "blackspots" will be eliminated to reduce road
accidents, and on all project roads safety barriers, road signs, and road markings will be provided. To
increase the level of service of the road network, the carriageway of the classified roads will be widened
as rights-of-way permit, and when the required expropriation does not imply resettlements to achieve the
minimum objective of 7 meter wide carriageway and 1.5 meter wide shoulders for international and
primary roads, and 6 meters and 1.5 meters for secondary roads. Procedures for designing strengthening
needs and methods of economic analysis of each individual road section will be refined during the course
of the project.
5.     During the first year of the pilot program about 150 kilometers of rehabilitation works will be
launched including portions of the international road No. 005 between Masna'a and Dnabe (29 krm), the
primary road No. 004 between Tripoli and Kab'aet (40 km), the primary road No. 033 between Raifoun
and BeKfaya (23 km), the primary road No. 025 between Bekfaya and Dahr Al-Harf (27 km), and the
primary road No. 061 between Sour and Bent-Jbail (31 Iam). These sections are shown in Map IBRD
27480. The criteria for approval of the roads to be included in the second and third year of the pilot
program are: (i) quality of preparation and environmental analysis acceptable eo the Bank; and (ii)
economic rate of return of the investment at least equal to 15 percent.
6.     A road user charges study will recommend the appropriate level and structure of the tariff for the
provision of roads. The study will estimate the costs of operating and maintaining the entire network
of classified roads on a sustainable basis; define all costs that have to be met through user charges;
evaluate the traffic (composition and volume) expected to use the road network at different time horizons;
and estimate the variable costs attributable to each type of traffic to propose the appropriate road tariff
including its structure (fuel levy, license fees, and, if relevant, heavy vehicle license fees), level, and
revision and adjustment mechanisms. Important considerations in setting user charges would be to reduce
the environmental impacts of excessive fuel use, and to recover from heavy vehicles the higher costs they
impose through increased pavement damage. Surcharges on petrol/diesel, heavy vehicle fees, etc., would
be the primary user charges utilized. As it will be difficult to introduce major changes in user charges
at one time, a phased program of user charge increases is to be developed with initial shortfalls in cash
flows being covered by borrowings against future revenues. Such a program of user charge increases
would include appropriate corrections for inflation and productivity enhancements. Since the level of
road user charges would be based on assessments of the cost of maintaining the existing network, any
network expansion or other extraordinary expenditures without compensating revenues (e.g., tolls on a
new road) would require additional increases in user charges. TORs for the Road User Charges Study
are in the Project Working Papers.
7.     The technical assistance to implement the Statement of Road Sector Policy will support the
preparation of: (i) the required draft legislation and executive decrees to create a Road Fund and
implement road user charges; (ii) the Road Fund financial projections; (iii) an internal auditing system



Annex 2
Page 3 of 5
and book-keeping procedures to establish adequate financial controls prior to the start-up of Road Fund
operations; (iv) an appropriate management information system; and (v) the procurement guidelines,
procedures and standardized documentation to be used by the Program Implementation Unit. It will also
assist in the implementation of the appropriate systems and processes for planning, budgeting, and
monitoring of outputs and for the preparation of guidelines for feasibility and environmental studies of
road projects.
8.    The overall objective of the technical assistance to DOR is to enable DOR to implement the RRP
works by strengthening its capacity to implement road maintenance and rehabilitation works. More
specifically, it will assist DOR prepare and supervise the implementation of the project works component
(pilot program). Consultants will help prepare and perform the tasks related to:
(i)    Road works implementation: detailed engineering, procurement activities, and
implementation support;
(ii)   The Road Pavement Management System and assistance to a technical complex to be
established within DOR and which would include the DOR laboratory;
(iii)   Training actions for DOR staff, locally and overseas, including technical visits and
seminars;
(iv)   Operating procedures, manuals, and technical guidelines for annual road programs,
maintenance and rehabilitation projects (including detailed engineering), road safety
audits, marking and signing, economic analysis, environmental analysis, works
implementation, and quality control; and
(v)    Project management and management information systems.
Detailed TORs for the Technical Assistance to DOR are in the Project Working Papers.
9.    A preliminary list of equipment to be provided under the Loan including vehicles, computers,
office technology equipment, equipment and materials for road laboratory and field testing, traffic
counting equipment, vehicle weighing equipment, and special vehicles for surveying road conditions is
given in Table 2.3
H. Project Cost Estimate
10    The estimated cost of the project is summarized in Table 2. 1.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 5
Table 2.1: Project Cost Estimate (US$ Million)
I          I        I  Foreign as    Percentage
Project Components                   Local   Foreign    Total    Percentage        of Total
l____________________________________  _____ I _______ I _____ I   of Total                       Base Cost
A. Road Works
-  First year pilot program (150 km)               8.6       10.6      19.2         55             35
- Second and third year pilot program             13.4       16.4     29.8          55             54
Total Road Works                            22.0      27.0      49.0          55             89
B. Technical Assistance
B.l Technical assistance to PIU                       0.3       0.6       0.9
B.2 Road User Charges Study                           0.1       0.3       0.4
B.3 Implementation of the
Statement of Road Sector Policy                      0.1       0.1        0.2
13.4 Technical Assistance to DOR                      1.0       2.0       3.0
Total Technical Assistance                    1.5       3.0       4.5         67              8
C  Equipment                                          0.0       1.4       1.4        100              3
Base Cost (July 1995)                 23.5                54.9          57
Physical Contingencies                        ---   4-      .         7.                         13
Price Contingencies                              2.4       3.1       5.5          56             10
Total Project Cost                   29.2      38.6  6 7.         8                 12
II. Financing Plan
II.      The project financing plan is summarized in Table 2.2.
Table 2.2: Project Financing Plan (US$ Million)
Financing Sources                       Local         Foreign        Total          Total
IBRD Loan                             3.4           38.6          42.0             62
Government                           25.8             -            25.8            38
Total                             29.2          38.6           67.8           100
Table 2.3: Preliminary Equipment List (US$'000)
Equipment                       i          Number   i    Unit Cost         Total Cost
Equipment for weigh station                                3                 100.0  -            300
l Mobile weigh-bridges                                     5                 20.0                100
Traffic counters                                          20                   2.5                50
Road measurement equipment (deflection, roughness)         1                350.0                350
Laboratory equipment                                       1                200.0 7              200
I  5Computers                                               20                   5.0               100
Other office technology equipment                         20                  5.0                1T00
Vehicles and spare parts                                  10                 20.0                200
Total base cost (July 1995)                                                                    1,400



LEBANESE REPUBLIC
NATIONAL ROADS PROJECT
Pilot Road Reha      tatlon Program  (FIrst year)
NPV
FAtted                        0 12%
Road                                                                                           Phadai       Average         Dhcot
Caoqevy                                          R        deahlim    LetO   WidR      Trafic       Cogt        Cost            Rate                     RUmarks
Nber         Red SedCa            Cam              Suatrea       K       Meter  IIU  (ADT)    U       i$   USIo a           u                   From             To
(I)                                               (2)                                           (3)
Mohta ou Nor& Laidas - PhdLue I (N1.1)
PR1004        N3P04-04l        ZAGIIARTA               03-1         10.17    9.0   5.8   10,223      0.86        0.085            28.60       TRIPOLI           KAB'AErl
PR1004        N02P04-042       TRIP3L1                  02-1        29.39    6.3   6.6    4,455      5.14         0.175           31.30       TRIPOLI           KAB'AErr
Toal                                                  39.56                            6.00        0.152           59.90
Mahfaa of Mount L      _bao. - Padkage I (M1.1)
PR1023        MO8P23-062A      KESROUAN                00-5          7.00    5.9   4.7    2.80       0.06        0.009            2.86        REYFOUN           BEXKFAYA
PR1023        M08P23-082B    KESROUAN                  00-5          8.52     9.5   3.1    4,943     0.07         0.009            1.82       REYFOUN           BEKF'AYA
PR1023        M09P23-083       EL-MEkN                 00-5          7.98    9.2   3.5    4,929      0.07         0.ot9            1.84       REYrOUN           BEKFAYA
PR1025        M09P25-08tA    EL-METN                   02-2         10.00    5.0   5.2    8,008       1.35        0.135           19.76       bEKF'AYA          DAIIR EL-IIAA-
PR1025        N09925-08B       l:l,METN                02-2         10.00    5.0   6.6    2,387       1.75        0.17S           6.43        BEKFAYA           DA3IREL-IIARF
PR1025        M09P25-0U8C      EL-MWrN                 02-2          7.05     5.0   4.7    1,209     0.95         0.135           0.91        BEKIFAYA          DAIIR El.-HARF
Total                                                50.55                             415         0.0S4           33.62
Miabafast of Soug Lebaom - Package I (St.1)
PRIO61        S16Pt61-156A     SOUR                    0-1         17.00    6.2   5.3    3,324      2.75         0.162           10.29       SOUR              BENTI BAB1
PR1061        Sl6F16P1-56B    SOUR                      02-1         3.06     6.0   4.2    3,324     0.41         0.134            1.12       SOUR              Hl.NI'MJIJAII.
PR1061        S317Pt61-137A    BENTJBAIL               0-1         10.93    4.5   4.5    1,461       1.40        0.12a           3.99        SOUR              BENT IBAIL
Total                                                 30.99                            4.56        0.147           15.40
Mahazat of Ita - Packe I (31.1)
INiJOS        105-21           RACHAIYA                 0431        12.00    6.7   6.4    5,286       2.10        0.175           17.19       MASNAA            DNABE
Itf1105       105-22A          BFYAA-GHARBIA            02-1         5.00     9.7   6.0    3,952     0.65         0.130           3.88        MASNAA            DNABE
IN1105        105-22B          RACIIAIYA                02-1        12.00    6.3   6.0    2,324       1.62        0.135           6.21        MASNAA             NADE
Total                                                 29.00                            4.37        0.151           27.28
Trai of thebt yewr ilt   trm                         150.10                           19.18        0.128           136.20
Neg (1). Road c605So0y and miber                                  (2). The rehabilitaLion dsaies vre defined in Anox 10 (IIDM Analyis)
VfMN 5:  Ioeoatiod road No. 005                               00      4 cm overlay
PRD104:  Primay rod No. 004                                    01      6 cm overdy
PRtO23:  Primrry road No. 023                                  02      8 cm overlay
PR1025:  Primry road No. 025                                   04    12 cm overlay
PR1061:  Priy rmod Nio. 061
(3) Fnancial coads include 15 pewer  for physical coiin ,encieo
ar*:O744 ns2 .*                                                                                                                                                                         11
- t



Annex 3
Page ) of 10
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
NATIONAL ROADS PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
1. Implementation Arrangements
1.    A Program Implementation Unit (PIU), established within the Ministry of Public Works (MPW)
will oversee all the project activities. The PIU will be responsible for coordinating implementation,
monitoring progress (including preparation of progress reports), and processing disbursement requests.
The MPW will be responsible for carrying out all project procurement activities in accordance with the
Bank Guidelines.   To undertake such activities, the PIU  will be staffed with Procurement
Specialists/Consultants acceptable to the Bank.
2.    The PIU will be staffed with the following five professionals:
(a)    A transportation planner to manage the project and to oversee the road rehabilitation
planning and programming processes. The planner will also be responsible for the
implementation of the institutional and financial reform of the road sector, particularly
for the road user charges study.
(b)    A highway engineer responsible for overseeing the detailed design and bid document
preparation for the project road works component and for monitoring progress in
implementation of the overall Directorate of Roads (DOR) rehabilitation and maintenance
works. The engineer will also be responsible for overseeing DOR's production of the
guidelines for road rehabilitation projects (detailed engineering, economic evaluation,
environmental assessment, and supervision), and for supporting the technical assistance
to DOR component of the project.
(c)    A financial analyst responsible for assisting in the preparation of the draft decrees and
legislation required for implementing the institutional and financial reform, and for
preparing and updating financial projections. The financial analyst will also prepare
internal system audit and book-keeping procedures in order to establish adequate financial
controls.
(d)    A systems analyst responsible for overseeing the transfer to DOR of the road database for
the international, primary and secondary road networks developed by the project
preparation consultants, and for developing DOR's data collection system for regularly
updating the condition and works history of the road network. The systems analyst will
also prepare a project management information system to monitor procurement,
schedules, loan covenants, performance indicators, expected costs at completion, and
project accounts (including commitments and disbursements), and to report progress and
keep track of historical changes.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 10
(e)    A procurement specialist responsible for carrying out all the project procurement
activities, and for preparation of the procurement guidelines, procedures, and
standardized documentation.
3.     The MPW will establish, staff, and maintain the above organizational arrangements for efficient
project execution. In addition to the staffing of the PIU, the MPW will ensure that DOR designates four
professionals to serve as the key counterparts for technical assistance in pavement management system,
road rehabilitation, road maintenance, and environmental assessment. They will have the following
responsibilities:
(a)    The Pavement Management System Counterpart will implement the Road and Pavement
Management System initiated during the Road Rehabilitation Program (RRP) preparatory
studies to conduct the planning and programming of road projects, traffic counts, reports
on road condition, the required studies and programs to develop appropriate pavement
design standards, and other road management and quality control activities. This
counterpart will also be responsible for developing the DOR laboratory and for reviewing
the detailed designs of road projects. The overall objective is to initiate and develop an
efficient and qualified Road Technical Complex to improve road sector efficiency and
technical standards. The four regional directorates of roads will be involved in the road
data collection activities so that the collections can benefit from their experience and
knowledge of the roads' condition and operation, and to enhance their responsibilities as
managers of road networks.
(b)    The Road Rehabilitation Counterpart will prepare and oversee the implementation of the
road rehabilitation projects in close coordination with the four regional directorates of
roads.
(c)    The Road Maintenance Counterpart will prepare and oversee the implementation of the
road maintenance works in close coordination with the four regional directorates of roads.
(d)    The Environment Unit Chief will head an environment unit to be established within DOR
with the support of the project technical assistance to carry out environmental impact
analysis and develop environmental guidelines for road projects.
4.     A comprehensive mid-term review involving the Government and the Bank will be carried out
within three years of project effectiveness but no later than June 30, 2000. This review will be based
on the various monitoring indicators agreed and set out in Table 3.1 below.
II. Monitorable Targets and Performance Indicators
5.     Performance of the project in meeting its objectives would be measured against the indicators set
out in Table 3.1. Key indicators for specific project objectives are as set out below:
Objective (i):  effectiveness of pilot rehabilitation program  would be measured against
monitorable targets set for:
- timely implementation for the pilot rehabilitation program;



Annex 3
Page 3 of 10
- percentage of network in good condition; and
- percentage of vehicle - kilometers on poor condition roads.
Objective (ii): institutional strengthening would be monitored against production of annual works
program using an appropriate pavement management system.
Objective (iii): full cost recovery in the road sector would be monitored against implementation
of road user charges.
6.    Table 3.1 lists monitorable targets and performance indicators for each calendar year over the life
of the project. In addition, the list includes baseline and projected development impact indicators. The
indicators are based on project components and agreed policy actions.



Annex 3
Page 4 of 10
Table 3.1: Project Monitoring and Development Indicators
Monitor able Items      | Units I  At  I  Dec  I Dec  (Dec             Dec D|              Dec |At Project
L....___________ _ I                        |Start  |97        98   |          9     J  01        021  Completion
.  Pilot Rehabilitation Program
Detailed engineering completed   km       140      240     400)                                        400
Works contracts awarded          km      0         140     240      400                                400
No.    0         4        8        12                                12
Road rehabilitation works        km      0         0       0        140      240     400               400
completed                      I_I                        I                         I_I
Assessed rehabilitated roads one  km     0         0       0        0        140     240      400      400
year after completion
2. Road Rehabilitation Program
Establish an Environmental Unit  Date             06/97
within DOR        t
Annual works program prepared    Date             06/97   06/98   06/99   06/00   06/01    06/02
3. Condition or the Road Network
Percentage of the network in good    %   20       _                          35               50       50
corndition                           _                                     .       l        1 I
Percentage of Vehicle-kilometers  %      18                                  15               10       10
on roads in poor condition                                                         l        l        l             l
4. Implementation of the Statement of Road Sector Policy                                                           l
Road user charges study completed   Date          09/97
Draft legislation to implement the    Date                 02/98
Statement of Road Sector Policy
PIU Annual Report issued         No.   I 0         1       2        3        4       5      | 6        7
Quanerly PIU Report issued       No.  I 0       | 4        8        12       16      20       24       24



Annex 3
Page 5 of 10
Table 3.1: Project Monitoring and Development Indicators
(Continued)
Monitorable Items           Units      At      Dec       Dec  I  Dec       Dec      Dec      Dec      At Project
l_____________                             I Start       97       98       99       00       01       02      Completion
5. Technical Assistance to DOR
Mobilization of the TA to DOR       Date              01/97
Detailed engineering and
environmental analysis of the pilot
rehabilitation program
l   First -Year projects (completed)  Date    12/96
- Second-Year projects (completed)    Date            06/97
- Tnird -Year projects (completed)  Date                       01/98
Pavement Management System
- First implementation within DOR   Date              01/97
- Complete road inventory and       Date              12/97
condition data collection
- Produce first annual works        Date                       03/98
program using the system
- User manuals and guidelines       Date                       12/98
completed
Project Preparation Guidelines
Completed:
- Pavement Design Manual           Date                                 03/99
- Rehabilitation Project            Date                                03/99
- Environmental Impact Analysis    Date                                 03/99
- Safety Audit                     Date                                 03/99
- Economic Evaluation               Date                                03/99
6. Equipment & Supplies Component
Equipment procured               I Date  |           [       T 06198  |        X        T        T         I
7. NRP Reporting and Auditing Requirements
Quarterly progress report submitted    No.  0         4        8        12       16       20       24        24
Project accounts audit reports     No.      0         l        2        3        4                  6        7
|submittedl                                                                     l        l        l         l



Annex 3
Page 6 of 10
Ill. Supervision Plan
7.     It is c;tiriu.tedl that 14 missions would be needed over the project execution period, with one
large project ilception mission initially to launch the project.  Total staffweeks for supervision is
estimated t1o be !)n the order of 100 staffweeks distributed among a project team (transport economist,
highway engineer, project finance) and other specialists. Project supervision would be based on the
agreed set of project monitoring and development impact indicators which are presented in Table 3.1.
The Bank input indicated in Table 3.2 below (68 staffweeks) is in addition to regular supervision needs
at headquarters for handling correspondence and reviewing/commenting on procurement actions,
disbursement -equcs;ts, progress reports, annual audits, consultants' inception/draft final/final reports, etc.
which are estnimated to take 4 staffweeks for each of the first two years and 3 staffweeks for each of the
four remainhile \cars in all 20 staffweeks. Other specialists may also participate in supervision missions
as re jlrci,v     II 1a1)NM, institutional development, and procurement specialists for an additional 12
staffveck. r';cl t'1; Jfc of th1e project). This level of input (100 staffweeks) is dictated by the relative
importance of the technical assistance components, and the complexities attached to the institutional
strengtheninig supported by the project.
Table 3.2 Forecast of Project Supervision (Staffweeks)
Specialist:                     FY97    FY98    FY99    FY00    FY01    FY02    Total
Transport Econoimiist             6        6         4        4         4        6         30
Highway Enginieer                 6        6         4        4         4        6         30
Pioject Finance Specialist        0        2         1        0         0        1         4
Procuremenit Specialist           1        0         0        0         0        1         2
Disbursement Specialist           I        0         0        0         0        1         2
Other                             6        6         5        5         5        5         32
Total                         20       20        14        13       13       20        100
Supervisioni Mlissionis:          3        3         2        2         2        2         14
8.     Attachlmenit I shows the project implementation schedule.



Annex 3
Page 7 of 10
Attachment 1, Page 1
C4
. .. ..... ..
... .. .   .. ..
.   ..   ..   .   .... 
In~~~~~~~~~~~~
L , 0?  fl                            I  1!l
pz a.11 1 



5    .   ..  .      i          t     |     '    5       
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .   . . .     . I.  I. . .   . . . . . . .   . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .   . . . . . .  . . . . . . .   . . . . . .   . . . . .
r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
I            I    F  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* a - I,I,I ..........
- -                        - ...-  -   -    -. .-.-
-t-      --&                       -   -   -- I    -    -  -   ------   --- -
I  _ T_, -.,. _, -... _  .- -.. _, -... -.. T ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ .-.. ... -     .. W   ... .....
_ _ t-t  _ ____  _X___ .                                          I  -
..~ ~ ...   ..
Z astd 'I 1waupuv
O  lo 8 XDUU
E xOUwV



[~   ~-a  i                          !11I  a  .aA      lc    I t 
..  ...  .   ...       t    k    1         
:iIS-iirj I   [hf
 ~  ~    ~    . ad''ImJu
- -                                                U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
....   .  .   .......    .
Of O 6 a2vd
,C XdUUv



33~~~~~~~~~. ..... ..3:                   ..
.. . .......  .. ...   .....   .   ... .   . . .
I ....I      ....1    .................'
[      i i. ........   ....   ..
......  ..  ... -            .    :        -.I
.. ..   .. . .   . . .   . . . . . .  .   . . .   . . .
... .    .. . .       ..I .....       .. .
....   B...                            .    ...
tI* 
.. ....   ..~      ~ .... ......      ...
..1              ..   .. .... ...   ... ..
.. .. . .   . .. . .. .. . .. . .   .
. 1  .... ..... ....    .     .
.i i              i.... -.... ...
.. .. . .. . ..   .. ..   .. . .. . .. .
~~~ ~~~g,j 'T )UUHPU)$V       ~                  ~                 ~                 ~                ~              ~               . ......[[.
Of X0 Of SON



Annex 4
Page I of 4
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
NATIONAL ROADS PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
1.    The MPW will be responsible for carrying out all project procurement activities in accordance
with the Bank Guidelines. To undertake such activities, the PIU will be staffed with Procurement
Specialists/Consultants acceptable to the Bank.
2.    The MPW could designate CDR as procurement agent for any project element where CDR has
a corrparative advantage.
3.    The Bank-financed civil works and equipment would be procured under the Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. Consulting services financed under the Loan would
be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the Bank as Executing Agency. During the project launch workshop, it will be stressed that Bank
procedures must be followed if misprocurement is to be avoided.
4.    Under the project, the proposed methods of procurement would include International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) and International Shopping (IS).
5.    International Competitive Bidding (ICB). All civil works for the pilot road rehabilitation
program (project's component A) will be awarded using International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and Bank standard bidding documents
for bidding and prequalification. Procurement documentation and decisions relating to all civil works
contracts will be subject to prior review and approval by the Bank. Contracts packaging of works will
be done with due consideration of costs efficiency, economies of scale, and promotion of the local
construction industry participation. It is estimated that the equivalent of about US$61.5 million (90.7
percent of the total estimated project cost) will finance the pilot road rehabilitation program component,
which will be implemented in 12 ICB contracts of more than US$3.5 million equivalent each.
6.    Equipment and Goods. All contracts for equipment and goods of more than US$200,000
equivalent each would be awarded using ICB procedures and will be subject to prior review and approval
by the Bank. Contracts for equipment and goods of less than US$200,000 will be procured through
international shopping procedures based on comparison of three price quotations from at least two
countries. The total aggregate of such contracts should not exceed US$1,000,000. It is estimated that
the equivalent of about US$1.5 million (2.2 percent of the total project estimated cost) will finance the
project's equipment component.
7.    Services. Consultant and training services for the project's technical assistance components will
be contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. These services,
totalling about US$4.8 million (7.1 percent of the total project estimated cost), include studies, training,
engineering designs, and construction supervision services for which proposals will be requested from



Annex 4
Pagc 2 of 4
three to six shortlisted firms. For consultancy assignments financed by the Bank under the project, there
would be prior review for contracts worth $100,000 and above for contracts with consulting firms and
$50,000 and above in the case of contracts with individual consultants.
8.    Procurement Schedule. Attachment 1 shows the Project Procurement Schedule.



LEBANESE REPUBUC
NATIONAL ROADS PROJECT
I   111"              1997              I33I 199
m0  Task Nis                                                                  stint      Fk*Mu   04  01 1021031040           0     304 10 0 0 01                    23
1  NATIONAL ROADS PROJECT - PRCUREMEN'T PLAN                                 7/15/96     912999
2-     Sc-yk  for be Todmie Amd*m    ampn   (Co.mjm~ B)                      7ll/139    2/14/97
S  Ra~~~~~~~~~~~ lies (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~muu SIuiy  7115/96    12/27/96~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ....  . ........              ........
4               Rind E(hr amps  Shdy   RaAge1mmU                             7115,96    7115196               *7116
a              WUB' eview of3SharliKmenRFPPe                                 7/29196    3/23/96. .
6               hawt RFPa &Red (her 0o    .mami)                             8I3O0W     &"1396
7               ope P-V.jteL                                                 10/11196   10/11196 
a               PipomI- Evehidom                                             10/14/96    1 /3/96
I               WDe'zuvie ofPropomleEvekumios                                II/W396   12/13/96
16 ~~~~~~~~~urdAww~ d O        la Ur Chua'g ML)                          1217M9   12i27M9                              22
11          Tack"  A      mkno  to d  Dkedwme of Rasb (DOX)                  3/23I%    2/14/97
U2              7f, RFP# od Shor LUUfAjafgd                                              N"316 1,396
U          ~~~~~~~~~WBU  revne of pP mdbow                                9/2/9      9/20/9
14  P~~~~~~~~~i JWt A is Aw DMN                                           9127196 9127M9
opn hwLi1,2                                                           2ln                          *11122...
Pwp.k- Evekaimm                                              11/219    121t1396
1?              W9e auview c(pnupouIe Eveabda                                12/3096    1/17/97
C.am Awar (TA t die DOM)                                     2/14)97    2/14197 .. . ... 
is  rqpmad(CinPmod C)                                                    2/26/97    5/29/9
21          PuOe e1%WM                                                            M      32M
n           Al sqeiumma dwn                                                   5/29/9     3/2996. ..   ...                                                   ..
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Aauw 4 Alchmuit I                                                     P.mmaunhlSchAft- Pap   of2



t    ~~~~   ft    fr  V  V  M M   V                    V     W      U    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  U  U ~  9
tn~~~~
CZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
N   q   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
I          8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
o                                    U.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
5~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~1
....   .   ... .     .            ....   . .     .   ...   .
.... ......     .. ... ... ...... ...... ... ...  ........ ... .... ... ... ...... ... ......... ... .........     .    ... ....   ..  .    ... ...    .   ...... ...... .....  .......  .... ... ... ...
4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
.......     ..... .......
U .... ...... .                                                          .     .. ....                            .   .     .. ....
.. . .   . . .. ... .    . .   . .   . . .   .   . .   . .. ..  ... ...   . . .  . ...   .. ..   ... .  
U    _ _ g _ _ _  _ _ _ _              _ _ _ _ _                _ _ _ _ _ _ _                    _                &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
.  ..   ....   .. .......f                                                         ~   a   v
.  ..     ......   ..                                                                           ....   .....  ...~ ~ ~~I'  D U lI



Annex 5
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
NATIONAL ROADS PROJECT
Loan Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Bank Fiscal Year                   Quarterly             Cumulative           Disbursements
Ouarter Endin'                   Disbursements         Disbursements         as % of Total
FY 1997
March 31, 1997                        1.7                    1.7                  4.0
June 30, 1997                         1.9                    3.6                  8.5
FY 1998
September 30, 1997                    1.7                    5.3                 12.5
December 31, 1997                     1.8                    7.1                 16.8
March 31, 1998                        1.7                    8.8                 20.9
June 30, 1998                         1.7                   10.5                 25.0
FY 1999
September 30, 1998                   2.3                    12.8                 30.4
December 31, 1998                    2.3                    15.1                 35.9
March 31, 1999                        3.4                   18.5                 44.0
June 30, 1999                         4.4                   22.9                 54.6
FY 2000
September 30, 1999                   4.4                    27.3                 65.1
December 31, 1999                     3.9                   31.3                 74.5
March 31, 2000                       4.0                    35.2                 84.0
June 30, 2000                         2.0                   37.2                 88.7
FY 2001
September 30, 2000                    1.4                   38.6                 92.1
December 31, 2000                    0.8                    39.4                 93.9
March 31, 2001                       0.8                    40.2                 95.7
June 30, 2001                         0.5                   40.7                 97.0
FY 2002
September 30, 2001                   0.6                    41.3                 98.4
December 31, 2001                    0.3                    41.5                 99.0
March 31, 2002                       0.2                    41.8                 99.5
June 30, 2002                        0.1                    42.0                100.0



Annex 6
Page I of 3
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
NATIONAL ROADS PROJECT
Envirominental Analysis and Actions
1.    Since the project comprises roads rehabilitation works and procurement of equipment, it is not
expected to have any major environmental impacts. The road works involve rehabilitation, widening,
and maintenance along existing road alignments. Even so, the works implemented under the National
Roads Project (NRP) will incorporate environmental considerations at each stage from design to
completion. The environmental analysis of the first-year program will be reviewed prior to negotiations.
2.     Environmental issues in the proposed project mainly concern indirect impacts, and the potential
negative direct impacts are negligible. Among the issues to be considered are drainage, erosion, quarries,
sand excavation, disposal of waste materials, and the damaging effects of asphalt mix plants. The
magnitude and importance of negative impacts, together with the improvement of environmental
conditions and traffic safety, will be assessed and specific mitigatory actions will be carried out during
implementation. Road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance will involve very little realignment (and
when it is necessary, realignment will be limited to small curve correction or safety-related blackspot
treatment). Road works will essentially include widening within existing rights-of-way limits, drainage
improvements, non-treated base courses and asphalt concrete overlays. Most granular materials will be
supplied from existing quarries or quarry sites.
3.     Environmental guidelines will be prepared for road rehabilitation works and their use will be
required under the project. Within the contract documents, a specific chapter on environment will be
required to cover noise, dust, replanting, and waste material disposal issues, and must include a
restoration plan for asphalt mix plant areas after the works are completed. The DOR's road laboratory
will be required to measure dust emissions around asphalt plants, especially near urban areas. Similarly,
safety guidelines for road projects will be prepared, and will be required to be implemented on all works.
Road safety studies (safety audits) will be carried out to identify and correct blackspots.  Special
guidelines will be introduced concerning the safety of road users and workers for the works being carried
out in traffic.
4.     Designs and implementation plans for each road will include the environmental improvements and
mitigation measures as set out in Table 6. 1. Works contracts will include environmental clause
provisions, including financial guarantees, related to: origin of quarry material (with incentives to use
quarries with approved environmental management plans); location of borrow sites; location and
ilanagement of stockpiling areas and work depots; location and pollution control of asphalt concrete
plants; location of work camps and worker accommodations; storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous
products; procedures to prevent and control soil, water, air, and noise pollution; procedures for road user
safety; traffic management plans for construction vehicles and diverted traffic; restoration of all work
sites; and occupational health and safety risks of road maintenance workers. Road rehabilitation works
will be supervised and monitored according to environmental provisions in the contract documents.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
Table 6.1: Potential Direct Impacts of the Road Maintenance
Impact              ILocation                         I      Mitigation Measures
Soil erosion                     Cleared areas adjacent to roads    Replanting of cleared areas
Water pollution from hazardous    When crossing soils with limited    Proper storage, handling, and
products used in road works      filtered power, like limestone, or   disposal of hazardous products in
near sensitive bodies of water or    road works (including lubricating
water intake points               oils)
Soil contamination with          All road works sites               Proper storage, handling,and
hazardous products used in road                                     disposal of hazardous products in
works                                                               road works (including lubricating
oils)
Dust emissions during road       Residential areas and other areas    Watering
works                             sensitive to dust
Construction noise                Residential areas and other areas    Use of silenced equipment
sensitive to noise
Vibration due to explosive        Near built-up areas               Control the amount of explosive
used, and take adequate safety
measures
Cut-off effects on lecal         Crossing urban areas               Traffic management plans for
communities                                                         construction vehicles and diverted
traffic. Restore access during
works
Reduction of road users' safety  All road works sites               Traffic management plans for
construction vehicles and diverted
traffic. Each work under traffic
should follow road safety
procedures that may include
warning signs, speed limit signs,
l________________________________  lighting,  fences,   etc.
Wastes from old pavement         All road works sites               Reuse when technically possible;
materials                                                           otherwise dispose at appropriate
l ____________________________    ______________________________     dum ping   site
5.     Technical assistance financed under the project will help DOR develop an action plan to build
sufficient capacity to carry out environmental impacts analysis for its programs and projects, and to adopt
appropriate environmental guidelines and mitigatory measures for road works. The objective of this
technical assistance is to assist DOR in creating an environmental unit to prepare and implement an
appropriate environmental management plan for the road  sector.   Such action would  include
environmental training of DOR staff.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
6       Table 6.2 summarizes the environmental mitigation and monitoring plan to be implemented under
the NRP.
Table 6.2: The Environment Mitigation and Monitoring Plan for the National Roads Project
Issue                   Mitigating Actions                 Organization Responsible for [       Date
I                                I  ~       ~~~~~~~~~~Monitoring Actions II
Quarries       Actions to avoid dust and noise, where         Quarry or contractor owning      Before works
appropriate                                    the quarry (under the            start
supervision of the regional
Actions to ensure road safety measures for    directorates of roads and
access to quarries at their intersection with  relevant authority)
trafficked roads
Drainage and   State-of-the-art actions, like concrete ditches  Detailed engineering consultant,   During
Erosion        and planting                                   supervision engineer, and        project design
contractor                       and
construction
Widening       Appropriate signals for road user safety       DOR, contractor and              Prior to
supervision engineer            contract
Limited length under construction                                              award and
during
construction
Asphalt mix    Measurement of dust emission                   DOR laboratory (or specialized    Prior to
plants                                                       laboratory), project preparation    works
Restoration plan of asphalt plant areas       consultant, contractor proposals   completion
approved by the supervision
engineer
Effect of      Prepare and implement safety plan for          Project consultant as part of    DOR to
works on       construction period                            project preparation, contractor,   conduct safety
road user                                                     supervision engineer             audit on a
safety                                                                                         random basis
Effect of      Blackspot analysis incorporated in the project    DOR and                       During study
traffic speed    preparation and detailed engineering         project preparation consultant   period
after road
rehabilitation
Development   Technical assistance to DOR                     PIU and DOR                      During NRP
of                                                                                            implementat-
environment                                                                                    tion
guidelines
for roads
projects__        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _  _



Annex 7
Page I of 13
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
NATIONAL ROADS PROJECT
Maintenance & Rehabilitation of Lebanon Road Network
Economic Analysis
1.    During the past few years, the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) initiated several efforts to meet
the minimum requirements for the maintenance of the classified network. However, there was an urgent
need to define a cost effective program for the rehabilitation and strengthening of the classified road
network and to develop an overall road maintenance strategy. Such a program would allow the present
backlog of maintenance work to be progressively reduced over the coming few years, and would ensure
that the funds available for maintenance works are allocated in the most cost effective manner. The
Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR) has developed such a program supported by a
network economic evaluation based on the Highways Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM)
and the supporting Expenditure Budgeting Model (EBM), which have been developed by the World Bank.
This program is presented in the study: Identification, Preparation and Economic Evaluation of a Five-
Year Road Rehabilitation Program, prepared by consultants engaged by CDR.
A. Objectives
2.    The objectives of the study are: (a) to define the optimal budget requirements for an overall road
maintenance strategy for the rehabilitation and strengthening of the classified road network (excluding
local roads); (b) prepare a five-year program based on this overall network economic evaluation,
including a first year priority program; (c) to quantify the economic benefits of such a program and the
expected improvements on the current level of service; and (d) to quantify the consequences of adopting
sub-optimal strategies due to budget constraints.
B. Methodology
3.    The study was composed of two phases. Phase I involved the data collection process and
economic analysis to define the priority program, and Phase II prepared detailed designs for the first year
program. Data was collected describing the current roadway characteristics and traffic, the expected
traffic growth, the vehicle fleet characteristics and unit costs, the road maintenance operations unit costs,
and the characteristics of the maintenance strategies to be evaluated. The data collected for the road
inventory included, among others, the horizontal and vertical alignment, cross sections, pavement type,
and drainage characteristics. Network surveys included a traffic survey, a limited axle load survey, a
roughness and visual pavement condition survey, and a vehicle operating costs survey. The network
under study comprises 2,787.8 km of International, Primary and Secondary roads where data was
available. Local roads and the remainder of the International, Primary and Secondary roads (mainly in
the occupied parts of South Lebanon) were not included in this study. The former was excluded from
the scope of the analysis, while the latter (about 100 km) were not covered due to difficulties of access
and data collection in the buffer zone.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 13
4.    The HDM and EBM models have been used to assess maintenance and rehabilitation strategies
for the existing network and to optimize the maintenance strategies under budgetary constraints in order
to determine the best possible allocation of funds. The HDM model simulates road deterioration and
computes the road agency and vehicle operating cost streams for each of the strategies being evaluated,
as well as the economic indicator used to compare these strategies, i.e., the net present value (NPV) of
benefits to society. The EBM model is an optimization program used to select, under budgetary
constraints, for each road a strategy that maximizes the net benefits to society for the group of roads
being evaluated.
Road Network Characterization
5.    Based on the inventory data and the condition and traffic surveys, the network under study was
divided into more than 300 uniform sections with an average length of 9 km and uniform characteristics
with respect to traffic, condition and road width. Road Condition was assessed using the International
Roughness Index (IRI). According to the results of the roughness survey, about 13.1 percent of the
network surveyed is in Good condition (IRI < 4), 47.8 percent in Fair condition (4 < IRI < 6), 35.7 percent
in Poor condition (6 < IRI < 9) and 3.3 percent in Critical condition (IRI > 9). The findings of the traffic
survey revealed that close to 61 percent of the estimated traffic is concentrated on about 320 kilometers
of Intemational and Primary roads (about 13 percent of the network).
6.    For the HDM model to be used to evaluate the whole Lebanese network, the road sections were
classified into homogenous "representative links" by various engineering and traffic variables. The
sections were grouped into representative links based on the following criteria: (a) four road condition
levels - Good, Fair, Poor and Critical; (b) seven traffic volume ranges based on the Average Daily
Traffic (<400, 400-1000, 1000-2000, 2000-3000, 3000-5000, 5000-10000, and > 10000); and (c) four
road width classes (one lane, narrow two lane, two lane, and four lane). In total, 112 (4x7x4)
representative links were established from the combination of the variables described above. Table 7.1
shows the analytical matrix that represents the road network surveyed.
Vehicle Operating Costs
7.    In order to establish the Vehicle Operating Costs (VOC) for the common vehicle types in
Lebanon, a passenger and goods vehicle operating costs survey was carried out around the Greater Beirut
area. From the surveys, it was found that the average age of passenger vehicles is 14 years, whereas for
goods vehicles the average age is 18 years. For each vehicle type, financial costs of fuel, tires, new
vehicles and labor were collected. In order to arrive at economic costs, shadow pricing techniques have
been used to adjust financial costs and thus eliminate the effects of transfer payments, mainly taxes,
import duties and subsidies. Table 7.2 shows the vehicle characteristics and economic unit costs used
in the analysis. Table 7.3 shows typical unit vehicle operating costs at different levels of road roughness
obtained using the HDM model.
Maintenance Strategies
8.     A series of feasible periodic maintenance and rehabilitation operations (four overlay thicknesses
and two reconstruction types) were identified, and corresponding unit costs and characteristics were
defined. Table 7.4 shows the unit costs of maintenance operations used in the analysis. For all links,
a periodic maintenance action can be expected immediately or in the near future. Therefore, we are



Annex 7
Page 3 of 13
interested in evaluating this first action as well the effects of postponing it. For links in fair to critical
condition, an optimal rehabilitation operation, based on engineering principles, was adopted as the first
periodic action and this action was assumed to take place in either the first year (1996) or postponed to
the second to the eiglith year. Also, for each link, a different (lower standard) first periodic operation
was evaluated taking place in the same years. In all cases, after the first periodic action is executed, it
was assumed that it would be followed by condition-responsive overlays of 6 cm activated at roughness
of 4.0 IRI. For links in good condition, the first maintenance action was assumed to take place between
years four and eleven, followed by condition-responsive overlays of 6 cm at roughness of 4.0 IRI.
Five-Year Budget Scenarios
9.     The HDM  model was run using the HDM  Manager 3.0 for all representative links with an
analysis period of 20 years, a discount rate of 12 percent and a traffic growth rate of 4 percent from 1995
to 2004 and 3 percent from 2005 upto the end of the analysis period. The optimal strategy for each link
was found using the EBM model for the following budget scenarios:
Scenario A: No budget constraints
Scenario B: Periodic expenditures limited to US$60 mi/year
Scenario C: Periodic expenditures limited to US$50 n/year
Scenario D: Periodic expenditures limited to US$40 m/year
Scenario E: Periodic expenditures limited to US$30 m/year
Scenario F: Periodic expenditures limited to US$20 m/year
Scenario G: Periodic expenditures limited to US$10 m/year
Scenario H: Periodic expenditures limited to US$35, US$45,
US$5, US$55 & US$50 m in years 1, 2, 3, 4 & 5
In all cases the recurrent expenditures were left unconstrained as well as the periodic expenditures after
year seven. The no budget constraint case (scenario A) presents the theoretically optimal solution, which
is not practical because it presents an unequal distribution of the program in the first five years. In this
case, most of the periodic expenditures takes place in the first year followed with few expenditures in
years two to five. This solution is not realistic but it is computed to give us the total periodic
expenditures needed for the first five years, in this case is US$260.0 million. Scenario B presents
uniform periodic expenditures of US$60.0 million/year, representing a more practical solution that yields
about US$254.0 million in the first five years. Scenarios C to G present different budget constraint cases
where the yearly uniform periodic expenditures are being reduced gradually. Finally, Scenario H
presents the budget over the next five years based on an assessment of the maximum practical
rehabilitation expenditures considering institutional capacity constraints.
10.   Having determined the optimal practical budget scenario and obtained the corresponding five-year
program, the next step was to determine the geographical distribution of the investments and compare
the distributon with the proportion of the network in each Muhafazat. This has indicated that the
distribution of expenditures are of the same magnitude as the proportion of the network in each
Muhafazat. The distribution of investments was then adjusted slightly to take into account other non-
economic factors. This regional analysis was then used as the basis for defining the actual work
program, which also considered other programming requirements, such as practicality of contract
packaging, bidding and execution.



Annex 7
Page 4 of 13
C. Network Analysis Results
11.   Table 7.5 shows the strategies selected by the HDM & EBM models for each representative link
as a function of each budget scenario. Each strategy, other than the base strategy, is identified by a
strategy code that is divided into two parts. The first two digits identify the first operation to be
implemented and the last digits the timing of this first action (year). The possible operation codes are
the following: (a) 00 for 4 cm overlay; (b) 01 for 6 cm overlay; (c) 02 for 8 cm overlay; (d) 03 for
10 cm overlay; (e) 04 for 12 cm overlay; (f) RI for reconstruction with 3.5 SN; and (g) R2 for
reconstruction with a 5.0 SN. For example, for representative link "One lane / Poor / 0400" and for
the proposed budget scenario the selected strategy is 02 6, that is a 8 cm overlay to take place in year
6 as the first periodic action followed by 8 cm overlays at roughness of 4 IRI. Following this coding
system, we can identify, for each budget scenario, which links should be worked on each year and the
operation needed. Having obtained the solution for each representative link, we also obtain the solution
for each aniform road section that is a part of each representative link. These strategies were selected
by the F3M model with the objective of maximizing the network net present value (NPV) of benefits to
society under varying budget constraints or levels of implementation capacity. The resulting NPVs for
each budget scenario, as well as the agency expenditures required to implement each scenario are also
gi/en in Table 7.5.
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
12.   As can be expected, the economic returns of a rehabilitation/maintenance program are extremely
high. For the overall rehabilitation program, the NPV for the selected expenditure program (Scenario
H) is on the order of US$3,335 million for an expenditure of US$498.0 million (constant 1995 US$).
The internmtl rates of return (IRR) calculated are consequently high (> 100%), and suffer from the implicit
assumption that the benefits can be reinvested at the (high) rate of return of the investment, which is not
likely in view of the high returns being generated. Therefore, the modified IRR has been calculated,
which assumes that returns are reinvested at the opportunity cost of capital in the economy (around 12%),
and this yields a much lower (modified) IRR. The modified IRR estimated for the Road Rehabilitation
Program is 30 percent. Table 7.5 shows the results of changes in costs and benefits, and the high returns
are not significantly affected by a 15 percent increase in costs and decrease in benefits, whose combined
effect reduces overall NPV to US$2,772 million and the IRR to 28 percent.
Projected Network Improvements
13.    Figure I presents graphically the relationship between the rehabilitation programn's net benefits
to society and the average annual periodic agency expenditures. We can see that scenarios A, B, and C
yield slightly higher benefits than the proposed scenario H that was selected based on the institutional
capacity of MPW. We can also observe the more drastic economic consequences of reducing the average
agency expenditures to levels below US$30.0 million/year (Scenarios F, G). Figure 2 shows the resulting
network level of service for each budget scenario. The graph shows the average network roughness over
the analysis period (20 years) for each budget scenario. We can see that for the proposed budget scenario
H, the overall nctwork roughness over the next 20 years will be around 4.0 IRI. For scenarios D to G,
reducing th agency expenditures will increase the network roughness and the resulting vehicle operating
costs, yielding lower total costs to society than scenario H.



Annex 7
Page 5 of 13
14.   Figure 3 presents the evolution of the network condition over the next six years under the
proposed budget scenario H. This graph shows the percentage of the network length in Good, Fair and
Poor/Critical condition. The first year (1995) represents the current network condition and the following
years show the expected improvements due to implementation of the proposed program. The percent of
the network in Good condition (roughness < 4.0 IRI) will increase from around 13 percent to 87 percent
over the five years. Figure 4 shows the expected network utilization over the next five years for the
proposed scenario. The graph presents the total network utilization, in million vehicle-kilometers per
year, and the percent of the vehicles driving on Good, Fair and Poor/Critical roads, and shows that in
year 2001 the great majority of users will be serviced by good roads.
Projected Work Program Requirements
15.   Figure 5 presents the yearly financial periodic expenditures required to implement the proposed
scenario H, by operation type. For this scenario, the yearly recurrent expenditures required, for patching
and routine maintenance, are about US$4.4 million per year. We can see that in the first two years the
resources will be used mostly on 10 to 12 cm overlays, the third and fourth years will be dedicated
mostly to 6 to 8 cm overlays and reconstructions will mostly be done in year five. Figure 6 presents the
work program in kilometers for the proposed scenario H by operation type. In the first two years around
300 kilometers per year will be worked on, in year three around 550 kilometers will be worked on, and
in years four to six around 400 kilometers per year of works will be undertaken.
16.   Figure 7 presents, for the proposed scenario H, the average periodic expenditures per km needed
to implement the scenario for three, four-year periods starting in 1996. We can see that in the first four-
year period (1996-99), the network needs yearly expenditures in the order of US$16,500 per km and after
the backlog is eliminated the yearly requirements are reduced to around US$9,000 per km in the second
four-year period, and US$4,500 per km in the third four-year period, i.e., the network is stabilized in
about ten years.
D. Evaluation of the Sections to be Financed by the Loan
17.   The pilot program  to be financed under the proposed loan was selected from the overall
rehabilitation program, and the individual road sections included in this pilot program were subjected to
specific economic evaluations. In selecting the pilot program components, economic merit was not the
sole criterion since the pilot program's components were to be used as demonstration projects, to develop
improved maintenance standards and project implementation procedures in each of the four regional
directorates. Therefore the rates of return obtained on the pilot program do not correspond to the highest
rates of return available within the overall program. Attachment 1 to Annex 2 presents the NPV for the
first year of the pilot program components, and shows that each component has a positive NPV at a 12
percent (real) discount rate.



Annex 7
Page 6 of 13
Table 7.1: Road Network by Class, Condition and Traffic (kmn)
One Lane Roads (3.5m)
Good      Fair      Poor Critical       Total  Percent
<400 ADT               0.0      18.8      63.1      27.7    109.6       20.8%
400-1000 ADT           9.2      21.9      80.2       0.0    111.3       21.1%
1000-2000 ADT         18.9      62.1      73.3       0.0    154.3       29.3%
2000-3000 ADT         13.3      13.0       2.5       0.0      28.8       5.5%
3000-5000 ADT          0.0      35.2      27.2       0.0      62.4      11.8%
5000-10000 ADT        20.0      18.9      22.0       0.0      60.9      11.5%
>10000 ADT             0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0%
Total                 61.4    169.9    268.3        27.7    527.3
Percent               11.6%    32.2%    50.9%        5.3%
Narrow Two Lane Roads (5.8m)
Good      Fair       Poor Critical      Total  Percent
<400 ADT               0.0      52.7    186.1       14.9    253.7       23.9%
400-1000 ADT           0.0      58.8      89.1      31.5    179.4       16.9%
1000-2000 ADT         24.5    121.7    131.3         7.0    284.5       26.8%
2000-3000 ADT          0.0      20.5      57.6       0.0      78.1       7.4%
3000-5000 ADT         34.0      50.7      18.4       0.0    103.1        9.7%
5000-10000 ADT         2.9      55.2      23.5       0.0      81.6       7.7%
>10000 ADT            13.0      35.9      30.8       0.0      79.7       7.5%
rotal                 74.4    395.5    536.8        53.4   1060.1
Percent                7.0%    37.3%    50.6%        5.0%
Two Lane Roads (7.Om)
Good      Fair      Poor Critical       Total  Percent
<400 ADT               0.0      51.8      35.6       0.0      87.4      11.4%
400-1000 ADT           0.0      14.6      16.8       2.4      33.8       4.4%
1000-2000 ADT         10.8    121.3        5.7       0.0    137.8       18.1%
2000-3000 ADT          4.0      56.1      27.2       3.0      90.3      11.8%
300u-5000 ADT         11.0    101.3       40.8       0.0    153.1       20.1%
E0JO-10000 ADT         8.0      78.9      33.1       0.0    120.0       15.7%
>10000 ADT            18.0    105.2       17.8       0.0    141.0       18.5%
Total                 51.8    529.2    177.0         5.4    763.4
Percent                6.8%    69.3%    23.2%        0.7%
Four Lane Roads (14.Om)
Good      Fair      Poor Critical       Total  Percent
<400 ADT               0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0%
400-1000 ADT           0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0%
1000-2000 ADT          0.0       7.7       4.0       0.0      11.7       2.7%
2000-3000 ADT         12.0      16.0       0.0       2.2      30.2       6.9%
3000-5000 ADT         43.8      60.1       0.0       0.0    103.9       23.8%
5000-10000 ADT         3.6      28.7       5.0       3.9      41.2       9.4%
>10000 ADT           118.0    126.5        5.5       0.0    250.0       57.2%
Total                177.4    239.0       14.5       6.1    437.0
Percent               40.6%    54.7%       3.3%      1.4%
TOTAL                  365   1333.6    996.6        92.6   2787.8
13.1%    47.8%    35.7%        3.3%
Good - < 4 IRI               Fair - 4 TO 6 IRI
Poor - 6 to 9 IRI           Critical - > 9 IRI



Annex 7
Page 7 of 13
Table 7.2: Vehicle Characteristics and Economic Unit Costs
Medium Heavy Artic.
BASIC CHARACTERISTICS          Car Pickup    Bus   Truck  Truck  Truck
Gross Vehicle Weight Ct)  1.200  4.200  8.900  17.700 31.300 33.600
ESAl Factor per Veh.(E4)  0.000  0.030  0.300   4.720  8.110  4.138
Number of Axles               2       2      2       2      3       4
Number of Tires               4       4      6       6     10      14
Number of Passengers       1.85   3.28  20.20    1.38   1.17   1.15
VEHICLE UTILIZATION UATA
Service Life (yr)          14.0   14.0   18.0    16.0   16.0   16.0
Hours Driven per Year      1250   1600   1750    1900   1900   1900
Km Driven per Year        18000  20000  35000   45000  45000  45000
Depreciation Code             1       1      1       1              1
Utilization Code              2       2      2       2      2       2
Annual Interest Rate (%)  10.00  12.00  12.00   12.00  12.00  12.00
ECONOMIC UNIT COSTS
New Vehicle Price (S)     12333  15600  60000   79339  97279 100280
New Tire Price C$)         50.0   73.0  167.0   270.C  270.0  270.0
Maintenance Labor ($/hr)   1.36   1.36   1.82    4.00   4.55   4.55
Crew Cost ($/crew-hr)      0.00   0.00   2.79    2.67   2.67   2.67
Passenger Time ($/pa-hr)   1.72   2.59   1.24    0.00   0.00   0.00
Gas/Petrol Price ($/lt)        0.20
Diesel Price ($/It)           0.17
Lubricants Price ($/It)        2.19
Table 7.3: Typical Vehicle Operating Costs
Medium   Heavy  Articulated
Roughness             Car       Pickup      Bus       Truck      Truck       Truck
(IRI)            ($/km)    ($/km)    ($/km)    ($/km)    ($/km)         (S/km)
3.0                0.11      0.24       0.70       0.49      0.76       0.83
3.5                0.12      0.25       0.71      0.51       0.78       0.85
4.0               0.12       0.26       0.73      0.55       0.82       0.88
4.5               0.13       0.26       0.74      0.56       0.83       0.89
5.0               0.13       0.27       0.75      0.60       0.87       0.92
5.5               0.14       0.28       0.76      0.62       0.89       0.94
6.0               0.15       0.29       0.78      0.66       0.93       0.98
6.5               0.15       0.30       0.79      0.68       0.95       1.00
7.0                0.16      0.32       0.82      0.72       0.99       1.04
7.5                0.17      0.33       0.83      0.74       1.01       1.06
8.0               0.18       0.35       0.87      0.79       1.06       1.10
8.5               0.19       0.36       0.87      0.83       1.11       1.15
9.0               0.20       0.37       0.88      0.85       1.13       1.17
9.5               0.21       0.40       0.92      0.90       1.18       1.22
10.0                0.22      0.41       0.94       0.93      1.20       1.24
10.5                0.23      0.43       0.96       0.95      1.23       1.27



Anngx 7
Page 8 of 13
Table 7.4: Unit Financial Cost of Maintenance Operations
Operation
Code Deacription                -------------------- Road Width {m) -----------------
3.5            5.8            7.0            14.0
00   4 cm Overlay               35,500 S/km   75,400 S/km   91,000 S/km  182,000 S/km
01   6 cm Overlay               53,690 $/km   88,972 S/km  107,380 S/km  214,760 $/km
02   8 cm Overlay               58,240 $/km   96,512 S/km  116,480 S/km  232,960 S/km
03   10 cm Overlay              62,790 $/km  104,052 S/km  125,580 $/km  251,160 $/km
04   12 cm Overlay              67,340 S/km  111,592 S/km  134,680 $/km  269,360 S/km
RI   Reconstruction(3.5 SN) 105,000 S/km  174,000 $/km  210,000 $/km  420,000 $/km
R2   Reconstruction(5.0 SN) 130,200 S/km  215,760 $/km  260,400 $/km  520,800 S/km
Pt   Patching                 5.0 $ per sq m
Rt   Routine Maintenance    1,600 S per km per year
Note: Economic Costs - Financial Costs X 0.94



Annex 7
Page 9 of 13
Table 7.5: HDM & EBM Solution
A       B      C      D      E      F      G      H
35 M$
45 MS
Constraints on                                         60 MS 50 M$ 40 M$ 30 M$ 20 M$ 10 M$ 50 M$
Periodic Expenditures                     No Budget      per   per   per   per   per   per 55 M$
Constraint  year  year  year  year  year  year 50 M$
Net Present Value  (M$)                         3438    3388  3354  3324  3261  3081  2842  3335
Internal Rate of Return (%)                      100     161   173   200   244    282   383   205
Years
Periodic                                 1       212      60     50      40     30     20     10     35
Expenditures                             2         3       60     50     40     30     20     10     45
(M$)                                     3         5      60     50     40     30     20      10    50
4        35      59     50     40     30     20      10     55
5         5      14     33     40     30    20       10     49
1-5       260     253   233   200   150   100          50   234
6-10        32       34     59     96   148   200   252        60
11-20       203      204    203   205   203   203   203   204
Recurrent                              1-5        22      22      23     23     23     23     23     23
Expenditures                         6-10         22      22      22     22     22     22     22     22
;MS$)                               11-20         45      45     45     45     45     45      45     45
Table 7.6: Sensitivity Analysis
NPV                 IRR a/
(USS Million)             (3)
I.  Base Cost                                  3334.7                 30
2.  15% Decrease in Benefits                   2803.5                 29
3.  15% Increase in Costs                      3303.7                 29
4.  Combined (2) and  3)                       2772.4                 28
a! Modified IRR.



Anne-x 7
Page 10 of 13
Figure 1- Net Benefits to Society
Loftemi  F%o4d Io baoy.gk rAmq waf   Pt.. 1%s 1.
(Mtll on 11011Ms-S)
35..
0
r6                                                            r
A
*                                  oe
; 328e
3t-8
II 3ee-
3086
S          tOl      20       as         0       SO       so       76
Auver-m4  Ft,rual P'-tiodlo l-gnoeq  Costs ( u.oas 1-4)
a    oar i    Ps
Figure 2 - Average Netvork Roughness
Lob.won P.d   14.t&K.rk Xoonor is An. lw Is
(Mllhion DollarS)
_~~~~~~
4.25
j 4o1
a3.so
3.8,
*  .76 
3.68+
* *1S             28       3                 50       s .
uw       ft. f  twi  P. PlaV Iodlo    ._na   Costs (w ars 4
5e-sr os
* Rtw at t   O  C_t     11    X  r p   ia  *-I
-dgm%s m          IJighe    aw__m   w      o



Annex 7
Page )) of 13
Figure 3 - Network Condition
Labariorn R0a.d  ,tbu-ik oonlo  11-al 
P,opoad Soar lo
its
1.64
a0.
-7.
IsO    less    199o  tame    tea9    2a.       2961
Po-ad CorRdition
Figure 4- Network Udiiztion
LObftn0r% AC&d MO.V6VW ZOCDI fb&'AISjL.
maw.
196         ls         0     ig       s L0            20
a~~~~~~~~~~Va-
RoA4 Cond It ton
la0000  a rAR   W R



Annex 7
Page 12 of 13
Figure 5- Work Program (MS)
ACIOd "Oturk ZKoMonLo fo-1i.sis
to-9ced  Sarto
96         tS1997      9SS      t199S       2e66       2e3t
Ye a_-s
Owrst ions
~ G,,  ..,r  i Sc, O..w   ~  SCI- Ovr  3; l2ci Ove.r  * He-o. tn-ur t io,n
Figure 6- Work Program (km)
-    14 Road mevrk Zooeoulo  Analusls
prcw.d So.wna. to
ii_
a.0
lose       1337      19se6      19         2          2331
O0  at t  i l ot
IC) son e-  a o  oww   a3 1          , 0m= Ower   g1anOm       Pdcl-tvot I



AnneX 7
Page 13 of 13
Figure 7 - Work Program (US$'OQ/km)
LeDenOn Rond Network Economic Analyals
Proposed Scenario
'A
o
0
14-
E
L 12-
Li 
ul~~~~ ~~                  Yeroerod
0  10
0
iL
4.
U 2-
C
V 0
4 Year Periods
Starting year- 1995                                            Average costs per period



Annex 8
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
NATIONAL ROADS PROJECT
Selected Documents in the Project File
I .    Maintenance and Rehabilitation of Lebanon Road Network, Phase 1 Report, prepared by Dar Al-
Handasah (Shair & Partners) for CDR, October 1995.
2.     Legal Opinion of Nawaf A. Salam, LL.M, Dr. d'Etat, on the Draft Legislation on Establishing
the National Roads Board, Beirut, August 1995.
3.     Paper on Environrnental Issues for the National Roads Project, Ecossistema, May 1995.
4.    Project Working Papers Volume:
-      The Road Sector
-     Road Rehabilitation Program
-     Draft Legislation Establishing the National Roads Board
-     Memorandum on Discussion with the Ministry of Justice on the Road Fund
-     TOR for Road User Charges Study
-      TOR for Technical Assistance to the National Roads Board
-     TOR for Technical Assistance to the Directorate of Roads



DIRECTORATE
GENERAL
OF IIIGIIWAYSO
& BUILDINGS                 DIKE'CTORATE 
_    ROADS 
r-I
PLANNING &                 STUDIES                 CONSTRUCTION                 MAINTENANCE                           REGIONAL   -
PROGRAMMING                  Division                   Division                     Division                        DIRECTORATE
Diyision                                                                                                         Mouiml Lbanon0
Planning           Bridges & Structures           Constnrction                  Equipment.                         RE|GIONAL
Scciion                 Scction                     Seclion                 Supply and Crews                    DIRECTORATE
Scution Nbab Leban
Swalistics              Alignment                                                                                  REIONAL
Section                  Scrion                                                                                 DIRECTORATE               r       O
Projects & Contracts              Road                      Lbouatory                          REC I ONAL 
Section                     Safety                      Sccioa     |                  DIRECTORATE
Section                                                      Soulb lnon
Ezproprinaon
SecunI






MAP SECTION
"P-.'
1.






35-30'                                        36'00                                       3730
LEBANON                                                                         - 
NATIONAL ROADS PROJECT
-3A 30'                                                                                                                                        3A-30
>7   V      Q     _               .        H-fe<g 
Ch.kk.             WNO R TH  L E B A N O Ny-           S2         (
Seca                                                                         BEKAA a
T.bo,io .        I E                                        ..I.c /' r \t+   r
34r00,                                                                                                                                        3A-00-
BEIR$ w           f         S      Z     h       hR         y                r 
PILOT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
f~~~~~~~~~r 
^{. _ ~~~~~~~-  P   t /   2   [ ~~~~~~~~~~~FIRST YEARt
Soidera .. r\~ j/                                                             -      SECOND AND THIRD YEARS
/y , Jorz07 r Sr 2 _iDe~~~~ir El Ahmrr .,
33 30   _nl    ~9S)   0, tJ      g   oochoiy .                   INTERNATIONAL HIGHWAYS              3330
PRIMARY HIGHWAYS
f                                            - J    q  J wf k   /   |,  RAILROADS
'S. /  N                            4.  ~~~~~~~~~~PORTS
4    AIRPORTS
WATERCOURSES
g S s o u T H                                                                  *    NATIONAL CAPITAL
/2   L E B A N O N      <              r '                                       @    GOVERNORATE IMOHAFAZAT) CAPITALS
o    SELECTED CITIES
Tyr,                                                                                               GREATER REIRUT
. . .INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
GOVERNORATE IMOHAFAZAT) BOUNDARIES
g            >        i          O~~~~~~~~ 5   10  15 KILIOMETERSn__
_~~~~~~~~~ {)t                                                  i' o s 1 15MIIES                                         _+_A  o o
m         9.  /                                                                             o10ar __2 C1
35-30'                                         36-00'                                      36'30'    _









IMAING
Report No:       15087 LE
Type: SAR



