Page  1
                                               Conformed Copy
                                          LOAN NUMBER 4065 LE
                          Loan Agreement
                     (National Roads Project)
                              between
                        LEBANESE REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                     Dated as of July 15, 1996
                                       LOAN NUMBER 4065 LE
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated as of July 15, 1996, between LEBANESE REPUBLIC (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;
     (B) The Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated June 21,
1996, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies for the
development of the Borrower's roads sector (herein after referred to as
the Program).
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                 General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May
Page  2
30, 1995, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Central Bank" means Banque du Liban, the Borrower's
central bank, established and operating pursuant to the Money and
Credit Law promulgated by Decree No. 13513 of the Borrower, dated
August 1, 1963, as the same may be amended from time to time;
     (c)  "MPW" means the Ministry of Public Works of the Borrower;
     (d)  "DOR" means the Directorate of Roads, responsible for the
construction and maintenance of all roads except expressways and
internal roads;
     (e)  "RRP" means the Borrower's Road Rehabilitation Program,
dated December of 1994;
     (f)  "PIU" means the Program Implementation Unit to be
established within MPW pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement; and
     (g)  "Internal Rate of Return" means the discount rate used to
discount future benefits and costs which makes the present value of
benefits equal to the present value of costs.
                             ARTICLE II
                              The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount equal to forty-two million Dollars ($42,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total
Spread.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
         (i)   "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
Page  3
               the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter,
               and after the initial period, each period from and
               including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding
               the next following Interest Payment Date.
        (ii)   "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
       (iii)   "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the
               London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in
               "Dollars" for value the first day of such Interest
               Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period,
               for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next
               preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
               a percentage per annum.
        (iv)   "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
               (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); and (B) minus
               (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest
               Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered
               rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits,
               in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or
               portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single
               currency loans or portions thereof made by it that
               include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank
               and expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the
determination thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice
to the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on
the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank
during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  4
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the
continued achievement of the Project's objectives; and (b)  afford
the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on said plan.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall submit for review by the Bank,
not later than September 30, 1997, a study establishing the level and
structure of road user charges and the methodology establishing the
same.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) conduct annual reviews of
the RRP and develop work programs for the subsequent fiscal year, with
the objective of establishing priorities for road rehabilitation and
maintenance works on the basis of criteria acceptable to the Bank,
including the requirement that such rehabilitation works have an
internal rate of return of at least fifteen (15) percent; and
     (b)  furnish to the Bank for its comments the list of roads
selected for rehabilitation under Part A of the Project as part of
the RRP annual work programs.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30,
1997, establish a unit in MPW responsible for preparing environmental
monitoring and mitigation guidelines designed to address various
environmental impacts arising from the road rehabilitation works, and
furnish such guidelines to the Bank for approval immediately there-
after; and
     (b)  ensure that the selection of roads as well as the implemen-
tation of the rehabilitation works are carried out in accordance with
such guidelines.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
         (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
        (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than nine (9) months after the end of
               each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
               shall have reasonably requested; and
       (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
Page  5
         (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
        (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made,
               all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures;
       (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
        (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
                              ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE VI
                     Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition of the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely that the
Borrower has established the PIU in accordance with the provisions
of Paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Minister of Finance
          Ministry of Finance
          Beirut, Lebanon
                                    Telex:
                                    923-235-13
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
Page  6
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:            Telex:
               INTBAFRAD            248423 (MCI), or
               Washington, D.C.      64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               LEBANESE REPUBLIC
               By /s/ Nabil A. El Jisr
                               Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                 Regional Vice President
                            Middle East and North Africa
                             SCHEDULE 1
               Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated        % of
                      (Expressed in     Expenditures
   Category           Dollars)         to be Financed
(1)  Works              29,400,000        60%
(2)  Goods               1,400,000        100% of foreign
                                          expenditures,
                                          100% of local
                                          expenditures
                                          (ex-factory
                                          cost) and 85%
                                          of local
                                          expenditures for
                                          other items
                                          procured locally
(3)  Consultants'        3,375,000        75%
     services
(4)  Unallocated         7,825,000
     TOTAL              42,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
Page  7
of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $4,000,000, may be
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after May 1, 1996.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under
contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent for goods and works,
$100,000 equivalent for services with consulting firms, and $50,000
equivalent for services with individual consultants, under such terms
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i)
the rehabilitation and maintenance of the national road network; and
(ii) strengthening the institutional capacity in the road sector.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Rehabilitation of Roads
     The rehabilitation of about 400 km of selected international,
primary and secondary roads.
Part B:   MPW
1.   Assisting MPW through the provision of consultants' services in
the planning and programming of works, the review of feasibility and
environmental studies and guidelines, the undertaking of procurement
activities, the carrying out of road user charges study, and the
preparation of laws and regulations necessary for the implementation
of the Program.
2.   Assisting DOR through the provision of consultants' services in
the implementation of the RRP, including the preparation of feasibility
and environmental studies and guidelines, and the supervision of works;
and
3.   Strengthening of MPW's operational capabilities through the
provision of vehicles, computers, office equipment, road laboratory,
traffic counting equipment and axle-load equipment.
                               * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                      Amortization Schedule
                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                  (expressed in Dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
     beginning January 15, 2002
     through July 15, 2013               1,750,000
Page  8
___________________
*    The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be
repaid except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General
Conditions.
                             SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to works to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B.
     (a)  Prequalification
     Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     International Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be
Page  9
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed
by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall
be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual con-
sultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                             SCHEDULE 5
                       Implementation Program
1.   PIU
     The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain the PIU with
members whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall
be acceptable to the Bank, to assist the MPW in the carrying out of
the Project, the coordination of its implementation, and in the
implementation of the RRP.
2.   Procurement
     MPW shall be responsible, on behalf of the Borrower, for all
Page  10
matters related to the procurement process under the Project.
3.   Mid-term Review
     The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, on or about December 31, 1999, a report
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement
of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
     (c)  review with the Bank, by June 30, 2000, or such later date
as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of
the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                         Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2, and 3,
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $4,500,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
Page  11
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
               All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
               the Loan Account under the respective eligible
               Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
               as shall have been justified by said documents and
               other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
Page  12
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
