Report No. 961-ME
Appraisal of
Fifth Agricultural and Livestock
Credit Project
Mexico                                                                f\\E 00
January 29, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUTVATENTS
US$1            =    MeX$l 2.5
Mex$l 1              US$o.o8
Mex$l million   =   US$80,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric %rstem
1 hectare (ha)              =  10,000 m.2 = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (kn)      2         0.62 mAls
1 square kilometer (km )       0.39 sq. miles - 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)             = 2.20 pounda
1 liter (1)                 =  0.26 gallons
1,000 kg = 1 metric ton        0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
ALPRO             - Alliance for Progress
BANAGRO           - Banco Nacional Agropecuario, S.A.
BANCO AGRICOLA    - Banco Nacional de Credito Agricola, S.A.
BANCO EJIDAL      - Banco Nacional de Credito Ejidal, S.A. de C.V.
BANXICO           - Banco de Mexico, S.A.
BNCR              - Banco Nacional de Credito Rural
CIMMYT            - International Center for Research of Corn and Wheat
COCOSA            - Coordinating Committee for the Agricultural Sector
CONAFRUT          - National Fruit Development Corporation
CONASUPO          - National Marketing Corporation
FEFA              - Fondo Especial para Financiamientos Agropecuarios
FEGA              - Fondo Especial de Asistencia Tecnica y Garantia
FINAIR            - Financiera Naciorial de Industria Rural
FONASA            - Financiera Nacional Azucarera
FIRA              - Fideicomisos Instituidos en el Banco de Mexico en relacion
con la Agricultura
FONAFE            - Fondo Nacional de Fomento Ejidal
FONDO             - Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderia
y Avicultura
GUANAMEX          - Guanos y Fertilizantes de M4exico
INIA              - National Crop Research Institute
INIP              - National Livestock Research Institute
LIPSP             - Low Income Producers Sub-Project
MIPSP             - Medium Income Producers Sub-Project
PLAMEPA           - Plan de Mejoramiento Parcelarlo
PNH               - Plan Nacional Hideaulico
PRONASE           - Productora Nacional de SemiLlas
SAG               - Ministry of Agriculture
SRH               - Ministry of Water Resources
SRA               - Ministry of Agrarian Reform
UNPASA            - Sugar Producers' Organization
GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO
FISCAL YEAR
January - December



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..........-...                    i-i
I.  INTRODUCTION  e.................................             1
II.  AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  ........ .. . . ....... ... .1
A.   General  .......... ......*.........                   1
B.   Supplies and Services ....................             3
C.   Agricultural Credit  .....................             5
III.   PERFORMANCE UNDER THE THIRD AND FOURTH PROJECTS             6
IV.  THE PROJECT  .........        ........ .......               7
A.   Brief Description  . . ..             . ..... .        7
B.   Detailed Features .     . ........................     9
C. Cost Estimates .              .                         10
D. Financing                 ...12
E.  Procurement  ..... ...........................         13
F.   Disbursements  .......,** ....,....******* ....       13
G.   Organization and Management  .*.......... o...        14
H.   Accounts and Auditing  *.........  ....               18
V.   PRODUCTIONS MARKETS AND MARKETING, AND PRODUCER
BENEFITS                                               18
A. Production   .                   .18
B.   Markets and Marketing   ..  .      ... o..g           19
C. Producer Benefits .20
VI.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ....... .......    20
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                      Z2
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a Mission which visited
Mexico in May 1975 and was composed of (.G. Ramasubbu, D. Parbery, W. Ringlien,
P. Scherer, and C. Wolffelt (IBRD), E. Cifuentes, K. Kriechhammer, and
C. Percival (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1.   The Agricultural Sector
Table 1  -  Supply and Demand Balaice of Key Agricultural Products
Table 2  -  Exports and Imports of Selected Agricultural Commodities
Table 3  -  Public Investment in Agriculture, by Function and by Agency
Table 4  -  Production, Exports and Imports of Selected Agricultural
Commodities
Table 5  -  Profile of Government Activities in Agriculture
Table 6  -  Price Data on Major Basic Grains
2.   Institutional Credit for Agriculture
Table 1  -  Analysis of Fourth Project Sub-loans
Table 2  -  Estimates of Income and Expenditure, 1970-1974 (FONDO and FEFA)
Table 3  -  Statements of Resources and Liabilities as at end of 1970-1974
(FONDO and FEFA)
Table 4  -  Projected Statement of Income and Expenses (FONDO and FEFA)
Table 5  -  Projected Statement of Resources and Liabilities (FONDO and FEFA)
Table 6  -  Jurisdiction and Headquarters of Regional Agricultural Banks
Table 7  -  Consolidated Balance Sheets of Banco Agricola, Banco Ejidal
and Banco Agropeciario Systems
Table 8  -  Income and Expenditure Statements of Banco Agricola, Banco
Ejidal and Banco Agropecuario Systems
Table 9  -  Overdues of Public Agricultural Banks
Table 10 -  Balance Sheets FY 1972-1974 and February 28, 1975 (FINASA)
Table 11 -  Statement of Income ancl Expenditure 1972-1974 (FINASA)
3.   Summary Estimates of Cost of Investments
4.   Estimated FONDO Project Receipts and Disbursements
5.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
6.   Financial Rate of Return
7.   Economic Rates of Return



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
MAP
IBRD No. 11789 - Distribution of FONDO Offices by Region
IBRD No. 11800 - Jurisdiction of the Regional Banks
ADDENDUM -
Physical and Financial Projections for Sub-projects
1/   Available upon request from the Agriculture Division 2-B, Regional
Projects Department, Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office






MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF FIFTH AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agricultural production in Mexico grew at an annual average of about
5% over nearly three decades from about 1940 but, since the later 1960s, the
sector has lost impetus and growth rates have fallen below those of domestic
demand. The present Administration has given priority attention to the sector
in an attempt to achieve the twin objectives of increasing production to reach
self-sufficiency in basic grains and improving the situation of the rural poor.
Notable elements of its effort are: (a) new legislation in the area of land
reform and irrigation aiming at higher productivity and more equitable distri-
bution of ensuing benefits; (b) reform and strengthening of the agricultural
support services - technical and organizational assistance, research, market-
ing and credit in particular; (c) institutionalization of coordinating and
planning mechanisms among Government agencies; (d) implementation of integrat-
ed rural development programs; (e) the adoption of a price support program for
basic grains; and (f) a three-fold increase in the public budget for agricul-
ture since 1970. While the Government has taken comprehensive and far-reaching
steps, it will require continuing efforts and adjustments, as for example, in
further strengthening extension services and tackling problems of rainfed
agriculture, to make the public agricultural policies fully effective and to
restore the earlier dynamism of Mexican agriculture. It is proposed to pursue
various sectoral policy issues with the Government in periodic discussions on
the developments in the agricultural sector and the role the Bank might play
in it.
ii.       The proposed fifth loan for agricultural and livestock credit to
the Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderia y Avicultura
(FONDO) 1/ would provide significant support to the Government's endeavors to
stimulate the agricultural sector and insure a more equitable distribution of
the benefits of its growth. Like the four previous loans, it would finance
investments for the development of crops and livestock and for the establish-
ment of agro-industries. The share of the Low-Income Producers Sub-project
(LIPSP), introduced on a modest basis under the Fourth Project, would account
for the major share of on-farm investment under the Fifth. The project would
also support field demonstrations, farmer and staff training, monitoring and
pilot schemes. Total project cost would be US$413 million equivalent. The
proposed loan of US$125 million, or 30% of the total project cost, would
finance the entire foreign exchange costs.
1/   The "FONDO" is used to refer not only to this special fund with the Bank
of Mexico but also to the common organization for the administration of
the Group of trust funds, which include Fondo Especial para Financiea-
mientos Agropecuarios (FEFA) and Fondo Especial de Assistencia Tecnica
y Garantia para Creditos Agropecuarios (FEGA).



- ii -
iii.      As in previous projects, FONDO would be responsible for project
implementation. FONDO was established in 1955 by the Government to provide
credit in conjunction with technical assistance and has since then developed
into a sound and efficient organization. It is expected that FONDO's financ-
ing and promotional functions will now increasingly extend to the small farm-
er sector and help tackle issues likely to arise in the development of farmers'
organizations, coordination of credit with input supplies, marketing and other
services. Though initially only private banks were supported by the FONDO,
access to Bank-financed rediscounting facilities was extended to the Govern-
ment-owned Banco Agropecuario system in 1965, and subsequently, to the other
two public banking systems of Banco Agricola and Banco Ejidal to help in
financing the LIPSP. Under the Fifth Project, FONDO would deal with the
private banks and the following public banks: FINASA (the national institution
for financing the sugar industry), and Banco Nacional de Credito Rural. The
Banco Nacional de Credito Rural and its 12 affiliated regional banks were
recently established through the consolidation of the existing public banks to
promote the most economical use of staff and branch network and qualitative
improvements in operational policies and procedures.
iv.       Beginning with a loan of US$25 million in 1965, the Bank has so
far made four loans for a total of US$275 million to the FONDO for livestock
and agricultural credit, including agro-industries. The Fourth loan was
fully disbursed by October 1975, well ahead of its closing date, as were
the three earlier loans. Financing of low income producers was introduced
only in the Bank's Fourth project, though FONDO had been long associated
with small farmer financing under the ALPRO (Alliance for Progress) program,
financed initially by two USAID loans and two subsequent IDB loans.
v.        As in previous projects, all sub-loans would be based on FONDO-
supervised appraisal of the technical and financial viability of on-farm
investments to be financed. The rate of interest charged on LIPSP loans
would be raised from 7.6% to 9%, though the old rate would be retained for
application to sub-borrowers who have not had earlier access to institutional
credit and whose annual income is less than 250 times the legal daily minimum
wage in the area. The lending rates and discounts for the Medium Income
Producers' Sub-project (MIPSP) were raised twice during the Fourth Project and
the present structure would be adopted in the Fifth Project. The on-lending
rates would range from 11.5% to 14.5%, as compared with a range of 10% to 12%
agreed initially under the Fourth Project. For the first time, sub-loans under
MIPSP would be subject to a maximum limit of US$200,000 per beneficiary.
vi.       The sub-borrowers under MIPSP and those for agro-industries would
contribute 20% of the cost of the investment to be financed under the project.
Of the low income producers, the poorer category would contribute a minimum of
3% and the others, 5%; their contribution could be in the form of labor and
materials.



- ili -
vii.      As in the four earlier projects, normal commercial channels would be
suitable for procurement. There is keen competition among equipment dealers
and the large number of manufacturers in Mexico, most of whom are under manu-
facturing franchise from international firms. However, at least three quota-
tions would be obtained in the procurement of machinery and equipment for
agro-industries when the cost of an individual item exceeds US$150,000. To
ensure sufficient competition, FONDO would be required to compile a represen-
tive list of foreign and domestic suppliers of machinery and equipment and
circulate it among sub-borrowers and, further, to advertise locally and notify
embassies of Bank member countries which manufacture agro-industrial equipment
and Switzerland of the main industries likely to be financed and the kind of
equipment likely to be needed.
viii.     The Fifth Project is expected to lead to significant increases in
the production of basic grains, sugarcane, fruit, milk and beef, for which
ready markets exist.
ix.       The financial rates of return to the on-farm and agro-industrial
investments are estimated to range from 14% to 30% and the economic rates
of return from 20% to 42%.
x.        With appropriate assurances, the Fifth Project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$125 million for 20 years, including a four-year grace
period. The borrower would be the Nacional Financiera and the Government
would assume the foreign exchange risk.






MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Mexico has requested the Bank to assist in financ-
ing an agricultural credit project under which medium- and long-term loans
would be made to producers for increasing crop and livestock production and
expanding the capability for processing such produce. The proposed fifth
loan of US$125 million would be made on Government guarantee, to Nacional
Financiera (NAFINSA), which would on-lend the proceeds to the Fondo de
Garantia y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderia y Avicultura (FONDO). The
FONDO represents a group of trust funds established by the Government within
the Bank of Mexico for agricultural development. The FOND)O, in turn, would
pass the funds on to farmers by rediscounting participating banks' sub-loans.
The Bank has made four loans to Mexico for agricultural credit, all of which
iave been fully disbursed ahead of schedule.
II. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. General
2.01      Agriculture has been a dynamic element of Mexico's economy and
achieved a growth rate of about 5% p.a. over nearly three decades from about
1940. Howevsr, since the late 1960s, growth rates have fallen below those of
domestic demand, the agricultural export surplus has been reduced, and the
sector's contribution to GDP fell from 15.9% in 1960 to 10.1% in 1974. Never-
theless, agriculture still provides the main source of income to nearly 40%
of the population and accounts for about 40% of the total commodity exports.
2.02      Of Mexico's total land area of 200 million ha, about 35 million ha
are considered potential crop land, out of which only about 14.5 million ha
are harvested. About 4.3 million ha are irrigated, and, with their diversi-
fied cultivation pattern, account for nearly 50% of the total agricultural
production. Except for sugarcane and coffee, rainfed agriculture produces
mainly basic grains, notably maize and beans, the principal elements in the
Mexican diet.



-2-
2.03      Of the families dependent on agriculture, 1.5 million are
ejidatarios, 1/ 1.2 million are families of private landholders and 1.3 mil-
lion are landless families whose number is increasing as a result of the
annual rural population growth rate of 2%. The distribution of agricultural
production and income is skewed following the pattern of land tenure. The
top 10% of the rural population claims about half the rural income while half
the population receives only a fifth of the income.
2.04      The Government has undertaken a multi-pronged effort to step up
production and expand rural employment opportunities and social services
(Annex 1). It has enacted a new agrarian reform law to consolidate and
carry forward earlier legislation and to develop the ejido into an inte-
grated production unit, and a federal water law to rationalize water manage-
ment. Several measures have also been taken to improve policy formulation
and implementation, such as the creation of a national coordinating commission
for agriculture (COCOSA); the preparation of a national water plan (PNH), with
which the Bank has been actively associated; and the merger of the three
public agricultural banks into one system (para. 2.14). Among the important
new programs are the integrated rural development projects, partly Bank-
financed; the drive of Compania Nacional de Subsistencias Populares (CONA-SUPO)
to serve small farmers through a rural stores network; and the implementation
of a price support program for basic grains production (para. 2.08). All
these efforts and expanded research, extension and other services were made
possible by a substantial increase in Government expenditures in agriculture,
whose share in public investment rose from 11% in 1970 to 19% in 1975.
2.05      A large part of the Government expenditures is directed to expanding
irrigation. During 1971-74, 284,000 ha were brought under irrigation, more
than double the achievement in the previous five year period, while another
200,000 ha were rehabilitated. During 1977-82 the PNH proposes to put an
additional 933,000 ha under new irrigation/drainage. However, in view of the
increasingly costly nature of large-scale irrigation projects, the Govern-
ment may have to reorient its sectoral investment strategy to expand cropping
and livestock activities in rainfed areas such as the Tropical Gulf Coast
region.  As for other aids to production, the number of farmers attended by
the extension services of the Ministry of Agriculture (SAG) increased between
1971 and 1974 from 202,000 to 369,000 and the area covered from 859,000 ha
to 2,875,000; still, however, only 14% of the 2.7 million farmers and 20% of
the 14.5 million ha harvested are served. Public credit has also expanded
rapidly, but only 24% of the area harvested is yet covered. Fertilizer use
has expanded to become relatively generalized in irrigated areas, but its
use is not yet very common in rainfed agriculture. Efforts to increase the
flow of inputs and raise the technological level of agriculture, however, take
1/ The ejido is basically a group of families with joint and inalienable
tenure rights to land. The head of such a family is called an ejidatario.



-3-
time to translate into production increases. Agricultural production remained
virtually stagnant during 1970-74, partly because of bad weather conditions,
but recent improvements in the coordination and consistency of sectoral poli-
cies and programs and their effective implementation, if successful, should
help restore the sectoral growth rate to the earlier levels of 4 to 5% per
annum. Various sectoral policy issues set out in Annexes 1 and 2 would be
pursued with the Government in periodic discussions proposed for reviewing
the developments in the sector and the role the Bank might play in it.
B. Supplies and Services
Inputs
2.06      Mexico is well equipped to meet the input requirements of its agri-
cultural production programs and is likely to be self-sufficient shortly in
nitrogeneous fertilizers, pesticides, tractors and farm machinery. The supply
of certified seeds has presented some problems but PRONASE, the Government
seed production company, is making efforts to improve the situation. Retail-
ing arrangements for inputs have concentrated in the past on commercial farmers
in irrigated areas but lately the needs of small farmers are also being met,
mainly through the public agricultural banks.                    >
Marketin&
2.07      Marketing arrangements for commercial agriculture are generally
satisfactory and the margins of intermediaries are reasonable. In some areas,
however, the producers are handicapped by the lack of processing and storage
facilities or the monopoly position of the existing processing units.
Various agro-industrial units have, therefore, been set up by producer groups
with FONDO financing under Bank-assisted projects. Small farmers sometimes
depend on the same private source for inputs, credit, and marketing services
or they lack the infrastructure for handling their marketable surplus; they
are, however, being helped increasingly by public agricultural banks and the
CONASUPO which also operates a country-wide storage and warehousing system
and retail outlets for consumer goods and agricultural inputs (para. 2.04).
2.08      In order to redress the unfavorable terms of trade faced by agri-
cultural producers in recent years, the Government is implementing a vigo-
rous price support program to encourage the production of basic foodgrains
and oilseeds. CONASUPO operates this program, purchasing varying proportions
of national production, managing imports of basic foodstuffs and running an
extensive urban retail distribution system. Irrigated agriculture has so
far shown a better production response to incentive prices than rainfed
agriculture dominated by small farmers, and still handicapped by institutional
weaknesses which are being gradually overcome. While the price support prog-
ram is providing a stimulus to investment and hence to demand for credit, its
production promotion objective requires to be reconciled with other conside-
rations such as the stability of urban prices of foodstuffs, and the



-4-
alignment of the country's production pattern to its international compara-
tive advantage.
Education, Research and Extension
2.09      There has been a significant increase in the last few years in the
agricultural education facilities in Mexico, and sizable further expansion
is proposed. There is, however, likely to be a shortage for some time at
the postgraduate, graduate and sub-professional "agronomos" levels. A man-
power study is indicated to determine the personnel requirements in the agri-
cultural sector and the likely supply, with more precision, as well as the
steps for bridging anticipated gaps. The Bank is presently exploring the
possibilities of supporting an education project which would, inter alia,
address itself to this problem.
2.10      While agricultural research in Mexico has made major contributions
to the "Green Revolution" in the breeding of high-yielding grain varieties,
it has been largely concentrated on commercial farming in irrigated areas.
Over the last three years, the Government has substantially increased its
financial support and, further, started to orient research to rainfed agri-
culture and hitherto relatively unexploited areas such as the tropical Gulf
Coast, for which Bank support under a separate project is being considered.
The National Institute for Agricultural Research (INIA) has shifted emphasis
to forage, legumes, and basic grains, which are crucial for the country's
future agricultural growth, decentralized its operations so as to align them
to regional needs, and upgraded the quality of its staff. The National Ins-
titute for Livestock Research (INIP) is seeking a similar orientation but
needs more funds and better coordination with INIA.
2.11      Agricultural extension is operated by various official and private
agencies, the largest being SAG whose services have been expanded five-fold
since 1970 and strengthened through budget increases, improved salary scales,
and various operational measures (Annex 1). Extension for farmers in the
public irrigation districts is largely provided by the Ministry of Hydraulic
Resources (SRH). Further, over the years, FONDO has supported term lending
with technical assistance, building up its own cadre of competent staff and
training about 1,000 technicians of private and public banks. The public
agricultural banking system (which alone employs about 1,800 technicians) and
SAG have recently entered into an agreement under which the SAG staff would
work with banks in support of credit operations.
2.12      Various extension strategies are being adopted in Mexico.  One of
these is to operate through groups of 10 to 30 farmers, with field trials
being arranged on their own plots. For working with the indigenous popula-
tion, the support of individual promoters and institutions from within those
communities is being enlisted.  Experimental programs are being conducted,
which provide for a group of ejidos to organize their production activities
as an agro-business complex with a technically qualified production manager.
Despite considerable progress in agricultural extension, deficiencies remain
such as administrative delays, high staff turnover, limited use of modern
communication techniques, and inadequate farmer participation. While man-
power and financial constraints set limits to extended farmer coverage, the



immediate need is to improve the quality of the field work of existing ex-
tensionists and coordination with other services and supplies.
C. Agricultural Credit
2.13      Institutional credit for agriculture in Mexico has expanded in the
last few years as a result of various attempts to strengthen and improve
public agricultural banks and to provide incentives to private banks (Annex 2).
By setting up rediscounting facilities for banks in combination with techni-
cal assistance provided through its field offices (Map 11789), the FONDO
group of trust funds 1/ has helped demonstrate the viability of technically
supervised on-farm investment.  FONDO has been in charge of the USAID-financed
program for financing small farmers and short-term rediscounting operations,
while the Bank and IDB-assisted projects have been the responsibility of
FEFA 1/. The FONDO/FEFA organization has also helped train bank staff and
has organized demonstrations and studies on farmers' practical problems.
Thanks to the FONDO's efforts and the assistance available from FEGA 1/ in
employing staff for technical assistance to low income producers (LIPs), com-
mercial banks are also actively involved in financing on-farm investment.
2.14      Banco Agricola, Banco Ejidal, and Banco Agropecuario, together with
the affiliated regional banks, have all increased their operations during the
last five years, loans advanced rising from M$ 5.8 million in 1970 to M$ 13.0
million in 1975.  Banco Agropecuario has been relatively sound in financial
and administrative terms, in comparison with Banco Ejidal and Banco Agricola
which had been handicapped by inadequate technical staff and loan collection
problems but have recently begun to show improvement. All these banks are
now being consolidated into a new system with a national level institution
known as the Banco Nacional de Credito Rural (BNCR) and 12 regional banks
affiliated to it (Annex 2 and Map 11800). Through this merger and the new
agricultural credit law recently ratified by the Congress, the Government is
endeavoring to expand the supply of credit to LIPs, avoid duplication of bran-
ches and staff, and bring about a qualitative improvement in operations
through lending based on project appraisal, staff training and streamlined
procedures. The banks also need to make efforts to improve loan collections
and to mobilize rural savings.
2.15      Credit for LIPs, especially ejidatarios, is being channelled, by
preference, through increasingly large groups, in line with the policy of
gradually making ejidos efficient economic units. While this should help
reduce costs of extension and credit supervision, the major task is to orga-
nize group activity so as to ensure sound management, maximize farmer parti-
cipation and coordinate technical assistance, input supplies and marketing.
1/   Includes, in addition to the FONDO, Fondo Especial para Financiamentos
Agropecuarios (FEFA) and Fondo Especial de Assistencia Tecnica y Garantia
para Creditos Agropecuarios (FEGA).



-6-
Collaborative action to this end is being organized among the agencies
involved.
III.  PERFORMANCE UNDER THE THIRD AND FOURTH PROJECTS
3.01      Sub-loans are granted by participating banks under Bank-financed
projects and refinanced by the FONDO only if they are based on farm plans
approved by authorized technicians. In the Fourth Project a distinct alloca-
tion was made for the first time for loans to LIPs defined as ejidatarios or
other small farmers who are in legal possession of their land or plots, whose
main source of income is derived from farming and whose net annual family
income does not exceed 1,000 times the daily minimum rural wage for the
region. 1/
3.02      Compared to a uniform on-lending rate of 10% under the First Pro-
ject, the Fourth has seven loan size categories with rates ranging from 11.5%
to 14.5%, and a special rate of 7.6% for the LIPs.  FONDO's discounting rates
take into account its own costs and the need to allow the participating banks
sufficient margins to cover their expenses and risks and to encourage smaller
sub-loans. The banks' margins now range from 1.75% to 2.75%. The propor-
tion of sub-loans discounted by the FONDO, which was uniformly 90% in the
First Project, ranged in the Fourth Project between 70% and 90%, depending
on loan size.
3.03      Sub-loans under the Fourth Project were fewer and, on the average,
larger than expected at appraisal, principally because investment costs
went up, but, also, particularly in the case of LIPs, because there were
more group loans, and groups were larger than anticipated. While there were
some sub-loans to associations of commercial farmer ;, group lending,
mainly through societies of ejidatarios, accounted for the bulk of the
Low Income Producers Sub-project (LIPSP) sub-loans.
3.04      Data gathered by the FONDO on results at the farm level from a
limited sample of Third Project sub-borrowers indicate more intensive land
use, improvement in productivity in respect of beef and certain annual and
perennial crops, and a doubling of the average labor use per farm, despite
an increase in mechanization in some instances. On balance, the survey
points to a significant impact of the credit and technical assistance provided
under the project.
1/   This minimum, fixed by the National Commission for Minimum Salaries,
varies between regions and ranges between M$ 25.10 (US$2.00) to M$ 67.00
(US$5.36).



-7-
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
4.01      The Fifth Agricultural and Livestock Credit Project (Fifth Project)
provides for long-term investment in livestock and crop production and agro-
industries and includes funds for training, demonstrations and monitoring.
The project aims to (a) increase Mexico's agricultural production so as to
help meet domestic food requirements and improve its agricultural trade surplus,
and (b) raise the productivity and income of small farmers.
4.02      As in the Fourth Project, financing of on-farm investment would
consist of two sub-projects: (a) Low Income Producers' Sub-project (LIPSP)
and (b) Medium Income Producers' Sub-project (MIPSP). Public agricultural
banks, the Financiera Nacional Azucarera (FINASA) 1/, and private credit
institutions would participate in both, which would be country-wide. LIPSP
would continue the on-going program for ejidatarios and small farmers who
would be defined as in the Fourth Project (para 3.01), while MIPSP would
finance other farmers.
4.03      In line with the Government policy of promoting joint economic acti-
vity among ejidatarios, illustrative farm models were drawn up for such units
and used to derive the probable pattern and size of investments under the
Project. The Government's price support policies, the credit requirements
emerging from other Bank-supported projects, the official objective of finan-
cing the investment needs of small farmers through institutional credit, and
the likely improvement in the absorptive capacity of the public agricultural
banking system following its reorganization, are among the factors expected to
lead to a substantial demAnd for investment credit. The proposed lending pro-
gram can be summarized as follows:
1/   The national institution for financing cane farmers and the sugar industry.



A. On-fnrn Investment
1/                  Percentage       F -  j'.
Averagvr Invest-          of total       '.o. of
Estimated Nunher of   mneat per Sub-           2/  Lending        ULJy      !.
Sub-loans               loan         T.'.-   Pro7rani
Ye-ar i  Year 2  '? fal            (USia)J
030        I'.llion                    '000
LIPSP                         -
Annual Crops       815   1,222    2,037          27        68.o          21.6            19.3
Perennial Crops    81      121       202         36         9.5           3.0             1.9
Sugarcane          206     310       516         28        19.8           6.3             5.2
Dairy               5°       75      125        267        40.2          12.7             5.6
Dual PTurpose
Cattle (Beef
and .ilk)          44      65       109        163        24.2           7-7             3.9
Other Livestock    16        23       39         78         3.8           1.2             0.8
Total-  1,212   1,816    3,028                   44       165.5          52.5           36.7
MIPSP
Annual Crops       916      916    1,832         26        58.2          18.4             3.6
Perennial Crops   362      362       724         22        20.4           6.5             1.5
Sugarcane           72       72      144         28         5.4           1.7             0.3
Dairy              330      330      660         35        27.7           8.8             2.0
Dual Purpose
Cattle (Beef
and 1Milk)        237     237       474         35        22.6           7.2             0.9
Other Livestock   208       208      416         30        15.5           11.9            0.8
Total            2,125   2.125    4,250          23       149.8          17.5             9.1
Total LendinE
Program       3,337   3,941    7,278           35       315.3         lOO             45.8
B.  Agro-indc tries
Cost/l                        Percent
No. of Pl;nts                     per               Total/2      of
Year I    Year 2    Total        Plant             Inv stien t   Total
(US. I4illion)
Siagr-hterhouses          2       1          3         2.3                   8.5       11.2
Milk Processing Plants   2        3          5         1.1                   7.0        9.2
Feed !ills                2       1          3         1.4               .   5.1        6.7
Fruit Processirn  Plants  2       2          It         1.8                  9.1       1l.8
Vegetable Oil ,,ills      1       1          2         5.8                  16.2       21.1
Gr;in Storage P'lants      2      1          3          1.7                  6.o        7.8
Logging -nd Saw I.ills    1       2          3         1.2                    .3        5.6
Sundry Agro-industries  35       35         70         0.2                  20.4       26.6
Total                  7      7          93     _                         70 
1/  lncluding provision for physicil contin-ency at 5'.
2   Including provision for price' continnency estu"ated at
about 25% of the base cost (Annex 3).



-9-
B. Detailed Features
Farm/Ranch Development
4.04      Annual Crops.  Investments in annual crops would be largely for
1i and cleari            ation,.agrcultural machihervy, lrrigation>X(wells
and pumps), and on-farm constructioii.  Corn and beans are cultivated mainly
under rainfed conditions along tte tropical. Gulf Coast, Pacific South and the
Central Region, though food grains production is distributed all over the
country. Wheat, on the other hand, is almost all irrigated. About 55% of the
investment proposed would go towards rainfed production and the balance for
irrigated food grains.
4.05      Perennial Crops.  Investments in perennial crops would cover land
improvement) machinery and equipment, wells,, pumps, fencing,_         and orchai-
e9ttabl±shiient.  Semperate species such as apples, citrus, grapes and pecan
nuts are grown in the arid and semi-arid northern regions, usually under
irrigation, while tropical species such as mango, tamarind and guanabana
(soursop) are grown in the hotter areas to the south and along the coasts,
generally under rainfed conditions.
4.06      Sugar cane.  Most of the sub-loans would be made for financing new
plantings, especially in the tropical Gulf Coast area. Investments would be
in  aid      g   and preparation,   chinery_ndLequipment, wells and pumps,,
dra iti7lgm roads and crop establishIent costs.  Sugarcane is cultivated
mostly by small farmers in the warmer areas in the south of Mexico and along
the eastern and western coasts.
4.07      Dairy Farmi.  Dairy development would be largely concentrated in
the temperate central highlands and, to a lesser extent, in the arid and semi-
arid irrigated north.  Investments would cover water_faciltiets-for irriga-
tion, establishment of alfalfa and legume-based pastures (summer feeds)
and the production of forage oats and corn silage (winter feeds), machinery
and equipment for forage harvesting, milking and refrigeration, on-farm cons-
truction, and purchase of Holstein dairy heifers.
4.08      Dual Purpose Cattle (Beef and Milk),  Investments would be mainly
for land clearing, establishing artificial pastures, quality breeding stock,
cattle handling facilities, fencing and water supplies.  In thewet- tropics,
podwuction is orientea chiefly to the sale of ranch-bred fattened cattle and
milk, but, in the dry tropics, the practice is to combine the sale of young
steers with the production of milk for supply to nearby cities.
4.09      Other Livestock. There is increasing interest in Mexico in pig pro-
duction, carried on mainly as a combined breeding and fattening operation,
based on purchased feed requirements. Principal items of investment would be
breeding stock, housing, equipment and start-up feed costs. Other livestock
development would cover poultry, sheep, and goats.



- 10 -
Agro-industries
4.10      About 27% of the proposed investment in agro-industries would be
related to the livestock sub-sector (slaughterhouses, milk plants, feed mills,
and such) and 41% to crop processing (fruit processing, vegetable oil, grain
storage, and the like). Provision has also been made for a few logging and
saw mills to be established by ejidatarios in the forest areas of the Guerrero
State, and for about 70 sub-loans-for the renovation or expansion of plants of
miscellaneous categories. All the processing units are expected to be organized
by groups of producers, including ejidatarios and the small farmers.
Training, Demonstrations and Monitoring
4.11      FONDO would continue to provide training facilities for personnel
of public and private banks and the FONDO itself and for selected farmers
(Annex 2).  FONDO would also continue to organizens snstuiii          d studies
oriented to practical problems of adapting general research findings t6 indi-
vidual regions or farming systems. Assurances were obtained that, except
where agreed otherwise with the Bank, the FONDO would arrange for such demons-
tration programs to be carried out through other appropriate entities. The
FONDO has also been collecting data from small samples of sub-borrowers since
1972 to assess the impact of the Livestock projects and has recently intro-
duced a permanent record system at the farm level which would cover about
1,800 sub-loans in 1976. Assurances were obtained that the FONDO would imple-
ment the proposed arrangements for monitoring by collecting and processing the
field data as proposed, and would also arrange for periodic evaluation of
specific issues emerging from the monitoring exercise.
4.12      The FONDO, the BNCR system and the private commercial banks are
increasingly financing the LIPs, who are being organized into groups which
vary in size, range of functions and arrangements for management and techni-
cal assistance. Assurances were obtained that, on the basis of coordination
between the FONDO, BNCR, SAG and the Ministry of Agrarian Reform, a few pilot
projects would be carried out in selected parts of the country to test differ-
ent types of low cost arrangements for insuring sound management of such group
activities and the proper maintenance of their accounts, to develop suitable
means of promoting the role of farmers in the working of such groups and to
coordinate credit with other supplies and services. The project cost includes
provision for training, demonstrations, monitoring and the pilot schemes.
C. Cost Estimates
4.13      The total cost of the Fifth Project is estimated at US$413.3 million,
of which US$125.0 million, or 30%, represents foreign exchange costs. Esti-
mated project costs, including an overall price contingency of about 25%



based on estimated international and Mexican price trends, 1/ are summarized
below:
% of        %
/a      Total      Foreign
Total Project Cost -       Project    Exchange
Local    Foreign   Total          Cost        Cost
(US$ Million)
1.   Breeding stock       33.0       20.6     53.6         13.0         38
2.   Farm Machinery and
Equipment          55.8      42.5      98.3         23.8         43
3.   On-farm Construction39.6         2.6     42.2         10.2          6
4.   Water Supply and
Irrigation         31.3      16.3      47.6         11.5         34
5.   Land Preparation and
Development        23.1        4.8     27.9          6.8         17
6.   Pasture/Orchard
Establishment      35.4       4.5      39.9          9.6         11
7.   Agro-industries -
Machinery and
Equipment          10.2      21.2      31.4          7.6         68
8.   Agro-industries -
Civil Works and
Utilities          37.0        7.8     44.8         10.8         17
9.   Training, Demons-
trations and
Monitoring         17.4        4.1     21.5          5.2,        19
10.  Miscellaneous         5.5        0.6      6.1          1.5         10
TOTAL'         288.3     125.0    413.3         100           30
/a   Includes only costs of labor paid for in cash.  This applies to LIPSP also
since such investment is usually undertaken jointly by a group of ejidata-
rios, which pays cash wages for labor contributed by its members as well
as others.
1/   Details in Annex 3.



- 12 -
D. Financing
4.14      Financing of the project would be shared as follows:
(US$ Million)
Participating
Producers        Banks       FONDO           IBRD          Total
Components    Amount   %   Amount   %   Amount   %    Amount   %   Amount   %
A. Livestock/
Crop Devel-
opment
LIPSP          8.3  5.0   15.7  9.5    82.2  49.6    59.3  35.9  165.5  100
MIPSP         30.0 20.0   30.0 20.0    52.3  35.0    37.5  25.0  149.8  100
B. Agro-
industries  15.3 20.0   15.3 20.0    26.7  35.0    19.2  25.0   76.5  100
C. Training,
Demonstra-
tions and
Monitoring   -    -       -    -       12.5  58.0      9.0  42.0   21.5  100
Total       53.6 13.0   61.0  14.8  173.7  42.0   125.0  30.2  413.3  100
The proposed Bank loan of US$125 million, amounting to 30% of the total pro-
ject cost, would finance the entire foreign exchange cost. The balance would
be contributed by the FONDO, the participating banks and the producers, as
shown above. Assurances were obtained that the project cost would be shared
in this manner and that participating banks would, in addition, provide short-
term loans to project sub-borrowers for working capital.
4.15      The loan would be made to Nacional Financiera S.A. (NAFINSA), the
Government entity designated to borrow from the Bank, at the current Bank
lending rate at the time of loan approval, for 20 years, including four years
of grace. As under the Fourth Project, NAFINSA would on-lend the loan proceeds
to the FONDO on the same terms and conditions as those governing the Bank loan
to NAFINSA, plus a service charge of one-eighth of 1% of IBRD disbursements.
The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk and the responsibility
for the payment of interest in respect of the Bank loan proceeds used for
training, demonstrations and monitoring.



- 13 -
E. Procurement
4.16      In the procurement of machinery and equipment for agro-industrial
units, at least three quotations would be obtained wherever the cost of a
single item of equipment or an assembly delivered by a single manufacturer
exceeded US$150,000. Further, the FONDO would make available to sub-borrowers
a list of suppliers of agro-industrial machinery, including in it those from
Bank member countries and Switzerland as well as their agents or representatives
or partners in Mexico. Moreover, after the proposed loan is signed, the FONDO
would advertise locally and notify all the embassies in Mexico of Bank member
countries which manufacture agro-industrial equipment and Switzerland of the
details of the agro-idustries component of the project, giving broad particulars
of the types of machinery likely to be requiired. Assurances on these points
were obtained during negotiations. Fxcept for these stipulations, procurement
under the project would be through normal commercial channels, as it would not
be practicable to arrange for bulk procurement and international competitive
bidding procedures, considering the expenditures of thousands of sub-borrowers
(Annex 3).
4.17      An adequate selection of machinery, tractors and other agricultural
equipment is available to sub-borrowers through local and international sup-
pliers. Permits can be obtained to import types of machinery and tractors in
the horsepower ranges required, if they are not available in Mexico or in the
event of a real scarcity. Tractors of up to 125 horsepower are manufactured
in Mexico under franchises from five major international firms, and adequate
competition and satisfactory service and maintenance facilitites are assured
by the range of choice offerecl and the extensive network of dealers. As in
earlier projects, an assurance was obtained that the FONIDO would require sub-
borrowers to obtain quotations from several sources of supply, whenever prac-
ticable, for imports of breeding cows for dairy projects.
F. Disbursements
4.18     All the sub-loans wol'd be committed in a little over two years.
Investmerts Lr sub-borrcwers, sub-loan lisbar3ements and the Bank loan dis-
bursement wojld be spread over fojir year3 (Annex 4).  IBRD would reimburse
FONDO for 4?% of its rediscounts of project sub-loans and of its expenditures
for training, demcnstrations and nc nitoring, against corresponding certificates
of expenditure, thu rievar;t supporting documne-tatior. to te retained with the
FC7IDO fo;' inspeotio'n by Bank supervision riss1cis.  Bank disburselments are
expected to be about iJU$43 rullion in the first year of the project, u $6o
millicn in t.he seccnd, U$i17 million in the third, and TJS$5 million in the
fourth (Annay 5).



- 14 -
G. Organization and Management
Project Administration
4.19      As in earlier Bank-financed livestock projects, the proposed pro-
ject would be administered by the organization which is common to the FONDO,
FEFA and FEGA (para. 2.13). The policies and operations of each trust fund
are determined by a technical committee, which, for the FONDO, includes the
representatives of the Finance and Agriculture Ministries, the Bank of
Mexico, BNCR, private bankers and farmers. FONDO has established a reputa-
tion for efficient organization and technical competence in the area of term
credit based on well designed investment plans (Annex 2).  Personnel, who
generally serve all the three funds, number more than 1,000, of whom 604 are
technicians.  In addition, 854 technicians of the public banks, and 242 of
private banks, have been authorized to approve sub-loans.
4.20      FONDO's technical assistance has played a major role in the formu-
lation, appraisal, and supervision of investment plans under the LIPSP of
the Fourth Project and its continuance will be crucial for the Fifth. The
FONDO's promotional functions include the training of staff of banks, demon-
strations and monitoring of project results (para. 4.11). Assurances were
obtained that FONDO would continue to carry out these responsibilities, and
that, since these functions entail increasing costs, Government wouldprovide
the F4UNLU with tne necessary funds, as required.
4.21      Apart from loans from the Bank and IDB, FON]DO/FEFA's principal
sources of funds are capital provided by the Government and the Bank of
Mexico's short-term rediscounts. Government equity has increased over the
years because of the arrangement by whichi wlhenever external loans are
repaid by the Government, the local currency equivalent is accumulated in
these funds as additional equity. The policy of FONDO/FFFA has been to
maintain financial soundness, but increasing administrative and technical
assistance expenses strained their finances in 1974 and 1975 in spite of
the increase in discount rates under the Fourtlh Project in January 1975 and
the support available for expenditure on techniical staff from the Government
through the FECA, up to 6% of the rediscounts of loans to LIPS.  Assurances
were, therefore,    obtained during negotiations that the Government would
continue to augment the resources of FOINDO/FEFA as required and to compensate
FONDO/FEFA adequately, through FEGA assistance for the FONDO/FEFA expenses for
technical assistance for LIPSP.
Banco Nacional de Credito Rural
4.22      Among public agricultural banks, the Banco Agropecuario system
has been participating in Bank-financed livestock projects for several years
but the Banco Agricola and Banco Ejidal systems participated only in the
Fourth Project. Despite their past record of arrears and operating losses,
their performance in formulating and supervisin,g investment plans under



- 15 -
this project has been satisfactory, thanks to the steps taken by them, with
FONDO support, to strengthen and train their technical staff and to establish
appropriate lending procedures. As the accounts of Banco Agricola and
Banco Ejidal do not provide an adequate basis for the transfer of their
resources and liabilities to BNCR (para 2.14), a detailed audit covering the
three national banks and all the regional banks affiliated to them is now in
progress as a preliminary to the proposed financial merger. The Government
expects the new institution to conduct its operations on a sound financial
basis and proposes to finance development activities which need subsidies
from special trust funds. Government also would seek to ensure that the
financial position of the new bank and its affiliates is not adversely affec-
ted as a result of the transfer of assets and liabilities to them from the
earlier institutions. Assurances were obtained that FONDO would provide re-
discount facilities to BNCR and the regional banks affiliated to it only after
the Government submits to the Bank a detailed report on such matters as their
financial position, operational policies and procedures, policies and perfor-
mance regarding collection of loans (including overdues), organizational
structure and branch rationalization, and the Bank declares the institutions
eligible for financing on the basis of that report. Assurances were also
obtained that an audited balance sheet of BNCR and its regional banks would
be furnished to the Bank within nine months from the signing of the proposed
loan. BNCR proposes to adopt the policy of not financing any farmers who have
defaulted on their dues except for reasons beyond their control. However, this
would not apply to arrears accumulated by the public banks prior to the issue
of a Presidential decree of January 73 which dealt with overdue loans. Such
past due loans would normally be restructured in connection with fresh finan-
cing which would be provided to enable borrowers to repay the past loan from
new production; 10 to 20% of the past loan principal might be written off if
the new loan is repaid promptly.
Financiera Nacional de Industria Rural (FINAIR)
4.23      This fully Government-owned financiera is to be established in terms
of the new agricultural credit law to help implement development programs in
the ejidal sector by providing long-term loans for, among other purposes,
financing agro-industries. It will take over the operations and funds of the
existing Fondo Nacional de Fomento Ejidal (FONAFE), which has so far been
financing similar activities. As no financial and other data are available
on this proposed institution, assurances were obtained that FONDO would pro-
vide rediscount facilities to it under the project only after the Bank declares
the FINAIR eligible for project financing. The Bank would base its decision
on a report to be submitted by the FONDO to the Bank in regard to the FINAIR's
financial accounts, operational policies and procedures, and organizational
structure.
Lending policies and Procedures
4.24      Loan Appraisal and Supervision.  As under earlier Bank-financed
projects, sub-loans would be made on the basis of development plans appraised
by FONDO technicians or FONDO-approved bank technicians. In step with the
progress made by participating banks in improving their technical staff, the



- 16 -
FONDO has been simplifying procedures for processing rediscount requests and
progressively delegating sub-loan approval powers to its own technicians in
the field and to selected bank technicians. Assurances were obtained that,
as in the past, approval of sub-loans for financing under the project would
be the FONDO's responsibility and that FONDO would continue to review its
sub-loan processing procedures with a view to further simplification and de-
legation of powers of approval.
4.25      Lending and Rediscounting Rates.  FONDO would rediscount loans
granted by_participating banks for on-farm investment under MIPSP and for
agro-industries in accordance with the following schedule:
Rediscount
Maximum          Rates of       Interest
of Loan         Participat-    Rate to
Size of Loans                           Rediscounted      ing Banks    Beneficiaries
%                (Annual Rate %)
Up to US$12,000 (MexS 150,000)               90               8.75        11.50
US$12,000 to US$20,000 (Mex$ 150,000
to Mex$ 250,000)                        85               9.75        12.25
US$20,000 to US$40,000 (Mex$ 250,000
to Mex$ 500,000)                        80              10.50        13.00
US$40,000 to US$80,000 (Mex$ 500,000
to Mex$ 1 million)                      70              11.00        13.50
US$80,000 to US$400,000 (Mex$ 1 million
to Mex$ 5 million)                      70              11.50        13.50
US$400,000 to US$800,000 (Mex$ 5 million
to Mex$ 10 million)                     70              12.25        14.00
US$800,000 (Mex$ 10 million
to Mex$ 15 million)                     70              12.75        14.50
More than US$1,200,000                                   not less than  not less than
(Mex$ 15 million)                       70              12.75        14.50
Further, the discount rate would be increased by 0.25 percent, over and above
the rates indicated above, in respect of sub-loans in excess of Mex$ 500,000,
whenever such sub-loans are evaluated by the FONDO staff. The discount and
interest rates were raised in September 1975, the second time during the
Fourth Project, to the levels indicated above, taking into account the rising
operational costs of the participating banks and the FONDO. FONDO's discount
rates were thus increased from the range of 7.5% to 10% to 8.75% to 12.75% and
the banks' on-lending rates from the range of 10% to 12% to 11.5% to 14.5%, as
part of a general policy of moving towards higher interest rates in the context
of domestic inflation and relevant international factors.
4.26      Discount and interest rates on the LIPSP sub-loans would be as
follows, providing a slightly higher margin to private banks as compared
with the public agricultural banks which receive considerable financial
support from the Government:



- 17 -
Discount Rate             Rate of Interest
For Private   For Public            to Ultimate
Category of Sub-borrowers       Banks         Banks               Sub-borrower
(Annual Rate %)
A.   Lower-income LIPs /1          4.6         5.6                   7.6
B.   Other LIPs                    6           7                     9
/1   LIPs obtaining institutional credit for the first time and earning a net
annual income not exceeding 250 times the minimum daily rural wage.
FONDO would rediscount up to 90% of the LIPSP sub-loans.
4.27      Discount and interest rates for sub-loans for agro-industries would
depend on the category of producers undertaking such investment. If the
enterprise is wholly owned by medium income producers (MIPs), the rates would
be the same as those indicated in para 4.25. If MIPs and low-income producers
(LIPs) jointly own an enterprise, the sub-loan would be divided into two parts
in the same proportion as the number of members of the two categories. The
rates for the part relating to LIPs and for enterprises wholly owned by LIPs
would be determined by the average amount of loan per member (the total loan
amount divided by the number of LIPs) applied to the schedule of rates given
in para 4.25.
4.28      As of March 31, 1975, out of a total of 6123 sub-loans to non-LIPSP
sub-borrowers, excluding agro-industries, amounting to Mex$ l,247 million, as
many as 4,405 sub-loans, amounting to Mex$ 476 million, were less than
Mex$ 250,000 (US$20,000), and only 20 sub-loans, amounting to Mex$ 30 million,
exceeded Mex$ 1.5 million (US$ 120,000). The FONDO has now stipulated that
sub-loans of less than Mex$ 5 million (Us$400,000) should make up at least 85%
of the total sub-loans rediscounted by each participating bank with it. To
further restrict credit to relatively large farmers, the borrowing of any
beneficiary under the MIPSP of this Project, together with the outstanding
balance on any earlier sub-loans to him, would not be permitted to exceed
US$200,000 (Mex$ 2,500,000). Only about 40 beneficiaries are estimated to
receive a sub-loan exceeding U $100,000, accounting, in all, for US$5 million.
4.29      Assurances were obtained that FONDO would adopt the proposed dis-
count and interest rates and the proposed ceiling on MIPSP sub-loans. The
repayment period for sub-loans would be based on expected cash flows and
range from three to 15 years (including grace periods of one to three years)
except for special cases when, with prior Bank approval, it may go up to
20 years.
4.30      Producers' Contribution.  The principle of an appropriate contribu-
tion by sub-borrowers to project financing has been observed in practice so
far, except under LIPSP. Assurances were obtained that FONDO would ensure a
minimum contribution of 20% of the project cost in the case of each sub-loan
for agro-industries, 15% for on-farm investment sub-loans under MIPSP, 3% in



- 18 -
the case of each sub-loan for lower income LIPs (para 4.26), and 5% for other
LIPs. In addition, an average of 20% would be ensured for MIPSP on-farm
investment sub-loans as a whole. LIPSP sub-borrowers may make their contri-
bution in the form of labor and materials, and the lower-income LIPs (para
4.26) would be shown special consideration.
4.31      Under the Fourth Project, FONDO was required to obtain prior Bank
approval for project sub-loans in excess of US$400,000 (Mex$ 5 million). How-
ever, in view of the rising investment costs, the increased size of indivi-
dual LIPSP sub-loans resulting from group activity and the new ceiling of
US$200,000 on individual MIPSP sub-loans, this limit would be raised to
US$800,000 million (Mex$ 10 million) for the Fifth Project. Assurances were
obtained that this requirement would be observed and that detailed data
would be furnished to the Bank for all sub-loans to be approved by it.
H. Accounts and Auditing
4.32      The accounting system of FONDO, FEFA and FEGA is satisfactory.
Their accounts are audited by a FONDO unit directly responsible to the
Audit Department of the Bank of Mexico, and also by an independent public
accounting firm. Assurances were obtained that an audit satisfactory to
the Bank would be made of the accounts and financial statements of FONDO and
PEFA for each fiscal year in accordance with sound auditing principles consis-
tently applied by independent and qualified auditors and that certified copies
of the statements so audited, together with the report of the auditors, would
be made available to the Bank not later than three months after the close of
the fiscal year. Assurances were also obtained that adequate accounts and
records would be maintained within all the participating banks, so as to
identify all transactions pertaining to the project and that periodical Bank
supervision missions would have access to such accounts.
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND MARKETING, AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
A.  Production
5.01      Project sub-borrowers are expected to produce a wide range of
crops and livestock products, the production patterns adopted by them
depending upon factors such as agro-climatic conditions, seasonal factors
such as rainfall, price trends, and the availability of extension services.
However, the following table indicates rough estimates of likely production
increases:



- 19 -
Incremental Project
National        Production at Full
Production          Development
Mlaize               '000 tons       1974       9,100                 312
Beans                  "   "         1974         896                  41
1Wheat                 "             1974       2,764                  87
Sugarcane              "   "         1974      26,500                 611
Grapes                 "   ''                   N.A.                   36
Mango                                           N.A.                   35
Guanabano              "   "                    N.A.                   31
Tamarind               "   "                    N.A.                   20
Milk                   "   "         1974        5,740                134
Feeder steers          " heads       1972          770                 36
Beef                   " tons        1974          727                 10
Pork                   "             1974          414                 12
N.A.:     Not Available.
B. Markets and Marketing
5.02      Based on the present annual growth rate of Mexico's population at
3.4%, an increase in per capita income of about 3% per year, and an income
elasticity of demand of 0.37, a 4.5% annual increase in the food require-
ments may be expected over the next few years. Given the present and pros-
pective deficits in these and other items, the problem would be one of
increasing production substantially to catch up with the rising domestic
demand and maintaining export growth rather than one of finding a market.
5.03      The increased support prices for corn and beans are likely to result
in a larger share of the production being handled by CONASUPO, which adminis-
ters the price support program and helps small farmers by collecting their
produce and paying for it promptly (para. 2.08).  Notwithstanding the concern
about increases in cost of living, the Government is now emphasizing incentives
for producers and recently permitted increases in the prices of bread and
similar items.
5.04      Marketing of sugar is a monopoly of the national organization of
sugar mills (UNPASA).  Farmers are initially paid one-half of the guaranteed
price and a further sum later, based on an increment resulting from the higher
export price. Steps are being taken to rationalize the Mexican sugar
industry and improve productivity on the farm and in the mills. The rising
per capita consumption of the growing population and the modest rise pro-
jected for exports point to promising demand prospects.
5.05      Fruits, fresh and processed, account for about one-fifth of the
agricultural exports to the United States and are assuming growing importance,



- 20 -
calling for additional processing and cold storage facilities. Marketing
arrangements are being gradually improved to correct excessive margins of
the intermediaries, seasonal price fluctuations, and absence of quality
control in the domestic market.
5.06      Milk prices for the farmer, pasteurizing plants and the consumer
are fixed by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. The Ministry is recogni-
zing the need to increase prices sufficiently to cover rising input costs
and to provide incentives to producers and their processing units to step
up domestic milk production, which is projected to fall short of demand
till 1982.
5.07      The domestic market for beef holds good expansion possibilities,
in view of rising income levels, its high income elasticity of demand, and
the population growth. Given Mexico's special position of comparative
advantage, even the feeder cattle trade with the United States is expected
to improve in the long run, despite recent adverse market conditions. De-
mand for feeders is expected to increase appreciably in 1977 due to falling
feedgrain prices in the US and the consequent tendency for feedlots to be
stocked up to capacity. The Bank's projections for beef also indicate
bright long-term prospects.
5.08      Prices for hogs have shown steady gains despite seasonal distor-
tions and increased feedgrain costs. Additional slaughter facilities and
better use of by-products should increase the profitability and long-term
prospects of swine production, especially for commercial operators.
C. Producer Benefits
5.09      A summary of producer benefits, per LIPSP beneficiary, derived from
representative production models, is given on page 21. It should be clarified that
(a) these figures are based on assumptions made about the number of benefi-
ciaries per model, which vary between regions and are difficult to estimate,
and (b) the net income shown here is over and above the cash wages earned by
one or more family members, which have been included in investment and pro-
duction costs.
5.10      The financial rates of return on the various crop/livestock models
range from 14.7% to 27.1% on conservative assumptions regarding yields and
prices and should provide sufficient incentive for investment (Annex 6).
Agro-industry models also show satisfactory financial returns which range
between 15.7% and 29.8%, except for investment in grain storage (14.3%).
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      After adjustments are made to producer benefits so as to reflect
real costs and returns to the economy, the economic rates of return on the
various farm models range from 20% to 42% (Annex 7). The rates of return



- 21 -
-                     , ~~~~~~US$
Net Income                Net
Net       at Full                   Income
Invest-   Income    Develop-                  After
Per LIPSP            No.    ment      Before    ment  /        Debt        Debt
*  Beneficiary      of Ha   Cost       Project   _            Service  .  Service
Annual Crops
irrigated         3.3      2,747      h68          9714       446           528
Annual Crops
rainfed           ).0      3,210      4o6        1_o49        525           524
Perennial Crops
irrigated    1     1.5     6,023       9 go   l1,970          778         1,192
Perennial Crops
rdlnfed           2.3      2,67T      223      1,875          375        1,500
Sugarcane
irrigated         2.7      2,588       -          856         425          431
Sugarcane
rainfed           L.o                  -       1,10?          635           4o67
Dairy                       15,936                1,581       1,028           552
Beef (dual purpose cattle)
Wet Tropics        9.1     4,799      389       1,218         620           598
Beef (dual purpose cattle)
Dry Tropics       13.6     L,174      100       1,062         479           583
lJ Sales minus operating expenses including labor and taxes.
g/ Full development varie  from years 3-12.
S/  Excluding short term financing.



- 22 -
are found satisfactory, even on assumptions of a 10% increase in costs and
a 10% decline in sales receipts.
6.02      The principal objective of the project is increased production,
which should help meet the expanding demand of Mexico's growing population.
The additional production of corn, beans, and milk would help save foreign
exchange through import substitution while increases in exports of fruits,
live cattle, and the like should add to foreign exchange receipts. Within
this broad effort, the project further focuses on raising the production and,
hence, income of the small farmers. Out of about 46,000 families who would
directly benefit from the project sub-loans, about 80% would be LIPs, several
of whom would receive institutional investment credit for the first time.
The project would thus help extend to the beneficiaries of land reform the
complementary services of credit and technical assistance. The relatively
poor sections of the rural population would also benefit from the substantial
increase in employment opportunities (a total of 20,000 man-days in the first
three years) created by the project.
6.03      Apart from the increase in the tax revenues to be generated by the
increased production on the farms and in the processing units, the project
would also result in important benefits in terms of institutional development.
The FONDO, which was earlier helped to build up a system of providing medium-
income producers with credit and technical assistance, will be enabled through
this project, not only to maintain and expand these services but also to ex-
tend them to the LIPs on a large scale. Besides demonstrating the bankability
of small farmer-oriented investment operations and helping to evolve techniques
of financing them, the project should provide valuable experience in the complex
task of organizing small farmers into viable units of joint economic activity.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained:
(a)  Government would:
(i) assume the responsibility for payment of interest in
respect of the Bank loan proceeds used by the FQNDO
for training, demonstrations and monitoring (para 4.15);
(ii)  compensate FONDO/FEFA adequately for the FONDO/FEFA
expenses for technical assistance for LIPSP (para 4.21);
and
(iii)  provide to the Bank (a) a detailed report on the BNCR
and its regional banks, and (b) within nine months
following the signin4 of the loan, an audited consoli-
dated financial statement of BNCR (para 4.22).



- 23 -
(b)  FONDO would:
(i) implement proposed arrangements for monitoring and also
arrange for periodic evaluation of issues arising from
the monitoring exercise (para 4.11);
(ii) insure that a few pilot projects are carried out for
testing out various types of low cost arrangements for
the sound management of group economic activity organized
among ejidatarios and for other related purposes (para
4.12);
(iii) insure that the procurement would be in accordance with
procedures set out in paras 4.16 and 4.17;
(iv) provide rediscount facilities under the project to BNCR
only after the Bank has declared it eligible for the
purpose (para 4.22);
(v) assume responsibility for approval of project sub-loans
and continue to review procedures for their processing
and approval (para 4.24); and
(vi) adopt the discount and interest rates and the restrictions
on sub-loans set out in paragraphs 4.25 to 4.29.
7.02      With the indicated assurances, the proposed Fifth Project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$125 million for a term of 20 years,
including four years of grace.
January 28, 1976






MEXICO
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT
ANNEX 1
The Agricultural Sector
Page
A.   BACKGROUND   .............     ............................  1
Resource-base .......    ..........................     1
Agriculture in the Economy            . .2
Public Investment .. ..3
B.   PRODUCTION PERFORMANCE OF AGRICULTURE ..............         4
General ......................................         4
Livestock production               ..5
Crop production                 . .8
C.   INFRASTRUCTURE OF INSTITUTIONS AND SERVICES                 13
Land Tenure   .... ..  13
Inputs ..........                .     .              15
Agricultural Education, Research and Extension.    16
Marketing and Agro-Industries .18
Special Development Programs .20
Planning and Coordination .....       ................    21
D.   ASPECTS OF PRODUCTION PLANNING .......... ...........    22
Regional Specialization         ...22
Self-Sufficiency .....          .    .     .22
Orientation of Public Investment  ...23
Rural Employment           ...24






ANNEX 1
Page 1
MEXICO
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT
The Agricultural Sector
1.        This Annex aims to present a brief overview of Mexican agriculture
as background for the proposed Fifth Project and for periodic discussions
between the Bank and Mexican authorities concerning the agricultural sector,
in the context of the Bank's considerable past and expected future involvement
in the financing of this sector. Beginning with a reference to the resource-
base of Mexican agriculture and its place in the economy, a review is made
herein of the overall production performance and production and marketing of
major commodities; experience in regard to institutional infrastructure and
supply of services required by agriculture (except for credit which is the
subject of Annex 2); and, finally, various key aspects of production planning,
which have a bearing on the Government strategy for agricultural development.
In different sections of this annex, there will be reference to relevant issues
which would be brought to the attention of Mexican authorities in future dis-
cussions.
A. BACKGROUND
Resource-base
2.        Of Mexico's total land area of nearly 200 million ha, about 35% is
classified as range or pasture land; the latter supports only a small propor-
tion of the rural population. Excluding also forest land and the area limited
by inadequate rainfall, poor drainage and topography, only about 35 million ha
are considered potential crop land, of which on the average, only 14.5 million
ha are harvested. Of this, about 4.3 million ha are irrigated as against 10
million ha that could ultimately be irrigated, although at increasingly high
cost levels.
3.        The wide range of latitudes and altitudes results in many climatic
and regional variations. Out of the total land area of nearly 200 million ha,
about 40% (79 million ha) supports a cattle population of approximately 26
million head under a wide range of climatic conditions. Arid areas account
for about 23% (6 million head of cattle) of the total grazing land, temperate
areas 35% (9 million), and tropical areas 42% (11 million). As for crops,
since pre-colonial times, the central plateau has been Mexico's breadbasket,
but presently grains are also produced in irrigation districts at lower eleva-
tions in the North and Northwest. Irrigation is highly developed around
Torreon, Chihuahua and Delicias where cotton, wheat, beans, alfalfa, fruit,
and pasture are produced. In the semi-arid north, extensive livestock pro-
duction predominates. Across the southern central altiplano, corn, beans,
sorghum and other food crops are produced. Around the Federal District (States



ANNEX 1
Page 2
of Mexico, Puebla and Hidalgo), where climate is temperate and dry, rainfed
corn and beans are grown while fruit and horticultural crops are raised on
small irrigated farms. Along the Gulf coast, sugarcane, corn, and sorghum
predominate. Due to pest problems, cotton acreage has decreased in recent
years and has been largely replaced by sorghum. To the south, in Tabasco,
beef represents the major livestock activity, while cocoa, bananas and sugar-
cane are grown as the principal crops.  Along the northwest coast, cotton,
wheat, oil seeds and vegetables are grown under irrigation, drawing heavily
on US technology. To the south, tropical fruits and basic food crops are
grown under rainfed conditions, while in the Chiapas region, corn, beans,
sesame and cotton predominate.
Agriculture in the Economy
4.        Agriculture has long been a dynamic element of Mexico's economic
development, with a growth rate of more than 5% per annum over the twenty-
five period, 1940-65. Since the late 1960s, however, production growth rates
in major cereal crops have fallen below those of domestic demand (Table 1).
Agriculture's contribution to national production has been declining, and the
sector's share of GDP declined to 10% in 1974, from 16% in 1960 as shown
below:
1960      1965       1970      1974_/
Agricultural production (Mex$
million)                               27,970    36,369    47,475    76,700
Agriculture share in GDP (percent)        15.9       14.4      11.3       10.1
Agricultural export (Mex$ million)       5,948      9,013     9,527    16,767
Agricultural exports share in total
exports (percent)                       64.6      64.9       55.6
Agricultural imports (Mix$ million)    1,023        1,359     2,358    10,139
Agricultural imports share in total
imports (percent)                        6.9        7.0       7.7
Agricultural trade balance (Mex$
million)                               4,925      7,654     7,169      6,628
The recent sluggish production reflects the impact of various factors:
the limited potential for expansion in the traditional agricultural areas,
a relative reduction in the public investment in this sector in the six-
ties, the declining profitability and consequent decapitalization of the
sector, and an apparent series of adverse climatic conditions in the
seventies.
/1   Estimates.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
5.        The structure of foreign trade in agricultural commodities has
changed considerably over the last few years. (Table 2). Both exports and
imports reached record levels in 1974. Grains and oilseeds accounted for
over two-thirds of total agricultural imports in 1974, a more than fivefold
increase over 1972, while more traditional imports such as milk powder and
skins increased only moderately. Cotton has lost its dominant position but
still accounts, together with sugar and coffee, for nearly half of Mexico's
agricultural exports. Feeder cattle and boneless meat exports have declined
drastically as a consequence of a temporary decline in prices in the US mar--
ket and, previously, Government restrictions on exports. Tomatoes are still
the most important horticultural export crop but others such as melons, straw-
berries and chillies have also shown good performance.
6.        Agriculture is the most important source of income and employment
for Mexico's rural population of 20 million. The four million families depend-
ing on this sector for their livelihood constitute about 40% of the labor force
of the country, despite increasing migration to urban areas. They comprise
three distinct groups: 1.5 million ejidatarios, 1.2 million private farmers,
and about 1.3 million landless families whose number is increasing because
farm land is limited while the annual rural population growth rate is 2%.
7.        About half the rural families had an income of less than US$i35 per
capita in 1970. The rural production and income distribution \is, moreover,
skewed, following the pattern of land tenure (para 35).  It is estimiited that
about 5% of all farms supply approximately half the agricultural market sales,
while 80% contribute only one-sixth. Similarly, the upper 10% of the rural
population account for about half the rural income, while half the population
has to accommodate to less than a fifth of the income.
Public Investment
8.        The proportion of agricultural investment to total public investment
increased from 11% in 1970 to 19% in 1975 (Table 3). As in the past, irrigation
(including flood control and drainage) accounts for most of this investment,
with increasing emphasis on irrigation works for rural development that bene-
fit mainly low income producers. Allocations for supporting services have
been increased considerably, primarily to help organize the low income farmers
and utilize their scarce resources more productively. The main beneficiaries
are i) Ministry of Agrarian Reform (SRA) now counting on a budget of Mex$ 1
billion as against Mex$ 150 million in 1970, which will enable it to implement
the Agrarian Reform Law of 1972; ii) the Ministry of Agriculture (SAG), which
received a fivefold budget increase, with emphasis on agricultural research
and extension as well as small irrigation works; iii) CONASUPO which has
expanded its investment program from about Mex$ 100 million in 1970 to nearly
Mex$ 1 billion in 1975 in order to build up an improved marketing system, in-
cluding retail stores and warehouses; and iv) the PIDER program which now
accounts for 16% of total public investment in agriculture. These increased



ANNEX 1
Page 4
budget allocations for various purposes in the agricultural sector have
accompanied various steps taken by Government for increasing agricultural
production and promoting a more equitable distribution of the benefits of
growth than hitherto. These important policy measures which included the
enactment of a new Federal Agrarian Reform Law and a Federal Water Law, the
preparation of a National Water Plan, implementation of integrated rural deve-
lopment programs, and other special programs such as PLAMEPA (Plan de Mejora-
miento Parcelario) and the establishment of a national coordination committee
for agriculture, are discussed in the later sections of this Annex.
B. PRODUCTION PERFORMANCE AND MARKETING
i. General
9.        While crop production decreased by about 5% between 1970 and 1973,
and livestock production increased by 9% to reach an index of 121 compared to
the base period (1967/69=100), total agricultural production remained apparently
stagnant between 1970 and 1972 (Table 4). Particularly disappointing was the
performance of maize production, which decreased by 12% between 1970 and 1974
and was 14 percentage points below the level of 1967-69. The production
growth of maize and cotton was far below the growth of domestic demand, but
production of wheat, rice, and sugar grew approximately in line with domestic
demand. Sorghum, soy beans and safflower also registered-satisfactory growth
rates. Given a continuation of the various efforts of Government and favorable
weather conditions, production is likely to improve in 1975 and result in an
aggregate growth rate of 4 to 5% for the year.
10.       As a consequence of stagnant production, the agricultural trade sur-
plus of US$690 million in 1972 was reduced to US$530 million in 1974. The
major factor was that Mexico had to import maize (2 million tons in 1973, 1.5
million tons in 1974 and 1.5 million tons forecast for 1975) and wheat (750,000
tons in 1973, 1 million tons in 1974 and 120,000 tons forecast for 1975), as
against the fact that it had been self-sufficient in grains in the past and
even exported 1 million tons of maize and 143,000 tons of wheat in 1967-69.
On the export side, external market constraints resulted in the slowing down
of exports of high valued commodities such as cotton, tomatoes, beef and cattle
but this was compensated by significant increases in the value of coffee and
sugar exported.
11.       In reviewing the agricultural production performance, one has to bear
in mind that it was only from 1973 on that several of the major government prog-
rams oriented to increased production and investment were implemented on a
significant scale (Table 5). As the average gestation period of physical infra-
structure such as large scale irrigation investment is seven to ten years in
Mexico, production increases only gradually thereafter and supporting services
take three to four years to be effective, the full impact of the public invest-
ment and service programs on production will be witnessed only after a time lag.
Moreover, while the Government has taken several far-reaching steps, it will



ANNEX 1
Page 5
require continuing efforts and adjustments, as for example in further streng-
thening extension and tackling problems of rainfed agriculture, to make the
public agricultural policies fully effective and to restore the earlier
dynamism to Mexican agriculture. Nevertheless, a sustained growth rate of
over 4% in the medium term, assuming average weather conditions, seems feasible
on the basis of the past and on-going government programs for the development
of the infrastructure, services and credit.
ii. Livestock Production
Beef
12.       Mexico has three major beef cattle production regions;  (i) the arid
and semi-arid northern rangelands; (ii) the wet tropics along the Gulf Coast;
and (iii) the dry tropics along the Pacific Coast. The first is used mainly
for extensive cattle breeding with stocking rates ranging from 5 to 50 ha per
animal unit and income derived mainly from the sale of feeder cattle and cull
cows. The area supplies the US market with feeder cattle (male weaners) and
about half of the exported boneless beef. On the other hand, the dry and wet
tropics produce beef almost exclusively for domestic consumption, with the
wet tropics developing into a major area for cattle fattening in the country
and the main source of supply for the Federal District. Because of the high
initial fertility of the soil, abundant and well distributed rainfall and the
high quality of the pastures, stocking rates are one to three animal units per
ha. Under private and ejidal deforestation programs, tropical and coastal
grazing lands are being cleared and put under artificial pastures.
13.       The national cattle population grew at 3.4% between 1960 and 1970
and 3% between 1970 and 1974 while slaughtered beef grew at 5.6% and 6.6%
respectively. Also, the increase in the off-take rate from 14% in 1960 to
over 17% in 1974 and the growth in average carcass weight of slaughtered animals
from 152 to 169 kg during this period indicate a considerable increase in the
productivity of the national cattle herd. Apparently, beef consumption in
Mexico increased from 8.4 kg per capita in 1960 to 10.7 kg in 1973 and 12.1 kg
in 1974, when cattle not sold for export in 1973 were fattened and consumed in
the country.
14.       Although falling off in the last two years, exports of feeder cattle
from Mexico to the United States more than doubled during 1960-70 to nearly
1 million head per year, and remained at a high level until 1973 when market
conditions detriorated and only 553,000 head were exported in 1973 and 500,000
in 1974. Similarly, the volume of boneless meat exported to the United States
also declined in 1973 and 1974, largely due to relatively low prices paid for
beef in US. Even though present market conditions are adverse, demand for
feeders is expected to increase appreciably in 1977 due to falling feedgrain
prices in the US, and this is causing feedlots to stock up to capacity. World
Bank price projections also indicate excellent long-term projects for beef.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Despite high feedgrain prices and low beef prices, government policy is to
phase out the export of lightweight feeder cattle to the US and to give higher
priority to domestic needs while at the same time exporting to the US high
quality boneless beef.
15.       Live beef cattle going into the Federal District market, which
accounts for about one-third of national consumption, are slaughtered at the
municipal abattoir. These animals are tightly controlled by a small group
of middle-men called "introductores", who purchase animals through their own
or independent buyers and sell carcasses to distributors, who, in turn, sell
to butchers at the retail level. Their power has been reduced by the Govern-
ment, as they are now assigned quotas by the Government and as slaughtered
beef is permitted to enter the Federal District without their intervention.
On the average, the producer received about 66% of the consumer dollar, compared
to 62% in the US in 1974. The domestic market opportunities for beef appear
strong due to rising incomes, high income elasticity for beef and rapid popula-
tion growth.
Milk
16.       Milk production in Mexico has been growing at 3% per annum since 1963
and increased by 5.3% in 1974 to reach about 5.7 million tons. There are about
1 million predominantly Holstein Friesan cows milked under economical farm
conditions in the irrigated areas of the central plateau and the arid north,
which contribute about 55% of total production. The balance is provided by
about 4 million cows milked under primitive conditions, especially in the
tropical regions, where, as by-products of the beef industry, milk and milk
products provide additional daily income to ranchers. In addition, goat milk
provides about 3% of total milk supply. Domestic production supplies about
85% of the national consumption while the balance is imported.
17.       Production is generally based on irrigated alfalfa in the spring
and summer, with forage oats and corn silage in the autumn and winter. Concen-
trate feedstuffs are also used. Milk production levels of 15 liters per cow
per day are being attained under this intensive system but there is scope
for lowering costs by grazing herds on permanent legume-based pastures. Pre-
liminary studies are being undertaken by FONDO but a greater research effort
is needed.  Basic problems hampering milk production which the Government is
trying to solve are inadequate pasture and feed. The Government has raised
price support for feedgrains, and is providing technical assistance to dairy
farmers along with credit.  The Government also plans to grow quality heifer
calves as replacements for herd expansion and, therefore, has relaxed duties
on imports of high quality heifers and is investing in large dairy operations
on ejidos. Dairy farmers in the Torreon area and elsewhere are integrating
operations by establishing pasteurizing plants, storage facilities and feed
mixing plants.
18.       The average per capita consumption of fresh milk is about 114 liters
per annum, which represents about half of the recommended minimum amount for
dietary sufficiency. As the demand is rising owing to the increasing income



ANNEX 1
Page 7
and population growth as well as urbanization, over 100,000 m tons of skim milk
powder were imported in 1974 at a cost of over US$90 million, as compared with
average annual imports of 30,000 m tons in the mid 1960s. Government reconsti-
tutes imported skim milk powder with vegetable oils and sells it through the
CONASUPO system.  It is estimated that by 1982, the total milk demand will in-
crease to 10 billion liters, equal to 132 liters per capita. The domestic
supply is expected to be 7.8 billion liters, and a deficit of 2.2 billion liters
would have to be met from imports.
19.       Prices of milk to the farmer, pasteurizing plants and the consumer
are fixed by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, which was earlier reluc-
tant to move producer prices up with the increased cost of inputs due to
concern for urban wage earners but is now offering incentives to farmers and
pasteurizing plants to increase production. Current regional prices to the
producer vary throughout Mexico, from a high of US$0.26 per liter in Morelos
and Guerrero to a low of US$0.18 in Tabasco, Chiapas and Campeche.
Pork
20.       The slaughter of pigs over the period 1960-73 has grown at the rate
of 8% per year. About one-half of the swine population of Mexico is located
in the central plateau region, where commercial swine production has been concen-
trated because of its temperate climate and close proximity to the main consump-
tion centers. In recent years, production has spread to the northern states
as a result of increased availability of lower cost sorghum and is also in-
creasing in Yucatan in response to a high consumer demand. Interest in hog
raising has emanated mainly from large commercial producers who usually combine
breeding and fattening operations under feedlot management.
21.       Pork consumption is about 8.5 kg per capita and the domestic market
normally consumes all production. About 87% is consumed as fresh meat while
the balance is used for cold meats and industry. When the internal price
declines, there usually is some export of pork carcasses to the US and, more
recently, to Japan. Current prices have shown a steady climb for hogs since
1970 despite competition from beef, and pork will still have an advantage
over beef in terms of the cost-price relationship as the hog industry expands
and acquires greater efficiency.  Cyclical distortions apart, short-run pros-
pects may be contained by the high cost of feedgrains but longer run prospects
appear bright, both for a growing demand for pork as well as healthy supply
conditions.
22.       In general, the country lacks slaughterhouses for hogs which are,
therefore, usually transported live over considerable distances causing loss
of weight and high death rates. Also, more by-products should be salvaged
from slaughter than at present. Hog producers sell either directly to bacon
and canning plants or to dealers who are authorized to slaughter hogs at the
municipal facilities and sell them to butcher shops and supermarkets.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
iii. Crop Production
23.       With the unusually wide range of crop varieties, annual and perennial,
that can be grown in Mexico, it is significant that 61% of all cultivated land
is still planted to beans and corn, grown mostly by subsistence farmers. "'Modern"
commercial farms comprise a small percentage, growing cotton, sugar, sorghum,
vegetable oil seeds, fruits and vegetables, concentrated on the relatively small
area of irrigated land. Census data for 1970 are given below:
Modern-  Traditional-    Subsistence-    Total
Number of farms ('000)         201.5        1,140.0          1,479.4       2,815.9
Ejidos                       120.3          676.2          1,062.3       1,858.8
Private                       81.2          463.8            412.1         957.1
Z                              7.4           40.1             52.5         100.0
Average crop
Area per farm (ha)            33             14                8            12
Total crop area ('000)       6,650         15,960           11,835        34,445/2
% of cropland                   19             47               34           100
Incomes
Mex$/farm                 79,200         17,200            7,200
Mex$/ha                    2,100            720              522
Average per capita
income/(Mex$)           9,975          1,428               489
Farms using irrigation (%)    71               17               11
Farms using fertilizer (%)    83               42               17
Farms using improved seed (%) 86               34               14
Farms' produce consumed
on-farm (%)                      7             16               39
/1  Modern - farmers using modern technology.
Traditional - farmers producing cash crops without modern technology.
Subsistence - farmers who produce little or no output for the cash market.
/2 Includes some pasture and woodland.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
The cereals most important in human nutrition include corn, wheat and rice.
Sorghum is important for animal feed.  The cultivation of beans often in
association with corn, is also common. Grain deficits are anticipated through
1980, according to supply and demand projections as shown below:
1976     1977      1978      1979     1980
-- (in '000 m ton) -----------
Corn:
Supply                            10,547   10,688   10,939   10,992   11,182
Demand                            10,836   11,178   11,534   11,904   12,290
Balance                             -289      -490      -595     -912   -1,108
Beans:
Supply                               957       904       914      884       884
Demand                             1,027    1,061    1,096    1,133    1,171
Balance                              -70      -157     -182      -249      -287
Wheat:
Supply                             2,602    2,734    2,846    2,963    3,084
Demand                             2,728    2,932    3,075    3,226    3,385
Balance                             -126      -198     -229      -263      -301
Rice:
Supply                               436       441       460      497       514
Demand                               516       538       561      586       612
Balance                              -18       -97      -101      -89       -98
However, it should be noted that a) self-sufficiency is reported to have been
achieved by Mexico in 1975 in respect of beans, wheat and rice and b) that
while the above demand projections are drawn from the National Agricultural
Plan of SAG, the supply projections from the COCOSA are based on time series
regression analysis (1925-71) and do not, therefore, take account of recent
Government action.
Corn
24.       Half the country's cropland, about 8 million ha, is planted to
rainfed corn, mainly along the tropical Gulf Coast, Pacific south and the
central region. Approximately one-third of the area is marginal because of
erratic rainfall with frequent droughts. As corn production for 1973 and
1974 was disappointing and heavy imports became necessary, the Government
increased support prices to US$140/m tons to evoke a high supply response
from farmers. Supply projections by COCOSA indicate that Mexico could produce
about 10.5 million m tons in 1976 and 11.2 million m tons in 1980, as compared



ANNEX 1
Page 10
to 9.1 million tons in 1974.  This would still leave a planned deficit of
around 300,000 m tons and 1.1 million m tons, respectively, for 1976 and
1980. The Mexican Government has preferred hybrid corn to individual varieties
but there have been difficulties in seed production, sale and control. (para 41).
The International Center for the Improvement of Wheat and Corn (CIMMYT), on the
other hand, has given up on hybrids for Mexican conditions and is testing
several experimental varieties and has had success with Tuxpenio uno, a
reduced tropical tall type which, unlike the hybrid, can be carried over from
one crop to the next by any farmer.  There is strong farmer interest in this
variety and its distribution may break the control over seed production by
PRONASE, the Government Seed Company.
Beans
25.       There are less than 1 million ha of beans sown annually and less
than half the crop is interplanted with maize by subsistence farmers. The
main areas include the north central states and the higher central plateau.
Production is adversely affected throughout the country by diseases, low
yielding local varieties and variable seed quality; average yields have been
low, fluctuating around 500 kg per ha. CIMYT does no research on beans and
the domestic program under SAG should be strengthened. CONASUPO set a high
support price of US$480/ton for 1975 in the hope that it would not have to
undertake imports and the results are understood to have been impressive.
However, consumption is increasing at over 3% per annum and demand seems
likely to outstrip domestic supply in the future by about 287,000 m tons
through 1980.
Wheat
26.       Production has lagged since 1971 until this year but prospects
are good because Mexican wheat farmers have some of the highest yields in
the world due to special hybrids and large-scale operations on irrigated
farms (para 58). Excellent rapport has existed between National Institute
for Agricultural Research (INIA) and CIMMYT on wheat research. Since most
wheat is grown under irrigation, national yields are reasonable, averaging
3,554 kg/ha from the harvested area in 1974. INIA does the wheat breeding,
using CIMMYT material.  The emphasis is on bread wheats and, at the present
time, five new varieties are being multiplied for distribution. Imports
have been high since 1972, with over a million m tons purchased from the US
in 1974.  Demand has been increasing at a rate exceeding 4.5% per annum and
is projected to exceed supply through 1980.
Rice
27.       Rice production has been stagnant over the last five years, with
an annual production of around 420,000 m tons, covering just over 1% of the
area harvested in all crops and 1.2% of total crop value. Cultural practices



ANNEX 1
Page 11
vary, ranging from all manual labor and threshing in Morelos and Quintana Roo,
to modern mechanized operations in Sinaloa. Rice is cultivated along the
southern Pacific coast, under seasonal wet tropical conditions. The varieties
are drawn from those distributed by the International Rice Research Institute
(IRRI) and multiplied within Mexico by the Ministry of Agriculture (SAG).
Most rice is grown by larger farmers using machinery and technology imported
from the US. Although extensive areas along the Gulf Coast are suitable for
rainfed rice cultivation, firstly requiring drainage and ultimately also some
irrigation, little rice is as yet produced in this area. Expansion of rice
production in this area, combined with a vigorous program to promote rice
consumption, may reduce the pressures for the production and imports of other
foodgrains.
Sorghum
28.       Sorghum whose production began only in the 1960s in Mexico has
become the most important feedgrain, as output approached 3 million m tons
during 1973 and 1974. Demand is increasing faster than supply, causing over
450,000 m tons to be imported in 1974. As a policy measure to increase out-
put, Government increased the farmer support price to US$113.60/m tons in line
with world prices for January-May 1975. Yields in the Matamoros area are
excellent when normal weather prevails and the latest hybrids are grown.
Average yields are higher than those from corn, averaging 2,350 kg/ha from
the harvested area. Most sorghum is grown on larger farms, using advanced
technology from the US. Under rainfed conditions, sorghum is superior to
maize and other cereals in drier areas because of its drought-tolerance.
CIMMYT is developing cold-tolerant types for use in cooler climates with
limited rainfall.
Barley
29.       Barley is a poor food, being low in protein but this very charac-
teristic makes for its superior quality for brewing, for which it is mainly
used in Mexico. Mexico has the best barley breeding program outside the US
and Canada. The crop out-performs maize at higher elevations and is well
suited to extreme cold and drought. Barley is a relatively minor crop
compared with other grains, with a harvested area of 220,000 ha producing
306,000 m tons in 1974.
Sugarcane
30.       Between 1950 and 1973, sugarcane production made great strides as
annual output increased from 7 million m tons to 30 million m tons. The in-
crease in production was made possible by an increase in yields, as well as
by expansion of the area under cane. A significant aspect of cane cultivation
in Mexico is that the majority of the farmers are ejidatarios and the rest,
mostly small farmers, there being literally no large sugarcane farms. Sugar-
cane is produced under a variety of environmental and cultural conditions.



ANNEX 1
Page 12
Approximately 42% of the area is irrigated, about 55% is rainfed, and three
percent is produced on wetter low land soils and drier zones which do not
require irrigation. In the northwest, where rainfall is minimal, a large
public irrigation scheme services the valley, distributing water from a
large mountain catchment to the east, whereas supplementary irrigation from
wells is the more common practice in other zones. The Government should
consider providing economic incentives to shift sugarcane from the high cost
irrigated areas in the northwest to the humid area of the Gulf Coast.
31.       The marketing of sugar, internal and external, is a monopoly of the
Union Nacional de Productores de Azucar (UNPASA), which is an organization
of all sugar mills, Government and private. The standard price of sugar is
controlled by Government and has been fixed during the last three years at
Mex$ 2/kg. The practice is that, for sugar delivered by mills to UNPASA, the
farmers are paid initially the guaranteed price of Mex$ 1.45/kg; of this, one-
half is retained by the mill and the other half passed on to the cane growers.
The price ultimately paid to the mill--known as the final liquidation price--
is determined by adding to the income from the sale of sugar at the standard
price an increment resulting from the higher price earned on exports and sub-
tracting from it UNPASA's costs of marketing and administration. Of the
excess of this final price over that initially paid, 90% is paid into the
Special Trust Fund for price stabilization, and the balance of 10% is shared
equally between the cane producer and the mill. As the price earned on exports
is substantially in excess of the local price of Mex$ 2/kg, UNPASA is able to
pay a higher price to the producers.
32.       The National Sugar Industry Commission has set itself the objective
of increasing Mexico's sugar production to 4 million tons by 1980, 3.2 million
tons being for domestic consumption and about 800,000 tons for export. The
proposed expansion is justified not only by the growing domestic and export
markets but also by the contribution of the industry to rural employment,
earnings of low income groups and foreign exchange earnings. The Government
is planning a variety of measures to establish new sugar mills, to rehabili-
tate existing mills that are in difficulties, and to improve productivity on
the farms and in the mills. At the farm level, substantial investment is
proposed for irrigation, improved cultural practices, extension of cane to new
areas, new roads in cane areas and equipment for cane transportation and
harvesting.
Fruits and Nuts
33.       Approximately 50,000 farmers grow fruit and nuts on 511,000 ha (3.3%)
of Mexico's cultivated land. The produce accounts for almost 20% of total
crop value, with citrus and banana contributing more than half. Of the total
agricultural exports to the US in 1973, fruit accounted for 17.5%, of which,
in turn, 60% was in processed form. Melon, strawberries, oranges and pineapple
were the more important exports. The country is divided into two principal



ANNEX 1
Page 13
zones for fruit production - the dry temperate north and the humid tropical
south. Temperate species such as apples, citrus, grapes and pecan nuts are
grown in the arid and semi-arid northern regions, usually under irrigation.
Tropical species also extend into the temperate latitudes along both the
Pacific and Gulf coast lowlands where conditions are warmer.
34.       Fresh fruit marketing is dominated by buyers who go to the farm to
purchase the fruit and transport it to a wholesale market for sale. The whole-
saler, in turn, sells to a distributor through whom it reaches the retail out-
lets. The system reflects various deficiencies. Marketing margins are very
high in mango and tamarind, while less so in grapes, grapefruit and pecans.
Farmers lack organization fox selling fruit directly to wholesale markets, and
market information is not easily accessible to the fruit producer. On a
national level, the Government needs to draw up a national plan which provides
for regional specialization of fruit production, creates quality control
systems, and provides cold storage services to producers. In recognition of
the expanding fruit industry, the Comision Nacional de Fruticultura (CONAFRUT)
was established in 1961 a: an advisory body to SAG and the Presidency and is
currently sponsoring programs in education,research and extension, fruit tree
development, domestic and overseas marketing, and growers' organizations.
C. INFRASTRUCTURE OF INSTITUTIONS AND SERVICES
i. Land Tenure
35.       Notwithstanding the redistribution of over 90 million ha of land
since the Land Reform of 1917, Mexico's land tenure pattern is still skewed.
The bulk of the commercial farmers, accounting for about three fourths of
domestic market sales and almost all exports have farms between 10 to 30 ha
of irrigated land. Though farm size distribution does not truly reflect
productive capacity, it is relevant to note that one percent of the farmers
are estimated to control about a fifth of the total crop land, while five
percent of the farmers in public irrigation districts hold nearly a third
of the area.
36.       Several steps have been taken by Government to carry the land
reform program further and promote a more equitable and rational use of agri-
cultural resources. The most important is that some 16,000 of the approximately
20,000 ejidos have by now been given definite certificates of usufruct, with
ejidatarios being granted rights to a holding size rather than to a particular
parcel so as to facilitate future community action. There are still about
6 million ha of undistributed state-owned land and private land in excess of
legal limits which can together help settle 100,000 to 120,000 small farmers.



ANNEEX 1
Page 14
37.       About 320,000 "certificados de inafectabilidad" for crops and 1,300
for livestock have been issued so far, covering 8.2 million ha.  The possession
of these legal titles is intended to stimulate investment and facilitate insti-
tutional financing insofar as they would rule out the possibility of a reduc-
tion in the land base of the concerned farmers. This process is being speeded
up but about 250,000 such certificates are yet to be issued. Pending full
investigation, temporary certificates are being issued so that, subject to
certain conditions, the rancher may be protected against expropriation even
if his animal carrying capacity should exceed existing legal limits as a
result of his investment. However, until a more permanent legal arrangement
than the "certificado de inafectabilidad" is introduced, tenure uncertainty
may continue to brake capital formation in the sector.
38.       Supported by the provisions of the new Federal Agrarian Reform Law
aimed at transforming the ejido's general assembly into a planning body which
can implement economic programs, the Ministry of Agrarian Reform is seeking to
ensure that the beneficiaries of land reform receive the necessary supplementary
services, supplies and credit so as to bring the redistributed land to full
productive use. The Ministry, which has been considerably strengthened in terms
of staff and funds, seeks to provide technical, promotional and organizational
assistance through multi-disciplinary brigades organized from over 2,500 pro-
fessionals and technicians, in coordination with arrangements for credit and
inputs from the public agricultural banks and marketing support from the CONASUPO.
Under a master plan to cover 4,500 ejidos with economic potential, about 2,500
are already in the process of being involved in this integrated promotional
effort. Together with the public banks, the Ministry hopes to ensure that,
by 1976, about 16,000 ejidos would receive institutional support for developing
into more efficient production units. This strategy is being supported with an
extensive educational and training program so that progress is made gradually
towards the goal of a single unit of joint economic activity covering the whole
ejido, on the basis of the experience of ejidatarios of working together in
smaller groups for limited purposes and other efforts to increase farmer partici-
pation in decision-making and implementation.
39.       The tasks in the area of land reform in Mexico are so vast and complex
that, despite Government's vigorous action, the situation remains difficult and
uncertain. The principal problem which needs more attention arises from conflicts
resulting from unresolved legal titles to land. Apart from issuing certificates,
Government has to ensure that they do in fact protect the beneficiary's interest
in his land so that he may have the incentive to invest. Secondly, it has to be
considered whether the limits on the size of farms, especially for livestock
ranchers, should be reviewed so as to encourage the development of unexploited
areas like the tropical Gulf Coast. Thirdly, there is need to bestow greater
attention on the organizational and other needs of private small farmers (an
estimated one million families), as distinct from ejidatarios on whom most of
the present developmental efforts are being focussed.



ANNEX 1
Page 15
ii. Inputs
Fertilizer
40.       Production of nitrogenous fertilizers in Mexico has expanded substan-
tially since 1953, by almost 20% per annum up to 1963 and 13% thereafter.
Fertilizer consumption too has grown briskly, covering almost all irrigated
land and about one-fourth of the rainfed area. As planned plants go into
production, the country is expected to be self-sufficient in nitrogenous
fertilizers in 1979/81, though consumption would increase as a result of
on-going efforts to train and enable small farmers to use fertilizer and to
bring newly irrigated land under production. The distribution system consists
mainly of over 200 private dealers and the branch network of the public agri-
cultural banks. The retailing arrangements which concentrated initially on the
commercial farmers in irrigated agriculture are now being oriented to cover
small farmers in rainfed agriculture, and to provide the complementaty credit
and extension facilities. Efforts are also being made to improve the coordina-
tion of research and extension with fertilizer use and to improve the procure-
ment arrangements and the delivery system. A survey of the fertilizer distri-
bution system is being organized under the Bank-financed Fertilizer Project.
Certified and Improved Seeds
41.       Mexico has the capacity to develop all the genetic varieties needed
and has increased the production of certified and improved seed in recent
years, but market structure and cost price relationships seem to favor imports
which account for 30 to 40% of the requirements. Farmers' use of certified
seed has also increased significantly so that some crops such as cotton, soy-
beans, sorghum, safflower and oats are wholly planted with such seed. The
area so planted is 50% for wheat and 30% for barley, but only 5% for the two
important food crops of corn and beans. PRONASE, the Government seed produc-
tion company, has a virtual monopoly in some seeds, especially beans and basic
grains, and is playing an important role in meeting the needs of small farmers.
There have been complaints about the lack of organization within PRONASE and
the overall low quality of its seed. An issue for consideration is whether
the situation can be improved by permitting greater participation by private
sector firms in the reproduction of seeds, while emphasizing the regulatory
and planning role of the PRONASE.
Pesticides
42.       In general, Mexican farmers use very little pesticides on crops
other than cotton, which accounts for 75 to 85% of total pesticide consumption.
Since the area planted in cotton was reduced by half in 1975, the pesticide
industry is having difficulties. Adequate supplies are available, partly
through local manufacture by a plant operated by Guanomex, the Government-owned
fertilizer manufacturing company, and partly through imports. A major obstacle
to the increased use of pesticides is the lack of research in the country on
this aspect of production and the consequent inability of the extension staff
to advise the farmers suitably.



ANNEX 1
Page 16
Tractors and Agricultural Machinery
43.       Production of tractors in Mexico, largely undertaken through multi-
national companies, rose from 5,059 in 1969 to 7,951 in 1974, and is estimated
at 11,000 for 1975, with a gradual increase in the proportion of larger tractors
(71-80 hp being the most popular type) and a decline in imports which are now
largely restricted to heavy duty tractors and combines.  There has recently
been further diversification to include some low cost 25 hp tractors based on
a Russian model, and heavy duty track type tractors are also expected to be
produced by 1978 with Japanese collaboration. With the generally favorable
outlook in regard to irrigation, agricultural prices and Government policies
in this sector, the farmers' demand for tractors is increasing and, to this
has to be added the requirements of the public sector for land clearing and
leveling operations, and on-farm construction and crop activity on the ejidos.
Supplies of spare parts and service facilities provided by the dealers are
satisfactory. There is an undoubted need for mechanization for extensive land
clearing and leveling operations now in progress in many parts of Mexico, and
for large commercial farms producing for export and for the large ejido joint
production units being organized, and in other similar contexts. It is, how-
ever, necessary to review carefully the impact of mechanization on the capa-
bility of agriculture to absorb the increasing rural population and to consider
if emphasis should be placed on smaller and less sophisticated machinery which
would displace less labor (para 62).
Breeding Stock
44.       Importation of registered dairy heifers has increased by more than
30% per annum since 1970, with the most pronounced movement in the last two
years; nearly 30,000 head were imported in 1974. While the demand for pure
bred dairy stock has been strengthened by milk price expectations and FONDO-
financed dairy operations on ejidos, there has also been, surprisingly, a
steady growth of imports of beef-type heifers which are probably being used
for beef production for the domestic market. Inclusive of hogs, sheep and
goats and baby chicks, there has been a 40% increase per annum in expenditures
on imports of registered breeding stock, resulting from an increase in the
number of head as well as rising prices.
iii. Agricultural Education, Research and Extension
Education
45.       Agricultural education in Mexico has expanded steadily over the last
decade but output, particularly at the graduate and post graduate levels, still
falls critically short of demand and, despite the recent budget increases and
planned expansion over the next few years, the supply gap seems likely to
persist till mid-1980. Similar shortages are anticipated, in relation to needs,
for sub-professional agronomos whose role would be critical for the extension
and promotional programs of SAG and the Ministry of Agrarian Reform, and for
teachers to man the lower secondary schools. Apart from measures to improve
curricula and laboratory and library facilities, a comprehensive manpower



ANNEX 1
Page 17
planning study is needed to review the likely personnel requirements of the
various sub-sectors in agriculture at different levels for the next decade
and the expected output of the different educational institutions and suggest
means of bridging the anticipated gap. The need for such review is urgent,
in view of the considerable expansion envisaged in the Government's drive to
increase agricultural production, and in related activities such as rural devel-
opment projects and the fact that much of the effort is oriented to small
farmers who need technical assistance more than commercial farmers.
Research
46.       Despite the international re utation for the successful breeding of
hybrid maize and wheat strains, the contribution of agricultural research in
Mexico has been deficient in so far as it has concentrated on the needs of
commercial farmiers in irrigated agriculture and, constrained by lack of funds
and staff, has relatively neglected the sector of rainfed cultivation which
covers most Mexican farmers and the problems of virtually unexploited areas
like Tropical Gulf Coast, whose development will be essential for future pro-
duction growth. The National Institute for Crop Research (INIA) has received
substantially increased financial allocations in recent years (rising from
Mex$ 44 million in 1970 to Mex$ 283 million in 1975) and has thus been enabled
to expand the research staff and improve its caliber. It has delegated func-
tions to its regional centers so as to make the work more region-specific and
problem-oriented. Changes have also been made in the distribution on INIA's
budget as, for exmaple, by larger allocations for research in forage and
legumes so as to make it consistent with the major technological bottlenecks
to the development of Mexico's agriculture. While these are significant im-
provements, there is still need to further upgrade academic standards of staff,
strengthen the research effort in dry land areas, integrate individual research
findings into technological packages for specific agro-ecological regions, and
improve the interaction with the extension service.
47.       Livestock research, headed by the National Institute of Livestock
Research (INIP), was earlier concentrated on genetics and preventive vaccine
but greater emphasis is now being placed on animal-production-management pro-
blems, including pasture management and stocking rate experiments, both of
which are crucial for Mexico's livestock industry. Still there is need for
more work on production potential of sown and natural pastures under alter-
native fertilizer regimes and grazing techniques. Action is necessary to
remove two basic impediments to an expanded and more production-oriented
livestock research: the relative scarcity of funds allocated for the purpose
and the lack of adequate coordination with INIA's activities in crop research.
Extension
48.       Like research, extension services were also concentrated, till re-
cently, on irrigated areas of commercial farming, to the relative neglect of
temperate and tropical rainfall areas and were inadequate in relation to the



ANNEX 1
Page 18
requirements of Mexican agriculture. Organized extension services, which are
provided through the SAG, SRH, State Governments, the FONDO, public agricul-
tural banks and some private organizations, have expanded considerably. SAG
staff alone has gone up from 367 extensionists in 1970 to 3,727 in 1975 and
public agricultural banks employ about 1,800 technicians. The number of
farmers served by SAG technicians has increased, between 1971 and 1974, from
202,000 to 369,000 and the area covered from 859,000 ha to 2,875,000 ha. This
was accompanied by upgrading of the service to a general directorate, increase
in salaries, and measures to make the staff more mobile, to strengthen the link
to research, and to work increasingly through farmiers' groups. The FONDO
has built up its own technical staff and helped train those of banks so as to
support term lending with technical assistance, and, as a further step in
coordination between extension and credit, SAG had agreed that its extension
staff would work on the credit operations of the public agricultural banks which
would share their costs.
49.       However, even if allowance is made for farmers who are not potential
candidates for extension either because they do not require it or are not
likely to benefit from it, there is need to extend the scope of the services
which, in the case of SAG, covers only 20% of the farm area and 14% of the
farmers. Further steps have also to be taken to overcome deficiencies in
internal coordination and delays in administrative procedures of the services:
to reduce staff turnover and improve the professional standards of the exten-
sionists: to make greater use of crop demonstration and extension aids and
communication techniques, to derive recommendations from region-specific
production development programs and to promote farmer participation in lieu
of the paternalistic system in vogue. Above all, on the basis of experience
of on-going experiments and the pilot schemes intended under the proposed fifth
project, it is necessary to devise suitable systems of management and technical
assistance for ensuring the economic efficiency of activities jointly under-
taken by groups of ejidatarios by providing for professional management on a
contract basis and at a reasonable cost, and making the farmers fully respon-
sible participants in such activities.
iv. Marketing and Agro-Industries
Marketing Facilities
50.       Marketing arrangements for commercial agriculture are, by and large,
satisfactory and estimates of marketing spreads for individual commodities do
not reflect excessive profits for the middlemen and others who provide handling,
transport and other services. Government plays a vital role in setting prices
for several staples and managing the marketing of inputs and production through
several state-owned agencies. While the pricing authority in the Ministry of
Industry and Commerce determines prices to the farmer, the processor and the
consumer, the CONASUPO administers: i) the farm support price system (para 51);
ii) state retail distribution outlets for food stuffs; and iii) several major
agro-industries. Small farmers who were handicapped in marketing their pro-
duce to advantage are now being helped increasingly by the public agricultural



ANNEX 1
Page 19
banks which provide marketing services alongside credit and, to a lesser extent,
by the CONASUPO. The National Warehouse Company owned by Government helps
provide storage facilities which have been generally found adequate. Further-
more, Government has established a network of over 1,000 area-specific marketing
units for small farmers, facilities for storage, sale of inputs and a variety of
related services. While Government controls the production, processing and
marketing of sugarcane and sugar supported by cane producers' organizations,
Farmers Associations are responsible for the production and marketing of cacao,
coffee, rice, vegetables and feeder cattle. Well-organized Farmers Associations
and Credit Unions in the northwest dominate the credit, technical assistance
and marketing needs of farmers in that region.
Farm Price Support
51.       Government has looked upon farm price support as a major policy instru-
ment to provide incentives to farmers for increasing the output of basic grains
and oilseeds, and also, in part, as a means of redistributing income within
agriculture in so far as ejidatarios and other small farmers produce these crops
(corn and beans).  Support prices had stagnated in the face of rising costs
of production over the 1970-72 period but were increased in 1973 (Table 6).
However, because many small producers are involved in producing corn and beans,
price responsiveness has often not been as evident for these crops as for those
grown in the irrigated areas of the country. In spite of the considerable in-
crease in the support price over the following two years, corn production
continues to decline due to non-price factors such as weather and lack of
market information. While the output of beans responded well in 1973 to high
prices, adverse weather conditions caused declines in 1974; but production
rebounded again in 1975 in response to favourable prices. Wheat, sorghum and
soybeans have also responded well to higher support prices. However, Government
has to reconcile the provision of incentives to producers through price support
with other policy objectives such as the maintenance of stable prices of food
stuffs for the urban population and the alignment of the country's agricultural
production to Mexico's international comparative advantage (para 59).
Marketing Service for Small Farmers
52.       In general, CONASUPO's operations have had an overall beneficial
impact on prices, markets and the marketing system for basic grains and
oilseeds. Through its price support program, which appears to be rather
efficient and extends to all commercial farmers at least, and its buying
operations in the international market, CONASUPO has supplied the domestic
market with sufficient food grains and has helped stabilize domestic prices.
In the field of small farmer development, however, the results of its operations
are not so obvious, and public agricultural banks seem to be playing a more
active role in marketing the produce of such farmers. However, limited expe-
rience with its marketing network has shown that small farmers can improve
their incomes by selling directly to CONASUPO, avoiding the local moneylender.



ANNEX 1
Page 20
This organization covers only about 10% of small farm producers at present
and the expansion of its program is limited due to lack of financing. Perhaps
the most visible impact of CONASUPO operations is found in the food distribution
system which concentrates in the poorer areas of the large cities and in the
small rural towns, and, through competition, holds other retail food stores
back from charging high prices.
Agro-industries
53.        Several agro-industrial units have come to be established in the
last decade, with financing from banks and special trust funds in the Nacional
Financiera and the Bank of Mexico and other support from Government, for handl-
ing the expanding livestock and crop production and for assisting the producers
to market their produce to advantage. The FONDO has built up the necessary
special staff, evolved guidelines for the appraisal of such proposals and in-
creased the number of such units of producers financed by it from 37 in 1972
to 101 in 1975 (estimated) and the volume of such loans from Mex$ 30 million
to Mex$285 million. In planning further development, it is necessary that,
for each region, FONDO should review, in coordination with SAG and SRH, the
likely production trends for the commodities to be processed and the existing
idle capacity so as to avoid the creation of excess capacity, as has sometimes
occurred in the past. Secondly, employment implications should be taken into
account in the selection of machinery and equipment, which, in some instances,
have been found to be excessively sophisticated and labor-saving. Thirdly, in
the organization and operation of agro-industries, there is need to pay greater
attention to commercial and financial aspects than hitherto, so that the large
sums being invested generate sufficiently remunerative returns.
v. Special Development Programs
Rural Development Projects
54.       The Government has initiated a variety of special programs which
will increase substantially the demand for credit. The integrated rural
development programs in the Papaloapan Basin and in selected micro-regions
throughout the country (PIDER), both supported by the Bank, aim at improving
the productivity and living standards of the rural poor through integrated,
multisectoral development. While the Papaloapan program is executed by an
autonomous commission in a compact geographic area, PIDER involves nearly two
dozen Government agencies in its execution and covers 55 micro-regions.
55.       The integrated rural development programs comprise a combination
of directly productive, productive support and social infrastructure components.
The directly productive components are emphasized, and supporting infrastructure
and technical and organizational assistance are designed to make them fully
effective. The provision of social infrastructure is tailored to the specific
needs of individual regions and intended to transform the rising incomes from



ANNEX 1
Page 21
the project into improvements in the quality of life of the beneficiaries.
Under the direction of the Ministry of the Presidency, nearly two dozen agencies
participate in the PIDER program with a full-time staff of close to 3,000
professionals. The organizational framework of the project breaks new ground
in Mexico, as many important planning and control functions have been delegated,
expeditious financing procedures have been adopted, and grassroot participation
is being promoted through involvement of local authorities.
Other Special Programs
56.       The Government is also implementing a variety of separate programs
to use scarce land and water resources more effectively. The PLAMEPA program
(Plan de Mejoramiento Parcelario) of SRH aims at better water use in existing
irrigation districts through the provision of complete technological packages,
water utilization recipes, land leveling, demonstration and applied research.
PLAMEPA operates over a three-to-four year period in areas with irrigation
efficiencies below the national average. Over 1 million ha are presently
being served and water savings are estimated to have allowed double cropping
of an additional 350,000 ha. Another 100,000 ha have been brought under irri-
gation through a program of minor investment, such as repair of regulating
gates, inoperative pumps and canals. A trust fund within the former Banco
Ejidal is carrying out a land clearing program for low income farmers, under
which about 300,000 ha have been prepared for pasture and about 35,000 ha for
crop development. Finally, the'"Plan Especial de Cultivos Basicos" of the
Ministry of Agrarian Reform aims at the ejidatarios, who, for lack of clear
titles, did not qualify for official credit. Titles for about 400,000 ha
were legalized in 1974 and the target for 1975 was 1.3 million ha.
vi. Planning and Coordination
57.       The creation of the National Coordinating Commission for Agriculture
(COCOSA) should help close a critical planning and coordination gap among the
multitude of agencies in the agricultural sector which formulate and imple-
ment their programs independently, by avoiding duplication of efforts and
ensuring full complementary action. While the creation of COCOSA and its
regional coordinating commissions should help make agricultural production
planning more realistic and more compatible with the possibilities of Mexico's
diverse macro-ecological regions, these efforts are still based on very weak
information. Improvements in the data gathering and processing system seem
to be imperative for effective planning, and should be such as to ensure
reliable and centrally available information on output, yields and production
costs by region. Further, planning and coordination of agricultural policy,
so far restricted to basic agricultural crops, should be extended to cover
livestock and other important crops, particularly those for export, and
strengthened by a more explicit regional focus.



ANNEX 1
Page 22
D. ASPECTS OF PRODUCTION PLANNING
Regional Specialization
58.       In part owing to the predominance of small-scale and subsistence
agriculture in much of the country, it has been difficult for the Government
to pursue a policy of promoting regional specialization in cropping and live-
stock activities consistent with natural resource endowments and factor pro-
portions. Nevertheless, with improved infrastructure and marketing channels
for inputs and outputs, the Government has become increasingly aware of the
orientation it should give to regional specialization in the future. For
example, irrigated areas should de-emphasize cereals and other low value
crops in favor of higher-valued and more labor-intensive crops, especially
in proximity of major urban centers (the Lerma basin, for example), while
sugarcane, rice, oilseeds, maize, sorghum and cattle production should shift
from the irrigated areas to the humid tropical Gulf Coast region, where the
costs of bringing large new tracts of lands into production through inexpensive
drainage projects are considerably below the costs of new large-scale irriga-
tion projects in the more arid zones. It is expected that, with limited
investment, it would be possible to raise, on the good potential soils of this
region, not only livestock but also sugarcane, rice, soybeans, safflower,
maize, beans and other crops. Also, through better coordination between the
livestock and pasture units of SAG and the Ministry of Agrarian Reform, it
should be considered whether some of the existing pasture areas could, with
economic advantage, be developed for crop production. Further, for adapting
agricultural production planning to the ecological conditions of the different
regions, it may be worthwhile to set up administrative units (e.g., drainage
and soil conservation districts), in rainfed areas similar to those in the
irrigation districts. It is promising that the National Agricultural and
Livestock Research Institutes have expanded their work pertaining to rainfed
agriculture for both the temperate highlands wherein lives the bulk of the
rural poor, and the tropical Gulf Coast. This work will support the Government's
new interest in this zone. Much still remains to be done in both the research
and extension fields, however (see paras 46 and 49).
Self-Sufficiency
59.       At the same time that the Government is moving to promote greater
regional specialization which might result in reducing regional self-suffi-
ciency, one of its stated policy objectives is national self-sufficiency
in basic foodstuffs. While not an inappropriate economic goal per se, the
economic costs and benefits of what appears to be essentially a political
decision should be carefully evaluated. Research carried out jointly by
the Bank and the Government a few years ago with the CHAC agriculture model
indicates that the domestic marginal economic costs of producing most cereals
at that time exceeded the foreign exchange costs. Although international
price levels have since risen, the judgment may still be valid. The intention
of the Government may be to provide income support for low income farmers who



ANNEX 1
Page 23
have few production alternatives, but the larger producers are likely to
derive the lion's share of the benefits from the relatively greater costs on
society imposed by this policy. Moreover, self-sufficiency requires consider-
able storage capacity for carryover stocks as well as the possible need to
erratically export high cost output on international markets without orienting
production planning via international market conditions. These questions
relating to the self-sufficiency goal deserve careful examination, so that
a flexible and realistic policy is adopted on the basis of an evaluation of
all the relevant costs and benefits.
Orientation of Public Investment
60.       With over 4.5 million ha of irrigated land, Mexico enjoys a sub-
stantial physical and natural resource base to be exploited for agricultural
purposes. In recent decades a major share of the Government's sectoral
investment budget has been for irrigation infrastructure and much of the
increase in agricultural production has been from irrigated land. Never-
theless, the efficiency of use of land and water resources in the irrigated
agricultural sector is still deficient; a large proportion of the area is
in relatively low-value crops; high water-using crops, such as sugarcane
and rice which predominate in some irrigated areas should be shifted to the
Southeast; there is inadequate on-the-farm investment to complement basic
irrigation infrastructure; and the Government has not adequately pursued
water distribution and price policies which would promote more efficient
water use on the part of the farmers. Owing to these factors, many public
irrigation districts require extensive rehabilitation investment if their
agricultural production is to be increased. These problems have been re-
cognized by the Plan Nacional Hidraulico, a Mexican Government study group
supported by the Bank and the UNDP, and measures are being analyzed and pro-
posed which will help resolve some of them.
61.       The recent interest in relatively low cost drainage infrastructure
in several of the Gulf Coast basins (Panuco, Papaloapan and Grijalva-Usumacinta)
may permit a large-scale long-term development program of very substantial
impact on the agricultural sector.  While SRH River Basin Commissions have
existed in these areas for some years, appropriate strategies for the large-
scale development of these zones have yet to be designed. Another area where
tile Government should consider substantially expanding its efforts is in the
field of soil erosion, a malaise affecting about 93 million ha or about half
the total land area and more especially the rainfed agricultural sector wherein
are found the major part of the rural poor. Current government activities in
the soil conservation field are inadequate in relation to the economic and
social costs this pheonomenon imposes on the rural population. Larger invest-
ments in this effort, on the basis of coordination between the Ministries of
Agriculture, Agrarian Reform and Water Resources, would not only help bring
new land under cultivation, but would also be attractive in that most of the
expenditure would be on labor.



ANNEX 1
Page 24
Rural Employment
62.       It is estimated that only 30% of the agricultural labor force is
fully employed, 60% is employed for one to five months and 11% only temporarily
employed in agriculture. The rural labor force is also growing rapidly.
Despite the concern of the Government to expand the opportunities for employ-
ment in rural areas, there is need for a more explicit consideration of rural
employment planning as a part of project design and sector investment program-
ming. In view of the very high costs per job created in large-scale irrigation
projects, greater stress-should be put on strategies based on lower cost and
more flexible production expansion, as these would permit more extensive
coverage of the very large numbers of the rural poor. Similarly, programs
to promote farm mechanization should be reviewed to ascertain whether or not
there would be possible negative employment effects (para 43).



MEXECO                               ANNEX 1
Table 1
FIFTH AG0ICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT
Supply and Deaand of Key Agricultural Products
('uuu m ton)
Domestic
Production    Consumption               Imports   Exports
Maize
1978/69      9,478          8,788                    123      1,110
1969/70      8,843          9,047                    695         -
1970/71      8,803          9,317                     -         160
1971/72      9,768          9,597                     -         559
1972/73      8,781          9,889                  1,254         25
1973/74      9,o68         10,193                  1,186         -
1974/75      9,290         10,507                  1,500         -
Wheat
T9-68/69     2,3D0         2,118                     _         247
1969/70      2,262          2,217                     -          55
1970/71      1,853          2,321                    391         -
1971/72      1,649          2,431                    525         -
1972/73      2,098          2,546                    818         -
1973 4       2,456          2,668                  1,047         -
1974/75      2,782          2,796                    550         -
Sorghu
MU69           2,030           1,973                    17          56
1969/70      2,749          2,665                     12         -
1970/71      2,581          2,691                      9         97
1971/72      2,429          2,641                    174         -
1972/73      2,989          2,983                     60         -
1973/74      2,983          3,384                    238         -
1974/75      3,268          3,573                    250         -
Beams
B  8/69        889            825                     -          53
1969/70        729            851                      8         11
1970/71        860            877                     -          -
1971/72        961            905                     -          51
1972/73        738            933                     -          14
1973/74      1,029            963                     13         -
1974/75      i,lal            995                     80
Rice
Tq8/69         402             251                    -           -
1969/70        370            261                     10         -
1970/71        441            272                      9         -
1971/72        383            283                      2         -
1972/73        379            295                      7         -
197 V74        457             308                   100          -
1974/5         493             321                    15          -
Source: Ministry of Agriculture, COCOSA.
October 20, 1975



ANNEX 1
Table 2
FIFTH AGRICULTUIE AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT P1DJECT
Exports and Imports of Selected Agricultural Commodities
Year                    1970              1971              1972              1973              1974
F-ports          Value  Volume    Value  Volume    Value  Volume    Value  Volume    Value  Volume
Cotton_ 2            124     928       117     760       122     887       166     777       289    1000
Coffee                86      81        81      91.      72       92      164      169       166     114
Tomatoes            108      365        91     312      113      330      138      422       121     302
Sugar               _90    _ 578        91     547       103     577       160     607       214     487
Live Cattle           79     933        75     756      130      966      104      552        72     500
Meat                  42      37        42      35        55      42        41      28        23      19
Melons/Cantalp.       16     130        17     150        16     154        30      87        31      85
Imports
Milk powder           10      36        21      48        32      52        46      67        52      52
Corn                  58     761         -       -        17     197       123    1946       277    1412
Sorghum                3      26         3      17        18     246         -       -        32     175
Wheat                  -        -       12     219        47     555        81     744       235     982
Cattle hides          18      51        18      55        21      47        31      60        47      85
j   Value in US$ million, volume in 1,000 ton
v/ Volume in 1,000 bales
3   Volume in 1,000 head
Source: Ministry of Agriculture, CONASUPO



4~M] 00 
MEXE oO
FIFTH AGRICULTURE AND IIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT
1/
- Public Investment in Agriculture
A. By Function:
(Mex$ Million)
1970       1971       1972       1973       1974       1975
Irrigation/Drainage            2,827.6    2,695.5   4,020.0      5,622.3  6,948.3       6,820.3
Flood Control                     -          -         191.7       362.2      370.0     1,188.4
Marketing                        102.6      224.3      204.7       479.4    795.1         692.4
Crops -                          161.5      597.7      817.6    1,297.1   1,545.0       4,502.1
Livestock                         47.4       79.6      150.0       272.6    286.5         429.8
Rural Development 3/               -         -           -           -     1,270.6      2,415.1
Forestry                          22.1       57.2      116.7       135.6      270.3       408.8
Total                          3,397.6    3,879.9    5,795.8     8,497.7  11,672.6    17,227.1
Agricultural Investment
% of Total Investment           11.1       13.4       13.8        14.8      16.9         18.9
1/ Total investment in 1973 and 1974 differs slightly from totals of page 2 of this table because of conceptual
differences in classification.
2/ Mainly'budgets of Ministries of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform. Irrigation, flood control and
marketing investment are also mainly in support of crop production.
3/ Before 1974 the agricultural component of rural development is distributed among the other f,unctions.
Source:  Ministry of the Presidency.                                                                             x  
October 20, 1975



MEXICO
FIFTH AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT
Public Investment in Asriculture by Agency
B. By Agency
In million Mex$
(Nex$ Million)
Authortzed    Realized         A Thred 1972 Reaizea           Authoriied  117 alized                         ____197 
Secretaria de Agricultura y Ganaderia              433.7         343.2          1,159.4         804.6           1,307.6        1,295.1          1,60.6        1,548.0
Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos               2,895.7       2,517.1          3,926.0       3,702.7           5,621.3        4,0S4.1          7,216.3       6,953.4
Departmento de Asuntos Agrarios
y Colonizacion                                   10.5           4.6             38.9           17.7             63.4           59.4            1*1.9         130.4
Compania Nacional de Subsistencias
Populares y Filiales                            194.5          97.7            186.3          76.0             377.8          295.2            J2t.$         613.3
Banco Nacional de Credito Ejidal                    40.7          39.8             43.4           20.8            136.7          129.8             147.0          70.4
Banco Nacional Agropecuario y
Filiales                                         10.4           6.5              28.8          14.6             36.5           28.4              35.9          40.6
Productos Pesqueros Mexicauos                       69.6          68.6            250.3         223.4             237.8          240.0            176.9          177.1
Banco Nacional de Fomento Cooperativo              154.6         148.4             38.1          32.5              86.6           49.2             86.4           53.2
Instituto Mexicano del Cafe                          2.8           3.7             23.4          14.9              24.1           24.1             23.9          44.0
Banco Nacional de Comercio gxt*rIor                 17.1          13.7               9.7           7.3              3.6           -                61.0           11.2
Al-acenes Nacionales de Depoptto                    38.6          15.5             57.4           17.6             37.6           10.0             46.7           23.4
Comision Macional de las Zonas Aridas                0.4           0.4             15.3           11.7             13.8           11.6             16.2           15.5
Aseguradora Nacional Agrisela y
Ganadera                                         10.7           5.0               7.4           4.0              8.7            9.3              26.2          26.5
Others                                               1.0          11.0              11.4         -                  7.3          138.3             146.9         133.8
Programa de Inversiones Publicas para
el Desarrollo Rural                              _             -                -              -             1,104.3          669.2          1.270.6       1,127.8
Total                          3,880.3       3,264.2          5,795.8       4,947.8           9,067.1        7,043.7         11,849.3      10,968.6
Source: Ministry of the Presidency
a,
t   L3



ANNEX 1
Table 4
MEXICO
FIFTH AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT
Production, Exports and Imports of Selected Agricultural Commodities
Index 1967-69 = 100
I.  Production          1970          1971         1972          1973       1974
Maize                98            97          102            92         86
Wheat               107            87           90            99        131
Beans                82            97           98           114        101
Sorghum             144          136           135           172        166
Rice                 93           111           95          114         123
Cotton               68            79           84            79        101
Soybeans             93          111           163          254         254
Safflower           125          195           177          195         180
Sugar               100          106           107          122          -
Tomatoes            138           147          177          161         170
Crops               104           102           99            98         -
Livestock           111          114           119          121          -
Agriculture         106           106          106           107         -
II. Exports
Maize                15            28           43             3         -
Wheat                21            17           -             -          -
Beans                17            -            56            42         -
Beef                123           117          147            93         50
Cattle              135           109          142            80         72
1/
III. Imports
Maize                80            -            19           198        143
Wheat                 -           153          338           560        686
Beans                                           -             -          30
1/  Since basic grains were not imported in 1967-69, the export volume of the
respective crop for these years were used as base index.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture (production of individual crops), Bank of
Mexico (production aggregates), CONASUPO (exports and imports), The
Economy of Mexico, A Basic Report, Vol. V (conversion of base year
figures).
October 20, 1975



MEXICO
FIFTH AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT
Profile of Government Activities in Agriculture
Annual
Growth Rate
1971       1972        1973       1974        1975 1/            1970-75
New Irrigation (ha)             68,440      73,973     50,899      90,384    104,032               2.5
Large scale                   45,182      54,916     28,615      71,126      32,859              2.0
Small scale                   23,258      19,057     22,284      19,258      71,173              5.1
Irrigation Rehabilitation (ha) 30,325       64,010     60,321      45,486      50,090              2.0
PLAM4EPA (ha) 2/                65,100      63,948     58,758      94,200      95,800              2.9
Water Extraction (1000  m3)       -           -         24,549     30,142        -                17.1
Soil Conservation (ha)          60,983      79,306    214,147      40,438        _
Extension Service (SAG)
Farmers Attended             202,409    278,301    363,152    369,205                           16.2
Area attended  ('000 ha)    859,919  1,319,564  1,376,564  2,874,607                            27.0
Public Credit
Area Attended ('000 ha)        2,011       2,058      2,283       3,446       4,300             14.5
Volume (Mbx$ '000)             7,012       7,650     10,010      17,704      22,946
Use of Improved Seeds  3/                                  108        110                          2.0
Consumption of Fertilizers 3/                              129        146                          8.0
Mechanical Traction 3/                                     125        138                          6.7
1/ Estimates.
2/ Expansion of cultivated area, mainly double cropping, following better water management without major structural
improvements under the Plan de Mejoramiento Parcelario.
3/ Based on index of 100 for 1970.
Source:  National Planning Commission for Agriculture, Ministry of Hydraulic Resources, Ministry of Hacienda.    13
X 
October 20, 1975



ANNEX 1
hle 
MEXICO
FIFTH AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK CFSDIT PROJECT
Price Data on Major Ba3ic Greins
1970  1971  1972   1973   1974   Jan.-June 1975
---------------  (in US$/m ton  ----------------
Corn:
Free market price to farmers        72    74    79      94    120         140
Support price                       75    75    75      95    120         140
International price                 63    52    56      98    132         121
Wheat:
Free market price to farmers        68    69    76      94    120         140
Support price                       642   642/  70      96    120         140
International price                 51    51    68    137    178          141
Beans:
Free market price to farmers       140   159   168    280    400          480
Support price                      140   140   140    160Y  480           480
Sorghum:
Free market price to farmers        52    50    57 4/   68      76        114
Support price                       50    50    58-i   62k/  114          114
International price                 57    52    56      93    121         112
Soybeans:
Free market price to farmers       131   134   143    260    280          280
Support price                      104   128   144    144    280          280
International price                147   155   224    290    277          230
1/ Major changes in support prices occurred in January 1973, November 1974
and March 1975.
2/  Support price for the State of Sonora, Sinoloa and Baja  California where
most wheat production is located. For the rest of the country, support
price was US$73/m ton for 1970-71.
3/ Support price for all of the country less the States of Nayarit and Sinaloa
where the support price was US$400/m ton for 1973/74.
4/ Support price for all of the country, less the State of Tamaulipas, on import
and sorghum area, where the support price was US$54/m ton in 1972 and along
with the States of Sonora and Sinaloa was US$60/m ton in 1973.
Note: International Price Data: Corn--(US), No.2 Yellow, FOB US Gulf Ports.
Wheat-(US), No.1 Soft Red Winter, FOB Atlantic Ports.
Sorghum(US),No.2 Milo Yellow, FOB Gulf Ports.
Soybeans(US),No.2 Bulk, CIF Rotterdam.
Source: Suppol't prices from CONASUPO.
Free Market Price to Farmersfrom Secretaria de Agricultura y Ganaderia
(SAG), la lirecciuxi uwexr&. 0e .6conomia Agricula.
International Pricos fro IBRD and USDA.






MEXICO
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT
ANNEX 2
Institutional Credit for Agriculture
Page No.
A.    OVERVIEW   ........         ............................          1
B.    FONDO AND OTHER TRUST FUDS   ...              ..............      2
Objectives        .............................                   2
Organization and Management   ..             ...............      2
Lending Operations and Source of Funds              ......        2
Performance under Third and Fouth Livestock
Projects      ............................                  3
Technical Assistance   .............     .............            5
Training         .............................                    5
Demonstrations ...............,                                   5
Monitoring .....................                                  6
Financial Condition and Operating Costs                           7
FEGA   ..      .......................................            9
C.    CREDIT INSTITUTIONS   ....            .....................       9
Commercial Banks   ................           I ...........       9
Public Agricultural Banks   ........ .. .........                10
Banco Nacional de Credito Rural   ...........          ..        11
Mobilization of Resources   ........ .. .........                12
Special Funds   ..           .............................       12
Past Bad Debts          ............... ...............          13
FINAIR           ......................................          13
Credit Policies   ..............   .........                     14
Financiera Nacional Azucarera     .,   .........                 15
D.    FARMERS' ORGANIZATIONS    ........              ...........      15
Present Position   ......         ......................         15
Proposed Changes   ......         ......................         16
Main Tasks             ...............................           17






ANNEX 2
Page 1
MEXICO
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT
Institutional Credit for Agriculture
A. OVERVIEW
1.        The public agricultural banks--Banco Agricola, Banco Ejidal and
Banco Agropecuario, and their affiliated regional banks, which have been the
major source of institutional agricultural credit in Mexico are being con-
solidated into a single system with the Banco Nacional de Credito Rural (BNCR)
at the national level and 12 regional banks affiliated to it. There are also
other specialized public agricultural credit institutions such as the Finan-
ciera Nacional Azucarera (FINASA) which has the sole responsibility for finan-
cing the sugar industry and the Fondo Nacional de Fomento Ejidal (FONAFE), a
special fund which was established for financing the infrastructure and other
developmental activities of ejidos and is to be replaced by the Financiera
Nacional de Industria Rural (FINAIR) being set up under the new agricultural
credit law of October 1975. Several private banks and financieras 1/ are also
gradually increasing their involvement in agricultural lending.
2.        The establishment of the Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la Agricul-
tura, Ganaderia y Avicultura (FONDO) in 1955 as a trust fund in the Bank of
Mexico was a landmark in the development of agricultural credit in Mexico
because, by providing a combination of credit and technical assistance to the
public and private banks, the FONDO has contributed significantly to the
growth in the volume of such credit and to its qualitative improvement in terms
of sound appraisal and supervision practices.
3.        Supported by Government allocations and external funds channelled
through the FONDO, institutional agricultural credit rose from M$ 18.7 million
in 1970 to M$ 33.9 million in 1974 but because of inflation, this represented
an annual real growth rate of only about 5% which was far from adequate. The
demand for credit is growing as a result of various Government actions to step
up agricultural production, to provide incentives for investment in this sector
and to increase the productivity and income of small farmers. Thus, the main
task of the credit institutions is to achieve the requisite expansion while
conforming to principles of sound lending and ensuring satisfactory loan col-
lections. It is proposed to pursue the policy issues raised in this Annex
in the periodic discussions between Government and the Bank on developments in
the agricultural sector and the role which the Bank might play in it.
1/ Investment banks which have the power to issue bonds, purchase and hold
securities of other enterprises, and grant loans up to 30 years' maturity.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
B. FONDO AND OTHER TRUST FUNDS
Objectives
4.        FIRA 1/ is the common name for the following group of trust funds
established by the Federal Government with Banco de Mexico, under joint manage-
ment, for the promotion of the agricultural sector: (i) the FONDO, (ii) Fondo
Especial para Financiamientos Agropecuarios (FEFA); and (iii) Fondo Especial de
Asistencia Tecnica y Garantia para Creditos Agropecuarios (FEGA). The FEFA was
set up in August 1965 to channel loan funds from IBRD and IDB through redis-
counting operations similar to the FONDO's while the FEGA was created in
August 1975 to defray the technical assistance costs associated with the finan-
cing of ejidatarios and other low-income producers and to guarantee, in subs-
tantial part, the recovery of past due principal balances of such loans granted
by private credit institutions.
Organization and Management
5.        Policies and regulations are set for the FONDO by a technical com-
mittee composed of representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit,
the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, the Banco de Mexico, the National
Bank for Foreign Commerce, the Banco Nacional Agropecuario, the National
Insurance Company for Agriculture and Livestock, the Bankers' Association and
three representatives of private farmers, ranchers and ejidatarios. Similar
Technical Committees determine policies and regulations for the FEFA and the
FEGA. The administration of the FIRA activities is under the general super-
vision of Banco de Mexico as trustee. Management and personnel are common to
the three funds. A director, assisted by two sub-directors, is responsible for
their day-to-day operations supported by a staff which numbered 1,017 at the
end of 1974. The head office is in Mexico City, supported in the field by seven
Regional Offices, 35 State Offices and 80 Branch Offices, which ensure adequate
representation throughout the country (Map 11789).
Lending Operations and Source of Funds
6.        The FONDO rediscounts medium- and long-term loans under the ALPRO
(Alliance for Progress) Program, partly financed by an USAID loan and short-
term loans for agricultural and livestock operations, on the basis of finan-
cial accommodation received, in turn, from Banco de Mexico, while FEFA redis-
counts medium- and long-term loans financed by IBRD and IDB loans for on-farm
investment and agro-industries.
1/ Fideicomisos Instituidos en el Banco de Mexico en relacion con la
Agricultura.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
7.        Under the ALPRO program, loans are made ordinarily upto Mex$ 150,000
to borrowers engaged in farming as a major activity with farming assets of
not aore than three times the amount lent and an income not exceeding
Mex$ 100,000. The FONDO rediscounts loans of participating banks at 4% to 4.6%
depending on the proportion of refinancing, which ranges from 70% to 90%. The
sub-loans carry an interest rate of 7.6% p.a., and have a maturity of two to 15
years. Funds for short-term operations are mainly financed from rediscounts
by Banco de Mexico at an interest rate of 3% p.a., and collections from
maturing loans. Most of this accommodation goes to provide working capital to
support the on-farm investment supported by the IDB or IBRD loans through the
FEFA (para 6). The FONDO charges the banks a rate of interest between 4% and
12% while farmers have to pay between 5% and 13.5%.
8.        The FONDO/FEFA operations have been expanding remarkably in the last
few years, with a large proportion oriented to low income producers (LIPs).
Between 1972 and 1974, the volume of paper discounted has grown from Mex$ 1,518
million to Mex$ 4,019 million, the outstanding portfolio of short-term dis-
counts from Mex$ 422 million to Mex$ 1,281 million and that of medium- and long-
term discounts from Mex$ 2,172 million to Mex$ 3,790 million. The total number
of sub-borrowers benefitted by these operations is estimated to have increased
from 30,656 in 1972 to 91,Q48 at the end of 1974.
9.        LIPs accounted for Mex$ 2,012 million of the total discounting
operations of Mex$ 4,019 million in 1974, and for 77,159 beneficiaries out of
a total of 91,048. There were 17,130 individual sub-borrowers while 31,431
beneficiaries obtained 5,302 group loans (average of about 6 members per group),
and 42,487 beneficiaries borrowed through 861 societies (average of about 62
members). Sub-loans up to Mex$ 500,000 (Us$40,000) constituted 93% of the total
number and 62.2% of the amount. Loans in excess of Mex$ 1,500,000 (Us$120,000)
accounted for 17.2% of the total amount but went largely to societies (13.2%),
individuals and groups receiving only 108% and 2.2% respectively.
Performance under Third and Fourth Livestock Projects
10.       Under the four livestock projects so far financed by the Bank in Mexico,
sub-loans are granted by participating banks and refinanced by the FONDO on the
basis of farm plans found to be technically and financially viable by authorized
technicans. The proportion of FONDO refinancing has varied, depending upon the
size of the sub-loan. For the first time, a distinct allocation was made, in
the Fourth Project, for loans to LIPs defined as ejidatarios or other small
farmers who are in legal possession of their land or plots or have titles of
usufruct, whose main source of income is derived from farming and whose net
annual family income does not exceed 1,000 times the daily minimum rural wage
for the region. 1/
1/   This minimum fixed by the National Commission for Minimun Salaries varies
between regions and ranges between Mex$ 25.10 (US$2.00) to Mex$ 67.00
(US$5.36).



ANNEX 2
Page 4
11.       Good progress has been made in promoting the participating banks'
interest in financing on-farm investment as reflected in their share of the
total project cost which rose from 14.5% in the First Project to 20.3% in
the Third and the upward trend is continuing. The number of their agricultural
technicians has steadily increased, and many of them have been trained by the
FONDO.
12.       Compared to a uniform on-lending rate of 10% under the First Project,
the Fourth has seven loan size categories with rates ranging from 11.5% to
14.5%, and a special rate of 7.6% for the LIPs. FONDO's discounting rates
take into account its own financial and operating costs and the need to allow
the participating banks sufficient margins to cover their expenses and risks
and to provide an incentive for making smaller sub-loans. The banks' margins
now vary from 1.75% to 2.75%. The proportion of sub-loans discounted by the
FONDO which was uniformly 90% in the First Project, ranges in the Fourth Project
between 70 and 90%, depending on the loan size.
13.       The distribution of the amount of sub-loans according to type of
activity was as follows:
(in percentages)
First         Second           Third          Fourth
Project        Project         Project         Project /1
Livestock              61             61              58              56
Annual Crops           19             28              24              23
Perennial Crops         5               8              8               6
Agro-industries        15               3              7              13
Unclassified           _                -              3               2
Total            100            100             100             100
/1   Up to March 31, 1975
14.       Sub-loans under the Fourth Project were fewer and, on the average,
larger than expected at appraisal, principally because investment costs went
up, but, also, particularly in the case of LIPs, because there were more group
loans and groups were also larger than anticipated. (Table 1). While there
were some sub-loans to associations of commercial farmers, group lending
accounted for the bulk of the LIPSP sub-loans. In terms of the number of
beneficiaries and of funds handled, the "grupos solidarios" of LIPs were less
important than the societies of ejidatarios on which the Government support is
concentrated. On the basis of data covering the first three projects and 60%
of the disbursements under the Fourth, about 60,000 farmers are estimated to
have benefitted from the four projects, about a third of them under the LIPSP
component in the Fourth Project.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
15.       Survey data gathered by the FONDO on results at the farm level
through a limited sample indicate more intensive land use and some improvement
in productivity in respect of beef and certain annual and perennial crops.
Also, it would appear that average labor use per farm almost doubled, despite
an increase in mechanization in some instances. On balance, the survey points
to a significant impact of the credit and technical assistance provided under
the Project.
Technical Assistance
16.       As all loans rediscounted by FONDO/FEFA need approval by authorized
technicians and those financed under the Bank projects have to be supported
by a development plan for each financed unit, FIRA's commitments for technical
assistance and, hence, their demand for qualified and trained staff have
increased steadily during the last five years. The FONDO has, therefore,
been increasing the number of its technicians, which rose from 320 at the
end of 1970 to 604 at the end of 1974. In addition, 854 technicians working
with public banks and 242 working with private banks have been authorized to
evaluate loan requests and approve loans for rediscount. The technical
expertise built up by the FONDO has enabled it to make a significant con-
tribution towards agricultural extension in the context of its rediscount
operations.
Training
17.       FONDO courses for staff of public and private banks have become
increasingly popular, with about 2,400 participants graduating between 1971
and 1974. The training of farmers is another important FONDO program under
which, in addition to courses in training centers, shorter courses are also
organized to demonstrate new production methods on experimental fields owned
by selected farmers. FONDO offers a basic theoretical course on credit opera-
tions, to its new staff, followed by a six-month practical course in the field,
and short refresher courses for its experienced staff to keep them abreast of
developments in farm technology. FONDO also offers a high level, one to
two-year scholarship program for selected staff at foreign and national univer-
sities in key areas where staff expertise needs strengthening.
Demonstrations
18.       FONDO's awareness of production problems at the farm level provides
it with a most suitable basis for taking initiatives in production-oriented
studies and demonstrations and has enabled the FONDO to carry out several
programs with its own staff and resources. Although these activities were
necessarily limited, the achievements have been remarkable. FONDO's main
objectives have been to test new methods or varieties which could increase
productivity in specific regions and to promote the application of proven
and adapted technology. Though only about 20% of such programs have so far



ANNEX 2
Page 6
been carried out under contractual arrangements with public or private re-
search institutions, state governments and participating farmers, the FONDO
intends to increase such support to other agencies and reduce gradually the
number of demonstration projects under its direct management.
19.       The FONDO's training and demonstration programs have had highly
beneficial effects throughout Mexico which justify the support they have
received from Government. However, as the participating banks and the research
institutions and extension services of the Ministry of Agriculture expand
and upgrade their own staff, there should be less need for the FONDO to employ
a large top level staff in all production fields or to carry out applied
research and demonstration on the present scale. While this stage has not
yet been reached, it should be possible to gradually reduce FONDO activities
in these fields and, accordingly, lower its operational costs after the comple-
tion of this project. Schemes should be designed and contractual arrangements
made in the meantime to allow maximum use of FONDO staff in a supervisory and
advisory role while the participating banks and specialized public agencies
assume responsibility for such functions. Similarly, FONDO's scholar-
ship program would not need to expand in the future as rapidly as in the
past.
Monitoring
20.       In early 1972, the FONDO conducted two field surveys to assess the
impact of the First and Second Livestock Projects based on random samples of
4% of the farms and ranches and 25% of the agro-industry borrowers. Subse-
quently, a permanent record system was designed to oversee and analyze the
physical and financial results of the projects at the farm level and was to
be tested during 1973-74 for a small sample. FONDO kept the records, but
data were not analyzed until July 1975. The system which has been introduced
in October 1975 on the basis of this experiment will cover in a first stage
about 800 of the loans made by FONDO during 1971 and 1974, and double the
number in 1976, to reach a sample size of 4%. The basic components of this
system are: (a) an initial farm inventory; (b) a simple four-entry farm
business record book with particulars of all relevant transactions to be kept
at the farm as property of the farmer; (c) quarterly reports compiled by FONDO
technicians based on such record books; and (d) computer print-outs on indi-
vidual farms for use by field technicians and farmers, annual farm financial
and physical production records and special reports for FONDO management. The
monitoring system is expected to cost about Mex$ 11 million in the first year,
and to require a staff of 46 professionals, the bulk of it for processing the
raw information and its final publication. Participating banks are expected
to provide staff support and eventually share the overhead costs of this
program. While monitoring would provide a continuous flow of information on
the actions taken by the farmers and the ensuing results, a more thorough
analysis of the underlying causes would be carried out through periodic
evaluation which FONDO would undertake, drawing on advice from Government



ANNEX 2
Page 7
institutions in selecting problems for evaluation and determining lines
of investigation and on supporting data and expert judgment from banks
and other public agencies.
Financial Condition and Operating Costs
21.       Attached tables present the FONDO's financial accounts from 1970
to 1974 and forecasts for the next few years (Tables 2 to 5). The FONDO
and the FEFA have together been able to operate at a modest level of profits,
thanks partly to substantial financial support received from Government,
explicitly through the FEGA, for meeting technical assistance expenditures
for LIPs (para 25) and, indirectly, through the sizeable volume of interest-
free funds made available in the form of equity (para 23). The FEFA's
accounts show that the income from interest on its loan portfolio is not
sufficient to meet its rising financial costs but that the income from invest-
ment in government bonds has helped cover this deficit and, in part, even
other administrative expenditures. Though increasing in absolute amounts
from year to year, the administrative expenditure per Mex$ discounted is de-
clining, in the context of expanding operations. On the other hand, ex-
penses on technical assistance are growing, though the increase in 1974
has partly resulted from accounting adjustments in respect of items treated
as deferred expenses in the earlier years.
Income and Expenditure per Mex$ 1-00 of Average Discount Portfolio of FONDO/FEFA
(Mex$)
1969   1970    1971    1972    1973    1974
Interest on Bonds              0.63   0.77    1.50    2.24    1.89    2.55
Interest on Loans              5.82   6.27    7.02    6.58    6.58    6.93
Miscellaneous Receipts /1      0.06   0.05    0.07    0.10    0.41    0.71
Total                     6.51   7.09    8.59    8.92    8.88   10.19
Technical Assistance           1.40   1.57    1.92    1.76    1.87    3.34
Administrative Expenses        1.56   1.64    1.55    1.47    1.30    0.98
Financial Costs                3.33   3.82    5.08    5.65    5.64    5.78
Total                     6.29   7.03    8.55    8.88    8.81   10.11
Net Income                     0.22   0.06    0.04    0.04    0.07    0.08
/1        Includes FEGA contribution of Mbx$ 0.23 in 1973 and Mea$ 0.53 in 1974.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
22.       There is need to analyze the special factors accounting for the
rising level of the FONDO's technical assistance expenses and determine a)
if they can be reduced without affecting the quality of its staff and opera-
tions, b) how far the functions accounting for these expenses might progres-
sively be transferred to participating banks, and c) whether there is any
avoidable overlap between the FONDO functions in this area and those of other
public sector agencies. The FONDO has been reviewing its operational proce-
dures from time to time with a view to progressive decentralization, delegation
of its sub-loan approval powers to participating bank technicans approved by
it for the purpose, and simplification of paper work and expediting of loan
processing. This on-going process is especially important as the volume of
operations is expanding rapidly and the rising administrative and technical
costs need to be looked into so as to improve the efficiency of loan adminis-
tration and the state of FONDO's finances. The FONDO has established a
reputation for the excellence of its technical staff and is respected for the
non-political and independent character of its advisory role as well as for
its crucial promotional contribution to development of agricultural credit in
the country. While it should, therefore, continue to play a major role in
formulating lending policies and procedures and overseeing their implementation
by banks, a stage has come to begin the process of increasing the role of the
banks in loan appraisal and supervision of project operations and to retain
with the FONDO more general policy-making and advisory functions and responsi-
bility for any new experiments in credit arrangements.  This can, of course,
be done only gradually and in step with the progress made by the banks in
equipping themselves with technical manpower in sufficient numbers and of the
requisite quality.
23.       FONDO's own resources (government equity including accumulated net
income) increased from Mex$ 120.6 million in 1970 to Mex$ 125.8 million in
1974 and FEFA's from Mex$ 49.5 million to Mex$ 177.4 million; the latter in-
cludes the amounts credited in accordance with the agreement that, while the
government repays funds borrowed from USAID, IDB and the Bank, the equivalent
in local currency would be accumulated in the FONDO/FEFA system in order to
strengthen their own funds for supporting their rediscounting operations.
Interest-free funds available from Government in the form of equity assume
crucial importance, in view of the fact that FONDO/FEFA on-lend external funds
at rates which are less than, or only slightly higher than, the rates they pay
on such funds. It is, therefore, necessary to keep the interest rate structure
of the FONDO-financed projects under review, taking into account all relevent
factors such as the priority attached by Government to support for agricultural
development, the type of beneficiaries, the increasing loan appraisal and super-
vision costs of the FONDO and the participating banks, and the prevailing inter-
est rates in the other sectors of the Mexican economy. It would also be
appropriate to examine whether the existing pattern of discount rates can be
simplified by reducing the large number of loan-size categories.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
24.       FONDO/FEFA's accounting system is satisfactory.  The increasing
use of electronic data processing equipment and the development of adequate
programs should allow for improving the flow of information to the management.
It may be necessary to enlarge the reporting requirements from participating
banks on details of lending operations so as to make possible the continuing
evaluation of on-going operations and contribute to the planning and program-
ming of future projects. As operations expand, FONDO would also need to watch
carefully loan collections by the banks and seek prompt action wherever
necessary.
FEGA
25.       The FEGA provides financial assistance to the FONDO/FEFA and to
banks engaged in financing of LIPs, to cover costs of staff employed by them
for providing technical assistance to such borrowers up to 3% (and, in special
cases, 6%) of the volume of loans made by the respespective institutions to
LIPS. It also undertakes to guarantee the recovery of up to 60% (and, in
special cases, 80%) of the principal balance due and unpaid, of farm loans
made by private credit institutions to LIPs for projects appraised as tech-
nically feasible and economically viable and suitably supervised. The FEGA
became operational in 1973, drawing on a capital fund of Mex$ 25 million allo-
cated by the Federal Government up to the end of 1974; it had approved a sum
of Mex$ 32.3 million to the FONDO/FEFA (Mex$ 30.3 million), private banks
(Mex$ 0.7 million) and public banks (Mex$ 1.3 million) for employing technical
staff to assist LIPSP operations, and guaranteed private bank loans of
Mex$ 239.5 million. The private banks are expected to take greater advantage
of the FEGA subsidy for technical assistance as their LIPSP operations increase.
FONDO/FEFA are finding it necessary to seek increasing FEGA support in view
of their rising technical assistance expenses in connection with their ex-
panding LIPSP operations.
C. CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
Commercial Banks
26.       Till the establishment of the FONDO rediscounting facilities, com-
mercial banks were hesitant to undertake agricultural term lending, because
of the short-term nature of the bulk of their resources, problems of collate-
ral and their lack of familiarity with agriculture. This situation has appre-
ciably changed during the last decade, thanks to the support extended by
FONDO/FEFA in terms of funds and services.  Many private banks have been
establishing and rapidly expanding agricultural credit departments and hiring
significant numbers of agricultural technicians of whom 242 had been autho-
rized at the end of 1974. The Bank of Mexico has also encouraged this trend
by stipulating that 3% of the demand deposits of banks in Mexico City and



ANNEX 2
Page 10
25% of those at other centers be held in the form of agricultural loans.
Another important development has been the availability of a grant for tech-
nical assistance and guarantees for small farmer loans from FEGA (para 25).
The banks have, as a result, begun to evince some interest in loans to small
farmers, including ejidatarios. However, their total lending for agriculture
has only increased from Mex$ 6,852 million in 1970 to Mex$ 9,700 million in
1974, which does not represent an expansion in real terms if allowance is made
for inflation. It is likely that the full impact of various Government measures
for improving the profitability of agriculture and encouraging commercial bank
lending this sector would have been felt more recently and, indeed, in 1975,
some of the banks appeared to have just reached the stage when their earlier
investment in building up the necessary staff and facilities for agricultural
lending was beginning to provide the basis for a profitable expansion of
operations in this sector. Margins available to them on borrowed funds have
also recently improved. A more rapid expansion in commercial bank credit for
agriculture may therefore be expected in the future but it is necessary to
examine what further steps can be taken to accelerate such growth, and to
encourage them to provide a larger volume of agricultural credit from their
own resources.
Public Agricultural Banks
27.       Banco Nacional de Credito.Agricola (Banco Agricola), the first
agricultural bank in Mexico, was established in 1926 to serve all categories
of farmers with credit and technical assistance. Banco Nacional de Credito
Ejidal (Banco Ejidal) was set up next, in 1935, for financing ejidatarios.
The Banco Agricola system comprised its own offices and those of six regional
banks which were its wholly owned subsidiaries. Similarly, Banco Ejidal had
its own branch network and three regional Banco Agrarios. In 1965, the
Government established still another bank known as the Banco Nacional Agrope-
cuario (Banco Agropecuario), which was conceived as a refinancing bank; this
bank too, however, developed into a third parallel system with eight regional
banks affiliated to it. Despite many deficiencies, the public agricultural
banking systems made significant progress in their credit operations and growth
of the network of offices and staff, thanks to substantial Government support.
It is estimated that between 1970 and 1975, the volume of credit provided by
them rose from about Mex$ 5,800 million to Mex$ 13,000 million (estimated),
the number of offices from 550 to 705, and their staff from 7,700 to 20,600.
Though the Banco Agropecuario system has the reputation of being operationally
and financially sounder than the other systems, public agricultural banking
in Mexico has generally suffered from the following principal weaknesses in
the past: (i) avoidable duplication of institutions and facilities; (ii) the
lack of coordination among the various institutions, whose terms and conditions
of lending differed; (iii) the failure to distinguish between the financing
of bankable projects and undertaking of developmental or promotional functions
which were desirable for social or political reasons but invariably involved
a substantial element of subsidy; (iv) excessive centralization of decision-
making; (v) back-log of irrecoverable and other past-due loans which were not
covered by adequate reserves; (vi) failure to mobilize rural savings; and
(vii) losses resulting from insufficient margins on credit operations, dupli-
cation of staff and offices and from unremunerative non-credit activities
which, however, were offset periodically by Government grants.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
28.       It was against this background that Government decided in January
1975 to improve coordination among the national agricultural credit institu-
tions, and in July 1975 to establish a single institution in the place of
the three banks through a decree which as a first step, changed the name of
the Banco Agropecuario to Banco Nacional de Credito Rural (BNCR), and provided
for corresponding changes in its capital and board of directors and the estab-
lishment of 12 regional banks affiliated to it, through the reorganization of
existing regional banks of the three systems. The final step in this process
was the ratification by the Congress, towards the end of 1975, of Ley General
de Credito Rural (LGCR), a comprehensive measure covering various aspects of
rural credit. This measure provides, in addition, for the establishment of
a Financiera Nacional de Industria Rural (FINAIR) with the principal responsi-
blity for rural industries (para 34); improved coordination between the credit
institutions and Government agencies connected with agricultural production
and land reform; the organization of farmers for joint production activity;
guidelines on agricultural credit policies for public and private banks; and
the establishment of special trust funds for training, educational and other
similar programs designed to support projects financed by the BNCR and the
FINAIR.
Banco Nacional de Credito Rural
29.       The capital of the Bpnco Nacional de Credito Rural will consist of
shares of "A" series amounting to at least 51! of the total, which would be
contributed by the Federal Government, and the balance, to be represented by
"B" shares, which may be contributed by various public sector entities and by
agricultural producers. The Board would consist of 13 directors, of whom
eight would be representatives of Government holding the "A" shares viz.,
Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (who will also be the
President of the Board), the Secretaries of the other relevant Ministries and
representatives of other public sector agencies. The Directors on behalf of
the holders of "B" shares will be representatives of the national confedera-
tions of the ejidatarios, livestock ranchers and small private landowners.
The regional banks to be affiliated to BNCR will be set up with jurisdiction
and headquarters as shown in Table 6 (MAP 11800), and with own capital which
will consist of a contribution by BNCR of not less than 51% of the total
and the balance contributed by the Governments of the States concerned and
by the agricultural producers.
30.       BNCR is expected to function in effect as an apex institution to
ensure consistency in policies among the regional banks, and also the align-
ment of their operations with national agricultural policies. As one of the
maJor objectives of consolidation is to bring about qualitative improvements
in the lending activities of public agricultural banks, it is hoped that, by
adopting suitable operational procedures and strengthening its staff, BNCR
would equip itself to advise regional banks on the technical aspects of their
lending operations, with a view principally to ensure that credit is based on
production and investment plans. At the same time, care should be taken to



ANNEX 2
Page 12
avoid excessive centralization of decisions at the national headquarters,
which was a weakness in the past. The consolidation of three banking systems
into one is a complex task which will take some time to be completed but pro-
gress is being made in the merger process and in the rationalization of the
existing network of branches so as to spread staff over more centers, by
avoiding duplication. While there is reason to believe that a smooth and
expeditious transition to the new system is being accomplished, there will,
clearly, be various practical issues to be tackled and it would be useful to
review with Mexican authorities periodically the problems being faced in the
field in the evolution of the system proposed under the LGCR and the arrange-
ments being made to solve them.
Mobilization of Resources
31.       LGCR provides for BNCR to accept savings and other deposits and to
offer exchange and other banking facilities. While provision had existed in
the Banco Agropecuario for the purpose and some limited efforts were made,
none of the public banks had made an earnest effort in the past to mobilize
resources in one form or the other. The production programs of Government,
if successful, should increase rural incomes, from which resources should be
mobilized for reinvestment in this sector itself. Emphasis should therefore
be placed, at least in some offices of the BNCR and the regional banks, on
efforts to attract deposits once the necessary staff with the requisite training
is available; in others, it may be necessary to devise other means of tapping
rural funds, e.g. by encouraging farmers or their societies to buy shares
in the regional banks (para. 40). Efforts in this direction assume special
significance as the resource requirements of the public banks are increasing
rapidly as a result of the growing institutionalization of credit to small
farmers and increased tempo of the agricultural production programs, and it
may be difficult for the Government to meet the capital needs of the banks in
increasing amounts. It would not, therefore, be realistic to leave the re-
source mobilization function exclusively to the private banks as in the past.
The fact that economic activity of small farmers would be increasingly organ-
ized on a group basis should also help in drawing into the banking system some
part of the increased incomes expected to result from such activity.
Special Funds
32.       It is noteworthy that LGCR provides for BNCR to undertake certain
special development functions such as financing the rural infrastructure,
farmer training, technical assistance, and promotion of farmers' organizations
with resources to be found from special funds to be operated by the BNCR on
behalf of Government, so that its own finances would not be jeopardized by
such development expenditures. The funds would thus administer and finance
development activities complementary to the credit operations which require
subsidies in the form of low interest rates or only partial recovery of
loans. The operating rules have not yet been established but it is under-
stood that the funds are intended to be used only in connection with normal
commercial credit operations and in areas with development potential and they



ANNEX 2
Page 13
would be supervised, like the FONDO, by a technical committee with representa-
tion for the Banco de Mexico, and the relevant Ministries. As the develop-
ment of ejidos is a vast and complex task and the schemes which would lend
themselves for support of trust funds would be numerous, it would be neces-
sary to lay down some ground rules for determining the beneficiaries for
such selective assistance, likely magnitude of the amounts to be so provided
and a mechanism for phasing out such assistance as these units graduate to a
stage when it is not needed.
Past Bad Debts
33.       LGCR includes provisions for the merger of Banco Agricola and Banco
Ejidal with the BNCR, in conformity with principles to be determined by the
Ministry of Finance in consultation with the National Banking Commission,
their merger being required to be carried out within three months of the
enactment of the law. The financial statements of the three banks are being
currently audited by a public accountant firm so as to provide the basis for
the preparation of a statement of the BNCR's position and also to arrive at
an accurate assessment of the arrears portfolio of the three banks. The
exercise relating to overdues is complicated by steps taken by the banks in
pursuance of a Presidential decree of 1973 to review overdue loans prior to
1967, collect them to the extent possible, suitably restructure their period
of repayment, and write off in full or in part the amounts not collected or
restructured. However, the statements in the Tables 7 to 9 present such data
as are available; these are not clear in many aspects and should be treated
as tentative. The "miscellaneous debts" shown in the balance sheets include
the loans in arrears. Data available from a preliminary analysis of this
item, which are subject to revision (Table 9), show that, between 1972 and
1974, the amount of overdue loans and their proportion to the total portfolio
declined significantly in the Banco Agricola (from 66% to 18%) and, to a
limited extent, in the Banco Ejidal (from 61% to 37%). The Banco Agropecuario's
overdue loans rose in absolute amounts between March 31, 1973 and March 31,
1975 but as the portfolio increased by about 160% during this period, the
proportion of overdues fell from 18% to 15%. While Government appears to
share the anxiety that the financial soundness of the new banking structure
should not be jeopardized by the back-log of irrecoverable debts, decisions
have not yet been taken as to how this would be ensured. A basic principle
could be to provide that no debts would be so transferred unless adequate
provision is made to cover possible losses on such loans. It would also be
necessary to arrive at the basis for identifying such debts, in the light of
the findings of the on-going audit and decide on the principles and procedures
governing action to be pursued for collecting, restructuring and writing off
such debts (para. 35).
FINAIR
34,       Financiera Nacional de Industria Rural (FINAIR) will be established
co help implement programs in the ejidal sector, by providing long-term loans
and share capital to such units and establishing affiliates for the promotion



ANNEX 2
Page 14
of agro-industries, development of tourism and small-scale industries. This
institution will take over the operations and funds of the existing Fondo
Nacional de Fomento Ejidal (FONAFE) which was operating initially only with
resources generated by the ejidos but has been receiving sizable Government
contributions since 1972. FONAFE has been providing not only credits to
ejidos but also technical assistance in terms of planning, organization,
marketing and staff training. Like the BNCR, FINAIR will derive not less
than 51% of its capital from the Government and the balance from public sector
entities and the producers, and its board of directors will also be similarly
constituted. A study is now in progress, under the auspices of the National
Council for Science and Technology (CONACYT) to analyze the portfolio of
FONAFE, to determine which of its loans and equity participations should be
transferred to FINAIR, and to spell out the range of activities, policies and
strategies which the new institution nay adopt. As FINAIR would probably be
the major channel for agro-industrial loans for groups of ejidatarios which
are likely to grow in volume, it is important to keep abreast of Government
policies in respect of the pattern of its working and the transfer of FONAFE
assets to it, which raises issues similar to those involved in the transfer
of earlier loans of Banco Agricola and Banco Ejidal to BNCR.
Credit Policies
35.       LGCR also sets down some guidelines on credit policy which, unlike
other provisions of this legislation, would apply to private banks as well.
Broadly, the loans are classified into various categories and purposes, and
norms are spelled out for each in regard to duration, size and security. As
regards recovery of loans, the law provides for the extension of the repayment
date in cases where the default is for reasons beyond the borrower's control.
In other cases of default, if the borrower is a private landowner, and his
crop is not available as a source of recovery, the lending bank may name an
inspector to keep watch over the farm operations and, in the case of
ejidatarios, the land would remain in charge of the ejido in accordance with
its own regulations and the ejido would be responsible for the collection of
the unpaid balance. Crop and cattle insurance is made obligatory for all
borrowers if such insurance is available in the area where they have their
operations. By and large, these provisions on credit policy, if effectively
observed in practice, should help build a sound system of agricultural credit
for Mexico. However, in view of the past experience with heavy arrears in
the public banks, it appears necessary i) to lay down a satisfactory procedure
to determine the circumstances in which arrears may be considered to have
resulted from reasons beyond a borrower's control, ii) to provide for re-
structuring such debts with reference to likely income from future production,
to be supported by fresh financing and, iii) generally to rule out the
financing of wilfull defaulters so that the liquidity of the agricultural
credit system and the flow of credit to this sector are not jeopardized
by the failure of some beneficiaries to conform to the principles of sound
credit. Past long-standing arrears of the public banks present a difficult
problem which needs a special solution. It is understood that only arrears
accumulated prior to the Presidential decree of 1973 regarding overdues would



ANNEX 2
Page 15
be generally restructured, with 10 to 20% remission in deserving cases but
that more recent overdues would not receive such treatement. It would be
necessary to deal with these practical problems, in a realistic manner,
while ensuring that future policy conforms to the principles set out earlier.
Financiera Nacional Azucarera (FINASA)
36.       FINASA is a fully Government-owned financial institution, entrusted
with the sole responsibility for meeting all the credit needs of the sugar
industry, both short-term and medium-term, those of the cane farmers, as well
as those of the sugar mills, for production, marketing and development.  FINASA
also operates, as an agent of the Government, the Trust Fund for Sugar from
which loans are made to sugar mills which cannot provide the required colla-
teral, and the Trust Fund for the stabilization of the price of sugar. FINASA's
summarized balance sheet and profit and loss accounts are given in Tables 10
and 11. Apart from the paid-up capital of Mex$ 1,000 million (US$80 million),
the principal sources of FINASA's funds are borrowings from the public in the
form of bonds and from foreign and domestic banks.
37.       FINASA's loan portfolio consists mainly of loans to sugar mills, for
meeting short and medium requirements for their own operations and those of
the farmers supplying them with cane, short-term credit for financing the
marketing of sugar and credits to the Trust Fund for Sugar, on Government
guarantee. All the loans to farmers are provided only through the mills and,
as far as possible, in kind (fertilizer, tractor services for land leveling,
harvesting, transportation, etc.) on the basis of an appraisal of needs by the
field staff of the mills, who also supervise such loans, with technical support
from the staff of the national organization for sugar cane research. The loans
are recovered when the farmer delivers the cane to the mill, which has a mono-
poly of cane purchase in its geographical jurisdiction. While various steps
are being taken to improve the technical and management aspects of the working
of mills which are in difficulties because of past neglect or mismanagement,
there is also equal need to strengthen their financial position. Though
FINASA is protected to the extent that such mills are financed via the special
Trust Fund on Government guarantee, it is necessary to take steps for a more
permanent improvement of their credit worthiness so that the special Trust
Fund would not be necessary.
D. FARMERS' ORGANIZATIONS
Present Position
38.       Since statutory provision was first made in 1926 for the organization
of credit societies of farmers based on cooperative principles, Mexico has been
experimenting with various types of farmers' organizations. While at one ex-
treme there have been simple grupos solidarios which only represent joint bor-
rowing by a group for a common purpose, the Federal Law of Agrarian Reform has



ANNEX 2
Page 16
envisaged, at the other end, the evolution of the entire ejido into a single
organizational unit for credit and other purposes. The following were, till
recently, the main types of farmers' organizations in Mexico:
(i) Sociedad Semi-collectiva: a flexible type of a
society in which members may undertake part of
their production activity individually but come
together for joint cultivation of part of their
lands and for other activities.
(ii) Sociedad Local de Credito: the most common type
hitherto, for borrowing funds for meeting the
farmers' individual credit needs and for purchasing
inputs and marketing produce;
(iii) Ejido Collectivo: the type most actively promoted
by Government for integrated exploitation of ejido
resources, usually emerging through a merger of
existing smaller units;
(iv) Ejido Unions: federal organizations for under-
taking supply and marketing functions which
ejidos cannot undertake individually.
Though no statistics are available, it is clear that there has been progress
in recent years in organizing farmers into different types of group units
for undertaking credit and other activities, and there have been examples of
significant economic success in collective operations of ejidos as in the
Laguna region. There are, however, various difficulties to be overcome such
as the basically individualistic attitude of the farmer and his suspicion of
attempts to force group activity; the unsatisfactory administration of coopera-
tive units resulting from diluted responsiblity; and the elaborate adminis-
trative procedures and bureaucratic methods involved. Further, considerable
preparatory work is necessary among farmers to attune them to methods and
procedures of such joint activity. Current offical policy fully recognizes
the difficulties faced in organizing group activity among ejidatarios and, to
a greater degree, among small private landholders, and is therefore flexible
in seeking progress towards this goal. Great importance is attached to the
preparatory effort of familiarizing the ejidatarios with the methods of such
activity and convincing them of its benefits. It is also recognized that
this objective can be achieved only gradually and in step with progress made
in promoting member participation in decision-making and their perception of
the activities of the ejidos as their own.
Proposed Changes
39.       The new agricultural credit legislation sets out the types of organi-
zation envisaged for farmers of various categories such as the ejidatarios and
small private landholders and includes transitory provisions for the gradual
reorganization of existing credit socieities and grupos solidarios so as to



ANNEX 2
Page 17
make their operations compatible with integrated action within the ejidos and
to fit them into the type of socio-economic organization now contemplated as
a means of promoting rural development. Increasingly, the ejidos and other
communities would themselves serve as the borrowing and production units and,
in the case of private farmers, the credit societies would be transformed into
rural production societies, with broader objectives and simplified structure
and procedures. Provision is also made for organizations which would be fede-
rations of primary units such as (i) unions of ejidos or communidades (ii)
unions of rural production societies and (iii) "rural associations of collec-
tive interest", to be organized at an even higher level, with ejidos, societies
or unions as members, for input supply, marketing and other activities to
be undertaken on an extensive scale. In the supply of credit and other
services, preference will be shown to group activity generally, even if
such action does not initially extend to joint production. The law also
provides for each institution to build up a capital and reserve fund by
contributing to it at least 10% of its profits, which will be used for absorb-
lng possible losses and for financing productive activities of common benefit
to their members.
Main Tasks
40.       Group activity is becoming increasingly common in the agricultural
sector in Mexico, based on past experience with supply, marketing and produc-
tion associations in the commercial farmer sub-sector, and credit societies
and collectives of ejidatarios among small farmers. The success of each such
organization, however, would depend on the active participation of its members
which, in turn, would depend on the efficiency of its operations and the
members' understanding of its objectives and methods of working. A major
problem in this area is to ensure that the societies command management and
technical services of the quality demanded by the growing scale and complexity
of their operations. The pilot schemes proposed under the project are aimed
at trying out alternative methods of organizing these services for the socie-
ties at low cost, which can be widely adopted. The variety of activities
being undertaken by the societies also calls for improved arrangements for the
maintenance of accounts. Further, it is important to develop institutional
mechanisms for building up internal resources so as to provide a cushion
against possible losses and to reduce the dependence on Government for
resources for financing expanding programs. The ejidos and the societies
should, therefore, mobilize rural savings out of increasing rural incomes,
in the form of thrift or other deposits or in the form of shares to be held
in the banks or societies at different levels. It may be considered if
responsiveness of the regional agricultural banks to the needs of small
farmers and the sense of responsbility of such farmers in regard to the
proper utilization and prompt repayment of such credit could be improved by
increasing the organic links between the farmers' organizations and the banks.
This objective may be promoted initially by providing for representation of
these organizations on the boards of management of the regional banks and by
encouraging them to contribute to the banks' share capital.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
MEXICO
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCIK CREDIT PROJECT
Analysi3 of Fourth Project Sub-loans
According to Type of Sub-borrower
No. of                          Average
No. of      Bene-      Total     Average   Amount
No. of    Bene-    ficiaries   Amount    Amount   per bene-
Loans   ficiaries  per loan   of Loans  per loan   icia
(us$ '000)   (UUS) 7U5$)
---------- As of March 31, 1975 -----------------
General Sub-Project
Ejidatarios                       49    2,040         42       1,794    36,612         879
Sociedades                      .3    1,928        643       1,319   439,667        684
Grupos Solidarios               19       85          4         270    14,210      3,176
Individuals                     27       27          1         205      7,593      7,593
Private Sector                 6,147   16,956          3     152,630    24,830       9,001
Sociedades                      92    9,288        101      23,961   260,446      2,580
Grupos Solidarios            1,060    2,673          2      30,009    28,310    11,227
Individuals                  4,995    4,995          1      98,660    19,752    19,752
Proportion of Total accouhted
for by Sociedades and Grupos
Solidarios:                     19%      74%                    36%
Low Income Producers' Sub-Project
Ejidatarios                       534  19,848         37      42,172    78,974       2,125
Sociedades                      208  14,857         71      30,559   146,918      2,057
Grupos ;olidarios              326    4,991         15      11,613    35,623       2,327
Private Sector                 1,326    2,049          1       8,269      6,236     4,036
Sociedades                      41      379          9         995    24,268      2,625
Grupos Solidarios              187      572          3       1,979    10,583       3,460
Individuals                  1,098    1,098          1       5,295      4,822     4,822
Proportion of Total accounted
for by Sociedades and Grupos
Solidarios:                     41%      95%                     90%



ANNEX 2
_____                    T'Table 2
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PTOJECT                                                                    Page 1
CONSOLIDATED COMPARATIVE INCOME AND EXPENDITURES 1970 TO 1974
Fondo de Gcrantia y Formento Para la Agriculture, Ganaderia y Avicultura
and Fondo Especial Para Flnancaimientos Agropecuarioe
(in million3 Mex.Pesos)
Percent
Totl                                Percent of                  Percent of                  Percent                 Percent        1970 to      Percent
1970      Income (Excpenditure)     1971       Total            1972       Total            1973       of Total       1974     of Total       1974         of Total
INCOME
1. Interest from rediscount
a. ALPRO - Aid funds                      7.8               5.9                6.3          3.4            6.2          2.8            5.5          2.2          4.9        1.1           30.7          2.5
b. ALPRO - TIDB funds                     5.8               4.5                9.4          5.1           11.0          4.8           13.5          5.3         19.8        4.5           59.5          4.8
c. IBED -- Assisted loans                66.7              50.8               94.9         51.2          109.5         48.4          113.8         44.8        145.2       33.1          530.1         42.9
d. Other funds                           35.6              27.1               40.8         22.0           40.2         17.8           54.7         21.5        129.0       29.4          300.3         24.3
Subtotal Interest on loans               15.9                 3151.4                       81.7             9          73.8          187.5                   9 8.  9       68.1              6
2. Interest from Investments                 14.3              10.9               32.5         17.5           56.9         25.1           54.7         21.5        109.7       25.0          268.1         21.7
3. Other income                               1.0               0.8                1.3          0.8            2.4          1.1           11 ,8         4.7         30.6        6.9           47.1          3.8
4. aross i.ca                               131.2             100.0              185.2        100.0          226.2        100.0          254.0        100.0        439.2      100.0        1,235.8        100.0
. Total expenditure                        130.1              99.2              184.3         99.5         225.1          99.5          251.9         99.2       143 8        09.?       1,227.2         99.3
6. Net Income    i                            1.1               0.8                0.9          0.5            1.1          0.5            2.1          0.8          3.4        0.8            8.6          0.7
EXPENDITURE
1. Honoraria Banxico - NAFINSA                3.1               2.4                2.4          1.3            2.7          1.2            3.0          1.2          1.1        0.3           12.3          1.0
2a) Interest and charges ALPRO - AID         11.5               8.8               11.1          6.o           11.1          4.9           10.1          4.o          9.6        2.2           53.4          4.4
b) Intereat and charges ALPRO - IDB          5.9               4.5                7.3          4.o            8.8          3.9           13.7          5.4         17.7        4.o           53.4          4.3
c) Interest and cbarges - IBD-Loans        32.0              24.7               60.2         32.6           91.7         40.7          112.8         44.8        140.4       32.2          437.1         35.6
d) Other funds                              13.2              10.1               27.1         14.7           32.3         14.3           26.7         10.6         80.6       18.5          179.9         14.7
Subtotal Financial Expenditures          65.7              50.5              108.1         58.6          146.6         65.0          166.3         66.o        249.3       57.2          736.o         60.0
3. Salaries and employees benefits           42.8    _         32.9               50.9         27.6           58.8         26.1           55.8         22.2        110.0       25.2          318.4         25.9
4. Transport and travelling expenses          3.5               2.7                3.8          2.1            5.6          2.5            6.o          2.4          9.0        2.1           27.9          2.3
5. Office expenditures including rents        4.8               3.7                7.6          4.1            6.9          3.1            9.8          3.9         12.9        3.0           42.0          3.4
6. Studies, investigations, tochnical assist  0.6               0.5                2.8          1.5            o.6          0.3            1.1          o.4          3.0        0.7            8.1          0.7
7. Miscellaneous operating expenditures      11.1               8.5                8.4          4.6            4.2          1.9            8.4          3.3         46.7       10.7           78.7          6.4
8. Depreciation                               1.6               1.2                2.7          1.5            2.4          1.1            4.5          1.8          4.9        1.1           16.1          1.3
9. Subtotal Admlin - General Exp.            64.4              49.5               76.2         41.4           78.5         35.0           85.6         34.0        186.5       42.8          491.2         40.0
Total Expenses                    130.1             100.0              184.3        100.0          225.1        100.0          251.9        100.0        435.8      100.0        1,227.2        100.0
June 19, 1975



MEXICO                                                            ANNEX 2
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT                                       Table 2
COMPAFATIVE STATEMENT OF INCOME AND lXPENDITURES 1970 - 1974                                 Page 2
Fondo de Garantia y Fomiento Parala Agricultura, Ganaderia y Avicultura
(Millions in Mex. Pesos)
Percent of
Total Income               Percent of            Percent of                 Percent of            Percent of    1970 to   Percent of
1970     Expenditure       9I.       Total      1972       Total           L973       Total        1974    Total          1974       Total
INCOME
1. Interest from discounts
a. On ALPRO - AID funds             7.8        14.3            6.3         9.2       6.2         8.9            5.5          7.2        4.9        3.1          30.7       7.2
b. On other funds                  35.6         65.d          40.8        59.5      40.2        58.2           47.0         61.4       99.9       63.5         263.5      61.8
Subtotal                       43.4         79.3          47.1        68.7      46.4        67.1           52.5         68.6      104.8       66.6         294.2      69.0
2. Interest from Investments           11.0         20.1          20.7         30.1     20.7         30.0          12.9          16.9      26.2        16.6         91.5       21.4
3. Other income                         0.3          o.6           0.8          1.2      2.0          2.9          11.1          14.5      26.4        16.8         40.6        9.6
4. Gross income                         54.7       100.0          68.6        100.0     69.1        100.0          76.5         100.0      157.4      100.0        426.3      100.0
5. Total expenditures                   53.9        98.5          68.0         99.1     68.5         99.1          75.1          98.2     155.7        98.9        421.2       98.8
6. Net Income                            o.8         1.5           o.6          0.9      o.6          0.9           1.4           1.8       1.7         1.1          5.1        1.2
EXPENSES
1. Honoraria Banaido-NAFINSA             1.2         2.2           0.9          1.3       0.9         1.3           0.9           l.a        0.4        0.3          4.3        1.0
2. Interest and charges ALPROD-AID      11.5        21.3          11.1         16.4     lI.1         16.2          10.1          13.4        9.6        6.2          53.4      12.7
3. Other funda                           -           -             9.8         14.4      9.5         13.8           7.9          10.6       38.6       24.8         65.8       15.6
4. Financial ExpenBes, Sub-Total        12.7        23.5           21.8        32.1      21.5        31.3           18.9         25.2       48.6       31.3         123.5      29.3
5. Salaries and employees benefitB      26.8        49.7          31.3         46.o      36.3        53.0           31.0         41.3       70.7       48.4         196.1      46.6
6. Transport and travelling expenses     2.1         3.9      .1                                      3. o          6.o           8.o        9.0        5.8          20.6       4.9
7. Office expenses including rents      2.3          4.3               -                                     m -.t  5.4  9.8     13:0       12.9        8.3          34.3       8.1
8. Studies, itweltigatioms, technical:
assistance                          0.2         o.4            0.1         0.1       0.1         0.1            -             -        -           -             o.4       0.1
9. Miscellaneous operating expenses     8.2         15.2           5.1          7-5      2.4          3.6           4.9           6.5        9.6        6.2         30.2        7.2
10. Depreciations                        1.6          3.0           2.7          4-0      2.4          3.6           4.5           6.o       4.9         3.0         16.1        3.8
11L     Sub-Total Admin.+Gen. Exp.      41.2        76.5           46.2        67.9      47.0        68.7           56.2         74.8      107.1       68.7         297.7      70.7
12.     Total Expenses                  53.9       100.0           68.o       100.0      68.5       100.0           75.1        100.0      155.7      100.0         421.2     100.0
June 19, 1975



ANNEX 2
Table 2
MEXICO                                                                                    Page 3
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT
COMPARATIVE STATEMENT OF INCOME AND EXPfDlITURES 1970 TO 1974
Fondo Especial Para Financiamientos Agroecurarios - FEFA
(Millions in Mex.Pesos )
Percent of
Total Income                  Percent of                   Percent of                 Percent of                  Percent of      1970 to       Percent of
~flg       Expenditure        1271       Total             1972       Total           197         Total           1974       Total           1974           Total
INCCllE
1. Interest from rediscounts
a. ALPRO - IDB - funds                5.8            7.6            9.4            8.1          11.0          7.0           13.5          7.6          19.8           7.0           59.5            7.4
b. IBED - Loan 430-ME                28.2           36.9            24.4          20.9          20.0          12.7          15.8          8.9          13.7           4.9          102.1           12.6
c. IBED - Loan 610-ME                38.5           50.4            70.5          60.5          60.6          38.6          50.9         28.7          46.1          16.4          266.6           32.9
d. IBED - Loan 747-ME                 -              -               -             -            28.9         i8.4           47.1         26.6          54.3          19.3          130.3           16.2
o. IBE  - Loan 910-ME                                                                            -                           -             -           31.1          11.0           31.1            3.8
f. Other funds                        -              -                                           -                           7.6          4.3          29.1         10.13           36.7            4.5 -
Subtotal Interest                72.5           94.9         o104.3           89.5         120.5         76.7          134.9         76.1         194.1          68.9          626.3           77.4
2. Interest from inveetments              3.3            4.3            11.8          10.1          36.3         23.1           41.8         23.5          83.5          29.6          176.7           21.8
3. Other income                           o.6            0.8             0.5           0.4           0.3          0.2            0.7          0.4           4.2           1.5            6.3            0.8
4. Gross income                          76.4          100.0          116.6          100.0         157.1        100.0          177.4        100.0         281.8         100.0          809.3          100.0
5. Total expanses                        76.1           99.6          116.3           99.7         156.6          99.7         17b.8         99.7         280.1          99.4          805.9           99.6
6. Net income                             0.3            04              0.3          -0.3           0.5           0.3           0.6          0.3           1.7           0.6            3.4            0.4
Expenditures
1. Honoraria Banxico- NAFINSA             1.9            2.5             1.5           1.3           1.8           1.1           2.1          1.2            0.7          0.2            8.0            1.0
2.a.Interest and charges ALPRO-IDB        5.9            7.8             7.3           6.3           8.8           5 6          13.6          7.7          17.6           6.3           53.2            6.6
b.Interest and charges IBRD 430-ME     16.7           21.9            17.0          14.6          16.9          10.8          14.9          8.4           13.5          4.8           79.0            9.8
c.Interest and charges IBD 610-ME     15.3           20.1            43.2          37.1          59.9          38.3          58.5         33.1           54.3         19.4          231.2           28.7
d.Interest and charges IBRD 747-ME      -              -               -             -            14.9           9.5          39.5         22.3          66.9          23.9          121.3           15.0
e.Interest and charges IBTD 910-ME      -              -               -             -             -             -             -            -              5.7          2.0            5.7            0.7
f.Other funds                          13.2           17.3            17.3          14.9          22.8         14.6           18.7         10.6           42.0         15.0          113.9           114.
Subtotal Financial
Expenditures               53.0           69.6            86.3          74.2         125.1          79.9         147.3         83.3          200.7         71.6          612.3           75.9
3. Salaries and employees benefits       16.0           21.1            19.6          16.9          22.6          14.4          24.8         14.0           39.3         14.0          122.3           15.2
4. Transoortation and travelling
expenditures                        1.4            1.8             2.4           2.1           3.4           2-3           -            -              -            -              7.3            0.9
5. Office expenditures including rents   2.5             3.3             2.0           1.7           3.2           2.0           -            -              -            -              7.7            1.0
6. Studies, investigations, technical
assistance                          0.3            0.4             2.7           2.3           0.5           0.3           1.1          o.6            3.0          1.1            7.6            0.9
7. Miscellaneous operating expenditures  2.9             3.8             3.3           2.8           1.8           1.1           3.6          2.1           37.1         13.3           48.7            6.1
8. Depreciations                          -               -              -             -             -             -             -             -             -            -              -               -
9. Subtotal administration and
general expenditures               23.1           30.4            30.0          25.8          31.5          20.1          29.5         16.7           79.4         28.4          193.6           24.1
Total Expenses                76.1          100.0           116.3         100.0         156.6         100.0         176.8        100.0          280.1        100.0          805.9          100.0
June 20, 1975



MEXI CO                                                                             ANNEx 2
Table 3
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT                                                           Page 1
COMPARATIVE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF RESOURCES AND LIABILITIES AS AT END OF FY'S 1970-1974 (DEC. 31)
FONDO DE GARANTIA Y FOMENTO PARA LA AGRICULTURA, GANADERIA Y AVICULTURA
FONDO Especial Para Financiamientos Agropecuarfos
(Millions Mex.Peso)
Average
Change From               Change From               Change From                Change From                Change from   Average    Percent
1.  RESOURCES                              1970        Dec. 31,1969  1971         Dec.31, 1970  1972        Dec.31, 1971   1973        Dec.31,1972   1974         Dec.31,1973   1970-74    Total
Investments in Government Securities        158.4          23.6        629.8        471.4         753.2        123.4         469.7      (283,5)         924.7       455.0         587.2        14.4
Short Term Loans and Rediscounts            423.1          97.9        442.7          19.6        421.6        (21.1)        696.0        274.4       1,281.3       585.3         652.9        16.1
Medium and Long Term Rediscounts
a) ALPRO-AID                               181.3         (75.3)       181.9           0.6        167.8        (14.1)        140.1      ( 27.7)         110.2       (29.9)        156.3         3.8
b) ALPRO-IDB                               195.9          74.6        235.2          39.3        287.5         52.3         410.2        122.7         588.3       178.1         343.4         8.4
c) IBRD-LOANS                            1,207.4         318.8      1,518.4         311.0      1,698.4        180.0       1,893.1        194.7       2,518.8       625.7       1,767.2        43.5
d) Others                                   48.6         (90.7)         16.6       -32.0)         18.7          2.1         283.0       264.3          572.2       289.2         187,8         4.6
SUBTOTAL LOANS AND REDISCOUNTS            2,056.3         325.3      2,394.8         338.5      2.594.0        199.2       3,422.4        828.4       5,070.8    1,628.4        3,107.6        76.6
Other Receivables                            51.5          51.5         51.5           -          145.8         94.3         153.7          7.9       1,130.9       977.2         306.7         7.5
Other Assets                                 22.4          (24.7)        29.7          7.3         45.0          15.3         115.1        70.1         100.4       (14.7)          62.5         1.5
TOTAL RESOURCES                           2,288.6         375.7      3,105.8         817.2      3,538.0        432.2       4,160.9        622.9       7,226.8    3,065.9        4,064.0        100.0
2.  LIABILITIES                                           +19.6%                     +35.7%                    +13.9%                    +17.6%                     +73.7%
Advances from BANKICO                       606.1         (99.3)        978.1        372.0        824.3       (153.8)         937.7       113.4       2,301.8    1,364.1        1,129.6        27.8
Liabilities to NAFINSA for
a) ALPRO-AID LOAN                          505.2         (13.1)       492.1         (13.1)       471.2       ( 20.9)        449.9        (21.3)        428.6       (21.3)        469.4        11.6
b) ALPRO-IDB LOANS                         237.2          95,6        244.3           7.1        389.6        145.3         499.2        109.6         610.2       111.0         396.1          9.7
c) IBRD-LOANS                              696.7         338.2      1,093.6         396.9      1,466.6        373.0       1,816.2        349.6       2,508.1       691.9       1,516.2        37.3
d) Other Funds                               -              -            -            -    _              -                    -           -             -           -              -           -
LIABILITIES FOR FUNDS, SUBTOTAL           2,045.2         341.7      2,808.1         762.9      3,151.7        343.6       3,703.0        551.3       5,848.7    2,145.7        3,511.3         86.4
Other Liabilities                            72.3           26.9         94.5         22.2        130.7         36.2          157.1        26.4       1,006.1       849.0          292.2         7.2
TOTAL LIABILITIES                         2,117.5         348.3      2,902.6         785.1      3,282.4        379.8       3,860.1        577.7       6,854.8    2,994.7        3,803.5         93.6
3.  TRUST LIABILITY & GOVT EQUITY                         +19.7%                     +37.1%                    +13.1%                     +17.6%                    +77.6%
General Fund                                104.0            -          104.0          -          104.0           -           104.0         -           104.0         -            104.0         2 6
Special Fund                                 48.3          26.4          79.5         31.2        130.9         51.4          174.1        43.2         241.8        67.7          134.9         3.3
Accumulated Net Income                       18.8            1.0         19.7          0.9         20.7           1.0          22.7         2.0          26.2         3.5           21.6         0.5
171.1          27.4        203.2         32.1        255.6          52.4         300.8        45.2         372.0         71.2         260.5         6.4-
+19.1%                    +18.8%                    +25.8%                     +17.7%                    +23.7%
TOTAL RESOURCES                           2,288.6         3457-  3,105.8             817.2      3,538.0        432.2       4,160.9        622.9       7,226.8    3,065.9        4,064.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY              2,288.6                    3,105.8                    3,538.0        4           4,160.9                    7,226.8                   4.064.0
June 19, 1975



ANNEX 2
MFXICO                                                                            Table 3
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT                                                        Page 2
CRWPARATTVE STATFM4FNT OF RESoUW'FS AND LIABILTTIES AS AT END OF FY 1970 TO 1974 ()ECD4BEF< 1)
F n,o ie  rarautia y 7-cment-; Para La Agricultura, Ganaderia y Agricultura - FONDO -
7(Millions - M'ex. Pesos)
Change from                Change from                 Change from                Change from      Average Amount   Percent
1970     1971     Dec.31, 1970      1972      Dec.31, 1 1971       93     Dec.31, 1972    1974       Dec.21, 1973      1970 to 1974    of Total
RESOURCES
Investments in Government Securities             70.9     353.3        282.4         285.9        (67-4)         153.1        (132.8)      463.7         310.6             265.4           21.8
Short-term loans and rediscounts                423.1     442.7         19.6        421.6         (21.1)         684.7         263.1     1,281.3         596.6             650.7           53.6
Medium and long-term rediscounts
ALPRO - AID funds                            181.3     181.8          0.5         167.8        (14.0)        (140.1)        (27.7       110.2.         29.9             156.2           12.9
Other funds                                   4E.6      16.3        (32.3)        18.7           2.4            3.0         (15-7)        1.4         (1.6)              17.6           1.4
Subtotal Rediscounts                        653.0      640.8        (12.2)       608.1         (32.7)         827.8         219.7     1,392.9         565.1             824.5          67.9
Other receivables                                31.9      32.2          0.3         47.7          15.5           61.4          13.7       378.3         316.9             110.3           9.1
Other assets                                      9.3      12.4          3.1         12.7          0.3            18.8           6.1        21.5           2.7              14.9            1.2
Total Res~urces                             765.1   1,038.7         273.6        954.4         (84.3)       1,061.1        106.7      2,256.4       1,195.3           1,215.1         100.0
+ 35.8%       -8+   .1%                                                           +112.6%
LIABILITIES
Advances from Banxico                            90.1     363.3       273.2         256.7        (1'6.6)         350.2         93.5        773.5         423.3             366.7           30.2
Liability for ALPRO - USAID loan                5)5.2     492.5       (12.7)        471.2         (21.3)         449.9        (21.3)       428.6         (21.3)            469.4           38.6
Liability for other fands                         0.9       - _       ( 09)           26.3         26.3           43.4         17.1         65.8          22.4              27.4            2.3
Subtotal liability for funds                596.2      855.8        259.6        754.2        (1o1. 6)        843.5        89.3       1,267.9         424.4             863.5          71.1
Other liabilities                             48.3      60.8         12.5         77.5          16.7           93.5         16.0        862.7         769.2             228.5          18.8
Total liabilities                           644.5      916.6        272.1        831.7         (84.9)         937.0       105.3       2,130.6       1,193.6           1,092.0          89.9
Trast Liability and Government Equity                                  +4p.2%                      -9.3%                      +12.7%                    +127.4%
General fund                                104.0      104.0          -           04.o                       o104.0          -           04.o                          o104.0           8.6
Accumulated Net Income                        16.6      18.1          1.5         18.7           o,6           20.1          1.4         21.8           1.7              19.1           1.5
Total Equity Funds                           120.6     122.1          1.5        122.7                        T~TT          'T17                        1.7             123.1         100.0
+1.2%                      40.5%                      +1.1%                       +1.41
Total Resources                                 765.1   1,038.7                     954.4                      1,061.1                   2,256.4                         1,215.1
Total Liabilities                               765.1   1,038.7        273.6        954.4                      1,061.1        106.       2,256.4       1,195.3           1,215.1
June 23, 1975



~~~~4EXICS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 2
FIFTH ACRICULTUBAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT                                                                 T.blA    3
IHMPARATIVE STATEMENT nF SOURCES AND LIABILITIES AS OF TCE END OF FISCAL YEAFts 1970 - 1974 (DECEM4BER 31)                                  Page 3
Fondo Especia1 P-r Flnanrhlmientoa Agroecuarios - FiFA
(In Millions Mex.Pesoa)
Change from                  Change from                    Change from                    Change from          1970 - 74       Percent of Total
1970      1971       Dec. 31, 1970      1972       Dec. 31, 1971       1973       Dec. 31, 1972       1974       Dec. 31, 1973       Average amount  Assets and Liebilities
RESOURCES
I1cestme-nt in Gover-rent Securties            87.S      276.5          189.0         467.3           190.8          316.6          (150.7)         461.0           144.4                 321.8              11.3
Short term loans and redisc-untS                -          -              -              -              -             11.3            11.3            -               -                     2.2               0.1
Medium and long-term loans -tid rediscO-ntS
a. IDB - funds                            19S.9      235.2           39.3          287.5           52.3          410.2           122.7          588.3           178.1                 343.4               12.1
b. IBRD - f:nds                         1,207.4   1,518.1           310.7        1,698.4          180.2         1,893.1          194.7        2,518.8           625.7               1,767.3               62.0
o. Others                                   -          -              -              -              -            291.3           291.3          570.8           279.5                 172.4               6.0
Mi-cellaneo-s Aets                             '2.7       37.2            4.5          130.4           93.1          177.3            46.9          831.4           (98.4)                241.8                8.5
Total Resources                         1,523.5    2,067.0          543.5        2,583.6          516.6         3,099.8          516.2        4,970.3         1,870.5               2,848.9              100.0
=_           -             .35.75%         -               25.0%       -                  82.0go%.3                              
LIA31LlTl TES
Alnanres fror BRasico                     516.1      614.0          98.4           567.5           (47.0)         587.5           20.0        1,528.3           941.8                 762.8               26.8
Llability to iiAF1NSA For:
IDB - Funda                               237.2      244.3           7.1           389.7         145.4           499.2           109.5          610.2           111.0                 396.1               13.9
IBRD - Fruds                              696.7   1,093.6          396.9         1,466.6         373.0          1,816.3          369.7        2,508.1           691.8               1,516.3               53.2
Other Lialilities -                            24.0       33.6           9.6            53.1          19.5            63.5            10.4          146.3            82.8                  64.1                2.2
Tots1  Li,bilities                      1,474.0   1,986.0          512.0         2,476.9         490.9          2,966.4          489.5        4,792.9         1,826.5               2,739.3               96.1
Tr-ut Llability '--elerat Thvers
Sp-cisl Fund                               48.3       79.0          31.d           104.7           25.2          130.7            26.0          173.0            42.3                 107.2                3.8
Ac-nolated Net In-ne                            1.?        1.5           0.3             2.0           0.5             2.7             0.7            4.4             1.7                   2.4                0.1
Total Go-ermnent EquSiv                        49.S       81.0          31.5           106.7          2.77           133.4            2.77                           44                   109.6              100.0
Total LSahbirTea and qavernmen5 Equity                      1 ' .                  2,583.6                        3,099.8                        4,970.3
lune 23, 197.



MEXICO
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Statement of Income and Expenses
(Consolidated figures for FONDO and FEFA) 1/
(Millions of Mex $)
INCOME                                             1975           1976           1977            1978           1979            1980
1. Interest from Re-discounts:
a.  Bank-financed Projects                    230.5           297.7          371.7          472.1           599.2          761.7
b.  Other Programs and Projects                188.8          255.8          334.5          432.9           559.2          669.1
2.  Income from Investments                        101.5          120.8          122.4           103.4          141.8           141.8
3.  Other Income                                    38.1           45.7           56.1            71.2           90.2           103.2
Gross Income                            558.9           720.0          884.7        1,079.6        1,390.4         1,675.8
EXPENSES
1. Interest Charges on:
a.  Bank and Other External Loans              243.1          322.5          359.4          405.8           424.0          414.2
b.  Advances from Bank of Mexico                57.5           91.9          126.9           168.5          260.1          310.7
c.  Commission to NAFINSA                        1.8            2.8            2.5             2,8            1.8             0.5
2.  Administrative and General Expenses             66.3           84.1           91.8           116.6          148.0           221.7,
3.  Technical Staff Costs                          170.9          216.9          291.4           370.1          498.2           663.2
Total Expenses                          539.6           718.2          872.0        1,063.8         1,332.1        1,610.3
ESTIMATED NET INCOME                                19.3            1.8            12.7           15.8           58.3            65.5
1/ Based on material furnished by the FONDO.
November 9, 1975.
F3>
PM



MEXICO
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Statement of Resources and Liabilities
(Consolidated figures for FONDO and FEFA) 1/
(Millions of Mex $)
RESOURCES                                          1974           1975           1976           1977           1978            1979           1980
(Actual)
Investment in Government Securities              925          1,151          1,412           1,718          2,082          2,519          3,050
Short Term Loans and Discounts                 1,281          1,711          2,284           3,049          4,070          5,433          7,254
Medium and Long Term Discounts                 3,790          4,783          6,057           7,689          9,774         12,438         15,839
other Receivables                              1,131            786             967          1,178          1,429          1,729          2,092
Other Assets                                     100              89            109            130            152            175             199
Total Resources                       7,227          8,519         10,828         13,763         17,507          22,294         28,433
LIABILITIES
Advances from Bank of Mexico                   2,302          1,619          2,321           3,328          4,771          6,840           9,807
Medium- and Long-Term Loans from
IBRD, IDB, and USAID                         3,547          4,291          4,950          5,626           6,625          6,895          6,676 _
other Liabilities                              1.006          2,116          2,923           4,001          5,095          7,323         10,481
Total Liabilities                     6,855          8,027         10,193         12,955         16,491          21,059         26,96
Trust Liability and Government Equity
including Accummulated Net Income              372            492            635             808          1,016          1,236          1,469
Total Liabilities including
Equity                                7,227          8,519         10,828         13,763         17,507          22,294         28,433
1/ Based on material furnished by the FONDO.
November 9, 1975
m M'



ANNEX 2
Table 6
IXICo
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT
JTrisdiction and Headquarters of Regional Agricultural Banks
New Institution                larlier Institution            Headquarters
I    Baja California      Banco Agrario del Mar de       Obregon, Sonora
Norte and Sonora    Cortes
II    Chihuahua and        Banco Agropecuario del Norte  Chihuahua
Durango (excluding
the area of Laguna)
III    Zacatecas, Coahuila Banco Agrario de la Laguna    Saltillo,
and la Laguna                                       Coahuila
IV    Nuevo Leon,          Banco Agropecuario del         Victoria,
Tamaulipas and San  Noreste                         Tamaulipas
Luis Potosi
V    Sinaloa, Nayarit    Banco Agropecuario del          Mazatlan, Sinaloa
and Baja California Noroeste
Sur
VI    Jalisco, Coliua,    Banco Agropecuario de           Guadalajara,
Aguascalientes      Occidente                       Jalisco
VII    Michoacan and        Banco Agrario de Michoacan    Zamora,
Guerrero                                            Michoacan
VIII    Guanajuato,          Banco Agropecuario del         Queretaro
Queretaro and       Centro
Mexico
IX    Hidalgo, Puebla,    Banco Agropecuario del Sur    Puebla
Tlexcale Morelos
and Distrito Federal
X    Veracruz and         Banco Agropecuario del         Veracruz
Tabasco              Sureste
XI    Oaxaca and Chiapas  (To be Newly Constituted)       Tuxtla, Gutierrez,
Chiapas
XII    Campeche, Yucatan   Banco Agrario de Yucatan        Nerida, Yucatan
and Quintana Roo



MgX ICO
FIFTh AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS OF BANCO AGRICOLA,
SCOIDAL AND BANCO ACROPECUARIO SYSTEMS-/
(Millisrs of lis$e)
Banse  Agricola System                                     Banco Eiidal System                                        B.nee Agrsee....ri  System                   Csnsolidated
for 3 system
31/Dec/72       31/Dec/73      31/Dec/74     31/May/75      31/Dec/72      31/Dec/73      31/Dec/74        31/May/75       31/Mar/73      31/Mar/74      31/Mar/75      31/May/75       31/May/75 2/
ASSETS
Cash, sank balances and ether liquid assets                      218             528            308           '12             319           290            325             535              33             87            198           608                   1,815
Shares and aecsrcties(Eet)                                        28              21              2            17              66           131             75             251             275            182            917           344                     612
Loans
Shert-term  loans and discounts                         616               934          1,855         2,377          1,576          1,526          3,950           3,486         1,001            1,741        3,237            3,503             9,367
Mediens-ten, lDeans                                      121              256            771            961          1,245         1,506           1,856           2,441         1,016           1,377         2,129            2,528            5,929
Other I.ane                                                7               57             54             52             8               1              1               1                                                          -                 53
Total lan-s                                                 744          1,247           2,680         3,390          2,829         3,034          5,807            5,928           2,017          3,118          5,366         6,031               15,349
M-sc.llasesss debts (Net)                                      2,343          2,434           1,912         3,842           2,000         2,364          2,580           3,791             714          1,118          2,483         2,465               10,098
Other investsaeta (Net)                                          104            243             485           363              84           357            476             668              25             33             60           237                 i,268
Fixed and othe- assets (Net)                                     266            274             180           185             392           346            382             381)             83)            133           264           133                   699
Deferred charges                                                  21             27               5           184             141           192            252             292)                )                                        27                   503
Total Assets                                              3,722          4,71v           5,572         8,653          5,831         6,714           9,897          11,846           3,147          4,671          9,288         9,845               30,344
LIABILITIES
Depsetns  and ether current llabillt-es                          393            608             653         1,151             891         1,146          1,737           1,679              232           439             976          903                 3,733
Rank loest                                                     1,713          2,185           3,618         4,381           2,091         2,680          4,348           4,508           1,344          2,691          5,622         6,986                15,876
Other term liabsllt-es                                           110            117              58             9             858           239          1,303             889              209            180         1,270           -                     898
Other depesits and  iis.ellanee.s .1hbllties                      65            116             281           365             248           393            216             493               43             62            130          531                 1,388
Reserve' fr liabilities                                           41             44              53            57              79           118            210             246              -              -              -             135                  438
Deferred eredets                                                  26             34              86            58              59            76            137               64               2              1              3             4                  127
Tetal Duts.de la,elit-es                                        3,348          3,104           4,750         6,021           4,226         4,653          7,952           7,879            1,830         3,373           8,001        8,560                22,460
Canicao Aeceast
Fined capital                                                    845            845             845           845           1,264         2,095          2,095            2,095           1,251          1,25i          1,251         1,251                4,191
Govt. ennteibti.n pending cepitalseties                         795            768             -           1,973           1,867           -              -             2,117                7              8              8             8                4,089
Legal and ether reserves                                           5              5               5             5             -             -              -                -               -              -              -             -                     13
1,645          1,618             850         2,823          3,131          2,095          2,095           4,212           1,258          1,259          1,259         1,259                 8,293
Ac-taulated peef. c  (less)                              (229)            -            (8)            (125)         (854)           -              (33)           (150)          53                39           25              25            (250)
Current years profit  (lens)                              (43)           (8)          '20)            (65)         (672)          (33)            (116)            (95)           5                (1)           3               1            (159)
Tetal pr-ject (less)                                       (291)            (8)            (28)         Li9Q)         (1,526)          (333          (               (3)               58              29            28            26                  (40
Net capital                                                    1,274          1,610             822         2,632           1,605         2,061          1,945            3,967           1,316          1,298          1,287         1,285                7,884
Tetal Leabileties                                         3,722          4,704           5,572         8,653           5,831         6,714          9,897          11,846           3,147          4,671          9,288         9,845                30,344
I/ Many items in the balance sheets of Ban.. Agricela and Banco Ejidal ae not clear:  The ac-nests ef the three syntem- are being thereughly esamined by auditors and the fegeres given sebte shesld  therefere be treated
55 tentative and subjeet te revisiss and clarification.
2/ Thin is as the assienptie  that all the assets and liabilitles ef the three systems cell be c-solidated:  bet this is not intendled and the BNCR s-Ield bepefully assua- only realizable  .ssa.t of baanes  Ejidal and
Baste Agric Ia.
October 20, 1975



MEXICO
ANNEX 2
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT                                                      Table 8
INCOME AND EXPENDITURE STATEMEDNTS OF BANCO AGRICOLA,
BANCO EJIDAL AND BANCO AGROPECUARIO SYSTEMS
(Millions of Mex$)
Banco Agricola                      Banco Eiidal                        Banco Agropecuario
1972       1973        1974        1972        1973        1974        1972/73        1973/74         1974/75
Ban ing Overations
Income
Interest collected                    162.8       177.4     304.0        138.1       162.4       259.5         236.7           330.1          552.2
Interest earned but not collected       1.8         -          -           26.6        13.7        18.8          21.6           31.2           58.8
Commissions and other charges           3.0         3.0        3.2          3.6         7.0         3.7           -              -               -
Miscellaneous income                  181.9       562.3-   2398.3         118.9        71.5        89.0           -              -               -
Total Income                     349.5       742.7    2705.5         287.2      254.6       371.0         258.3           361.2          611.0
Expenses
General expenses                      156.3       177.9      269.4        432.9       550.3       921.5         230.6          330.3          557.7
Interest paid                         212.5       217.5      377.8        164.2       243.9      411.0          106.1          205.1          581.4
Writing off bad debts, depr. &amort.  7.9         286.8    1506.4         492.5      803.0       625.3            7.0           16.4           33.4
Miscellaneous losses                    6.6        58.7      550.8         32.6        80.7        52.0           -              -              -
Miscellaneous expenses                  2.4         3.1        6.4         41.4        18.5        27.7           0.8            2.4            9.5
Total expenses                   385.7       744.0    2710.8       1163.6      1696.4      2037.5         344.5           554.2         1182.0
Net profit (loss) on
banking operations                  (36.2)       (1.3)      (5.3)      (876.4)    1441.8    (1666.5)          (86.2)        (192.9)        (571.0)
Other Operations
Profit (loss) on commercial
operations                            3.5         4.0        2.9          0.7      957.6       (87.8)           7.3            7.7           10.9
Profit (loss) on industrial
operations                           (9.8)      (10.9)     (17.4)       (86.0)       28.2       10.7
Profit (loss) on services               -           -          -          290.0       (47.4)      44.6            -  2/          -  2/         -   2/
Government subsidy                      -           -          -            -        526.3      1582.7           74.9-         184.1-         557.4
Income from investments                 -           -          -            -           -           -            17.4           10.2           23.4
Total net profit (loss)          (42.6)       (8.2)    (19.8)       (671.7)     (33.5)    (116.3)           13.4            9.1           20.7
Provision for tax                       -           -          -            -           -          _              8.7            9.7           18.2
Net profit after tax                    -           -          -            -           -           -             4.7           (0.6)           2.5
1/ Including subsidies.
2/ Grant from special Trust Fund.
October 20, 1975



ANNEX 2
Table 9
MEXICO
FIFTH AORICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT
Overdues of Public Agricultural Banks
(Millions of Mex$)
Overdue Loans    Non-overdue      Total            (1) as %
(1)              Loans        Outstanding     of (3)
(2)         Portfolio         (4)
(3)
Banco Agricola 31 Dec.
1972           1,444             744            2,188             66
1973             928           1,247            2,175             43
1974             596           2,680            3,276             18
Banco Ejidal   31 Dec.
1972           4,478           2,829            7,307             61
1973           3,078           3,034            6,112             50
1974           3,455           5,807            9,262             37
Banco Agro-
pecuario        31 Mar.
1973             435           2,017             2,452            18
1974             696           3,118             3,614            14
1975             934           5,366            6,300             15
October 20, 1975



ANNEX 2
MEXICO                                                        Tphls vn
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT
BALANCE SHEETS FY 1972 TO 1974 AND FEBRUARY 28, 1975
FINANCIERA NACIONAL AZUCAFERA, S.A.
(Millions in Mex. Pesos)
Percent                     Percent                     Percent
Change to                   Change to                   Change to
December     Previous       December     Previous       December     Previous       February
31, 1972     Year           31, 1973     Year           31, 1974     Year           28, 1975
ASSETS
Cash and deposits with Banco de Mexico                      11.3       - 79.7            0.1           -             0.1                        49.1
Deposits with other banks                                   85.0       - 78.o           28.7       - 66.2           65.6      - 128.5           69.5
Investments (fixed interest)                              679.9        +  6.o          550.5       - 19.0          931.6      +  69.2        1,635.0
Equity investments (sugar mills etc.)                      478.6       _  0.1          792.4       + 65.5          788.2      -   o.6          789.0
1,254.8       - 6.6          1,371.7      + 9.3         1,785.5      +  30.1        9,542.6
DISCOUNTS                                                     735.0       + 85.7           783.0      +  6.5          401.5       - 48.8          402.3
Short-term loans for operational
expenditures                                         3,623.9        +  3.0        5,195.9       + 43.4        6,659.5      -  28.1        7,295.1
Short-term loans for sugar cane cultivation                500.1       +  9.9           301.8      -39.6           599.8      +  98.7          474.9
Investment loans to farmers                                193.4 )     + 40.0           172.9      - 7.0           249.8      +  43.3          272.6
Investment loans to sugar mills                            249.5 )     +                219.2      - 12.1          444.0      + 102.5          484.5
Miscellaneous loans, secured by lien on assets             810.1       - 10.5           917.8      + 13.3          593.1       -  36.3         577.0
6,112.0       +  9.3         7,590.6      + 24.1        8,947.7      +  17.8        9,506.4
SUNDRY DEBTORS                                                361.6       +  8.2           144.9      - 60.0          290.0      + 100.1          342.7
Other                                                        3.6       + 50.C            13.4      +272.0           19.4      +  44.8           19.6
Equipment etc.                                               2.9       + 45.0             2.8      -  3.4            5.0      + 80.0             5.0
Buildings etc.                                               8.5       + 50.0             8.5         -              8.5          -              8.6
Prepaid interest and advance-payments                       10.3       - 72.8            66.8      + 54.8          110.3      +  65.1          104.9
Total Assets                                   7,753.7        +  6.0        9,198.7       + 18.9      11,166.4       +  21.4      12,529.8
LIABILITIES
Liabilities payable on demand (interest)                   157.6       + 47.0           236.4      + 50.0          172.4      -  27.0          159.3
Bank-deposit-certificates                                    -            -              -            -          1.078.6           -         2,716.5
Bonds in circulation                                     1,411.9       + 21.7         i,702.6      + 20.6        2,330.5      + '6.8         1,752.7
Certificates in circulatIon                                 21.4       +327.1             7.7      - 64.o            3.3      - 57.1             3.2
Borrowing from banks                                     3,748.7       +  8.9         5,076.5      + 35.4        5,058.1      - 0.3          4,690.1
Other liabilities with fixed maturity                    1,225.1       - 1.8            928.6      + 24.2        1,268.0      + 36.5         1,921.3
Other liabilities (including deferred dividend)            66.5        - 8.6             12.7      - 80.9            4.0      - 68.3            15.3
Provisions                                                 15.9        + 53.8            70.5      +343.4           28.5      - 60.0            35.2
6,647.1       + 6.1          8,035.0      + 20.8        9,943.4      + 23.7        11,293.6
SHIARE CAPITAL                                              1,000.0          _           1,000.0         -          1,000.0          -          1,000.0
Statutory Reserves                                          49.1       +248.C           105.0      +113.9          162.0      + 54.3           223.0
Profit                                                      57.5       + 47.4            58.7      +  2.1           61.0      +  3.9            13.2
Total Liabilities                             7,753.7        +  6.o        9,198.7       + 18.9      11,166.4       + 21.4       12,529.8
June 18, 1975



ANNEX 2
ME=ICO                                            Table 11
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT
Statement of Income and Expenditure 1972-1974
Financier& Nacional Azucarera, S.A.  (FINASA)
(Millions in Mex. Pesos)
Percent                        Percent                          Pereent
Change                          Change                            Change
December   Of Total Against   December Of Total  Against         December  Of Total   Against
31, 1972  Ineome    1971        31, 1973  Income     1972        31, 1974  Income       1973
INCOME
Interest received                   877.0    96.64      +  69.5    914.6    88.72i    +   4.3        1,136.1    91.01      +  24.2
k     Dividends                             1.8      0.20      +  20.0       1.1      0.11     -  38.8         0.9      0.07      - 18.2
Commissions etc.                     25.4      2.80     + 225.7      21.6       2.10     - 14.9         14.5      1.16     -  32.9
Other receipts                        3.2      0.36     + 128.5      93.5       9.07     +  28.22       96.8      7.76     +   3.5
Total Income              907.4   loo.o0      +  71.8  1,030.8   100.00        +  13.6    1,248.3    100.00      +  21.1
EXPENDITURE
Interest paid                       724.9    80.0       +  88.2    856.9       83.1      +  18.2     1,048.4     84.o      +  22.3
Commission etc.                       8.3      0.9      +  6.5        2.9       0.3      - 65.0          2.7      0.2      -   7.0
Depreciation                          2.9      0.3      + 262.5       0.8       -        - 72.4          1.2      0.1      +  50.0
Exchange costs (foreign currency)    11.9      1.3      - 15.0        0.1       -        - 99.1          0.1      -
Adjuestment (miscellaneous
expenditure)                        0.3      -            -         -         -            -           0.5      -
748.3    82.5       +  78.3    860.7    83.5        +  15.0     1,052.9      84.3      +  22.3
General and Administrative
Expenses                          101.6    11.2       +  46.2    111.4    10.8         +   9.6       134.4    10.7       +  20D6
Total Expenditure         849.9    93.7       + 73.8    972.1       94.3       +  14.4     1,187.3     95.0      +  22.1
October 20, 1975



MEXICO
FlFTH AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT
SUMMARY ESTIMATES OF COST OF INVESTMENTS
A. Crops and Livestock
(US$ '000)
Far
No.                                     Machinery          Water                          Passtre                                         12
of         Are.           Land             and           Supply and       On-Pam          Orchard       Breeding   Miocella-    Physical          Price
tUnite       ( ,0)ha     Prep.ration      Equipnt          Irrig tion    Construction   Establish-ent    Stock         neous      Centi.femcy   Contisenecy    Tot-l
Annual Crops
a. Irrigated                          1,540          57.1           1,369         19,713            21,176         2,641                                                   2,265         10,258      57,422
b. Rainfed                            2,329          88.1           5,150        42,504                -           6,283                                                   2,660         12,220       68,817
Prennial Crop,
a. Irrigated                            239           3.2             363            838              1,189          538             8,975                                   600          3,902       16,405
b. Raisfed                              687           9.1             448          2,615                            1,125             5,742                                  490          3.033       13,453
S.uarcane
a. Irrigated                            330          10.6           1,704            848              1,580            31             5,671                                  496          3,640       13,970
b. Rainfed                              330          10.6           2,562            851               -               33             4,421                                   397         2,925       11,189
Dairy                                     785          13.8           2,146          7,117             11,410        11,240             2,824       19,035                   2,712         11,440       67,924
Beef (Double Purpose)                     111          27.7             -               50                175           250             2,707        2,770                      300         1,797        8,049
Dry Tropics
Beef (Desble Purpose) -                   472          53.5           6,977            394                450         2,420              -          16,543                    1,350        10,610       38,744
Wet Tropics
Other Livestock                           455            -              -            1,095                586         6.687              -           2.790       3.591          745          3,796      19.290
7.278         273.7          20,719  V     76,025-'           36,566\       31,248            30,340 .    41,138        3,591       12,015         63,621      3
B. Agr- Ind.s.ries
No.     Land and                                         Machinery                       Engineering             1/                       2/
of       Site                                               and       Tranuportatius        and          Physical   Working        Price
Units    Preparation    Civil Works    Utilities           Equipoent   ,Equipoent           Overhead    Contingency  Capital   Contingencv         Total
Cattle Slaughterhouses                     3         19              1,454          2,112              1,710          160              545           300          600         1,630         8,530
Milk Prouesscng Plants                     5         15              1,025          1,208              2,127          233              212           240          440         1,457         6,957
Feed Millu                                 3         10              1,202            312              1,351           65              144           156          840         1,025         5,105
Fr-ct Processing Plants                    4         13              1,780          1,500              1,856          100              512           288        1,231         1,879         9,159
Vegetahbl OSl ftlls                        2         13              2,202          1,104              3,858           85              718           398        3,122         4,730        16,230
Gracn Storage Plants                       3         20              2,780            190              1,500           20               230          235          -             980         5,955
Logging and Sa-olils                       3         12                310            175              2,260          280              170           158          360           495         4,220
Ssndry Agrn-Industrien                    70         50              5.000          2.650              7.000          400            1.000           700          -           3.50         2300
93       152              5,7        - 53-                  21,662         343                          2,475         6,59        15,696
1/  At 5% of base-lce costs.
2/ Nosed on following assu-ed annual rates of snflaton .(percent) applsed to estinotod
d-sburseme.ts over four years, aa folloas
InternationaI                               Local
(forecgn eachange cost)                  (local cur-recy cost)
1976   8.9                                1976   20
1977   7.9                                1977   10
1978   7.6                                1978    8
1979   7.5                                1979   7.5
October 9, 1975



MEXICO
FIFTH AGRICULTUIRAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated FONDO Project Receipts and Disbursements
1       2        3        4        5       6        7       8        9      10       11     12       13       14      15       16      17       18       19      20        Total
RECEIPTS
1.  Borreoings
Ban         Mexico Advances                  60.0    40.0      _-                                                       -       -        -       -        -       -                                                       100.0
b. Withdrawals fron IBRD Loan 2/             53.0    50.0    17.0        5.0      -       -        -                                                                                                                      125.0
2. Rediseounts Collected 3/
a. LIPSP                                      2.2      5.6      5.6     10.2    15.7    15.7    15.7    15.7    15.7    15.7    13.3    6.0          1.6      1.2      1.0     D.b      -                                 141.5
b.  tlIPSP                                    1.7      3.4      3.4      6.7    10.1    10.1    10.1    10.1    10.1    10.1         8.3    3.5      0.8      0.8     0.4      0.2     -        -        -       -         89.8
c. Agro-industties                            0.2      3.0      5.6      6.2      8.4     8.8      7.2     3.4      2.0     0.8      0.3    -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -         45.9
3.  Interest on Discounts Granted 3/              6.2    14.8    16.6       16.3    14.6    12.4    10.1       7.8      5.6     3.9      2.1    0.8      0.3      0.2      0.1     -        -       -                         111.8
4. Governomnt Reimbursement for Studies
Training. etc. 4/       ,                    7.0      8.0      9.0      -        -                -            -           -           -      -        -         -  -     -       -            - _                        26.0
5. FEFA's Ous Resources                          10.0    10.0    10.0        -        -        -       -       -        _       -        -      -        -            -        -       -        -            -       -         30.0
Total Estimated Receipts               140.3   134.8    67.2       44.4    48.8    47.0    43.1    37.0    33.4    30.5    24.0   10.3          2.7      2.2     1.5      0.8     -        -        -       -        668.0
DISBURSEMENTS
-1  Radisenonts Crensed 3/
a. LIPSP                                     58.8    60.2    14.3        8.2      -       -        -       -        -       -        -      -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        141.5
b.  MIPSP                                    46.9    30.9      8.0       4.0             8-        -       -        -       -        -      -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -          9.8
c. Agro-industries           -               18.5    15.9    11.5        -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -               -        _       _        _       _        _        _       _         45.9
2. Studies. E, join8,.Dextonatrstions. etc.       6.1      7.3     8.2       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -         21.6
3. Direct Expenses  j
a. Co mituet and Interest Charges
to IBRD                                   2.5      8.7      9.5     10.4    10.6    10.3    10.0       9.6      9.1     8.7      8.1    7.6      7.1      6.3     5.6      5.0     4.1      3.1-    2.2      1.2      139.7
b. Interest Payments to Bank of Mexico        0.9      2.4      3.0      2,7      2.4     1.7      0.9     0.1       -         -        -     -      -        -        -                -       -        -       -         14.1
4. ReDs     t of B rrings
a. B nk ofr}lexico                            -        -      10.0      10.0    25.0    25.0    25.0       5.0      -       -        -      -            -        -        -       -        -       -            -        100.0
b.  IBRD                                      -        -        -        -        4.0     4 3      4.6     5.0      5.5     5.9      6.5    7.0      7.5      8.3     9.0      9 6    10.5    11.5    12.4    13.4        125.0
Total Expected Disbur-emeoto           133.7   125.4    64.5       35.3    42.0    41.3    40.5    19.7    14.6    14.6    14.6   14.6    14.6    14.6    14.6    14.6    14.6    16.6    14.6    14 6               677.6
Excess or Deficit () of Receipts
over Disbursements                      6.6      9.4      2.7      9.1      6.8     5.7      2.6    17.3    18.8    15.9       9.4   (4.3)  (11.9)  (12.4)  (13.1)  (13.8)  (14.6)  (14.6)  (14.6)  (14.6)           (9.6)      b
Cumulative Surplus or Deficit 6/         -       16.0    20.2      31.6    41.5    51.0    57.9    81.2   108.0   133.9   154.9  162.6   162.8    162.4  161.2   159.2   156.2   152.9   149.4   145.6
1/ Every 12 months fron IBRD Loan effectiveness.
_/ A time-lag of 3 to 6 months is assumed between FOND0  disbursement and Bank Loan withdrawal.,
3/ Covers only initial operations and excludes possible re-lending of surplus (see footnote 6).
4/  Includes relevant comsitment fees and inLerest.
_/ Excludes FOP09 expenses (technical, administrative and general) which would be shared with other
FOND0 projects and programs and LIPSP technical service expenses which would be largely set from FEGA (Annex 3).
6/ Includes earnings from the use of surpluses for refinancing short-term loans earning interest at 8S.
November 9, 1975



ANNEX 5
MEXICO
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK CREDIT PRJWT3CT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in UF '3000
Cumulative Disbursement at
IBRD Fiscal Year Quarter                                End of Quarter
1975/76
June 30, 1976                                               6,000
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                         16,000
December 31, 1976                                          23,300
Mar^h 31, 1977                                             43,000
June 30, 1977                                              58,o00
1977/78
3)ceptf.. ,iber 30, 1977                                   73,000
December 31, 1977                                          83,0O0
March 3i, 1978                                            103,000
JT:ie 3i), 1978                                          108,000
1978/79
-3tE)t;rnbe) 30, 1978                                    112,000
C ;-z5.)  31', 1978                                   "16,330
March 31, 19',,                                           120,300
.June 3, 19'9                                             125,000
February 12, 1976



ANNEX 6
Table I
-aco
FIFT8 LIVUTOCK AND AGRICULTURA  CR8DIT PROJFCT
Finnci-la  Rates of Rtato   - Livestock Nodal.
- -r                                                                                  ------------------
Devolooseot    1           2          3          4          5          6          7         8          9         10         11        12-19       20
1.0   Beef: Wet frooios - 350 ha
1.1   Sales                                          365.3      371.4      627.8   1,079.2   1,288.9   1,145.6   1,186.1   1,086.4   1,023.4           985.8      934.0      972.9   1,002.3   1,002.3
1.2   Operating costs                                341.2      292.5      458.7      794.2      903.5      762.8      645.8     568.7      489.4      366.0      297.5      299.4      2g9.4      2g9.8
1.3   Not                                             24.1       78.9      169.1      285.0      385.4      382.8      540.3     517.7      534.0      619.8      636.5      673.5      702.9      702.5
1.4   Net proJect                                     -          54.8      145.0      260.9      361.3      358.7      516.2     493.6      509.9      595.7      612.4      649.4      678.8      678.4
1.5   Ioreentel heed vlue                                        -- -.                      -          -          -          -                -         -          -          -           -      2.172.5
1.6   loesmseo-t                                      -         526.7      820.3      747.8       -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
1.7   Net hesefit                                     -        (471.9)   (675.3)   (486.9)    361.3         358.7      516.2      493.6     509.9      595.7      612.4       649.4     678.8  ;2,50.9
1.8   Finmacial rate of return  (2):   24.3
A
2.0   Belf: Drv Teopica - 650 ha
2.1   Salon                                          244.0      351.6      712.5      718.6      636.0      657.9      570.8      519.8      536.0      645.3      642.2      650.2      650.2      650.2
2.2   operatiog co-tn                                201.2      251.5      467.8      483.5      428.1      389.4      303.9      242.0      195.3      184.7      185.4      185.4      185.4      185.4
2.3   Net                                             42.8      100.1      244.7      235.1      207.9      268.5      26J:9      277.8      340.7      460.6      456.8      464.8      464.8      464.8
2.4   Not project                                     -          57.3      201.9      192.3      165.1      225.7      224.1      235.0      297.9      417.8      414.0      422.0      422.0      422.0
2.5   Ince-ental hoed talon                                 -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -               -          -          -          -       1,432.4
2.6   lovost tni                                      -       1,3.2.5      564.6      108.9       -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
2.7   Not benefit                                     -      (1,275.2)   (182.7)       83.4      165.1      225.7      224.1      235.0      297.9      417.8      414.0      422.0      422.0   1,854.4
2.8   Financial rate of r-tnen  (2): 16.2
3.0  Dli-: Arid. Slei-Arid Tepeerate' - 65 ha
3.1   Slle                                           -         764.6   1,603.9   1,592.2   1,731.9   1,755.0   1,688.8 .1,700.8   1,700.8   1,700.8   1,700.8   1,700.8   1,700.8   1,700.8
3.2   Oporotico costa                                 -         619.9      757.8      809.3      811.7      812.3      811.7      811.7      811.7      811.7      811.7      811.7      811.7      811.7
3.3   Nt  .roleer                                      -        144.7      846.1      782.9      920.2      942.7      877.1      889.1      889.1      889.1      889.1      889.1      889.1      889.1
3.4   lncrosetal heed vale                            -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -         774.9
3.5   lovestanct                                   3,338.3        -                    -
3.6   Net benefit                                 (3,193.6)    846.1       782.9      920.2      942.7      877.1      889.1      889.1      889.1    089.1        889.1      889.1    089.1   1,664.0
3.7   Fi.nociol rote of roturn  (Z): 27.1
4.0   Pinn: Arid. Sloi-Arid T erat' - 72 So
4.1   Solos                                            -        131.2   1,137.0   1,337.0   1,337.0   1,337.0   1,337.0   1.337.0   1,337.0   1,337.0   1,337.0   1,337:0   1,337.0   1,337.0
4.2   Oporaciog conts                                  -        171.4   1,132.2   1,132.2   1,132.2   1,132.2   1,132.2   1,132.2   1,132.2   1,132.2   1,132.2   1,132.2   1,132.2   1,132.2
4.3   Not projoct                                      -         (40.2)    204.8      204.0      204.0      204.0      204.8      204.8      204.8      204.      8           204.8 284.  204.0     204.0
4.4   Inve      t                                                                                 -          -          -          -                -          -               -          -          -
4.1   Net beo.fit                                      -     (1,020.5)    204.8       204.0      204.8      204.0      204.0      204.8      204.8      204.0      204.8      204.8      204.0      204.0
4.6 Financial rote of rotuor (Xl: 19.8
1/ Nee mond - no dairy actility bofore do-elop-et.
2/  Oe pro ject - no pig fnroing bofnre dooelop-.t.
A.gont 11, 1975



0222260 6
*tNd LIVESTOCI AdIM9 AdlCRILTURAML CR0it3T 0100CT
Ft ,6,,.6  Lt,.  of R.-tur  - 22.7  2     -  6026-6 .ed
SO .eg .      ...... .....--_-.___._..-.___....____-.--_ ............. --------------------.------ U.    --------- --------- ----------------------- ---------------------------
,*,.6,226  ,,J,,,,a  1  ,,,,,,j,,,,   .       ,,,,,2 j3  4  S          6          7          S          9        20-29       20          21         22         23         24         25
5.0   Onn-l Cro'.-2 0wtd. T_.."t,L'.
000 h.
5.2   5.2..                            ~~~~~~     ~~~        ~~~~~~99.  32  924.5   2 .07 0069.7   2,009.7.  1,006.7   2,009.7   1,009.7   2,069.7   1,009.7   2,069.7                              --
5.2   Op                                                  I .2I6  o0.   .  33 °  622.0  622.3  6436  643 6  6493.6     646.6      643.6      643 6       643.6      643.6      643.6 7                . 7
5.3   66                                             2175.6     212 1       092.2      366.2      366,.      366.,      366.1     364.1      366.1       366.1      366.2      36e6.             -               -
5.4  N9t poJejo.                                       -          62.6      506.6      290.5     190.5      290.5      19W.5      I90.5      2.5 5      090.        290.5      290.5
5.     2 v 624 2                                               6,636.5       -                     -          -         .           .          .-.-...
5 5    - bn.-f02                                               (067.9)   126.6        190.5        MS0.5     190.5     190.5      100.5      296.5       190.5      150.5      190.5
5.7   :-26... 26-. r-Ie       5 o   56I  17.3
6.0   A.n-hO C-oo. - R,I2f0d T,o,i,.Il -
200 6.f
6.2   2.2..                                           720.0     400.2      451.5    469.6        49 46Y9.   40.         66.6      409.0      409.0      469.0      409.6       409.8       -
6.2   Ope-.6200 0062,                                 666 5      216.6      225.7      227.5      227.5      227.5     722.5       727.5      227.5      227.5      227.5      227.5
6.3   9,6                                             10105      2.5 5      225.6      262.3      262.3      262.3     i62.3       262.3      262.3      262.3      267.3      262.3       -
6.4   9.6 poor.,.                                      -          62.0      226.3      160.6      260.6     760.0       260.0      260.0     260.0       260.6      160.8      160.8
6.5   20...t-0                                         -         603.2 2                                                             
6.6t 600  ... .fi,                                             (721.2)      224.3     160.8       160.8      160.8     160.8       260 8      160.0     266.0       260.      160.0       -
6.7    P 20.0526  r te of 0.2urn  (21  70.9
7.0   P.!  ,1.2. Cros.-lorrmte0                 
200 ha 
7.2   Sale,                                           329.0   2,090.7       932.7      972.9   2,206.5   2,600.0   2.202i0    2,660.0   3,120.6   3.3602    3.600.0   3,600.0              -
7.2   op.022(o60020,               266.0      969.4     ~~~~~~     ~~~~469.0  909.9   2,2,37.2    264.6   2.62.    2,773.9   2,922   2,45.4   2,999.6   2,999.6         .
7.3   06                                               52.0      543.93 463.7            3                     5.4         3      826.       228. 5     .414246   2 600,4    2 600 4
0.4   5,6 poole,,                                      -         690.3      422.7       22.0      (01.7)      06.4     453.3      375.2   2,277.0    2.36346    1,549.4    2.54934734
6.5   Crop 2.060o6         2                                                 . _  _  _  2                                                     .                -             1,549.4
7.6    0         2.                                    -       2,995.0      611.9  , .6.9          ..                                                    .            .     3 . 
7   N9t be ...ft                                       -      (2.52.7)    1299. (o22,224.92    (64.7)         F4.4     453.3  275.1   :,7..   363.2    2,545.4   3,008.6                   -
7.62  Fi-i6l.1          f of r20600
6606.o6.2idy (t)r 20.2
6.0  P7rt0,,6l 0,00. - Ri.f2.0   Truil.1l'- 
100 6. 
0.2   Sal.,                                           220.0      572.0     494.0      412.0       283.5      366.5     58:.0      933.0   1,400.0   1,620.0   1,960.0   1,960.0   1,960.0   1,960.0   1,96.0  12.960.0    1 ,60,0
8.2   OpS086206 00.2,                                 226.0      055.2      020.4      420.0      670.6      502.I      541.6     667.2       792.5      055.7      952.4      952.4      952.4      952.4      952.4      952.4       952.4
6.3   9I0 220.0                                                  326.6      273.6        2.0    (297.3)   (134.6)        25.4     265.9       607.5      764.3   1.007.6   1,007.6   1,007.6   1,007.6   2,007.6   1,007.6   2,007.,
6.4   Net  100(0.2                                     -         296.8      153.6      128.0    2507.5)   (254.6)   (204.63        245.,      487.5      644.3      887.6      887.6      887. 6      07.6    807.6        887.6      087.6
0.5   0000 6.0236220 0620.                             .          ---                                                                                     -          -          -          -          -          -                    607.6
6.6   20,.6o,n                                         -         692.3      322.2      223.5                  .          ..                                                                .
0.7   0t. b6,...2                                      -        (695,52   (167.6)   2341.52    (307.3)   (254.6)   (104.6)    145.9          487.5       644.3      887.6      887.6      887.6      887.6      887.6      887.5  12775,2
8.8   Fi ...  6l Oato 0f -.C-r.   25): 19.2
22 0.2,0, 6,.,. .od .60,2.
2/ Naire nd bns.~~~~~~. b
1/ A.,..2 000,    6:0  a,a be1n, 197560.6.0 6,2o06 deoy_gt.  026.7*08 of 6o,p.. .,0662206 d                           0066.
42  Annual 00006 a200 nod 40.06 o,,66v...d  6.2or d,,,2of0nt.  0.nt2ard oto,,ao.abo  (60,.eoo) .aR 60606   ta«rin. 2n0.6a422he 66.6 0000              e 260, 760
006062 12, 0975



D-.elopecot    1         2        3         4        5        6         7        a        9...±... to1....  11        12 '     13        14       15        16       17.       18..r-  19        20
9.0  SulOt CMo  - I-i"ated. Dry SeceOr
9.1  1.1I.es                                                       3,43,1.5  6,406.2  9,062.4  5,624.   6,9.4,496.2  9.06;2.4  5,624.9  6,092.7  6,40,6.2  9,.063.4  5,624.9  6,093.7  6,406.2  9,062.4  5,624.9  6,093.7  6,406.2  9,062.4
9.2  Dooeti.tlg .-to                                               2.171.0  4117P.9  6,056.0  5.629.0r 5,804.1  5,917.0  6,05,6.0  5,629.0- 0,804.1  5,917.0  6,056.0  5,619.0  5,804.1  5,917.0  6,056.0  5,629.0  5,804.1  5,917.0  6,056.0
9.3   Net                                          -         - -t1,264.5  2,235.3  3,006.4        (#.ll   289.6   489.2  3,006.4        (4.1I)   2894.6    489.2  3,006.4     (4.1)   29. 6    469.2  3,006.4      (4.1)   299.6    489.2  3,006.4
9.4    jW&t t                                 -     3,030.2  3,030.2  3,030.2 
9.5  NI t bi.e0fit                                       (3,030.2)(1,765.7) (794.9)  3,006.4      (4.1)   289.6    489.2  3,006.4       (4.1)   289.6    489.2  3,006.4       (4.1)   269.4    489.2  3,006.4      (4.1)   289.6    489.2  3,006.4
9.6   FIe rle ate of tCt.pm       ¶  14.7
10.0   So r C, - 8Ifd   roo11
10.1   Sd. 1                                                        2,812.5  5,312.5  7,500.0  4.687,5  5.000,0  5,312.5  7,500.0  4,687.5 -5,000.0  5.312,5  7,500. 0  4,487.5  5,000.0  5,212.5 .7,500.0  4,687.3  5,000.0  5.312,5  7.500,0
10.2   Oprtn   Ot-                                            -     1,761.8  3,403.4  4.924,9  4,524.9  4,645.1  4.765,1  4,924.9  6,524.9  4.645,1  4.765,1  4,924.9  4,524.9  4,645.1  4,765.1  4,924.9. 4,524.9  4,645.1  4,765.1  4,924.9
10.3   Neproje.t-                                                  1,050.7  1,909.1  2,575.1    162.6    354.9   547.4 .2,575,1    162.6   354.9    547.4  2,575.1    162.6    334.9    547.4  2,575.1    16.2.6    354.9    547.4  2,575.1
18.4  lov-itwot                                     -     2.422,2  2,422.2  2,422.2      -         -        -                                              -         -             -             -         -        -        -         -        -
10. 5   Noct beefic                                      (2,422.2)(1,371.5)  (513.1) 2,575.1    162.6    354.9    547.4  2,575.1    162.6   .354.9    547.4  2,575.1    162.6    354.9    547.4  2,575.1. 162.6    354.9    547.4  2,575.1
10.6  Finoorlal rat. of rgcoi    ()  6.
j/  Ne. 1ard   no farning cotivity before d.vel.p.!ot..
Aug,..t 12, 1975



MEXICO
FIFTH LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agro-industry: Cattle Slaughtering Plant
Financial Rate af Return
(Meal Million)
----------------------------------------------------------------- Year  ----------------------------------------------------_-- --_---_---_--
1I    _  2    3        4        5       6       7        8       9      10      11      12      13       14      15      16      17      18      19       20      Total
Benefits
Total Sales              --      --  132.9  199.1  i99.1  199.1  199.1  199.1  199.1  199.1  199.1  199.1  199.1  199.1  199.1  199.1  199.1  199.1  199.1  199.1   3,517.5
Costs
Invest.ent             14.7   14.0       --      --       --      --    0.7       --      --      --       --    0.7       --      --      --       --    9.9      9.2      --      --       49.2
Operating Cast           --      --  124.9  190.4  190.4  190.4  190.4  190.4  190.4  190.4  190.4  190.4  190.4  190.4  190.4  190.4  190.4  190.4  190.4  190.4   3,361.7
Income Tan               --      --    0.7      1.0      1.1     1.2     1.3     1.5     1.6     1.7     1.8      1.8     1.8     1.8     1.8      1.8    1.8      1.8     1.8     1.8       28.1
Total Cast             14.7   14.0  125.6  191.4  191.5  191.6  192.4  191.9  192.0  192.1  192.2  192.9  192.2  192.2  192.2  192.2  202.1  201.4  192.2  192.2   3,439.0
Net Benefits        (14.7) (14.0)    7.2      7.7     7.6     7.5     6.7      7.2     7.1     7.0     6.9     6.2     6.9      6.9     6.9     6.9   (3.0)   (2.3)   6.9        6.9       78.5
Financial Rate of Return (i): 21.3-
MEXICO
FIFTH LIVESTOCK ANII AGRICULTURAL CRRDIT PROJECT
Agro-induotr,:  M!lk P-o-esir.,- Plant
Finanial Rate of Return
(M.ex  Million)
-------------------- -------------------------------------- Year  --------------------------------------------------------
1         7       3      4      5      6      7      8      9    10   11       12     13     14     15     16    17      18    19    20         Total
Benefits
Total Sales              --      --   30.3  37.9  37.9  37.9  37.9  37.9  37.9  37.9 37.9  37.9  37.9  37.9  37.9  37.9  37.9  37.9  :37.9  37.9                        674.6
Coats
In-estnent              6.4     7.4      --    --             --   0.6       -     -      --   --   0.6 4      _ - -     --          - _    5.2    4.6  --    --         24.8
Operating Coot           --      --   25.2  32.5  32.5  32.5  32.5  32.5  32.5  32.5 32.5  32.5  32.5  32.5  32.5  32.5  32.5  32.5  '12.5  32.5                        577.7
Income Tao               --      --    0.7   0.8   0.9   o.9   1.0    1.1   1.2   1.2  1.2    1.2   1.2    1.2    1.2   1.2   1.2    1.2    1.7   1.2                    19.8
Total Cost              6.4     7.4   25.9  33.3  33.4  33.4  j.    33.6  33.7  33.7  33.7  34.3 33.7  33.7  33.7  33.7  38.9  38.3  33.7  33.7                         622.3
Net Benefits         (6.4)   (7.4)   4.4   4.6   4.5   4.5    3.8   4.3   4.2   4.2   4.2    3.6  4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2  (1.0) (0.4)  4.2    4.2                    52.3
Financial Rate of Retcrn ('Xl: 27.2
September 17, 1975



MEXICO
FIFTH LIVESTOCK ANM AGRICULTpRAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agro-industry: Feed Mill
Financial Rate of Return
(MenS Million)
_------_---------------- -- ---------------------------- Yea - -----------------------------------------_ ----__              ---_____--
1    2      3      4      5      6      7      8      9    10    11    12        13    14      15    16    17    18        19  Q.    Total
Benefits
Total Sales           --         21.3  34.0  34.0  34.0  34.0  34.0  34 0  34.0  34.0  34.0  34.0  34.0  34.0  34.0  34.0  34.0  34.0  34.0  599.3
Costa
Invesn-ent            8.3 8.7 -0.3                                                                0.3                                4.1  3.8  ._  __  25.5
Operating Cot         -          17.4  30.3  30.3  30.3  30.3  30.3  30.3  30.3  30.3  30.3  30.3  30.3  30.3  30.3  30.3  30.3  30.3  30.3  532.5
Income Tan            --   --    0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.6   0.7   0.7    0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   10.1
Total Coat            8.3  8.7  17.7  30.6  30.6  30.7  31.0  30.7  30.8  30.9  30.9  31.0  31.0  31.0  31.0  31.0  35.1  34,8  31.0  31.0  568.1
Net Benefits    (8.3) (8.7)  3.6    3.4    3.4    3.3    3.0    3.3    3.2    3.1   3.1    2.7   3.0    3.0    3.0   3.0  (1.1) (0.8)  3.0   3.0   31.2
Financial Rate of Return (%): 15.i
MEXICO
FI}TH LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agro-induntrv:  Fruit Proceasing Plant
Financial Rate of Return
(Mex$ Million)
---------------------------   ---------------------------        Y  rear  --- ----------------------------------------------------
1        2      3      4      5      6      7      8      9      10   11      12    13      14    15    16    17    18    19    20            Total
Benefits
Total Sales             --       --  18.3  25.6  25.6  25.6  25.6  25.6  25.6  25.6  25.6  25.6  25.6  25.6  25.6  25.6  25.6  25.6  25.6  25.6   453.5
Costs
Investment            11.9    10.8  --             --        -     0.3                            0.3                            6.0    5.8    --    --        35.1
Operating Cost          _-       --  11.5  20.7  20.7  20,7  20.7  20.7  20.7  20.7  20.7  20.7  20.7  20.7  20.7  20.7  20.7  20.7  20.7  20.7   363.4
Income Tan              --       --   0.8   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.6   0.6    0.7   0.8   0.9    1.0   1.0   1.0    1.0    1.0   1.0    1.0   1.0                   14.2
Total Cost            11.9    10.8  12.3  21.1  21.1  21.2  21.5  21.3  21.3  21.4  21.5  21.9  21.7  21.7  21.7  21.7  27.7  27.5  21.7  21.7   412.7
Net Benefits    (11.9)   (10.8)  6.0   4.5   4.5    4,4   4.1    4.3   4.3    4.2    4.1    3.7    3.9    3.9    3.9   3.9  (2.1) (1.9)  3.9   3.9                  40.8
Financial Rate of Retin (7.): 16.3
Seotember 17. 1975
e.



AMWEX 6
Tabw70,9 & 10
MEXICO
FIFTH LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ARco-indomtrY: Vegetable Oil Mill
Fl.anctal Rate of Return
(Me.. Million)
------------------------------------------------------------ Y e n r- ---------------------*---------------------------------- -------
1      2      3      4       5      6       7      0       9      10      11     12      13     14      15     16      17     18    19         20    Total
Beoefits                                    _ _    _ _     _ _    _ _                                          _ _     _ _
Total Soles         --   --  252.3  340.6  340.6  340.6  340.6  340.6  340.6  350.6  340.6  340.6  340.6  340.6  340.6  340.6  340.6  340.6  340.6  340.6  6,042.5
Conts
Investment      28.9   43.0    --      --      -       _--    0.6     --                  -  0.6       --     --      --     --  b1.5   17.9        --      --    109.5
Opataitng Cost   --      --  214.6  315.2  315.2  315.2  315.2  315.2  315.2  315.2  315.2  315.2  315.2  315.2  315.2  315.2  315.2  315 2  315.2  315.2  5,573.0
Intone Tan        --     --    6.6    3.6    3.9    4.3    4.7    5.1    5.6    5.6    5.6    5.6    5.6    5.6    5.6    5.6    5.6    5.6    5.6    5.6               95.4
Total Coat      28.9   43.0  221.2  318.8  319.1  319.5  320.5  320.3  320.8  320.8  320.8  321.4  320.8  320.8  320.8  320.8  339.3  338.7  320.8  320.8  5,777.9
Net Benefits(28.9) (43.0)  31.1   71.8   21.5   21.1   20.1   20.3   19.8   19.8   19.8   19.2   19.8   19.8   19.8   19.8    1.3    1.9   19.8   19.8    264.6
Fi.oncial Rota of Retun (7.): 28.3
MEXICO
FIFTH LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Aoro-idostv: Grnin Storooe
Finn cial Rote of Retocc
(Me.n Million)
1      2      3       4      5       6      7       8      9      10     11      12     13      14     15      16      17     18     19      20      Totol
Benef its
Tntn1 Soles         --    1.7    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    88.1
Costs
Investment         19.2   1.6      --     --      --     --    0.1      --      --     --      --    0.1      --     --      --     --    4.0    3.9       --      --    28.9
Opetatiog Cost       --   0.6    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    13.2
Income Ton           --    --    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.4    0.5    0.5    0.6    0.7    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    10.2
Total Coat         19.2   2.2    0.8    0.9    0.9    1.0    1.1    1.1    1.2    1.2    1.3    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    5.5    5.4    1.5    1.5    52.3
Net Benefits   (19.2) (0.5)   4.0    3.9    3.9    3.8    3.7    3.7    3.6    3.6    3.5    3.3    3.3    3.3    3.3    3.3   (0.7)  (0.6)   3.3    3.3    35.8
Fi-osoial Rote of Retocn (%): 14.3
MEXICO
FITH LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agno-iodontty: Loooing end Sn.nill
Finonoalo Rota of Return
(MHe$ Millio.)
-------------------------------------------------------------- Y e    r   ----------------------------------------------------------------
1      2     3       4      5       6      7       8        9    10     11      12      13     14      15     16      17     18      19     20     Total
Bene fit a
Total Sales             --   8.2   19.4   19.4   19.4   19.4   19.4   19.4   19.4   19.4   19.4   19.4   19.4   19.4   19.4   19.4   19.4   19.4   19.4   19.4   357.4
Costs
Investment            15.5    --      __     __      __     __    1.2      __      __     __    1.4    1.2       --     --      -      --    6.8    5.7    --        --    31.8
Opereting Cost          --   4.5   13.1   13.1   13.1   13.1   13.1   13.1   13.!   13.1   13.1   13.1   13.1   13.1   13.1   13.1   13.1   13.1   13.1   13.1   240.3
Income Tan              --   0.2    0.9    1.0    1.0    1.1    1.2    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3    22.3
Total Cost            15.5   4.7   14.0   14.1   14.1   14.2   15.5   14.4   14.4   14.4   15.8   15.6   14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4   21.2   20.1   14.4   14.4   294.4
Net Benefits       (15.5)  3.5    5.4    5.3    5.3    5.2    3.9    5.0    5.0    5.0    3.6    3.8    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0   (1.8)  (0.7)   5.0    5.0    63.0
Finanoiol Rote of Reourn (1): 29.8
September 17, 1975



ANNEX 7
Page 1
MEXICO
FIFTH LIVESTOCK AND AGRIUCULTURAL CAEDIT PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return
1.        The economic rates of return have been calculated (Tables 1 to 4)
on the basis of the farm models, with the following assumptions and adjust-
ments:
(a) prices of May 1975 were used for investment items
and operating costs over the life of the project;
(b) prices of May 1975 were used for most outputs and
it was assumed that they would remain at those
levels during the development period? except for
beef and sugarcane.  (i) The sugarcane price was
only Mex$ 125/ton as of May 1975, well below inter-
national levels, because of Government price
control. The sugarcane prices assumed are based on
sugar price forecasts of the Bank's commodity price
projections, adjusted for Mexican transportation and
refining costs; and 8.5% sugar content in the cane
was assumed. (ii) Beef prices have been adjusted
with reference to Omaha and Kansas City Market
quotations, 1/ and, on this basis, a current price
of Mex$ 10 per kg has been used for 1975, with an
increase in real terms, of 1% in 1976, 6% in 1977,
15X in 1978 and 25% in 1979.  The price increases
anticipated are lower than the Bank forecasts for
Argentine beef in the London market which, however,
is less relevant than the American market, for the
Mexican livestock industry.
(c) incremental herd and orchard plant stock values
have been credited to the project at the end of
the period as slavage value;
(d) the official exchange rate is equal to the shadow
rate of exchange;
(e) a shadow wage rate was calculated for labor. The
Government Wages Commission determines minimum
wages in 103 zones throughout Mexico based on actual
1/   Forest L. Geotsch, President Doane Agricultural Service, Inc.  "Livestock
and Grain Outlook." Texas A&M University, April 10-11, 1975.



AliNEX 7
Page 2
wages received by laborers which are affected by
several factors such as proximity to the US border
or to large urban centers, tourism, the relatively high
productivity of irrigation districts, and the extent
of indigenous population within the zone. Three minimum
legal wage levels can be broadly differentiated: a
relatively high wage of Mex$ 50 a day in the northern,
arid, and semi-arid border areas; a wage of Mex$ 40 a
day in the central temperate plateau, and a relatively
low Mex$ 35 a day in the dry and wet tropics south of
Mexico City. Mission data show that the prevailing wage
in the three zones varied between 50% and 70% of the
minimum wage. The actual rate paid in the non-crop season
to daily unskilled labor for crop and livestock activities
in different regions of the country was used as a guide-
line for estimating the shadow wage rate. An overall
average of 60% of the minimum wage was adopted as the
basis to modify the labor costs given in the farm models
for the purpose of the economic rate of return calcula-
tions. For sugarcane, however, 75% of the minimum wage
was used as the shadow wage rate since labor in the
sugar industry is well organized and hence relatively
better paid. The labor costs included in the agro-
industry models were not adjusted since skilled labor
is employed by them;
(f)  administrative costs, technical assistance and banking
services were estimated and charged to the project.
Administrative and technical assistance costs were
assumed to be 2% of the loan amount, and banking
services 0.5% of the accumulated loan amount during
disbursement, and a niminal amount thereafter through
the repayment period; and
(g)  taxes, in all cases, were considered as transfer
pa,yments and, hence excluded in the economic rate of
return calculations.
2.        In certain areas, Government of Mexico has helped finance some
infrastructure such as land clearing and irrigation facilities, under special
programs designed to help ejidatarios and small farmers establish farm and
ranch units. These subsidies are available for only some LIPs groups in
certain parts of the country and in no case for medium-sized farmers; there-
fore, such investment costs paid by Government have been included in the farm
models as a cost to the farm unit. The table below shows that the economic
rates of return to individual farm models would be slightly affected if such
Government subsidy in ranch establishment were included in the calculations.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Economic Rates of Return
Without        With
Subsidy       Subsidy
__ _ __ _(Z) ___ _
Livestock
Beef-wet tropics                           35.9          32.30
Beef-dry tropics                           23.1         .15.90
Dairy                                      29.1          27.15
Crops
Annual, irrigated                          22.1          20.95
Annual, rainfed                            24.3          20.95
Perennial, irrigated                       20.0          19.07
Perennial, rainfed                         24.2          22.88
November 4, 1975



31100
FIFTH LL1EM878   All MKCrLhTBfAL CnIDIT 08070                                                  ANIIEX 7
V'RACEPaL ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Table 
oars Ioaat       1        2          3           4          5         8-20
CbOWP, 4001: 180IRRIGATED,
TE!7E9ATY47  (100 BA P402(
S"lea                                     509.6         839.2   924.5     1,009.7     1,009.7    1,009.7   1,009.7
Op.rat.4in Costs Etclodiog
Labor sod Tons                            211.4         445.2  447.2        448.9       448.9      440.9    448.9
Lao1 -. Opratlo_l                        65.6          92.1   96.5        100.9       100.9      100.J    100.9
* ItV.etot                                     61.8
Inv-t--nt Etoludlag Labor                               927.5
Nat Banafi                               232.6        (687.4)  580.8       459.9       459.9      459.9    459.9
Iotraoettsl Osoafit                           -        (92007)  148.2       227.3       227.3      227.3     227.3
*     Adallietostlta sod2
Too=nltat AssSatstca /                                    4.9     4.9         4.9         4
Booking Seri_                               _             4.9     .5        1.5           1.5        1.0  _-----
Nat  -      -cr.00ttl BtafiLt                 _        (929.8)  141.8       220.9       220.9      225.6     227.3
ECO7MI 14TE OF 60TU106  22.11
CROPS, ANNUAL: 9AINi7D,
TROPICAL (100 hA FARM)
Sales                                     220.0         400.1  451.5        489.8       489.8      489.0     409.8
Opsr-tlnA Costa totlEdiog
Labor sod Tas                              68.2         141.1  141.1        141.1       141.1      141.3     141.1
L.bor-   - Op-ratlotaI                     26.3          39.2   43.1         44.5        44.5       44.5      44.5
-   rratostOt                        -         40.2
I---sttt Etoloding
Labor                                                   722.9
Ntt Rneto.l                               125.5        (551.3)  267.3       304.2       304.2      304.2     354.2
in-r-retal b rofit                           -        (676.67  141.8       178.7       178.7      178.7     178.7
_hdnitletlstvit  2C_/                                     3.8     3.0         3.0         3.0
DBking Sti ...e/                            _             3.8     1.5         1.5         1.5        1.5
Sat Incrooaoral EeDafit                       -        (684.4) 136.5        173.4       173.4      177.2     178.7
CO00MIC RATe OF EETUON: 24.3L
;        2          3           4          5         6         7         0         9         10         11       12         ;3       14-19      20
C-OfD, PEREENIAL:  10011AT9D,
TeYP99ATE (100 hA FA49)
Sales                                     319.0       1,092.7   932.7       972.9      1,106.5    1,600.0   2,000.0   2,600.0   3,120.0   3,360.0   3,600.0   3,600.0   3,600.0   3,600.0   3,600.0   3,600.0
Saloa-a Osloa - io...                                                                                                                                                                                  1,549.4
Ortrs-iE, roste torl dio
Labor od T...e                            120.7       1,837.7   592.8    1,666.3        824.5    1,076.0   1,105.9   1,302.4   1,384.3   1,422.1   1,459.9   1,459.9   1,459.9   1,459.9   1,459.9   1,459.9
L.abor I   Oper-t-loosl                    83.5        355.1   209.6        313.5       176.3      211.1    203.6    241.9    255.0    261.1          267.1     267.1     267.1    267.1       267.1    267.1
I--rstesOt                                     75.9     6.5
l1veatotot tEclodig
L.abor                                                  938.2   127.7
Oat Ososofit                              106.0      (2,144.2)   (3.9)   (1,006.9)      105.7      312.9    690.5   1,055.7   1,407   1,676.0   1,073.0   1,873.0   1,073.0   1,072.0   1,073.0   3,422.4
-tr -ntal Boosflt                             -      (2,251.0) (110.7)   (1,115.7)       (1.1)     206.1     503.7     948.9   1,373.9   1,570.0   1,766.2   1,766.2   1,766.2   1,766.2   1,766.2   7,315.6
Ad,eiolstratlra sod
T.tholoIl Asslastr/                                       9.3     9.3         9.3         9.3        9.3       9.3       953        9.3       9.3       9.3
Bnkbig S-rvi-a/                             _            14.2    17.1        23.2         3.0        3.0       3.0       3.0        3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0
N.t Iocroact-l E-oafit                               (2,274.5) (137.1)   (1,146.2)      (13.4)     193.0    571.4    936.6   1,361.6   1,557.7   1,753.9   1,763.2   1,763.2   1,763.2   1,766.2   3,315.6
bCOYOY7C 01TE OF WETOOS: 20.0L
__;_______________________________________,,_____ -----_.-_--- Y---- ----------------i--------------------i----------------
1        2          3           4          5         6         7         8         9         12        11       12-24      25
COOPS, P00010014L: 9AINi7ED,
TSOFICA2, 1100 hA6 FARM)
Isles                                     236.0         572.0  496.0        412.0       2B3.5      366.5    583.0    933.0   1,400.00  1,600.0   1,f90.0   1,960.0  1,960.0   1,960.0
SslVg.e Os1,, - Tress                                                                                                                                                               887o6
poprallt:, Costs tatludig
TLabor sod                                 55.9         424.0  229.4        378.0       283.7      306.3    350.4    397.9    459.1    487.4          534.7     534.7     534.7    534.7
L        0tor1 - -Of iratlotOl             36.2         149.9   110.0       143.0       110.2      112.7     121.1      146.9    178.3    195.9       220.4     220.4    220.4    220.4
Itvaetintt                         ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~56.8   13.9  1.9
ItoastOeto taclud log
Lsbsr                                                   378.8   92.4         12.6
taN t Osooolt                             143.9        (437.5)  40.3       (123.5)      (110.4)     (52.57    111.5    38802      76L26     936,7 29204,9   1,204.9  1,204,0   2  092.5
N"Itorots  Sosf                                        (581.47 (103,6)     (267.4)      (254.)    (19.4       324)      24.       687       792,8   1,0.    1,0.    1,001.0   1,4.
Adalolstrelira sod 2
Teubolcel Aaaltistsotr                                    2.7     2.7         2.7         2.7         2.7       2.7       2.7       2.7       2.7       2.7         -         _
b.kl=gE S.  .e-..                                         4.2     5.8          6.8       1.5          1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5      I1S        1.5         _         _
.9-t It resettal botttlt                      _         (558.3) (112.1)     (276.9) ,   (258.5)    (200.6)    (36.6)    240.1     614.5    788.6   1,056.6   1.059.5   1,061.0   1,948.6
0C7NOHI 64T5 OF 007080, 24.21
7/  2Xloftlos= oooteprsodLVer 4osretrso lrop8  nr.rf-f- --Id              p rs 75s  fr l so   pre
3/ 0.51 of -ttootl-tsd loss  -oat dorlig dleb--eoaoo ys-rs, Yea) 1,500  -aIs,llp th.refter for I no-I orops sd far r-tofad psosoilsl traps; .eat 3,000 lor Irrl-asld p-ootl-l orops; sod aad (  10.500 fo- soaaroaoa,
Ottob-r 6. 1975



MEXICO
FIFTH LIVESTOCK AND TRhTOULTUR,AL CREDIT PROJECT
Rcononic Rat.e! Return-  Crops
1          2          3          4         5          6          7         0          9          10        11         12         13         14        15         16         17        i         19         20
CROPS, 517ARCANR: IRRIGATED,
DRY SEASOb, TROPICAL (750 HA FARM)
Sales-i/                                         -    3,850.0   6,508.8   8,990.0   5,580.0   6,045.0   6,355.0   8,990.0   5,580.0   6,045.0   6,355.0   8,990.0   5,580.0   6,045.0   6,355.0   8,990.0   5,580.0   6,045.0   6,355.0   8,990.0
Operating Costs Ecleding
Labor ad Tees                              1,212.2    2,336.0   3,389.5   3,183.9   3,272.1   3,342.6   3,389.5   3,183.9   3,272.1   3,342.6   3,389.5   3,183.9   3,272.1   3,342.6   3,389.5   3,183.9   3,272.1   3,342.6   3,389.5   3,183.9
*sbor!/  Operationlal                       400.3    1,119.4   1,769.2   1,975.3   1,656.7   1,725.9   1,769.2   1,975.3   1,656.7   1,725.9   1,769.2   1,975.3   1,656.7   1,725.9   1,769.2   1,975.3   1,656.7   1,725.9   1,769.2   1,975.3
- IOvstrxnt                         163.7       163.7      163.7
Inve-stflt Rt.c1disR Labor                1,065.8    1,065.8   1,065.8
Ad,sieisttallve ass
Technical Aaaistnce-/                         21.6        21.6      21.6       21.6       21.6      21.6       21.6       21.6          -         -          -          .         -          -
Rat ins  eervmne  J/ a4,                                2.8         43.d     ,Jt2         10.5      10.5       10 5      10.5.10520. 10.5      10.5   .5..          10.5    ,,J5          10.5       10.5          _                    -            -      ---
Net I,crsnenral  .ensfit                  (2,877.9)    (885.3)      55.8   3,798.7       619.1     944.4   1,164.2   3,798.7       640.7      966.0   1,185.8   3,820.3       640.7      966.0   1,185.8   3,830.8       651.2      976.5   1,196.3   3,830.8
ECOENOIC RATE OF RETURN:  31.1%
CROS. SOUGRCE: RAINFED. TROPICAL
-   / (750 HA  AI
i! Ilr      (70  A-    3,150.0   5,397.5  ',44^.0   4,6S3.2   4,960.6   5,270.0   7.,4.o   4,650.0   4,960.0   5,270.0   7,440.0   4,650.0   4,960.0   5,270.0   7,440.0   4,650.0   4,960.0   5,270.0   7,440.0
.7perating Casts Excluding
Labor nd Ta.s                                934.4    1,821.7   2,658.5   2,511.5   2,558.5   2,609.1   2,658.5   2,511.5   2,558.5   2,609.1   2,658.5   2,511.5   2,558.5   2,609.1   2,658.5   2,511.5   2,558.5   2,609.1   2,658.5   2,511.5
LabosY  - Operstinl                        320.4      918.1   1,469.6   1,654.3   1,377.1   1,423.2   1,469.6   1,654.3   1,377.1   1,423.2   1,469.6   1,654.3   1,377.1   1,423.2   1,469.6-- 1,654.3   1,377.1   1,423.2   1,469.6   1,654.3
- laveetnent                        159.1       159.1      159.1
lnveat_net nEcluding Labor                   848.4      848.4      048.4
Adesieisorarive ad 3
TechItcal Aeiat nc e-                         17.3        17.3      17.3       17.3       17.3      17.3       17.3       17.3          -
Bashing S       4ri . /                       11.5       23.0       34.5       10.5       10.5       10.5      10.5       10.5        10.5     10.5       10.5          -    I         _    _    I    _   _    _ _
Net Incre-.ntal Benefit                   (2,291.1)    (637.6)    210.1   3,246.4        686.6     899.9   1,114.1   3,246.4       703.9      917.2   1,131.4   i,274.2       714.4      927.7   1,141.9   3,274.2        714.4    927.7   1,141.9   3,274.2
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETORN:  35.80.
1/  FPrsgate prices adjusted occording to IBRD international sugar price proj-ctione:
Facttr (X)
Year 1           1.12
Year 2           1.02
ThTereaftr       0.99
2/  Labor coated at 60% of it, nonctary -ice for annuel and perenniol crops; 757. for esgerc..e.
3/  2. oi lose oass spread o-er 4 years for annual crep.; 8 ycorn for s.garsana; 10 years for perennial crepe.
4/  0.57. of accunulatod le-n -oust during disb.srsnent yeare, MesS 1,500 aonuolly thoreaft- for enusl crops and for reinfed perene.il crops; M..$ 3,000 for irrigetod poreneil crops; and M-oS 10,500 for ecoarcane.
October 6, 1975



bairn  9            2         ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~          ~~3  6  3  6            9          00         it          -12-9      20
00                          5~~~~~~~~~~~33.3  3fl.6   633.3     1.133.6      1.435.9    1,303.3     .A. 1,565  [392.4    1,286.4    1.3,          .096.4     0     ,143.0 1,63.     1,13. 9
1.6.  do4 3ax*3.3                                       la. 93.  6.  626.9       694.3        75.7       643.9       (06.5     451.3       302.0      230.4       182.0      163.0       193.0      X03.0
1a42r' - 0r.34ou.l                6~~ ~ ~                ~~.6  122 1.   56,        66.9        80. 1      50.        66.6        67.2       66.0        66.6       67.0       67.1        60.0
t..1.o   921.181- 9.                     -        406.0        703.3       603.0
01.0 9.2.061                    ~~~~~~~~36.0  639         506         331           6.        09.5       20.6.      604.3       660.2       6.2        942.0      693.0       893.9    3063
Obor.,o -1 902                                         (3.60        (2.3        0356.9       3336        062.6      920.9      94.6        91.        9311.3      693.1      9641       564         Om36
9.96199 S299I2*l~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -   ,JJ            66       ~ .9             A           5 4j                1.j    _)91            01         I.,                   -          -L
060 I9.906*2  629.016            .       ~~~~~~~(6430)  (6436     (396.6)       562.2      062.3      916.4       663.3      906.0      930.0       9(1.9      560.6       964.1    3,036.6
9c0(9091  OATS 0r 6009   33.93t
I           2          3           4           3           6           70               9              to0        II           12          13       04        03       04.19      20
00              9649         3306        364.3        907.3       56~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~9.  50.  1.      2.        616.0  .   730.1       720.2       036.0      756.1       036.0    736.0    ( 36 .0    039.0     0361
0999..*91.1 0690 V.11.                                                                                                                                                         (.432.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~143.
4.99.4 r...                             080.7        220.9       411.6        422.2        560.6      329.0      6.4.        063.1      136.0      (23.7       126.0      126.0       126.0      126. 0   206.      006.0    126.0      121.0
0..692~~~~  09.9.00a1             0~~~.6      17.         3.           36.           .1       3'.1        MA.         6.0        3.1        36.0       36.3        3,3        3463        36       3.3       363.3      3          36.
199..4=..,9                        09.9~~~~":  23.           6.
0.....9 . I   7480.9                                 015. 1.3      364.0        99.0
9.6 9.9.010                      69~~~~~~~4.0.  (165.60   (40.70      266.0       667.6       439.9      43?-I6     40.         463.       300.14      360.0      Il         11  379.  30.8       27, 30564   37394   1030      .oo
0999l03.1~~~~ 619,001            .     (0.~~~214.00  (116.00       199.3       3990        392.       3t .0      337.        093.       320.        1.          2.        520.        50.22.             31.      307.     03950
3.021.1.......99..                                      .07         9.          9.0          9.0
2.96(96 S~~~~~~99149        ___ ~~~~       6.3       -...A         8.74        ,.           1.5        1.35      ..4        .2.4         0.3        0.         1.3         1,         o3         .3       .
9.6 0999.9.9321 699.216           .    ~~~~(1.229.20  0 132.9(      156.9       519.9      390.0       363.5      335.6       MA3.       520.5      300.9       323.9      323.9       323.9    150.3    503.9    527.4    0,939.0
1           2                        *         5                       7                     9          00         01         02.19       00
10                                                 066.6     1,603.9     1,392.0      1.0)1.1    1.755,1    0.60.6.   1030o.6    170.02,       1.720.6    1,090.0    1'o.# 00.0 2,208         .M0
2.9699 .1.9 0.29.                        364~~ ~~~~~             ~~.6  643.  018.9  021.4  722.0     721 6       021.4      721.6      721.4       021.4      0121.4      020.       021.4
66691- .09.999091..0                      ~~~~ ~ ~~~27.1  49.7     48.7         49.0       49.7        49.7       49.7       40.7        49.7       48.7        46.0       49.0       40.7
099l~~~~~~~99 ~~~160.5
090916199 9.11.923966699                3~1009.3
69.191.99.419. 990  3/~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                                            .
960 09099..00.1 04.1.011                (3.061.40MA    900.        500.0       944.4       993.2       900.6      929.6       329.6      929.6      929.6       929.6      936.      1 .705.6
1            3          '            *                     6          7          9           920
M09   102 020  061T0
1.66.                                                   132.2      1,330.0     1.3)7.0      4.3)7.0    1,332.0    1.337.0    0.330,0    1.337,0    1.337.0
09-19*4 629. 6909
u*6-   A T-                                              120.2     1.509.9     3,009.9      1,069.9    I'M09.9    1.099,0   0,0M .9    1.2M09,    1,209.9
2.04'.0..0..                                           23.9        61.0         61.0        41.2       41.0        41.0       410.       41.0        41.0
117.7
3W.9.99   41..109                                           .6         4.6         4.6          6.6
ad~~~~.% .-U.- ~  ~        ~       ~        6.          1.5          1.5     ....I4     .......    .....           1.5        1.3      ___
564 0999*0*0911 929.910                   0~~~~~~923.90  350.0     296.9         .09.      256.6      29...       296.6      264.6      266.1
3.991 "l                        0.3m .     .
9*30                    29.0
20  44    1.01  803 .1 112  -9   I.92.1C10.  0   901.4
S I.. .1*   wW.d 6990 6)  91907*309  P.90.&  910  I0  In  1   1.
90.919 9. 0933



Sf0100
FIFTHLIVEs _OCK 4    A4R1C0LTu IL1 CREDIT PROJECT
Ecopt.  ats of Rst.n         -r.Indttty
I                  3         4          5         6         7         0         9          10     ..At            12.L.   .13.           14k..    .23-..    1.J..       .17.        .A.    ..9... ..2
CottOn  l1aoht-iL- H-.s
IsIs.                                   -        -      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~132.80  199.10   199.19    199.10   199.10   199.10   19. 10    199.10  199.10  199.10   199.10    199.10       199.10    199.1    199.10         199.10   199.10       19. 18
Oparstino Costs (encldigEns                  2                              1204.9   190.40   190.40    190.40   190.40    190.40   190.40          190.40     190.40      190.40     190.40      190.40     090.40    190.400  190.400        190.40   190.60       190.40
Adtsiet-stv   ond Techoical A..istonc  -1                 0.15    0.10        0.15       -         -         -         -         -.-                              -           --                     --                                           -
Bsnkt   Servic    3/                                     0.06      0.11       0.01    0.01       0.01       0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01         -          -                                  -                      -                                -
Inoaaet                                                 14.72    14.02         -        -          -         -        0.70       -         -           -          -         0.70.              -          -           -             9.90         9.20        --
Not En-fit.                                            (14. 93) (14.28)       7.74     0.69      8.69       9.69      0.99      8.69      8.69        8.70       8.70        8.00       8.70        8.70       8.70       8.30      (1.20)      (0.30)      8.70       8.10
RoEseOtd Rats of RetaE:24.71
Dtno               H-ton -sPin
Sole                                                       -                 30.30   37.90      37.90      37.90    37.90      37.90     37.90       37.80      37.90       37.90      37.90       37.90      37.90      37.90    37.90         37.90    37.80        37.88
Op.-, ttse Costs (esolding                                                   2   2  5.20   32.50  32.50    32.150    02.50    32.30       32.90      30.10      32.50       31.50       32.00      32.50      32.50       32.50    32.50         32.10    32.50       32.00
8&tisnrttn   and Toohotoal Assistate                      0.07    0.07        0.07       .         .         .                    .                                . 
leaking Sorvot.. 3/                                       0.02     0.05       0.01    0.01        0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01        ---
inrets  .tt                                              6.35      7.38        .                                      0.60       .                                .          3.60                               .                    5.20        4.60
ot~ B-nf tt                                             (6.34    (7 .50)      5.02    5.39        5.39      5.39      4.79      5.39      7.40        5.40       5.40        4.00       5.40        5.40       1.40        5.40      0.28         0.80      5.40       5.40
E-L.si Oat of Return:  32.3%
Pond K011
so.t                                   ,,.                          .        21.39   34.00    34.00    34.00    34.00          34.2      34.00       34.00      34.00       34.00      34.00       34.00      34.00       34.00     34.00        34.00    34.00       34.00
O3rnrtiio   Costa (natdidng tsI s                          .16.60   29.00                        29.0      79.00     09.00      29.00     29.00      29.00       09.00      09.00       25.00      29.00       29.00      29.00     09.00        29.00     29.00       29.00
A40ioitrst~i-  and T-thitti Aostota-c  -                  0.09    0.09         0.08                           .         .           
BAnkfog Sos-fea.  3/                                      0.03     0.07       0.91     0.01       0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01       0.01       0.01       0.01         -                      ..
invon~nn                                                  0.34    8.66          .                                     O' 030      .                                -         0.30                                           -        4.00         3.80
Rct Basfit                                               (8.48)  (8.82)       4.60    4.99        4.99      4.89      4.69      4.89       4.89       4.99       4.99        4.70        5.00       5.00        5.00       5.00      0.90         1.20      5.00        5.00
C-L.at  Ra,s af R-tar    24.4%
Pratt Pt-.sslt  PLsot
Stabs                                                       .        .       18.30   25.60    25.60    25.60    25.60    25.680          29.60       25.60      25.60       25.60      25.60       25.60      25.60       25.60     25.60        25.60    23.60       03.80
Op-rting Coot  Lon..ioding toos)-                                            10.00   19.70       19.70     19.70     19.70      19.7.1    19.-70     19.70       19.70      19.70       19.70      19._70      19.70      19.70     19.70        19.70    19.70        19..70
A0isrtinonLTrsia Agttoo-                                  0.12     0.12        0.12     .          .                                                                                                  .                         
Oo&o  SrEo  3/                                     8.85    0.09        0.01    0.01        0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01       0.01       0.01       0.01         .                                     
larnonnna                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~11 .88   80-79  .     .                            0.30        .                                          0.30                                                    6.00         5.00
Bit    fioEts                                        (12.05) (11.00)        7.3      5.9       58          .89      5.59 -5.69          5.89        5.89       5.09        5.60        5.90       5.90        5.90       5.90     (0.10)        3.10      5.0.0
frnoaRO    f nor:22.8%
I         2        3         4         5          6         7         8         9         10          11          12j       13Ij        14        15          16        17            08         09        20
Vsgstabis Oil liiI
sols     -                                                      .      52.30   340.80   340.60    340.00   340 .80   340.80    340.60   340.030           340.60      340.60   340.60       340.60   340.60    340.60    340.60          340.60      340.60     540.60
Oporstlng Casts  (noeI..25r8 tones) -                    2~~~~04.30   301.30   3001.30   301.30   301.30   301. 30   301.30   301.30         301.30     301.30   301.30       301.30   501.50       301.30    301.50        301.30    301.30       300.30
Adatotatstins so  Onhbtltl Ass.tan-n  21            0.30       0.30      0.38                .          .         .         .         .         .            .          .          .          .          ...
O o SonIc.  3/0.11                                             0.2,       0.04      0.94      0.04      0.94      0.00       0.34      .                                                                                           
t8nes~~~~~~~~~ots ~~~~28.88    42.99                            .         .         .          .         0.60      .                                           0.60                             .           .        18.50        17.90         
Not Bonsftts                             ~~~~~~~~~~(29.37)  (43.88)   47.58    39.26  39.26    39.26    38.66     39.26    39.30    39.30          39.70       38.70     39.30       39.30    39.30       39.30       20.00       21.60       39.30      39.30
=o     tR.Ots of Rnturo:  41.95
sales                                    -        ~~~~~     ~~~~~     ~~~~~~1.70  4.80  4.00  4.80  4.80  4.00  4.80      4.80       4.80        4.00        4.80      4.80       4.80       4.80       4.80        4.00        4.80        4.80       4.80
op-rttng Cast   (ssctaditg tso)-.                                   0.80      0.70       0.70      0.70      0.70      0.70      0.00       0.70      0.70        0.70        0.70      0.70        0.70      0.70        0.70       0.00         0.70       0.70        0.70
AhisitrtivsL  and Tnc8,ofcs  Asssst   /                   0.11      0.11      0.1                   .         .         .          .        .         ..                       .          .-
B-sktn  Sorvt-s 3/                                       0.08       0.08      0.01       0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01       0.01      0.01        0.01                    .                                             
Intosteants                               ~~~~~~~~~~~19.17  1.,61)    .              -                   9 .10      .                                           0.00       .                    .           .          4.00         3.90 
Nit Ososttts                             (19.~~~~~~~g36  (0.70)  3.9       4.09      4.09      4.09      3.99      4.09       4.09      4.09        4.09        4.00        4,10      4.10      4.10        4.00       0.10         0.28       4.tO        4.10
Rtn tRat  at R-tars:  15.8
LOsats and Si111
Seine                                                               8.20     19.40      19.40     18.40     19.40    19.40      19.4(1    19.40    19.40         19.40       19.40       10.40    19.40    19.40         19.40      19.40        19.40      19.60       19.40
or-'i"C.-t.  1-di-g t.       1/                  .        4.20      12.30     12.30     12.30    12.30    12.30        12.30     12.30    12.30         12.30       12.30      12.30    12.30       12.30      12.30       10.30       12.50       12.30      12.30
atitaissd T-hboital Astststts Z/               . 0.0       0.90     0.00        .     .   .                   -    .               .                                                       - _             .                             -
50059g Ssvi... 3/                                        9.08       0.01      0.01       0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01                 .         .-
lsassts                                              15.45         -        .0        .0         .0       -.9       1.20      -.I        .         ..47                    1.20        .                    -          .          6.80         50            
Kno Rsoftt                                             (15.59)      3.91      7.0        7.0       7.0       7,0       5.89      7.)        7.10      7.10         5.0        5.90        7.10      7.10       7.10       7.10       0,30         1.40        7.10       7.10
I/  oporstIs  sod  dns       uts. doot-          taslbra  thss s-n  no djuetsd to apps,ttnty 0_855.
sosds2oftho loo      O       - psd Rosa31-ys  period.
V  ot-od.s 0.5% of lbs sct.Iatsd lon,           u0  d-rig disbarneoso, 0hs-te 9  10.000 p.s. d-rIng  h. rspiynnut poriad,  -sapt for- thn  -ptbis all milL
sutsra 3460.000 P... Ls th,Srgd.
Sopt-bot 19, 1975



IBRD 11189
MAE X IC0
AI, P-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AAC
S  0  N  R  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SS'                                                                                                                       L AVO5~'1iC~10
o                                                                  A                                                                                                                     CO0~~A -",A
S   QKCR    Al                                                             I.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l.     M,Md-                11d
A HERMOSLIC  89 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   7  'A                                                                                   890E~~~~~~~~~~~--6  h
s C-LA-A                    F,  rn%                                                           W~~~~~  9  mi  7,um~c7pWm  0 O
A    ~ ~ ~ ~ ""'Cd     'r-       C H I H-U c      <r1JA              -          S7~      ;
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C~ A5AJCI
0                        C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                   AT
LA PAZ            CULIACAN\   I' J R A 'I G C 
A,                                   A             AAU   A
MEXICO                                        1'-o  *  As               O 
* ~~~~~~  7          L1 NEmwA 5LLI 1-
3 TAEAp,LCSo
DISTRIBUTION  OF FONDO   OFFICES                                               rc-lAYA  IOTAIELAN ,,,m,   AH44              I                                                                       M  I DA
-AAOAARA                                                                                                            A      '
BY  REGION                                               -'       Ad-                            ''; f-C 
i    L    S C    .       '-      CLY u       IOVIALGS                    TmmCADmmE  i
-~~~~~~~~~  Sc- )~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~cp ...
A  Regional Offices                                           *        CO'           0I4t                             *7VAn"I                                                      I   OFR[,Y
a     State Offices                                              -        o                         " A li(Q  -r "r0I   i C'QUINTON'A RD"
*     Agences                                                      F0M                    7i,'m   VX'          aw,"n'"         10N*ERACRUZ                                             C-777A0
0   SubAgen,cies                                                                                                                     -A'P   ~A  A  0,,, * *i- OpI                 I      *
Regional Boundaries                                                              `    4       -'7 .0    TA''7            '.8                      ILAOE7A0SjC 6 -
- --  State Boun,daries                                                                                                                                                             4 d imj,no  i  ' ~ ~ S-  &0M   tZLy-¶
-.-    nernatio.al Boundaries                                                                                                                                               M. vw. 0    RI*s~ '-  t~
U>   1,                 ~~~~~ ~~~T.~  *Od.CAT                   ACA0                                   44                     jBELiZE
>0                                 T      TEFIIA PA            ~p~'i
A5                                                                                   ; $~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cFlIAPA      ,~
AV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A'






I BRD 11800
Aj o5                                        ~~~~~~~~~~MEXICO
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;                                                                          ,              ,   _           s(oVM                       S                                                EL SALVDORELIZEJAAICC-
:  ', o  : \ ,,4 fi GUATEMAZARWAAGS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UTEAL                                                                                                               ICRAU
:0                    S 0  , O . 1   5   O N    O R A                 g                         q                          C            C           S            T           A                        R          1           T
0   (:  \  '  y  \  } \ t 1/ 5 NDRTe, B  A v  >  PL 90 rkEe bOE diries SWG OG rhis mbp do not~~~~~~~~~~~~9,                                                                                    Mil-p d
...Co '  E i  S b.  0  '<   BA~CO DS CReD  C  H  I H  U A  H  U APANAMA
00    RANCR,A0ROITORJ0,                                                                 C  O A  H U I L Ati0 
,                          X   f-2                 .            W          6J  --6F>8v'   t4                            (R                  +n_
C' '  ;0000 i0 COEDI 0             C  H I H- -D  U  R A  N           G  O                               *E       A  O_ k  I.'
: ::   J   ;   :; .                               >                       f,m__J             d  U    ' Na E~~~~~~~~~~~~~X. Te A,:
.,   .  .            MAZATLAN  T                J:~~~ Z ACAT ECAS  r        1         )CUA  IT:A 
: ,.:. T: WS,0:   ;    fF  fS ;;,   tE,   r/SRFIODOWSF    <          S               ff             | j 2'TAMAULIPAS It
::; !:; E -  :. .   '     M'   tx I c 0:                                                      r X ;Zt;> dw                P O T O S i               4    :
-'; W l t X T ; .O F  T i tO  A L ,B  ;A N K   SwRORAL  DEL
9-  A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    -1A    L  1-1                                                                                            Y ,   A          
-20t~~~~~ Lq   ____  0                      dF  aioNDlAL EANKb                                                                                                                                                                        ,\ k  UD;JRA  AC DEL  CREIT. -aUAL E
*            I            l            l            COR-A U [- A            Z'DUELT
AA                                                                   I  S, .,,
_. E                                                                                                  S-u ANLDAfsDTO?RA   CG c EELnOUNAN O
'A  I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LITO'  O
$  -                                                       ON  U~~~~~~~.-EE~
- D ; 0 | 0 \0 \ 7; 0 0 0 i t \ * ., in - !:~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U E; R R E R 0                                                                                                                                             X;  / ggJS BELIZE 
i U 0 1 9 30LX 0 7> t S 0 ~~'V                                                              A  00-             z           ''0  F    
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~A                              I
IOD  I?D~~~~~~~~                          MIOTAR                     6<I
ZAATCA 
110. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~    EMJIA



