CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NMBER 1217 ME
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Fifth Agricultural and Livestock
Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL ANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO DE MEXICO, S.A.
Dated March 11, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 11, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPIENT (hereinafter called the
Be,k) and BANCO DE MEXICO, S.A. (hereinafter called Banxico).
WHEREAS, by a trust agreement between the Guarantor and Banxico
dated August 26, 1965, Banxico has been entrusted by the Guarantor
with a special fund for the purpose of financing livestock and agri-
cultural development in Mexico; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, Banxico and the Borrower have requested
the Bank to assist in financing such development; and
WHEREAS the Bank has in the past made the prior loans for that
purpose and is now willing to make to the Borrower a fifth loan in
various currencies equivalent to one hundred and twenty-five mil-
lion dollars ($125,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Banxico agree to
undertake certain obligations to the Bank as hereinafter in this
Project Agreement set forth; and
WHEREAS, Banxico in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the re-
spective meanings therein set forth.


﻿T                           -3-
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of Banxico
Section 2.01. (a) Banxico shall carry out or cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in confor-
mity with sound agricultural, industrial, administrative and fi-
nancial policies and practices under the managerent and supervision
of Fondo, and shall, at all times, make available promptly as
needed, all suns and other resources which shall be required by
Fondo to meet its operating expenses.
(b) Banxico shall, for the purpose of carrying out the Proj-
ect, make or cause to be made available, out of Fondo's resources
or otherwise, credit on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, as required in order to achieve fully and promptly the ben-
efits of the Project.
(c) Banxico shall exercise its rights in relation to each
credit operation financed in whole or in part with the proceeds of
the Loan in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank,
Banxico and Fondo.
Section 2.02. (a) Banxico shall enter into contractual ar-
rangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Borrower providing,
inter alia, (i) for the transfer from the Borrower to Banxico of
the proceeds of the Loan for the purpose of carrying out the Proj-
ect; (ii) for the payment by Banxico to the Borrower, from time
to time, of the sums of money that the Borrower shall require to


﻿-4-
pay to the Bank on account of interest and other charges on the
proceeds of the Loan allocated to carry out Part 1 of the Project;
and (iii) for the utilization by Banxico, in Fondo's medium- and
long-term program for agricultural development, of the proceeds of
repayment of sub-loans under the Project, to the extent that Banxico
shall not require such proceeds to make payments to the Borrower
in accordance with sub-paragraph (ii) hereof.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Banxico shall
not change or fail to enforce any provision of such arrangements.
Section 2.03. (a) Banxico shall cause Fondo to carry out its
operations in accordance with sound agricultural, industrial, ad-
ministrative and financial policies and practices under the super-
vision of exDerienced and competent management.
(b) The organization of Fondo and the operational policies
of Banxico and Fondo in respect of the Project shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank and such policies shall include such organization,
procurement and credit policies as are set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Project Agreement, and such other policies as may be agreed
to by the Bank and Banxico, and Banxico shall ensure that such or-
ganization, procurement and credit policies are, to the extent nec-
essary, duly and promptly implemented and carried out to the satis-
faction of the Bank.
Section 2.04. (a) Banxico shall cause the proceeds of the Loan
to be applied in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement
and the Loan Agreement to expenditures on the Project.


﻿-5-
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Danxico shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan to be used exclusively in carrying out the Project.
Section 2.05. Banxico shall make available to BNCR, to any
bank of BNCR's system, or to any other public credit institution
which has not participated in the prior projects the rediscount
facilities under the Project only after the Bank shall determine
that BNCR, any sach bank of BNCR's system or such institution is
eligible to such facilities.
Section 2.06. Banxico shall apply to the Bank for approval of
any Sub-loan to be made under the Project in excess of the equiv-
alent of eight hundred thousand dollars ($800,000). When applying
to the Bank for such approval, Banxico shall furnish to the Bank
a description of the project to be financed out of the proceeds of
the proposed Sub-loan and such technical, economic and financial
data regarding such project as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 2.07. Banxico shall cause the public Participating
Banks to:
(a) establish and maintain separate accounts to record their
receipts and payments for or in connection with the Project, in-
cluding: (i) amounts received from and payments made to Fondo, and
(ii) amounts disbursed to and received from beneficiaries; and
(b) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to examine
such accounts.


﻿-6-
Section 2.08. (a) Banxico shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, to disclose the use thereof in the
Project, to record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition
of Fondo and, in respect of the Project, of Banxico; shall enable
the Bank's representatives to inspect the sites, farms, ranches,
agro-industries and other works and facilities included in the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
any relevant records and documents; and shall furnish or cause to
be furnished to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceods of
the Loan, the Project, the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the administration, operations and financial
condition of Fondo and, in respect of the Project, the operations
of Banxico.
(b) Without prejudice to its obligations under paragraph (a)
of this Section, Banxico shall: (i) keep or cause to be kept such
detailed records on selected farms and agro-industries included in
the Project as shall be necessary to enable Banxico to obtain accu-
rate measurement of Project impact and results, and (ii) from time
to time evaluate such impact and results.
Section 2.09. (a) The Bank and Banxico shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To
that end, the Bank and Banxico shall from time to time, at the


﻿-7-
request of either of them, exchange views through their represent-
atives with regard to the performance by Banxico of its obligations
under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of Fondo, the operations of Banxico, in respect of the
Project and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Banxico shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan or the performance by Banxico
of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.10. Banxico, in its capacity as Trustee of Fondo,
shall: (i) have an annual audit satisfactory to the Bank Tade of
the accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements
of income and expenses and related statements) of Fondo for each
calendar year, in accordance with sound auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent and qualified auditors; (ii) fur-
nish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than three months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of such financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of Fondo and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 2.11. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Banxico
shall cause appoopriate entities other than Fondo to provide the
technical services included in Part 2(a) of the Project.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 3.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of Banxico hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or per-
mitted to be given or -lde at such party's address hereinafter spe-
cified or at such other Address as such party shall have designated
by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.
The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For Banxico:
Banco de Mexico, S.A.
5 de Mayo No. 2
Mexico 1, D.F., Mexico
Cable address:
Banxico
Mexico D.F.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed under this
Agreement on behalf of Banxico may be taken or executed by the Di-
rector General of Banxico or such other person or persons as the
Director General shall designate in writing.
Section 4.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names and delivered in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ G. K. Wiese
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO DE MEXICO, S.A.
By /s/ Horacio Garcia Aguilar
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12-
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project is the continuation of the livestock and agricul-
ture development program financed under the prior loan agreements
by means of a credit program, managed and supervised by Fondo within
the framework of the Trust Agreement and the Special Trust Agree-
ment, which will make use of the resources of the Special Trust
Fund.
The Project includes:
Part 1:   Making of sub-loans, and short-term loans for working
capital, together with ancillary services and other
related items for:
(a) livestock development and annual and perennial
crop development to
(i)       low-income beneficiaries, and
(ii)      medium-income beneficiaries;
and
(b) planning and establishment of primary processing
or service type agro-industries to beneficiaries.
Part 2:   (a) Provision of technical services (including produc-
tion-oriented studies, farm demonstrations and


﻿- 13 -
farm training) to beneficiaries. Specialized
training, organization of services and foreign
travel of technicians for purposes of the Project.
(b) Monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the
Project.
(c) Pilot projects in selected areas of Mexico to
test, inter alia, different types of low cost
management arrangements ensuring sound management
of projects carried out by low-income beneficiaries
which consist of groups of farmers.


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 2
Organization, Credit and Procurement Policies
A.   General
1.   Banxico will rediscount or otherwise finance sub-loans made
by the Participating Banks. Fondo's determination of eligibility
for such financing will be based primarily upon the appraisal as
to technical feasibility and satisfactory return on investments
and the approval of each sub-loan by qualified technicians of, or
acceptable to, Fondo, such approval to be given before the respec-
tive sub-loan is made by the Participating Banks. Project apprais-
als will be reviewed from time to time by Fondo in order to deter-
mine their accuracy and the technical and financial viability of
projects. At the time of the approval of each sub-loan, a plan for
supervising the carrying out of the project will be prepared and
a record of supervision activities w'll be kept for each sub-loan.
Irrigation projects will be approv ., in addition and where nec-
essary, by a field representative of the Secretaria de Recursos
Hidraulicos. Agro-industrial projects will be appraised, recom-
mended and supervised by Fondo staff, or by consultants acceptable
to Fondo under detailed terms of reference. Project evaluation will
include the projection of costs and returns to tthe beneficiary for
the estimated life of the project. Fondo will from time to time
review the procedures for the processing of sub-loan applications
with a view to simplifying such procedures.


﻿- 15 -
B.   Organization
2.   Organizational and staffing adjustments as set forth in Ban-
xico's Memorandum dated April 23, 1971 will be maintained.
C.   Procurement Policies
3.   The following measures will be taken:
(a) Fondo will require beneficiaries to obtain price quota-
tions for goods or works to be financed under a sub-loan from sev-
eral local suppliers and contractors, whenever practicable;
(b) Fondo will require beneficiaries to obtain price quota-
tions for imported breeding stock to be financed under a sub-loan
from several sources of supply, whenever practicable;
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, any contract
for equipment and associated services for agro-industries to be
financed under a sub-loan and estimated to cost the equivalent of
$150,000 or more shall be awarded only after the beneficiary shall
have obtained price quotations from not less than three suppliers
of such equipment. To this effect, processing equipment for each
agro-industrial project will be grouped in accordance with appro-
priate technical and procurement practices;
(d) Fondo will make available to beneficiaries of sub-loans
for agro-industrial projects a list of suppliers of agro-industrial
machinery from the Bank's member countries and Switzerland; and


﻿- 16 -
(e) Fondo will adver,.ise once in at least one newspaper of
general circulation in Mexico, and inform once local representatives
of the Bank's member countries which manufacture agro-industrial
equipment and Switzerland about the type of agro-industries to be
financed under the Project. If any such country does not have local
representation, such information will be sent to the government
agency responsible for its foreign trade.
D.   Credit Policies
4.   Participating Banks will be required to provide from their own
resources not less than 10% of the total amount of sub-loans made.
The balance will be rediscounted or otherwise financed by Banxico.
For this purpose, Banxico will make available to the respective
Participating Banks, promptly as needed, amounts sufficient to cover
such balances. The financing granted by Banxico will have the same
repayments of principal as the sub-loans financed, and if such fi-
nancing is granted through rediscounting, such rediscounting will
be evidenced by negotiable instruments representing the sub-loan
to be rediscounted signed by the beneficiaries.
5.   In rediscounting or otherwise financing sub-loans, the fol-
lowing rules will be applied:
(a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) below, redis-
count rates to Participating Banks and interest rates to benefi-
ciaries will be as follows:


﻿- 17 -
Size of Sub-loans to
(i) Medium-income
Beneficiares for on-
farm investment proj-                  Yearly
ects, and (ii) Bene-   Percentage Rediscount Rates Yearly Interest
ficiaries for agro-    of Sub-loan to Participating   Rates to
industrial projects   Rediscounted      Banks       Beneficiaries
Up to 150,000 pesos   No more than       8.75%          11.50%
90
More than 150,000     No more than       9.75%          12.25%
and up to                 85
250,000 pesos
More than 250,000     No more than      10.50%          13.00%
and up to                 80
500,000 pesos
More than 500,000     No more than      11.00%          13.50%
and to to                 70
1,000,000 pesos
More than 1,000,000   No more than      11.50%          13.50%
and up to 5,000,000       70
pesos
More than 5,000,000   No more than      12.25%          14.00%
and up to 10,000,000      70
pesos
More than 10,000,000 No more than       12.75%          14.50%
and up to 15,000,000      70
pesos
More than 15,000,000 No more than   Not less than Not less than
pesos                     70            12.75%          14.50%
No sub-loan will be made to a medium-incom- beneficiary for on-farm
investment if the amount of the proposed sub-loan together with the
aggregate principal amount outstanding of sub-loans made for that


﻿-18                                       9
purpose to such medium-income beneficiary under the Project or
prior projects exceeds 2,500,000 pesos. In case the medium-income
beneficiary is a group of farmers such amount will be multiplied
by the number of members of such group.
In case a project is appraised by Fondo and the amount of the
sub-loan for such project exceeds 500,000 pesos, the discount rate
in respect of such sub-loan will be increased by one fourth of
one percentage point.
In case the beneficiary of a sub-loan for an agro-industrial
project is a group of low-income producers, such sub-loan will bear
interest at the rate which would correspond to an amount equal to
the amount of such sub-loan divided by the number of members of
such group.
In case the beneficiary of a sub-loan for an agro-industrial
project is a group of medium-income producers and low-income pro-
ducers, the amount of such sub-loan will be divided into tranches,
the amount of each to be proportionate to the number of members
of such group belonging to each one of such income categories. The
tranche which corresponds to the medium-income producers will bear
interest as specified in the above table. The tranche which cor-
responds to the low-income producers will bear interest as spec-
ified in the preceding paragraph.


﻿-19 -
Sub-loans to Low-                       Yearly
income Beneficiaries   Percentage  Rediscount Rates Yearly Interest
for on-farm invest-    of Sub-loan to Participating    Rates to
mentprojects          Rediscounted       Banks       Beneficiaries
Private   Public
(i) Sub-loans to      No more than  4.60%    5.60%       7.60%
low-income           90
beneficiaries
who receive
institutional
credit for the
first time and
whose net annual
family income
does not exceed
250 times the
daily minimum
rural wage for
the region where
they are located
(ii) sub-loans to         90        6.00%    7.00%       9.00%
other low-income
beneficiaries
(b) interest and rediscount rates charged under all other
programs managed by londo will be adjusted from time to time, as
necessary, so that differences between interest rates do not result
in discouraging participation in the Project; and
(c) lending terms and grace periods will be in accordance
with technical and financial plans. Repayments of principal of
sub-loans will range from 3 to 15 years and will include grace
periods of 1 to 3 years; provided that in exceptional cases and
with the prior agreement of the Bank, repayment of principal may
extend for up to 20 years.


﻿- 20 -
6.   (a) Each medium-income beneficiary will contribute: (i) at
least 15% of the total cost of each on-farm. investment project out
of his own resources, provided, that the aggregate of such con-
tributions will be for each calendar year at least 20% of the ag-
gregate total cost of the projects financed under Part (a)(ii) of
the Project during the year concerned.
(b) (i) Each low-income beneficiary included in paragraph
5 (a)(i) above will contribute at least 3% of the total cost of
each on-farm investment project in cash, labour or materials; and
(ii) Each low-income beneficiary included in paragraph
5 (a)(ii) above will contribute at least 5% of the total cost of
each on-farm investment project in cash, labour or materials.
(c) Each beneficiary will contribute at least 20% of the
total cost of each agro-industrial project out of his own resources.


