Report No. PIC4886
Project Name                     Moldova-Private Sector Development II
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Private Sector Development
Project ID                       MDPA35811
Borrower                         Republic of Moldova
Implementing Agency              MoF, MoI
Environment Category             C
Date Initial PID                 March 13, 1996
Prepared by                      Vladimir-Goran Kreacic
Appraisal Date                   February 1997
Projected Board Date             May/June 1997
Peer Reviewers                   Ira Lieberman, Saha Meyanathan
Background Of The Project
1.      Moldova, a member of the World Bank since August 1992, has
been one of the most active FSU republics in implementing macro
economic stabilization measures. As a result, inflation has been
reduced from 1,276 percent in 1992 to 26 percent in 1996, the
budget deficit has been reduced to 5 percent of GDP, budget
transfers to enterprises were radically cut and the vast majority
of consumer subsidies--including those on bread and milk--were
eliminated. Structural reforms have moved ahead particularly in
price and trade liberalization and privatization. All price and
margin controls were removed by the end of 1995 and the maximum
tariff was reduced to 20 percent with very few exceptions. The
recently completed mass privatization program has transferred most
of the enterprises into private hands.
2.      The supply response to stabilization and structural reforms
remains constrained in a number of ways. The collapse of FSU
markets, decline of domestic purchasing power, outdated production
systems and lack of medium and long-term financing to replace them,
all contribute to a heavily depressed situation in the enterprise
sector. Moldovan enterprises are required now to purchase energy
and raw materials at world prices and are facing growing
competition in all of their traditional markets.
3.      The Private Sector Development Loan (PSD I) started to
address these issues through the initiation of the transfer of
restructuring skills and provision of medium-term financing through
participating banks. Experience with PSD I shows that establishment
of the Enterprise Restructuring Agency (ARIA) as a non-
governmental, non-profit organization is an effective way (a) to
bring to Moldova good practices of enterprise turnaround
techniques; and (b) to strengthen the country's capacity for



economic adjustment. This Project will continue to build on these
achievements by augmenting institutional capacity for enterprise
restructuring and providing benchmark information on Moldova's main
competitors and intensified on-the-job training of its managers.
Objectives
4.      The Project will assist the Government's efforts to
facilitate transfer of know-how in the areas related to improvement
of competitiveness of Moldovan enterprises and the Moldovan economy
as a whole. The Project will have two components: (i) creation of a
Competitiveness and Productivity Center to (a) build capacity to
deal with internal and external opportunities and requirements for
increased competitiveness of products produced by Moldovan
enterprises; and (b) provide information and develop the capacity
to formulate micro- and macro-economic policy and strategy among
private enterprise managers, policy-makers, and other key actors in
the economy; and (ii) on-the-job training for industrial managers
through 3-6 month secondments to leading industrial counterparts in
Central, Eastern and Western Europe or East Asia. The Center will
be an independent, non-governmental and non-profit organization.
Description
5.      The first component--creation of the Competitiveness and
Productivity Center (the Center)--will supply information and in-
depth analysis to policy makers and companies' managers about
internal and external opportunities to increase the competitiveness
of Moldovan products. It will also provide the necessary tools for
programming and decision making, both on strategic and enterprise
levels.
6.      "Competitiveness" is used to refer to a complex of
characteristics of products which makes them able to compete in
domestic as well as international markets. Competitiveness is a
result of, among other things, attractive design, excellence in
engineering, high quality, low costs and prices, on-time delivery
and after-sales service, and adherence to international standards
such as the IS09000 family of standards. During the last two
decades changes in management (including total quality control,
just-in-time techniques, and computerized design and manufacturing)
have created new industrial leaders--including a growing number in
Asian NICs--able to deliver highly competitive products with the
above characteristics, and, at the same time, has dramatically
reduced the market share of traditional manufacturers. Producers
from former socialists economies are, with very few exceptions, in
the second group.
7.      Thus, the Center will: (i) provide managers with
international products' benchmarks and a current analysis of market
opportunities and competitors, and (ii) analyze the establishment
of cross-national production networks to facilitate contacts with
potential cooperators from abroad. The Center will also assist
enterprises with the transfer of advanced managerial techniques,
initiate a range of activities aimed at productivity restructuring
- 2-



and establish links with Productivity and/or Competitiveness
Centers in other countries. As the demand for some of these
specialized services increases, the Center will transfer selected
activities to organizations supported by private industries. The
work of the Center will be focused on industries with the biggest
competitive potential, such as agroprocessors, wood processors,
textiles and producers of electronic components, to ensure
increasing support by the private sector.
8.      On the strategic level, the Center will provide policy makers
with information, independent analysis, and advice needed for
medium and long term economic policy in support of Moldova's
transition to a market economy. The Center will also help to
formulate strategies for the promotion and enhancement of the
Moldovan economy. It will establish contacts with similar think-
tanks, such as the Institute for Strategic and International
Studies in Malaysia and the Korea Development Institute. The Center
will also provide assistance to the Government in reviewing and
drafting necessary legislation. Finally, the Center will advise the
Government and corporate managers on social impediments to
increased competitiveness and methods to alleviate them. In
particular, it will advise on training and retraining of the
workforce, necessary to cope with the new challenges.
9.      Through provision of competitive salaries the Center will
play a major role in stemming the loss of highly qualified
Moldovans from the Government and Academia-- due to very low
remuneration--by providing the best with an opportunity to continue
to develop their skills in competitiveness and policy areas, albeit
in a non-governmental, grant-supported institution. Thus, the
Center will strengthen local capacity for provision of high quality
analysis and advice. The Center will be able to focus on mid-term
and longer-term competitiveness issues and offer a vision--
currently missing due to the need to focus on day to day problems
of early transition.
10.     The second component, on-the-job training for managers and
policy makers, is essential for a vast majority of Moldovan
enterprises to survive and to find new, more permanent niches in
highly competitive internal and external markets. Moldova was
historically isolated from the pressures of global and regional
markets. Managers were not exposed to a competitive environment and
were deprived of learning opportunities. To fill this gap, the
Project provides for widespread exposure of managers, government
officials and the public to new concepts of management, marketing,
sales and export oriented production. The project will offer
managers of companies with a proven record of restructuring
efforts, 3 to 6 months secondments in leading firms with the same
profile of production. Shorter study tours of up to six weeks will
be organized for union leaders, supervisors and government
officials. Upon return, the Center will publish technical reports
of in-company visits and organize discussions to maximize
dissemination. Successful Central European firms will be targeted
as the first option, as they have recently had to deal with the
same types of problems. Also, firms from recently developed EU
- 3 -



countries (Ireland, Spain) and from the Far East will be
approached.
11.     The in-company training referred to above is to be targeted
primarily to private and privatized enterprises that have
successfully emerged from a restructuring/turnaround program.
Enterprises which have passed a "market test"--have received a loan
from one of the private banks intermediating World Bank or EBRD
credit lines--will have an advantage. Participating enterprises
will pay fees covering a part of the total cost to test their
commitment to the process and help defray costs. In case the demand
among qualifying enterprises is greater than the available funds
these may be auctioned - to enterprises prepared to make the
largest contribution towards the overall costs of in-company
training.
Cost And Financing
12.     The Project Costs are provisionally estimated at US$15
million from which US$9 million is anticipated to come from the
IBRD, US$3 million from bilateral and multilateral donors and US$3
million from participating enterprises. The loan preparation costs
are partially covered by a grant of approximately US$760,000 (to be
decided) equivalent, administered by the Government of Moldova,
from the Japanese Government. Preliminary grant financing for
various project components has already been identified.
Sustainability
13.     The Project would enable access to information and
improvement of managerial skills which will lead to increases
enterprise revenues. Enterprises are expected to recognize the
value of investment into such information and new management
techniques, and are likely to pay for these services on
increasingly commercial basis, contributing to the sustainability
of the Project.
Lessons Learned From Past Operations In The Country/Sector
14.     FSU countries, isolated from the Western markets, lack of
basic management skills, lack of knowledge of "best global"
practice and almost non-existent information about new markets are-
-at the firm level--the main obstacles to rapid turnaround in the
enterprise sector. Technical assistance for transfer of
restructuring techniques provided in PSD I has already shown
positive results: over 100 Moldovan consultants and managers have
been trained and are involved in active restructuring of pilot
enterprises. The Government is fully committed to this process and
has requested this TA loan to accelerate the process of making
Moldovan enterprises more competitive internationally.
Project Benefits And Risks
15.     The Project will speed-up the supply response to
stabilization and liberalization. It will lead to increased
- 4 -



quality, lower costs and to generally more efficient production by
Moldovan enterprises, thus enhancing their ability to export. The
project will also strengthen the overall competitive environment in
the country.
16.     The principal risks to the enterprise restructuring process
in Moldova and this Project remain weakening of the hard budget
constraint and possible policy backsliding of the Government that
could lead to a general reverse of reform measures.
Environmental Aspects
17.     This project is classified as a category "C" project. As a
technical assistance project, no environmental issues are involved.
Implementation
18.     It is expected that the appraisal of the proposed World Bank
Loan will take place in January 1997; Board presentation is
scheduled for April 1997.
Contact Point:           Vladimir-Goran Kreacic, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Tel: (202) 473 6374
Fax: (202) 522 0005
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 28, 1997
- 5 -



