                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 33619

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                    (IDA-29620 TF-29691)

                                           ON A

                                          CREDIT

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 9 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                                        MOLDOVA

                                            FOR

               SECOND PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PSD II)




                                      September 29, 2005




Finance and Private Sector (ECSPF)
Europe and Central Asia (ECA)

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective September 16, 2005)

                                Currency Unit = Moldovan Leu (MDL)

                                       MDL 1 = US$ 0.08
                                        US$ 1 = MDL 12.5649




                                      FISCAL YEAR

                                 January 1   December 31


                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ARIA -   Agency for Restructuring and Enterprise Assistance
CEP   -  Competitiveness Enhancement Project
CPC   -  Competitiveness and Productivity Center
DSS   -  Department of Statistics and Sociology
EBIT  -  Earnings before interest and taxes
ECA   -  Europe and Central Asia
EU    -  European Union
FSU   -  Former Soviet Union
GBN   -  Global Benkchmarking Network
ICR   -  Implementation Completion Report
IDA   -  International Development Association
ISO   -  International Organization for Standardization
JICA  -  Japan International Cooperation Agency
MDL   -  Moldovan Leu
MOF   -  Ministry of Finance
MTR   -  Mid-term review
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
PSD   -  Private Sector Development
SAR   -  Staff Appraisal Report
SDR   -  Special Drawing Rights
TACIS -  Technical Assistance to Commonwealth of Independent States




                              Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                            Country Director      Paul G. Bermingham
                             Sector Manager       Gerardo M. Corrochano
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Irina Astrakhan

                                          MOLDOVA
                SECOND PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32

Project ID: P035811                                                  Project Name: PSD 2
Team Leader: Irina Astrakhan                                         TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 29, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: PSD 2                                                    L/C/TF Number: IDA-29620; TF-29691
   Country/Department: MOLDOVA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Other industry (58%); Agricultural extension and research (42%)
                  Theme: Export development and competitiveness (P); Small and medium
                            enterprise support (P); Other financial and private sector
                            development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/15/1996                                     Effective: 04/01/1998                04/01/1998
     Appraisal: 03/20/1997                                         MTR: 04/10/2000                  04/10/2000
      Approval: 06/10/1997                                      Closing: 03/31/2005                 03/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA/COMPETITIVENESS AND PRODUCTIVITY
                                           CENTER (CPC)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Paul G. Bermingham                             Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Director:                Fernando Montes-Negret                         Paul J. Siegelbaum
Team Leader at ICR:             Irina Astrakhan                                Vladimir G. Kreacic
ICR Primary Author:             Matthew Mitchell; Irina
                                Astrakhan


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

The Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA5) took place in September 2002. The panel assessed the supervision
performance of the project as satisfactory overall- a 2 rating on the four-point scale.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The principal objective of the Second Private Sector Development Project (PSD II) was to help the
Government of Moldova increase the country's managerial capacity to improve the productivity and
competitiveness of private enterprises that had completed a restructuring program during 1995-96 and
some new private enterprises as well. Managers were to receive training in modern management techniques
and access to the product benchmarking standards and marketing requirements necessary to improve
enterprise performance in both domestic and international markets. The training was to be "hands-on" with
similar enterprises in some of the leading industrialized countries of Central and Western Europe, East
Asia, and the United States.

Importance to the Economy

The Government attached great importance to completing the transformation of the base of Moldova's
economy from a system of inefficient state enterprises to a diversified, competitive private sector. The
project's Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) emphasized the ability of Moldovan industrial and agricultural
firms to compete domestically and internationally as a national priority. At the time of PSD II's appraisal,
the Government of Moldova's actions reflected this priority. It had shown a strong will to reform and had
demonstrated its commitment to reform by completing one of the most rapid and broad-based mass
privatization programs in the Former Soviet Union (FSU). The Government had emphasized improved
management as a driving force for a "New Moldova"and had introduced annual Presidential awards for
Best Manager and Highest Quality Improvement.

The break up of the FSU had caused Moldova and other FSU republics to lose an established market for
their products and a supply of cheap energy resources. A legacy of large, loss-making enterprises geared
toward the FSU's economic system remained. The country's enterprises were losing domestic and foreign
markets due to their low competitiveness, which was due to a set of logistical, technological and
managerial factors. Many of Moldova's enterprises were operating with outdated equipment that had little
process or product flexibility. As a small landlocked country of about 3 million people, located between
Ukraine and Romania, Moldova was at a logistical disadvantage, isolated from Western European markets.
Furthermore, Moldova lacked the managerial skills necessary for making the radical changes in operational
methods and structure necessary to prepare financially viable projects.

Linkages among private sector development projects

PSD II has turned out to be the middle link in a chain of three Bank-funded projects to build sustainable
private enterprises in Moldova. The First Private Sector Development Project (PSD I) helped to release
productive assets from former state enterprises to the private sector and provide access to financing for
enterprise development. The follow-up PSD II project has successfully demonstrated the importance of
management training to making the restructured assets of former state enterprises under PSD I and those of
new private companies competitive and productive. The Competitiveness Enhancement Project (CEP),
recently negotiated, will support the development of a supportive business climate for enterprise
development by assisting in the removal of administrative barriers to business development; the
modernization of technical regulations, product standards, and quality control systems; and the facilitation
of enterprise access to these systems and to financing mechanisms.



                                                        - 2 -

Clarity and realism

The need for improved management to make the newly privatized enterprises viable was clear and the
dramatic impact of management training on improved productivity was realistic, based on historical
precedent. The post World War II Marshall Plan's technical assistance program sent European managers
to the United States. As a result of this training, they were able to achieve productivity increases of 25 to
50 percent. Furthermore, the experience of the leading East Asian economies (Japan, Korea, Malaysia,
Singapore and Thailand) in more recent years had demonstrated that investments in measures to enhance
competitiveness can have significant, sustainable impact on economic growth. PSD II was not going to
completely solve the management constraint in Moldova during its implementation period. However, by
providing management assistance to a selection of restructured enterprises and new private companies, it
would demonstrate the benefits of managerial improvements and eventually create a critical mass of
management expertise to guide the development of Moldova's fledgling private sector.

Suitability of project design

The project's two components directly address the two aspects of competitiveness that the project
supported -- hands-on training of managers in successful firms of transition and advanced market-based
economies; and an improved information base for comparison of Moldovan enterprises with foreign
counterparts. On the institutional side, there would be an important synergy between the successful
Agency for Restructuring and Enterprise Assistance (ARIA), established to coordinate the restructuring
activities under PSD I and the Competitiveness and Productivity Center (CPC) under PSD II. The CPC
would build close relationships with the best private, export-oriented enterprises that emerged from the
restructuring, assisting them in improved competitiveness and productivity.

Project complexity and implementation capacity

The project was moderately complex but within the management capacity of the Borrower ( the
Government of Moldova) and the Implementing Agency (CPC). The executing agency for the Borrower
was the Ministry of Finance (MOF), through a Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The PIU was
responsible for the implementation of PSD I and therefore was thoroughly familiar with the Bank's
procurement procedures and reporting requirements.

The project would create the Competitiveness and Productivity Center (CPC) as a non-profit,
non-governmental, independent legal entity to coordinate and manage the technical assistance programs.
The Supervisory Board of the CPC would consist of two high-level government officials; two
representatives of the donors providing financial support to CPC; and one representative each from
academia, business, and labor. The appointment of the Supervisory Board was a condition of
effectiveness. The Executive Director would be a full-time, paid employee reporting directly to the
President of the Supervisory Board.

For the execution of the Investing in the Improvement of Management Skills component, there would be a
mixture of experienced managers, a group of young professionals and support staff. They would monitor
the quality of pre-placement training, select the best candidates for the training programs, facilitate efficient
placement process, and organize the dissemination of their experience participating in these programs. For
the Investing in Best Practice Information component, the CPC would hire consultants.




                                                      - 3 -

Assessment of benefits and risks

The SAR's ex-ante assessment of benefits focused on improved quality and quantity of outputs likely to
result from the project's management training and access to best practice standards. The expected benefits
would be: (a) the strengthening of management capacity of newly private and privatized firms; (b)
improved quality of products through the introduction of Total Quality Management and access to
benchmarking data bases for products; (c) a supply response to the Government's policy of export
promotion; and (d) the dissemination of lessons learned to managers not able to participate in the training
program.

The main risks to achieving these benefits were the failure of participating managers to apply their
knowledge, the lack of adequate dissemination capability within CPC, and a possible decline in the
Government's commitment to the project's objectives and possible political pressure to select non-qualified
candidates. The project's design mitigated these risks by obtaining confirmation of the Government's
commitment to the project, ensuring full transparency in candidate selection, administering tests of
proficiency in skills necessary for participation, requiring enterprises to share the costs of the training, and
providing measurable performance indicators.


3.2 Revised Objective:

The project's objective remained unchanged during the implementation period.

3.3 Original Components:

The project had two original components: (i) Investing in Improvement of Managerial Skills Component
(Management Training Component, US$ 11.5 million); and the Investing in Best Practice Component
(Best Practice Component, US$ 2.5 million). The SAR's estimate of the project's total cost was US$ 14
million, of which the IDA Credit was to amount to US$9.0 million. The firms participating in the
management training program and the Government of Moldova were to contribute the equivalent of US$
3.0 million. The Government of Moldova was expected to contribute an unspecified amount of in-kind
grants such as office space, equipment, telephone lines, etc., required by CPC. Additional foreign
financing equivalent to US$2.0 million was expected to come from EU TACIS .

Management Training Component ( US$11.5 million)

This management training component, also referred to as the "Marshall Plan" for Moldova, would consist
of a process of selection and training of 400 managers from 200 private or privatized Moldovan
enterprises. To ensure transparency in choosing participants, the Selection Committee would comprise
representatives from ARIA, CPC and the Ministry of Finance (MOF), as well as the banking and enterprise
sectors. The companies of the managers participating in the training would finance up to $5,000 of the
in-country cost of the training. As Table 3.1 indicates, the training would include five phases:
        Phase I: a basic training to ensure that all candidates for hands-on training in foreign enterprises
had the basic skills necessary, including foreign language tranining and knowledge of basic management
concepts;
        Phase II: a secondment to a successful host company in a transition market economy;
        Phase III: further training in Moldova;
        Phase IV: a secondment with a comparable enterprise in an advanced market economy;
        Phase V: the dissemination of knowledge obtained and lessons learned.


                                                       - 4 -

After completing the training program, managers would commit 30 days of service to the CPC for this
dissemination work, including roundtable discussions, contributing to the database on best practices,
publishing article's on CPC's website, etc.

Table 3.1: Overview of the Management Training Component


         Phase                Inputs               Phase Content and Outputs              Duration

     Preliminary          Participants,      Managers learn foreign languages,           26 weeks
     Local Phase        training centers     acquire computer skills, and study
                       curricula lecturers modern management concepts
    Basic Module Participants, countryIntensive program of studying                       8 weeks
                          coordinators,      modern management tools during
                           consultants       internships at leading companies in
                                             Czech Republic, Poland, Slovenia and
                                             Hungary
    Intermediate Participants, trainingManagement and foreign language                   12 weeks
         Phase           centers curricula courses run in Chisinau and regions
                            lecturers        and advisory services
      Advanced           Participants and    Intensive program of studying               3 months
        Module        country coordinatorsmodern management tools during
                                             internships at leading companies in
                                             Western Europe, South-East Asia and
                                             North America
   Dissemination             Trained           Dissemination of the best practices        5 years
         Phase             Participants        and implementation of the Action
                                               Plan of Improvements at the
                                               company



Best Practice Component (US$ 2.5 million)

For this component, CPC would acquire, analyze, and disseminate information on competitiveness at both
the strategic and operational levels. At the strategic level, the CPC would obtain benchmarking
information on the competitive position of selected Moldovan enterprises in the industrial and
agro-processing sectors. This information would then be disseminated to policymakers and enterprise
managers. At the operational level, CPC would obtain and disseminate benchmarking information on
productivity and on the technological organizational and managerial capabilities of Moldovan enterprises
relative to their main competitors in Central Europe, Romania and the FSU. In so doing, CPC would
establish collaborative linkages with similar centers in other countries and instill a mindset for improved
productivity and quality at the national and enterprise levels.

3.4 Revised Components:

Management Training Component

There was no change to the original training program. However, towards the end of the project's
implementation, in 2004, CPC added a new short-term training program. The purpose of this program was
to expand the project's outreach and to meet the needs of top managers who could not leave their company
for months of training. The program covered some classroom training in modern management concepts,



                                                       - 5 -

some study tours and mentoring with leading companies outside of Moldova, the preparation of an action
plan for their enterprise, and dissemination of best practices learned (Table3.2). Approximately 180
managers participated in this program.

In addition to the expansion of the scope of training, there was some expansion and refinement of the
original indicators of the project's impact on enterprise performance. The project's design took place before
the Bank used the logframe matrix to analyze the project's development impact. Nevertheless, the
appraisal report incorporated some of the concepts in this matrix by specifying, in the SAR, "process" and
"outcome" indicators for the project. However, the component had more process indicators than outcome
indicators, therefore after the project's mid-term review (MTR) the supervision team developed more
detailed indicators.

Table 3.2: Overview of the Short-Term Management Training Program

       Phase                  Inputs                    Phase Content and Outputs                Duration
Training before         Participants,            Coursework in modern management                 3 weeks
placements              training centers         concepts
                        Curricula Lecturers
Study tours             Participants,            Intensive program of studying modern            3 weeks
                        Country                  management tools during internships at
                        coordinators,            leading companies in Germany, Czech
                        Consultants              Republic and Hungary
Dissemination           Trained                  Dissemination of the best practices and          1 year
                        Participants             implementation of the Action Plan of
                                                 Improvements at the company


The original outcome indicator for the management training was an increase in a firm's profits, over a five-
year period, in excess of the grant funding for the training, net of the cost of the training to the firm. After
MTR, the project developed indicators to assess the manager's capability following the training and the
potential impact of this training on company performance. The basis of this potential impact was the
quality of the action plan that the manager prepared. (Table 3.3)

Table 3.3: Evaluation System for Action Plans Prepared by Managers

Grade                                  Description
Grade A: Excellent                     Action plans is likely to bring substantial improvements of the
                                       participating company in terms of exports or employment and
                                       have a positive impact on other companies
Grade B: Good                          Action plan is likely to have substantial impact on improving the
                                       company's performance in terms of exports or employment
Grade C: Standard                      Action plan is likely to have acceptable impacts on the company's
                                       profitability.
Grade D: Problems Requiring            Action plan is not particularly relevant and unlikely to have an
Action                                 impact on the company's profitability.
Grade E: Urgent Review                 Action plans that were not satisfactory and required priority
                                       attention to revision


In addition to the action plans grading, the more detailed indicators were introduced to measure
improvement in the enterprise's operating performance due to the participation of their managers in the
project's training program. These indicators included: (a) changes in sales ( in constant 1999 prices); (b)


                                                        - 6 -

factor productivity (sales in constant 1999 prices); (c) asset productivity expressed as earnings before
interest and taxes (EBIT) divided by total assets; (d) profitability in terms of return on equity; and taxes
paid, including value added and profit taxes. The analysis compared the performance of enterprises that
sent managers to the project's training program with enterprises that did not participate (See Section 4.2).
In addition, CPC, on its own, periodically monitored some additional indicators, including increases in
exports, development of new products, and introduction of new technologies.

Best Practice Component

The anticipated donor funding from EU TACIS for this component was US$1.8 million. These funds
accounted for 72 percent of the financing for this component, with the remaining 28 percent to come from
the Bank. The funding from EU TACIS did not materialize as part of the Bank-managed project.
However, rather than drop the component altogether, CPC used a combination of its own funds from the
consulting and placement services and US$ 700,000 from the Bank to develop a data base on best practices
emerging from the management internships, purchase data bases for benchmarking, and develop consulting
services. Early in the project, CPC received a PHRD grant of US$ 642,000 from JICA to train consultants
in the methodology of the Twenty Keys of Workplace Improvement and implement this methodology in five
enterprises. Furthermore, CPC received funding from outside the project (about one million Euros) to train
consultants in various quality improvement methodologies and implement them (See Section 4.2).


3.5 Quality at Entry:

There was no "quality at entry" assessment. However, the ICR has rated overall quality at entry as
satisfactory. The project's design was responsive to the Government's needs; there was a considerable
amount of research on the contribution of management training to enterprise productivity; and
implementation arrangements were within the scope of the Borrower's capability.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Overall rating and justification. The overall outcome of the project was satisfactory. The project assisted
the Government in improving management capacity. In so doing, the project exceeded the number of
managers trained. It also enhanced the quality of the action plans that the manager's produced, which
ultimately helped to improve enterprise performance. Based on a study of sample enterprises during the
project's implementation, the enterprises of managers participating in the training program had a higher
value added than that of enterprises that did not participate in the program in six major enterprise sectors
(See Annex 1). Furthermore, despite the substantial drop in funding available for the component of
improved best practice dissemination, CPC made a substantial contribution to improving the access of
enterprises to this information through parallel funding from EU TACIS, JICA, and SIDA.

Contribution of the project to the Bank's thematic objectives. The main thematic objective to which
the project contributed was the development of the private sector as a source of productive activity,
reserving the role of government to policy making and a public information source. The support of private
sector development contributed to the higher objective of diversifying Moldova's economy and building the
capacity of the population for better management of economic resources.




                                                     - 7 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

Management Training Component

Number and profile of persons trained. The target indicators were the training of 400 managers from
200 companies in Moldova. Following the preparatory module, PSD II initially provided support for
management training under two major modules: the basic training module (i.e., internships in EU accession
countries) and the advanced training module (i.e., internships in countries with advanced market
economies). During the project's implementation, about 465 managers participated in the two main
modules of the training program, about 16 percent higher than the appraisal estimate. These managers
represented over 300 Moldovan enterprises, about 50 percent higher than the appraisal estimate. The
Selection Committee targeted top executives and as a result, about 42 percent of the participants were
directors of their companies. The other 58 percent covered the following managerial categories: finance,
sales and marketing, and production. In addition, 180 managers from 118 enterprises participated in the
short-term training program that was introduced during the last year of project implementation.


                                 Breakdown of MP participants by profile



                                                                11%


                            42%                                               16%




                                                                            13%

                                                        18%


                              Directors                    Financial managers
                              Sales and maketing managers  Production managers
                              Other function managers




Sector representation and size of participating companies. The main enterprise sectors represented in the
training were evenly divided among the agricultural sector, food services and the service sectors other than
trade. Most of the participants came from small enterprises. About 27 percent had fewer than 10 employees
and 65 percent had fewer than 50. Only 18 percent had over 250 employees. This allocation reflects the
base of Moldova's economy, which is characterized by small and micro enterprises.




                                                      - 8 -

                                    Breakdown of Companies by Size



                         over 250

                           20-50

                          51-250

                           10-19

                            < 10

                                  0             20           40          60          80

                                                   number of companies




                    Breakdown of Companies Participating in Management Training
                                                     by Sector


            70

            60

            50

            40

            30

            20

            10

              0
                  SERVICES   TRADE       FOOD        AGRI-     LIGHT   CONSTUC-  MACHINE    OTHER
                                                  CULTURE    INDUSTRY    TION    BUILDING




Foreign partnerships resulting from the training. About 65 percent of the companies surveyed during
the project's implementation had concluded contracts with foreign partners after their internships. In most
cases, these contracts were with the host company. In other cases they were with companies found with the
assistance of the host company. These partnership agreements have covered exports of Moldovan goods;
trading in Moldova and exclusive distribution of foreign goods; joint ventures and leasing agreements; the
supply of raw materials; and subcontracting. Most of the contracts were concluded with Central European
countries due to similarities in interests, culture, location and business organization.

Contracts with New Suppliers and the Application of New Technologies. The quality of the supplier of
raw materials and technologies used can have a substantial impact on enterprise performance. Based on a



                                                        - 9 -

sample of the 170 companies participating in the project, about 45 percent of the participating companies
contracted with 147 new suppliers in European countries, replacing suppliers from the FSU countries that
they found less reliable. At the same time, about 56 percent of the companies surveyed learned and applied
more than 200 new technologies. Section 10 provides several success stories that describe the substantial
impact of these new technologies on improving product quality and reducing costs.

New Foreign Markets. The entrance into new foreign markets was a special interest of the management
trainees. About 36 percent of a sample of 170 companies reported that they were able to enter new markets
after participating in the project. These markets covered Central and East Europe, West Europe, Canada,
Israel, USA and other countries. The participating managers noted that the ability to enter these new
markets, to a considerable extent, was due to connections made during the internship program abroad and
in some cases with the direct support of the host company.

Dissemination of knowledge to non-participants. One stipulation of the training with project funds was
the obligation for managers who attended the training to disseminate the lessons they learned from their
training to managers that did not have the opportunity to participate in the program. Each manager was
required to give 30 days of service in dissemination work.

Quality improvement of the management action plans. The quality of the action plans that managers
prepared under the project, for their enterprises, and their impact on enterprise performance improved over
time. In 2000, about 43 percent of the action plans were just at the acceptable level with a rather large
share that were unacceptable and in need of urgent review (27 percent). The Bank rated only five percent as
likely to have a significant impact on the operational performance of the manager's enterprises. However,
by the end of the project, the quality of the action plans produced by the managers and their impact on
enterprise performance had improved dramatically. About 75 percent of the managers had prepared
actions plans likely to bring about substantial improvements to their enterprise performance, some of them
were likely to have a positive impact on other enterprises. The remaining 25 percent had produced
acceptable action plans. None of the participants had produced action plans that were not relevant or that
required urgent attention.

Impact on company performance. The evaluation of companies by size found that sales increased by 29
percent overall. Medium companies had the highest increase in sales volume (57 percent and labor
productivity (65 percent). Large companies had the greatest increase in sales volume (72 percent). Small
companies led the group in EBIT over total assets, amounting to about 4.3 percent. Finally, the large
companies made the highest contribution to taxes and this contribution increased by about 61 percent
during the period of implementation.

CPC also reviewed the performance of a sample of 70 companies that had participated in the project over a
five-year period (1999-2003), with comparable companies that had not participated. The focus of this
analysis was on six sector groups that accounted for about 80 percent of the total sales by these
companies. In all cases, the companies that had sent managers to the training program had results that were
dramatically better than the companies that did not participate. For example, in the largest group, food
industries, the value added by companies that participated in the project increased by 146 percent compared
to countries that did not participate, which had an increase of 107 percent. Furthermore, productivity in
terms of sales per employee was US$ 9,200 compared to about US$ 6, 400 for companies that were
non-participants. Annex 1 provides the details of the performance results for the other main enterprise
groups.

Project impact in perspective. According to Moldova's State Department of Statistics and Sociology


                                                      - 10 -

(DSS), the composition of private companies in Moldova that provide reports on their activities are as
follows: trading companies (43 percent ), industries (13 percent ), transport (7 percent), construction (5
percent), and agriculture (6 percent). According to DSS data, about 6,000 operational enterprises file
statistical reports. Therefore, based on this data, the 300 companies that participated in the project would
account for an estimated five percent of these operational enterprises. Thus based on the very favorable
results of the training under the project, there seems to be a large scope for similar management assistance
to other companies.

Best Practice Component

Information-gathering from management training. Each manager participating in the training was
required to commit 30 days to the dissemination and experience gained from management internships with
companies outside Moldova. They communicated their experience to managers that did not participate in
the program through presentations at seminars, conferences, exhibitions, articles in the mass media, and
interviews on radio and television. There were more than 100 articles on their training experience published
in newspapers and magazines. Furthermore, CPC developed a website for wider dissemination of the
knowledge gained: www.aria.md/cpc.

Industry analyses and benchmarking activities. During 2000-2002 CPC prepared analyses of 19
industries, developing methodologies and then analyzing the supply and value chains (Table 4.1). The
objective of these analyses was to evaluate the status of industry performance and develop targets for
improvement through benchmarking studies of similar industries in other countries. CPC alsoparticipated
in 14 benchmarking surveys of key aspects of enterprise operations (Table 4.1)

Table 4.1: Industry Analyses and Benchmarking Activities of CPC

              Industry Analyses                   Benchmarking Surveys
 1. Baking industry                                  1. Bidding
 2. Banking sector                                   2. Business process improvement
 3. Biotechnology                                    3. Corporate email policies and practices
 4. Canned fruits and vegetables                     4. Document shredding
 5. Construction industry                            5. Geographic information systems
 6. Consulting and training                          6. Human capital
 7. Containers                                       7. Information technology cost assessment
 8. Furniture and glass                              8. Logistics
 9. Internet and data transfer                       9. Project management scheduling
 10. Meat and meat products                          10. Promotional premiums
 11. Mechanical engineering                          11. Purchasing
 12. Milk and milk products                          12. Service delivery
 13. Oils and fats                                   13. Six sigma benchmarking
 14. Rubber and plastics                             14. Subscription services
 15. Software development
 16. Textile and clothing
 17. Telephony (fixed and mobile)
 18. Transportation services
 19. Wine industry


Liaison activities and awards. CPC is an active member of the Global Benchmarking Network (GBN).
Colleagues from the GBN of Great Britain have assisted CPC in developing terms of reference for a
benchmarking project at the Government level. Another aspect of CPC's work on benchmarking and



                                                      - 11 -

productivity is the assistance it has provided in the evaluation of candidates for the National Quality
Award.

Consulting on quality improvement of enterprises. CPC, with the assistance from the Government of
Japan, trained 20 CPC consultants in the application of the system of Twenty Keys for Workplace
Improvement and another 15 consultants in quality assurance systems corresponding to ISO-9000. Also,
with this assistance, CPC implemented the system in five pilot enterprises and later applied it in eight
additional enterprises. In addition, with funds from EU TACIS amounting to about one million Euros,
about 70 consultants received training in tools for quality and productivity improvement and 40 consultants
receive training in the Theory of Constraints. CPC also developed 22-quality related consulting
methodologies and helped 19 companies obtain ISO 9000 certification and 10 companies in quality
improvement. Since 2004, CPC staff has been working on the development of methodology for the
introduction of the ISO 14000 environment protection standards.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The SAR did not calculate a net present value or economic rate of return. However, the SAR did prepare a
preliminary cost/benefit analysis of investment in management training. An initial sampling of 20
enterprises eligible to participate in the project indicated the likelihood that some 200 enterprises would be
prepared to cover part of the costs for the secondment of 400 managers to participate in the training.

The SAR estimated an increase in value added by the training program using two "proxy" indicators. The
first was a comparison of the present value added per employee in Moldova, with that of Eastern and
Central European economies in transition as well as that of Western economies, identifying the amount of
"room for improvement." The second was the results from the implementation of PSD I.

According to the SAR, the value added (in terms of wages and profits) per employee in Moldova's light
industry sector was between only US$300 and US$400 at the time of appraisal. By comparison, in
Slovenia, during the same time period, the average value added per employee was substantially higher,
about US$10,000. Furthermore, the similar value for European countries was between US$29,000 and
US$30,000 per employee.

Based on the impact studies of the management training program, labor productivity in some of Moldova's
main enterprises was substantially higher in the enterprises that sent managers to the project's training
program than in those that did not participate in the training. For example, as Annex 1 indicates, in the
food industry, over a five year period, the sales per employee for participating companies were about
$9,174 or about 43 percent higher than a comparable figure for enterprises in the same industry that did not
participate in the training (US$6,406 ).

In addition to quantitative indicators of value added and productivity, several qualitative benefits
(envisioned in the SAR) resulted from the project as indicated in Annex 3. These include: (a) the
strengthening of managerial capacity; (b) an improvement in competitiveness and export potential of
participating enterprises; (c) better product quality through the implementation of quality management
tools; and (d) the dissemination of lessons learned from the training to companies unable to participate in
the project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable to this project. The SAR did not calculate a financial rate of return.



                                                       - 12 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project's intended institutional development impact was the establishment of an institutional capability,
in the form of CPC, for managing programs to help the Government meet its objectives of enhancing the
productivity and competitiveness of Moldova's private enterprises. The ICR has rated the institutional
development impact of the project as "substantial" for several reasons. First, the creation of CPC was a
direct result of the project. Second, the output indicators of the management training component, which was
the responsibility of CPC, exceeded several of the targets established during the project's appraisal. Third,
CPC has shown a substantial amount of motivation to succeed in its mission. Although the original donor
funds for the competitiveness component did not materialize, CPC obtained donor funds outside the project
and expanded its assistance to enterprises beyond the original scope of the project to include consultation in
the implementation of a number of well-known products for business quality enhancement. The agency also
generated a considerable amount of self-financing through fee based operations. Fourth, according to the
most recent information on Government actions, CPC is likely to continue its operation beyond the time
frame of the project (Section 6.2).


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The project originally was to take place over a five year period beginning around September 1997 and
ending in June 2002. The Bank approved the project in June 1997 but there was a delay in its effectiveness
until April of 1998 due to the long process of ratification by the Parliament of Moldova. Another delay of
about a year resulted because of the lengthy procurement time required for the project's largest contract,
consultant services for the management training program.

The first extension of the project's closing date, until June of 2003, was necessary to make up for close to a
two- year delay in the actual start-up of the project. A second extension was necessary due to the
difficulties experienced in placing the participating managers in host company assignments outside of
Moldova. As a result, the Bank extended the closing date until June 2004 in order to allow the project to
complete the training of 400 managers as planned. The Bank granted a third extension of the project's
closing date, from June 1, 2004 to March 30, 2005, in order to extend the project's outreach and implement
the project's short-term training program. This expanded training was possible because of additional funds
that resulted from changes in the exchange rate between the USD and the SDR and efficiency in the
management of project funds.

The main positive external factor affecting the project was the substantial demand for the project's services
and the willingness of enterprises to pay for them. The negative factors were the impact of the Russian
crisis of 1998 on the budget which reduced the capability of the Government to provide the envisaged
counterpart funding to CPC. Another negative factor was the difficulty experienced in placing managers
with host companies, specifically in the advanced market economies, which contributed to the substantial
project delay. Companies sometimes were not prepared to take on the responsibility of supervising someone
for months and visas for the management training participants took a long time to obtain. The change in
the exchange rate between the US dollar and the SAR resulted in additional funds available for training and
contributed to the ability of the project to train an additional 200 managers.




                                                      - 13 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The Government's continued strong support for local management capacity building was the main positive
factor contributing to the overall successful implementation of the project. It kept to its commitment of
in-kind contribution of office space, equipment, etc. for the operation of the CPC. However, there has been
a delay in the progress of resolving the legal and financial status of the CPC.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The main factors subject to implementing agency control were the reporting on the use of Bank funds for
the project and monitoring of the implementation activities of the CPC. The PIU was very effective in both
of these tasks, producing timely and comprehensive progress reports. CPC did a good job overall in its
management of the project's components. Early in the project's implementation period, there was a
qualification of CPC's audit reports. However, later in the project's execution, the CPC's auditing
procedures improved and as a result there were no further qualifications. The Center produced a
comprehensive report on the project's achievements and impact on enterprise performance, including
success stories from participants in the management training course. This report was particularly useful in
the preparation of the ICR.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total original project cost was US$ 14 million, of which US$9 million equivalent would be financed by
the IDA Credit. Of the IDA funds, originally US$ 8.3 million equivalent would finance the component for
management training and the operating costs of CPC, while 0.7 million would support CPC in the
development of an information base for best practices. The actual cost of the project amounted to
US$10.05 million or about 70 percent of the original appraisal estimate. These costs were lower than
originally envisaged for two main reasons. First, the US$ 1.8 million from EU TACIS did not materialize
as part of the project. Second, the contribution of the Government/enterprises was half of what the SAR
had anticipated, mainly due to the Government's budget crisis early in the project's implementation period.
The component for management training accounted for 97 percent of total project costs. Of these total
project costs, the Bank financed about 85 percent.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of the project is likely not only due to the successful outcome at the enterprise level, but
also to the substantial human capacity development that has taken place, the existence of institutions to
support further development, and the commitment of the Government to the objectives of the project.

As Section 4 indicates, the enterprises participating in the project are performing better than other
enterprises in the same sector in terms of productivity and profitability. Many of them gained access to new
markets, diversified their production,, modernized technologies, found new suppliers. All these factors
contributed to creation of a sound basis for long-term sustainable growth of participating enterprises.
Furthermore, the success stories in Section 10 attach a human dimension to these indicators and show how
participants in the management internships have been inspired to combine their creativity with management
skills to develop their businesses. As more people become aware of these successful ventures, particularly
through the success stories on the CPC's website citing training as an important investment in productivity,
they are likely to be motivated to develop their businesses.


                                                     - 14 -

The management internships had a direct impact on several hundred managers and their enterprises, but the
project also provided training in basic management skills and foreign languages to approximately 2,000
persons. The participants who did not participate in internships with foreign companies could take
advantage of CPC's various services and knowledge dissemination activities, to start their own businesses
or create further demand for training by CPC or other institutions.

Furthermore, the Government has taken actions that support the continuation of CPC as an institution
(Section 6.2), serving as an information source and catalyst for business development. And CPC is not the
only source of advice and support. Associations of former participants in PSD II management internship
have formed, which have been instrumental in the establishment of partnerships for new businesses and
could be an additional source of training and assistance for other potential entrepreneurs in Moldova.

In terms of sustainability, it is important to view PSD II as a link in a chain of projects that contain
essential elements for private enterprise development and sustainable growth. PSD I demonstrated the
benefits of restructuring the assets of formers state enterprises and placing them in the hands of private
entrepreneurs. PSD II provided a model for management training to make productive use of these assets.
It also created a constituency for business environment reforms. The follow-up Competitiveness
Enhancement Project will help to address some of the concerns that enterprises have about the business
environment. These include frequent legislation changes, high regulatory compliance costs, excessive
licensing regulations, delays in development of a technical infrastructure for payments, and limited access
to financing.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The CPC and the Ministry of Economy are working on the institutional transformation of the CPC in
accordance with the joint Action Plan. The Supervisory Board has recommended the merger of ARIA and
CPC into a Joint Stock Company. Initially, the State of Moldova would hold 100% of the shares but over
time its shares would decrease progressively as the private sector enters and increases its portion of the
shares. However, the resolution of the registration issue will not necessarily resolve the issue of financial
sustainability of the institution.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's preparation of the lending operation was satisfactory. The SAR responded to the Government's
request for assistance to private enterprises within a policy framework of improving their domestic and
international competitiveness. The Bank team that prepared the project was also involved in the supervision
of PSD II and the SAR reflects a comprehensive understanding of the characteristics and constraints of the
enterprise sector. The preparation of the lending operation benefited from results available from PSD I
including a sample of successful restructured enterprises. It also emphasized that the number of
restructured enterprises represented only a fraction of the potential for restructuring services and the
importance of management assistance as the next step in the process of operating in a competitive market
economy.

The SAR also correctly estimated that at least 200 enterprises would be prepared to cover at least part of
the costs of management training and identified most of the direct benefits that actually resulted from the


                                                      - 15 -

project including increased value added, productivity, and product quality. One of the shortcomings was
that initially, the outcome indicators of the management training program were not specific enough but the
mid-term review improved on this. In addition, the Bank did not secure the funding for the component to
improve competitiveness and the funds never materialized during the project's implementation period.
However, this component was a much smaller part of the project and ultimately CPC, with its own funds
and those from various donor agencies, was able to contribute substantially to improving the knowledge
base on competitiveness and quality management systems.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's supervision of the project was satisfactory. Supervision reports show strong encouragement
from the Borrower and flexibility in response to some design and implementation problems. By establishing
an impact assessment system for the action plans of the participating managers, the supervision process
filled in the gap in the linkage between the training and the translation of the key elements learned into a
concrete action plan, tailored to the enterprise of the participant. The supervision process also specified
more detailed indicators for evaluating enterprise performance after the manager completed the training and
compared this performance to similar companies with managers that did not participate in the training
program.

The project had two or three missions a year, as the supervision plan in the SAR indicated. These missions
usually consisted of two to three staff  a task team leader, a private sector development specialist and a
productivity improvement specialist. A minor shortcoming in supervision was the lack of consistent
reporting on the full set of project performance indicators, including those contained in the SAR, as the
Bank's supervision team mainly focused on indicators added after the mid-term review in 2000. Overall,
the Bank's Quality of Supervision review rated the project's supervision as satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The ICR rates overall Bank performance as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower showed a strong commitment to the project. The SAR noted that one of the largest assets
supporting the project was the genuine understanding and enthusiasm of the government for building local
management capacity. Approximately two years prior to the project's appraisal, the Government had taken
decisive action to privatize about 800 enterprises and recognized the need for improved management
capacity to guide their development. The main shortcoming was that the Government lacked a clear vision
for CPC's transformation, which evolved during the project's implementation period.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

Despite several political changes during the project's implementation period and some concerns about
reversal of reform policy, successive governments maintained their support of PSD II. The Government
has encouraged productivity through a program of awards for managers and enterprises that improve their
productivity. It adhered to the commitments under the project's Development Credit Agreement.
Furthermore, the Government provided space for the operation of CPC. The main shortcoming was the
lack of resolution of CPC's legal status during the project's implementation. However, since the



                                                      - 16 -

completion of the project, the Government has prepared documents for the merger of ARIA and CPC as a
joint stock company as indicated in Section 6.2.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

The Implementing Agency for the Borrower was the Ministry of Finance through the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). The PIU was responsible for managing the Bank funds for the project and
coordinating with the CPC in the execution of the project's two components. The PIU was already familiar
with Bank procedures and that was a distinct advantage in managing PSD II. The progress reports were of
very good quality. CPC performed very well during the project's implementation period. The organization
also took the initiative to develop a number of consulting products to improve enterprise performance.
Although CPC did not receive the expected funds under the project, the agency received funds from other
donors to achieve similar objectives as those that the SAR had envisaged.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory due to the Government's maintenance of its
commitment to the project, the consistently good performance of the PIU, and the enthusiasm and
innovation the CPC displayed in improving its capability as a service to business development in Moldova.


8. Lessons Learned


Lessons of Broad Applicability to Bank-Financed Projects

   l In countries with limited natural resources but a highly literate population, making the
         development of human resources and the development of new technologies a priority can show
         dramatic results. The project's success stories show that improved management skills combined
         with new technologies can enable companies to avoid bankruptcy, improve market focus,
         collaborate effectively with foreign partners, and improve quality standards for exports. Also, the
         enterprises participating in the project showed that improved management skills can contribute
         substantially to higher value added compared to enterprises with managers that lack these skills.
         Furthermore, data for PSD II show that the Government can benefit from such training programs
         as well given that taxes for participating enterprises doubled during a four year period.

   l It is important to tailor management training programs to company size and category of
         manager. In order for large companies to see substantial improvements in their operating
         performance they may need to send several directors for training at once. Managing directors are
         likely to find training of two to three months too long to be away from the enterprise, therefore it
         may be better to provide them with shorter courses on specific themes. In contrast, some line
         managers may be interested in much longer courses, especially in the application of new
         technologies.

   l The selling of internship programs for managers from developing countries to host companies
         in developed market economies is likely to benefit from a business-oriented rationale. Many
         host companies are unwilling to give the time required to mentor a manager for two to three months
         without some business- oriented purposes, such as the prospect of a joint venture in a market that
         interests them. Some of the successful joint ventures that have resulted from the PSD II project


                                                     - 17 -

         could help provide a marketing package to attract these potential host companies.

Lessons of specific applicability to private sector development in Moldova

    l Enterprises are willing to pay for management training and for consulting in the development
         of quality management products. According to data available from the CPC, the enterprises
         participating in the project represented only about five percent of enterprises in Moldova.
         Participating companies have shown that they are willing to pay for the training and there appears
         to be substantial potential for training on a commercial basis. In addition, there is likely to be a
         sizeable market for quality management certifications, especially for enterprises targeting export
         markets.

    l Management training programs can be a viable means for Moldova to regain access to foreign
         markets, find more reliable suppliers and forge joint venture partnerships. Under PSD II, about
         36 percent of participants gained access to new markets. They also found new suppliers for raw
         materials, components, and accessories to replace less reliable suppliers from the FSU. In about
         50 percent of these cases, the suppliers were selected with the assistance of the host companies in
         Central and Eastern Europe. Furthermore, management trainees participated in a number of joint
         verntures with partners that include the United States, the United Kingdom, and Germany.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                     Moldova
                                  Second Private Sector Development Project
                                            (IDA Credit No.2962 MD)
                                            Project Completion Report
                                Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Moldova


   I.    Project Background and Objectives

   According to the Credit Agreement No. 2962 MD of September 3, the Republic of Moldova benefited
   from a credit in the amount of 6.6 SDR equivalent to US$9 million allocated from the resources of the
   International Development Association that was destined to support a broad program of reforms
   initiated by the Government in the real sector and financial sector of the national economy. The project
   was conceived based on the results obtained in the First Private Sector Development Project(PSD I) and
   facilitated the further adjustment of Moldovan enterprises towards regional and international levels of
   competitiveness.

   The principal objective of the project was to assist the Government in its efforts to increase the
   managerial capacity of recently privatized enterprises and thus, improve their productivity and
   competitiveness in domestic and international markets. This was achieved by:

   (i)   providing managers with competitiveness information about international and domestic benchmark



                                                      - 18 -

standards and marketing requirements; and
(ii) investing in managerial skills through on-the-job training for managers of private/privatized
enterprises by way of secondments to leading industrial counterparts in Central and Western Europe,
East Asia and United States.

II.   Implementation and Accomplishments of the Project

The process of implementation of the project, in compliance with its objectives, provided for the
achievement of two components:

    l The Competitiveness Component (Investing in Best Practice Information) (IBPI);
    l The Productivity Component (Investing in Improvement of Managerial Skills) (IIMS)


The first component of the project, IBPI, invested in information by providing benchmarks for sector
performance as well as identification of domestic and international opportunities.             The second
component, IIMS, invested in human resources through provision of on-the-job training of managers of
private/privatized enterprises from Moldova.

In order to implement these two basic programs of the project,           the Center for Productivity and
Competitiveness (CPC) was created as an independent, non-governmental and non-profit organization,
the activity of which was supervised by the Supervisory Board formed of members of the Government,
donors, representatives of the academy, business circles and associations of producers.

The coordination and administration of the Project was performed by the Project Implementation Unit
created under the Ministry of Finance.

III. Project Outputs

Competitiveness Component: The donor funds in the total amount of USD2 million did not materialize:
very limited financing from the resources of the Bank have been provided for this component
(programmed during the project preparation). As a result, the objectives and the stipulated activities
have been adjusted at the level of the available funds.

In spite of the above mentioned, the competitiveness department within the CPC managed to
successfully achieve some activities related to the implementation of this component:

    l The benchmarking data was collected and systematized within the database "The Best
         Practices";
    l A number of studies of Moldovan industries have been conducted (19 industries have been
         analyzed)
    l Sector specific methodologies as well as distribution and value chains for the construction and
         fruit and vegetables sectors have been developed.

The goal of the sector analysis was the evaluation of the current relations and identification of objectives
for the improvement via benchmarking with other countries. This information will be used in future as
data for benchmarking in projects related to competitiveness and productivity.

It is also worth mentioning that CPC became an active member of the Global Benchmarking Network
(GBN), participated in international conferences and published articles in international magazines on


                                                  - 19 -

benchmarking. The relations set via the GBN supported CPC in the elaboration of a Benchmarking
Project at the Government level.

Productivity Component: The main objective of the IIMS component (the so called "Marshall Plan")
was the extensive exposure of the managers of private or recently privatized companies from the
industrial and agro-processing sectors to new managerial concepts directed to the market, marketing and
production via intensive training in Moldova and study tours abroad, in Western companies.

This program provided for the implementation of the following activities:

    l Provision of training courses in foreign language skills, computer skills and management
        techniques for about 2000 participants (local training module);
    l Provision of training to about 400 eligible participants, through secondment to industrial and
        agro-enterprises in Central and Western Europe, East Asia and the United States (basic and
        advanced module);
    l Carrying dissemination activities by eligible participants following completion of the training
        provided by the Government.

The secondments were available for any manager from a private company, who complied with the
qualification standards and set criteria. Within the project there was a Selection Committee who was
responsible for making decisions regarding the eligibility of candidates for the Program.

The key participants were mid-to-senior level managers of private/privatized companies from the
industrial, agro-processing and other sectors, that had a strong motivation to study, had completed basic
training in the English language or other languages, computer skills and management techniques. The
companies willing to delegate managers for participation in the Program were eligible in case they were
(i) private and did not have liabilities towards the state budget, or (ii) privatized companies in the
restructuring process, in accordance with procedures developed under the PSD I.

The activity within the Program started with the organization or subcontracting of intense training for
the selected candidates provided by CPC under the local training module. The training of managers was
performed via the training centers established in different regions: Central region  Chisinau training
center, Northern region  Balti training center and Southern region  Cahul training center.

In order to organize the secondments abroad, CPC contracted the winner of the international tender 
GTZ (Germany), for training of 400 participants under the basic and advanced modules. According to
the amendments signed, the schedule of placements in 2003 was revised and approved in the following
way: 450 participants for the basic module and 350 for the advanced module that was really achieved.

In accordance with the proposed objectives of the project, during the period April 2004  March 2005,
additional short-term placements were organized (3 weeks) for 18 managers of enterprises from
Hungary, Check Republic, Germany and New Zeeland.

When coming back from the secondments, based on the results of the training and assimilation of the
best practices of the visited companies, the managers developed individual Action Plans accepted by top
management of every participating company, subject to monitoring during the "post-placement" period.
Periodically, dissemination activities were undertaken, including round table discussions (presentations
within their company and other companies, and advertisements on TV and radio). CPC together with
the managers participating in the project worked on the elaboration of a collection of success stories (50


                                                 - 20 -

   success stories). At the end of the project, the CPC team and managers participating in the Marshall
   Plan organized a round table for Radio Moldova, where the results and the achievements of PSD II were
   discussed.

   Conclusions:

   In spite of the lack of public financing on behalf of the donors, the project objectives have been
   achieved and it was successfully completed in March 2005. The project was focused more on the
   implementation of the productivity component  investment in human resources that was financed by the
   World Bank.

   We consider that the output of the project had a positive impact on the private sector development in the
   Republic of Moldova:

      l 624 managers from 418 private companies benefited from the government program;
      l The participants obtained important managerial skills for the insurance of a long-term
            sustainable development of their business and studied the modern instruments of business
            administration;
      l The participants feel the need for continuous investment in the improvement of managerial skills
            (there were over 40 contracts signed for consultancy projects);
      l About 3000 persons benefited from the dissemination activities organized by the managers who
            graduated from this program.

   Moreover, 17 training methodologies have been developed, over 30 consulting projects have been
   implemented (particulalyr in the enterprises involved in the program), and a team of local consultants
   (about 70 persons) able to implement modern quality systems (ISO, HACCP, etc) has been created.

   As a result of the implementation of the Second Private Sector Development Project, there have been
   obtained new practices from similar foreign enterprises thus leading to the diversification of the
   activities of enterprises (including the development of new modern products), creation of new jobs,
   generation of tax revenues and growth of budget collections from the participating enterprises.


   Minister
   Zinaida Grecianii




(b) Cofinanciers:



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                   - 21 -

10. Additional Information


 Selected Success Stories Resulting from Management Training and Quality Improvements
                                              under PSD II


Introduction

The training program and quality management certifications that took place under the project have
produced numerous success stories, which CPC has compiled to inspire more effective entrepreneurship in
Moldova. These stories provide concrete examples of how creativity and training in modern management
techniques during PSD II's implementation period combined to produce dramatic results at the enterprise
level in a country where human resources are perhaps the most important element of the country's resource
base. The stories presented here have been edited and condensed from the original stories compiled by
CPC.

The selected stories illustrate key facets of the project -- the impact of management improvements on
restructured assets, improvements to the original companies of the management participants, and new
companies formed by these participants. They also reflect some of the most important productive sectors of
Moldova's economy, notably agro-processing and textile enterprises and to a lesser extent, the service
sector. The stories mainly illustrate improvements resulting from techniques learned and hands on
experience in foreign company internships.         However, some also illustrate the implementation of
internationally know quality management systems and in some cases a combination of these systems with
management training.

Centrul de Moda

The participation of Centrul de Moda, a textile company, in ARIA's restructuring program combined
with management training under PSD II helped the company to avoid bankruptcy and utilize its assets
more efficiently for greater efficiency and profitability.

In 1997, Centrul de Moda was close to bankruptcy. The stocks of unsaleable merchandise amounted to
MDL 1.5 million. Most of the company's equipment was out of date. Old depreciated equipment had been
in warehouses for 10-15 years. The use of production and office spaces was highly inefficient amounting to
an unneccessay 30 to 40 square meters of space per person.

The company took advantage of technical assistance available from ARIA for the restructuring of the
company, which began in 1998 and took about three years. This restructuring resulted in depreciation of
the goods in stock with price reductions for the sale of equipent that allowed the company to recover about
30-40% of the initial cost. The idle equipment was either sold at a low price to some private companies or
as spare parts to a farm. Ultimately the resturturing resulted in the sale of four out of six machines in the
company's possession.

The restructuring of Centrul de Moda created two business centers. One was the Administrative Center,
which was a leasing operation allowing unused facilities to generate income by leasing them to several
smaller firms. The other business center was the Center for the Manufacturing and Marketing of Garments,
which essentially was a consolidated version of the original core business. The most striking change in the
company was the reduction in the amount of space used by the manufacturing business. A more effiicent



                                                    - 22 -

arrangement of manufacturing equipment freed large amounts of space for other uses. Instead of operating
production workshops on three floors the company placed everything on one and a half floors. However,
due to more efficient management the company was able to double its production volume with the same
assets.

The restructuring resulted in large spaces of between 70 and 200 square meters that no one was willing to
rent. Therefore, the company redesigned the space for a larger number of smaller facilities. In addition, the
company rented out the former storage space in the basement, amounting to about 1000 square meters.
Currently, leasing revenues account for about 50 % of the company's profit.

Each of the two business centers has its own Director and relative autonomy of management. A
spokesperson for the company reports that "...We no longer have idle premises, and in the building where
some 10-15 years ago was only Centrul de Moda, now there are dozens of businesses; every square meter
is in use. Is there any room for further modifications? Sure. First of all, in improving the general state of
affairs. We have already started a renovation, so that soon our fixed assets will be of a much better
quality." .

Sotex Group

Creativity combined with analytical techniques and contacts made during the management training
program enabled a former trainee to start a new textile company, Sotex Group, which has grown
substantially and has penetrated major export markets.

When Ms. T. Curtasov, now the General Director of Sotex Group, entered PSD II's management training
program in 2001, she was working for the company, Dana J.S.C, which was the property of several
investment funds. "In those conditions, but also because of the Government interference in the working
process, it was almost impossible to work efficiently, and we could not prove our managerial skills," she
recalls from her previous position.   After participating in an internship with various firms in Poland and
making a thorough analysis of the existing textile market in Moldova, Ms. Curtasov became convinced that
she could have her own business. At that time her financial sources were limited, so she asked for a bank
credit and bought an old building, and some equipment. In about six months, she managed to adapt the
facilities for textile production.

The Sotex Group began operation in April 2002 with only two employees and a business plan to find a
niche in a tough textile market. By November of the same year, the company had a workforce of 100 with
monthly sales of MDL 40,000. The company is a joint Moldovan-American company, with the American
company holding 45 percent of the shares. The close relationship with foreign partners in the garment
industry has been decisive in the impressive evolution of the company. In just three years, the company
managed to increase its sales to 4.4 million MDL. The Sotex Group exports about 95% of its ready-made
textile wares are for export. The company's workforce had grown to 260 by January 2005. The company's
modern manufacturing technology allows for the production of a variety of clothes including trousers,
blouses, and coats.

Fashion Studio Marina Topalo

The targeting of higher- value market segments in the clothing industry and the use of the Internet as
a marketing tool have helped Fashion Studio Marina Topalo substantially reorient its business strategy,
improving the company's market focus and product quality, and dramatically expanding sales.




                                                   - 23 -

"Those two training months in the Czech Republic, helped me to save four years in achieving the proposed
goal", states Marina Topalo, the general director of a company from Chisinau about the training she
received under PSD II. "I have come back from Prague with a new look at business, and at the future
strategy. It is a long lasting strategy, not a one or two year's one."

In the mid 1990s, many companies in Western Europe were supplying factories in Moldova with raw
materials for producing textile wares due to the availability of cheap labor. The Western European
companies provided the raw materials and the models and handled the marketing, while the factories in
Moldova manufactured the goods and operated at a low profit margin. Marina Topalo, after her internship
with PSD II decided on a new direction for a garment business that would be more profitable. "I preferred
another way - modern, high-quality clothing for business ladies and a better coverage of the whole process,
from the model design to its commercialization."

Ms. Topalo attributes her success to creativity and high quality services. She bought new equipment to
increase production efficiency and product quality. Between 2001-2004, the Fashion Studio "Marina
Topalo" grew by over 90 percent. The company oriented its business exclusively towards the production of
products that were missing from the market. Says Ms. Topalo, "It is not enough to offer high quality
services; one should have the ability to sell professionally. This is the conclusion I have reached after my
placement in Germany at a similar company, which has shortly become our partner."

The company also has included the use of the Internet into its marketing strategy. "We are at the
beginning, but we think that the sales though the Internet will open a new door for our company", says
Marina Topalo. A key element in this strategy is the premise that the majority of the clients are
businesswoman who are pressed for time and welcome the opportunity to shop without leaving the home or
office. During her three months of training, Ms. Topalo collaborated with a German firm, for the whole
manufacturing process -- from model design to commercialization of the final product. The Fashion Studio
"Marina Topalo" has designed and has exported to Germany the first 100 articles of night lingerie using
modern designs and natural fabrics. The next step will be to re-tool for higher production, which would
allow the company to substantially increase growth.

Agrolina and Agropomfruct

Management training under PSD II inspired a number of participants to form their own companies.
The formation of Agrolina and Agropomfruct in Moldova's important agro-processing sector is
examples of such successful ventures.


Agrolina. In 2002, having worked a long time at a sugar-making factory, Veaceslav Srbu decided to
become a farmer and together with his to set up a family business. "We combined our own plots of land
with those of the parents and of some close friends. It made up 21 hectares. Now we have 340 hectares,"
says Veaceslav Srbu. He cites patience and persistence as key characteristics for entrepreneurial
success.

Mr. Srbu participated in the management training program of PSD II in 1998, obtaining internships in the
Czech Republic and in Germany. During his internships, he had the oportunity to visit several
sugar-making factories. These visits gave him insight into how to run a first class agri-business. During
the internship he learned the importance of selecting the appropriate hybrid seed for improving the yield of
sugar crops. Then the idea struck him to use his family's land to grow sugar producing crops.




                                                       - 24 -

Following the example of his Czech counterpart, Mr. Srbu started growing beetroot using KVS seeds that
give a higher yield and sugar content than traditional seed varieties. "We have used this culture first
because in the North of Moldova it is one of the most profitable ones," says Mr. Srbu. The first yield was
higher than expected, averaging 32 000 kg/ha compared to an average yield of 21,500 kg/ha in Moldova.
The following year, the yield was even higher  40 000 kg/ha, and in 2004, the yield rose to 46 200 kg/ha.
Overall, by using the new hybrid seeds, Agrolina's beetroot production has doubled. And Srbu is not
keeping his successful expeience a secret. He is happy to show his experimental fields and the hybrids he
uses, which are resistant to drought and various diseases.

Agropomfruct.       The founders of Agropomfruct met at a club for former trainees under PSD II's
management training program. In 2001, four former trainees created the company with starting capital of
MDL 1 million. This venture was the first enterprise that resulted from the collaboration of several
participants in the training program. In 2003, the founders purchased a large refrigeration unit from a
Russian firm in Trnova, located in northern Moldova. The money came from their personal savings plus
credits of about 2 million MDL with some commercial banks. In the same year, the founders began to lease
44 hectares of apple orchards. In the first year, the turnover of of the company was MDL 500 000. After a
short storage period, the company exported apples to Russia, mainly to Smolensk and the St. Petersburg
region.

The year 2004 was a crucial one for the company's development, as it invested in a concsiderable
expansion and upgrading of its operations. Agropomfruct purchased 50 hectares in Kremenchiuk, an
industrial center in Ukraine, to serve as a special site for seedlings. The company also purchased the
facilities of a tractor park in the same region, close to the orchards. This facility is scheduled for renovation
and conversion into a warehouse with an advanced sorting and grading conveyor belt. During the past two
years, the farmers in the area have planted 400 hectares of new orchards. Also during 2004, Agropomfruct
decided to lease an additionional 131 hectares of apple orchards.

The internship of one former trainee in Italy resulted in an agreement between Agrolina and an Italian
company to purchase a conveyor belt for fruit sorting. Regarding this equipment one of the company's
managers has stated that "...Quality counts especially when exporting, and that Italian conveyor is just
what we need to keep the high quality of our fruit." Furthermore, in order to monitor the production process
more carefully and reduce waste, the company purchased a video camera to record every step of the
company's activities, from the orchards to the customer delivery system. Video recordings have helped to
spot the weak points in loading fruit, as well as in other operations, things that might not be observed by
the naked eye.

As a result of process improvements Agropomfruct has made in recent years, the amount of harvested fruit
that the company can store and package increased from 60% in 2003 to 80 % in 2004. The production
quality also has improved. These two factors in turn have helped to substantially expand exports, which
have risen to MDL 1.3 million .

Alfa Nistru

Internships in Poland with a modern cannery helped Alfa Nistru, a producer of fruit and vegetable
products, substantially expand its exports though the use of improved seed technologies and product
diversification.

During their internship in Poland, managers from Alfa Nistru had the opportunity to observe the operation
of a modern cannery, using high technology and producing a wide range of products. The application of


                                                      - 25 -

their learning experience to the company's operations included extending the ripening period through new
cultivars (plant varieties that arise through special cultivation), product diversification and market
segmentation. The company today is considered to be one of the most profitable fruit and vegetable canning
businesses in Moldova.

An important step to the company's success has been the planting two new cultivars of raspberry with a
ripening period from July through November. Compared to the traditional ripening period of 10 days, the
longer ripening period of these cultivars allows for the more efficient use of processing equipment and
reduces costs. The diversification of the company's products has involved both changes in the old lines of
business and the launching of new product lines, including corn, raspberry jam, strawberry jam, and
concentrated cherry and currant juices. The cannery is currently offering about 40 kinds of canned fruits
and vegetables, among them juices, jams, vegetable preserves from cucumbers, sweet peppers, tomatoes,
and peas. In November 2003, the company opened a cold storage operation, the first of its kind in
Moldova, allowing the company to provide frozen fruits and vegetables to the market in the future.

The process changes in the company have been very profitable. Profits doubled bewwen 2002 and 2003,
reaching 31.5 million MDL. The company exports about 65% of its canned prducts to Russia, Belarus,
Romania, and 90% of concentrated juices to Germany, Austria, and Switzerland.

Covoare-Ungheni

A carpet weaving company made a dramatic comeback in domestic and export markets though the use
of high technology in design, training of some its top managers and the application of quality
standards.

A carpet weaving factory began operations in the town of Ungheni in 1980. Two years later, the factory
had 91 "Textima" looms, and by 1987 -1988 was producing 2.5 million square meters of carpet annually.
There were 2500 people on the payroll. The factory exported about 80% of products. However, after
1997, the production volume had declined to less than ten percent of what it was during the late 1980s.
After the privatization of the Ungheni factory, Acvila Ltd. became the main shareholder, with 91% of
shares. However, the processes remained essentially the same. The factory continued weaving carpets that
were no longer in demand. The company's debts amounted to 41 million MDL. In this bleak condition, a
customer driven policy and efficient management strategy enabled the company to reconquer the domestic
market for synthetic carpets, and increase exports.

The top management of the Company (General Director, Deputy General Director, Finance Director, and
Purchasing Manager) participated in PSD II's management training program. After the training, the
managers reorganized the company and a developed a new business strategy. They set up departments of
purchasing, design, marketing and sales. The general guideline of the new strategy was to offer a higher
quality of product that would satisfy even the most discerning customer. A combination of excellent raw
materials, up-to-date equipment, and advanced technologies have been the keys to the company's success.
During the management training program and internship, the conpany's managers.established contacts with
several companies that shared information on the best raw material suppliers.

"There we have also learned about high technologies in our field. We have bought the most modern
equipment. So now we are competitive, productive, and efficient. Quality in export operations should be
according to ISO 9000, that is why we are introducing it," says N. Nicula, General Director of the
Company. The company's Design Section is currently applying the best available design software and the
current design library consists of 600 patterns in various styles: Oriental, European, Modern, Abstract.


                                                    - 26 -

        .
The company, now known as Covoare-Ungheni JSC, weaves woolen high-density carpets, under the
license of Woolmark, as well as synthetic carpets. The current production capacity is 4.5 million sq.
meters a year. The company continues to export about 80% of its production, to Russia, Ukraine,
Romania, Denmark, Canada and the United States. In particular, the company has made signficant gains in
penetrating foreign markets, displacing Belgian competitors in the sale of woolen carpets to Russia and the
Ukraine. Furthermore, the company has totally re-conquered the domestic market for synthetic carpets,
with about a 95% share market share.

Eurofarmco

Application of improved management techniques during a financial crisis helped this pharmaceutical
company improve its quality of operation and substantially increase its sales without any additional
financing.

Moldova's largest pharmaceutical company has emerged from a financial crisis without any additional
financing, just an efficient strategy and a committed management team. "We have overcome the difficulties
without additional external financing," says General Director Tatiana Petrova. She attributes the company's
growth to a management strategy consisting of strict financial control; consolidation of the management
team; restructuring of the company's organization; and improvements in production and marketing. "It is
the consolidation of the in-company efforts, especially those of the management team, that counts when you
are running a business through a crisis," says Ms. Petrova. "In those hard times nobody said 'good bye'.
We have managed to keep the people, motivating them."


Contracts with Romania were important to the company's turnaround, accounting for about 40 percent of
the company's export market. And meeting European Union (EU) standards for pharmaceuticals was a key
element in penetrating and expanding this market. Critical to the company's success was the management
team's commitment to gearing the company's entire production process to meet these standards. Also
Eurofarmco is expanding its markets, with authorizations for new products in Belarus and promising
market prospects in Uzbekistan. The company's sales have increased dramatically, by 30 percent between
2003 and 2004, to about US$ 1 million annually.


Ionel


A combination of quality certification and management training helped one of Moldova's oldest
companies emerge from financial crisis and double its exports.


In the mid-1990s, after nearly half a century of operation, Ionel, one of Moldova's oldest enterprises fell
upon hard times. The company's capacity utilization dropped to between 16 and 40 percent. However,
modern designs, management training and the application of quality improvement systems have since
substantially expanded the company's capacity utilization, allowing the company to penetrate markets in
Canada, the United States and Western Europe and increase profits.

"Sound long-term export contracts, important investments in the production development, the introduction
of some new technologies, the continuous improvement of the product quality are the key factors that
assured a steady growth," states a spokesperson for the factory. For seven years, the company has
maintained a partnership with firms in Italy, which account for about 40 percent of the company's exports.



                                                    - 27 -

Aware of the saying "out of sight, out of mind," a key element in the marketing strategy is continuous
participation at exhibitions in the USA, Italy and in the CIS countries.

The company's foreign partners have helped to modernize the company's technology and develop new
product models. Factory specialists have received training at the Italian firms in which Ionel has contacts
and the company has begun to re-engineer its technology. In 2002, the received ISO certification in quality
management. "The demand growth for our products from foreign firms is the best quality indicator," states
a company spokes person.

Over a three-year period, Ionel nearly doubled its exports from about MDL 38.9 million in 2000 to MDL
73.8 million in 2003. Capacity utilization has increased from less than half in the mid-1990s to about 99
percent today. The company is also optimistic about the future because it has orders from Italian, American
and Canadian partners for five years ahead.


Universinj

The use of modern design technology and the introduction of the ISO 9000 Quality Management
System have helped Universanj, a major designer of roads projects substantial reduce design time and
penetrate export markets for the company's services.

In the early nineties, a group of specialists from an engineering design institute in Moldova founded a
private engineering and consultancy firm Universinj, specializing in the design of road projects. The firm
was testing new design technology when five of the company's management team (the manager, the
technical manager, the chief engineer, the production manager and the team leader) participated in
internships with building and design companies from Poland and Germany under the management training
program of PSD II. The modern design technologies that the firm has incorporated in its operations since
then have allowed the company to design projects in about half the time it took prior to the acquisition of
these technologies and with a considerably smaller staff.

With only 30 employees, Unversinj, using computerized design technology, is now able to do work that 15
years ago would have required an entire design institute with a personnel of 300 people. States Vasile
Ghiaur, the company's Technical Manager, "We were the first organization in Moldova that three years ago
tried out the automated design technology of the roads based on the digital model of the ground." In the
summer of 2001, Universanj automated its technology for projections  starting with the topographic
works and finishing with the execution drawings. Modern computer software has replaced manual design.
"Manual drawing and wasting tens of kilograms of paper which you mend over and over again, is no more
accepted. The computer allows us to see a better picture in more variants, choosing the best one", says
Vasile Ghiaur. The use of the new design software has reduced the design time by about 50 percent.

In recent years, Universinj has cooperated with several well-known design firms in Finland, Germany,
Romania and Russia. Universinj also was the first company in Moldova to introduce the ISO 9000 quality
management system. In 2000, the company became a member of the Organization of the Study and Road
Building Association from the Russian Federation and more recently joined Romania's Professional Roads
and Bridges Association. Furthermore, the company has obtained a certificate of technical attestation in
the design and consultancy for the building of road works, bridges and adherent constructions under the
National Company of National Highways and Roads from Romania. Certifications of the company's
technical capability and membership in trade associations have been important factors in expanding the
company's horizon of future business opportunities.


                                                    - 28 -

Macon

The application of market studies and quality improvement systems such as the "20 Keys to Success"
have enabled a century-old producer of building materials to recover from financial crisis and become
a more modern and profitable company.

After nearly 100 years of operation, in the mid-1990s, Macon, one of Moldova's largest producers of
building materials, found itself in the midst of a major crisis. The company's traditional products were not
in demand any more; sales were falling; and debts were growing.
The management of the company understood that in order to turn around the company's financial
condition, it would not be enough to reorganize and acquire new equipment. The company would need to
change its outlook as well.

A British consultant visited the company during its crisis period. The management told him that they
needed new equipment but they did not have the money to buy it. They thought the lack of means to acquire
new equipment was the reason the company was not performing well. However, the consultant told them
that before purchasing new equipment, the company needed to learn how to work well with the old
equipment. The company's management decided to apply the "20 keys to success" program, with the help
of CPC, using the using the core principle of "better, cheaper, faster." A key factor in Macon's improved
performance has been the development of quality management systems, particularly a new corporate
culture that actively involves its workforce in finding better was to do things.

In 2002, the company, with the help of CPC, implemented the ISO 9001 management system. The
management regarded this system as a long -term investment in the company's future. Another key element
in the company's recent success is improving the skills of the company's management with training under
PSD and internships in the Czech Republic and Germany. These internships help the management focus
their skills on operating the business according to market principles.

 "The first thing we did at our return was the reorganization of the production lines. They were reinstalled
and reached much better parameters. The technological processes were modified. We also counted on
product diversification and launching of some new products, whose quality parameters would correspond to
the European standards," states the company's Chief Technologist. As a result, the company has expanded
its product line of bricks from basically one type to 18 varieties. In addition, the company also has
broadened the scope of building materials that it produces to include claydite, foamed concrete,
architectural ceramics, terracotta, tile, earthenware and slate pots, etc.

"We have come very close to what we saw abroad during our placement. The production culture, the
production quality and the productivity have really increased." states a member of the management team
that participated in PSD II's management training program. The efficiency of the company's production
processes has improved dramatically. For example, about five years ago, rejected materials may have
accounted for about 20 percent of production. Today they amount to less than one percent of production.
The company also developed a collaboration with a company in Germany, where the managers had
internships under PSD II.     In 2003, Macon was operating at its maximum capacity, with sales rising to
MDL 65 million and profits exceeding 8 million MDL. Furthermore, the company invested about 95
percent of its profits in production development.




                                                     - 29 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                 Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Management Training Component:

Process indicators:
-- No.of managers participating in             465                                           624 (444  in two modules program and 180
    in-company placements                                                                    in three weeks program)
-- No. of firms co-financing in-company        300                                           300
    placements
-- No. of contracts signed with firms                                                        300 (long term placements) and 118 (short
    hosting managers                                                                         term placements) All the companies
                                                                                             co-financed the project 10-30%
Outcome indicators:
-- Increase in value of the first five         not reported                                  The CPC recorded the results by enterprise
years' profits net of the firm's cost sharing                                                sector and compared them to the increased
such that it greatly exceeds grant funding to                                                profitability of companies that did not
the firm such that secondments might be                                                      participate (see revised project indicators).
continued for other firms on a commercial
basis

2. Best Practice Component

Process indicators:
-- No.of productivity and competitiveness      not specified                                 CPC maintains relations with the Global
    centers actively exchanging information                                                  Benchmarking Network. It has developed 22
                                                                                             consulting products of which 14 have been
                                                                                             tested
-- No. of non-participating firms attending    not specified                                 3000
    sessions run by seconded managers
-- No. of links established with local         not specified                                 5 local and 2 international universities
    universities, technical colleges and
    institutes

Output indicators:
-- At least 50 percent of beneficiaries        not specified                                 About 75 companies or 25 percent of the
    have diversified into new markets and                                                    total diversified into new product or service
    products                                                                                 lines. About 36 percent of companies entered
                                                                                             new foreign markets and 37 percent entered
                                                                                             new domestic markets (total: 73 %). Also
                                                                                             about 60 companies reported the conclusion
                                                                                             of contracts with new foreign partners after
                                                                                             the internships.
-- All participating managers have             This was required for participation in the    Beside the mandatory disseminations for
    actively disseminated lessons learned      program. Each manager graduating from the participating managers, over 150 managers
    from placements                            program was required to donate 30 days of     have been actively involved in disseminations
                                               service for dissemination of knowledge        through business associations and chambers
                                               acquired during the program                   of commerce.
-- Materials on lessons learned available      The CPC organizes roundtable discussions      More than 100 articles were published in
    for individuals not participating in study with managers who have completed the          newspapers and magazines. Radio and
    tours.                                     training program. There were 12 of these      television aired about 50 programs on the
                                               discussions in 2004. In addition, CPC         training experience. Also CPC developed a
                                               maintains a website that publishes success    website providing information about the
                                               stories and the introduction of new           project and giving access to learning
                                               management practices and holds awards         materials: www.aria.md/cppc
                                               ceremonies.
-- Agency is financially sustainable.          CPC has no government budgetary
                                               financing. Its fees from services are limited
                                               due to the small consulting market in Moldova
                                               .

Outcome indicators:
-- No. of firms with ISO Certification         not reported                                  Out of total 70 companies certified under
                                                                                             ISO 9001 Quality Management Systems, 26



                                                                  - 30 -

                                                                                  were assisted in certification by CPC.
No. of benchmark comparison reports          not reported                         CPC has been collecting and developing
requested                                                                         performance and productivity benchmarks.
                                                                                  Most of the benchmark reports (about 40)
                                                                                  were used by CPC consultants within
                                                                                  in-company training and consulting.


Output Indicators:
                                                                            1
              Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
see below Tables 1.1.A and 1.1.B




1End of project


Revised Project Indicators

Table 1.1.A: Grade Distribution of Action Plans Prepared by                   December 2000                April 2005
Participating Managers
Grade A: : Excellent                                                              5%                            30%
Action plans likely to bring substantial improvements of the participating
company in terms of exports or employment and have a positive impact on
other companies
Grade B: Good                                                                     16%                           45%
Action plan likely to have substantial impact on improving the bottom line
in terms of exports or employment
Grade C: Standard                                                                 43%                           25%
Action plan likely to have acceptable impacts on the bottom line.
Grade D: Problems Requiring Action                                                 9%                            0%
Action plan is not particularly relevant and unlikely to have an impact on
the bottom line.
Grade E: Urgent Review                                                            27%                            0%




                                                              - 31 -

Table 1.1.B: Key Performance Indicators by Industry           Participating      Non-Participating
Group                                                          Companies            Companies
Food Processing
Productivity
--General (Value Added in %)                                       146                  107
--Labor (Net Sales/Employee in thousands USD)                      9.2                   6.4
--Capital (Avg. Productivity/Operating Capital)                    0.5                   0.3
Profitability ( Net Profit/Equity)                                 2.8                  -4.7
Employee Development Expense (USD /employee)                        30                   4.0
Export Growth %                                                    318                   NA
Capital Intensity USD/employee                                    7,231                 8,974
Fruits and Vegetables Processing
--General (Value Added in %)                               revamped from 25 to  Further declined from
                                                            75% of the baseline    87% to- 28 %
                                                             capacity of 1999
--Labor (Net Sales/Employee in thousands USD)                      7.5                   3.3
--Capital (Avg. Productivity/Operating Capital)                    0.2                  0.17
Profitability ( Net Profit/Equity)                                 8.4                  -19.5
Employee Development Expense USD/employee                          9.4                   0.7
Exports/employee USD ( growth in %)                           3,541 to 9,199             NA
                                                                 (259%)
Beverage Production
--Average Value Added compared to 1999 baseline in %)              137                   88
--Labor (Net Sales/Employee in thousands USD)                     20.1                  14.6
--Capital (Avg. Productivity/Operating Capital)                    0.5                   0.2
Profitability ( Net Profit/Equity)                                17.3                   7.1
Production of Other Textile Articles
-- Average Value Added compared to 1999 baseline in %)             111                  156
--Labor (Net Sales/Employee in thousands USD)                      5.1                   1.3
--Capital (Avg. Productivity/Operating Capital)                   0.23                  0.29
Profitability ( Net Profit/Equity)                                1.6%                 -1.4%
Clothing Production
--General (Value Added in %)                                       123                  313
--Labor (Net Sales/Employee in thousands US$)                      1.6                   1.4
--Capital (Avg. Productivity/Operating Capital)                   0.61                  0.56
Profitability ( Net Profit/Equity)                                10.2                  -9.5
Bricks Production
--General (Value Added in %)                                       107                   77
--Labor (Net Sales/Employee in thousands USD)                      6.4                  0.86
--Capital (Avg. Productivity/Operating Capital)                   0.44                  0.07
Profitability ( Net Profit/Equity)                                 7.2                  -2.0




                                                      - 32 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
1. Investing in Best Practice Information                    2.50            0.30            0.12
2. Investing in Management Skills
  2.1 Productivity Dept. of CPC                              3.70            1.90            0.46
  2.2 Marshall Plan                                          7.80            7.85            1.01

Total Baseline Cost                                         14.00          10.05
                          Total Project Costs               14.00          10.05
                   Total Financing Required                 14.00          10.05


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                             0.00           0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00           0.00         0.05         0.00          0.05
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.05)         (0.00)       (0.05)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00         7.65         0.00          7.65
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (7.65)         (0.00)       (7.65)
4. Technical Assistance              0.00           0.00         0.00         2.00          2.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Training                          0.00           0.00         0.00         3.00          3.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Recurrent Costs                   0.00           0.00         1.30         0.00          1.30
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (1.30)         (0.00)       (1.30)
   Total                             0.00           0.00         9.00         5.00         14.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (9.00)         (0.00)       (9.00)




                                                - 33 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    2. Goods                                0.00               0.00              0.20             0.00              0.20
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.20)            (0.00)           (0.20)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              7.44             0.00              7.44
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (7.44)            (0.00)           (7.44)
    4. Technical Assistance                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    5. Training                             0.00               0.00              0.00             1.50              1.50
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    6. Recurrent Costs                      0.00               0.00              0.91             0.00              0.91
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.91)            (0.00)           (0.91)
       Total                                0.00               0.00              8.55             1.50             10.05
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (8.55)            (0.00)           (8.55)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Investing in Best            0.70         0.00         1.80        0.30         0.00       0.00       42.9      0.0       0.0
    Practice Information


2. Investing in
   Managerial Skills
 2.1 Productivity Dept. of      0.70         3.00         0.00        0.40         1.50       0.00       57.1      50.0      0.0
       CPC
 2.2 Marshall Plan *            7.60         0.00         0.20        7.85         0.00       0.00       103.3     0.0       0.0
TOTAL                           9.00         3.00         2.00        8.55         1.50       0.00       95.0      50.0      0.0


   The actual numbers for the Marshal Plan subcomponent include US$0.55 million for the project operating
   costs.




                                                           - 34 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Qualitative Benefits                                        Indicators

Strengthening of the capacity of managers of new and        About 75 percent of the managers in the training
privatatized firms                                          program produced action plans that had a
                                                            substantial impact on enterprise profitability and
                                                            some of them were likely to have a positive impact
                                                            on the activity of other enterprises
Providing a supply response for export promotion by       About 36 % of a sample survey of 170 companies
improving the competitiveness of firms by on-the-job      indicated that the project's training program provided
secondments to internationally competitive firms          them with the opportunity to enter new foreign
                                                          markets.
Improving the quality of products through the introductionCPC assisted 26 Moldovan companies in the
of Total Quality Management and access to international implementation of quality and productivity
benchmarks                                                improvement management systems.
Enabling the absorption of lessons learned by firms unable CPC's extensive efforts to disseminate lessons learned
to participate through extensive dissemination efforts of in the training program, including workshops,
the CPC.                                                  numerous articles in the press, publication of success
                                                          stories on the website, etc.




                                                       - 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              October 1996              4     Task Manager/Senior Enterprise
                                             Reform Specialist (1);
                                              Private Sector Development
                                             Specialists (2); Financial
                                             Analyst (1)
              February 1997             3    Senior Enterprise Reform
                                             Specialist (1); Financial Analyst
                                             (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              January 1997              1    Senior Enterprise Reform
                                             Specialist (1)


 Supervision

              04/24/1998                3    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER                   S               S
                                             (1); PSD (1); DISB/PROC (1)
              12/18/1998                2    SR. FIN. SECT. SPEC (1); FIN.         S               S
                                             ANALYST (1)
              07/03/1999                1    PTL/SR.FIN.SECT.SPEC. (1)             S               S
              11/02/1999                1    SR. FIN. SECT. SPEC. (1)              S               S
              11/02/1999                2    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER                   S               S
                                             (1); PSD OFFICER (1)
              06/01/2001                2    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER                   S               S
                                             (1); PSD SPECIALIST (1)
              02/06/2002                4    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER                   S               S
                                             (1); FSD SPECIALIST (1); PSD
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SECTOR
                                             MANAGER (1)
              06/28/2002                4    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER                   S               S
                                             (1); PSD SPECIALIST (3)
              06/18/2003                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             PSD/FSD SPECIALIST (1); PSD
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              11/13/2003                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             PSD SPECIALIST (1)
              04/30/2004                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             PSD SPECIALIST (1);
              09/11/2004                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             PSD SPECIALIST (1);


 ICR
              August 2005               2     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                S               S
                                              CONSULTANT (1);



                                              - 36 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             NA                          110.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  NA                            49.2
  Supervision                              70                        385.2
  ICR                                       8                          41.0
  Total                                  NA                          585.4




                                            - 37 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Various project preparation and negotiations memoranda (1995-97).

2. Moldova: Proposed Private Sector Development Project II: Minutes of the IPID Review Meeting.

3. Summary Page: Technical Assistance Funding Proposal for Japan (PHRD) Fund., 1997.

4. SAR, Republic of Moldova: Second Private Sector Development Project, May 15, 1997
Report No. 16496-MD.

5. Progress reports of the Project Implementation Unit of Moldova's Ministry of Finance

    January 1 to December 31, 2001
    January 1 to December 31, 2001
    January 1 to December 31, 2002
    January 1 to December 31, 2003
    January 1 to December 31, 2004

6. Project Status Reports (PSR)

    PSR 1:      July 7, 1997
    PSR 2:      May 5, 1998
    PSR 3:      June 23,1998
    PSR 4:      January 15 1999
    PSR 5:      October 6, 1999
    PSR 6:      November 22, 1999
    PSR 7:      April 19, 2000
    PSR 8:      December 29,2000
    PSR 9:      June 8, 2001
    PSR 10:     December 27, 2001
    PSR 11:     June 26, 2001
    PSR 12 :    September 6, 2002
    PSR 13:     June 13, 2003
    PSR 14:     November 25,2003
    PSR 15:     May 22, 2004
    PSR 16:     June 15, 2004
    PSR 17:     December 9, 2004

7. Aide Memoires of project supervision missions and follow-up letters to the Government,where
applicable (1998-2005).

8. Contract between GTZ and CPC for consulting services in support of the project's management training
component.

9. Memo of April 16, 2004 on the extension of the project's closing date.

10. Supervision team response to the Quality of Supervision Assessment by the Quality Assurance Group


                                                  - 40 -

(QAG).

11. CPC: Second Private Sector Development Project, Final Report with "Success Stories" 2005




                                             - 41 -

- 42 -

