Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16496-MD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
Second Private Sector Development Project
May 15, 1997
Enterprise and Finance Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 1997)
Currency Unit   =    Moldovan Leu
I Leu         US$0.22
US$1          4.54 Lei
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARIA   -  Agency for Restructuring and Enterprise Assistance
CAS  -  Country Assistance Strategy
CEE   -  Central and Eastern Europe
CPC   -  Competitiveness and Productivity Center
EBRD   -  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU (TACIS)  -  European Union Program of Technical Assistance for
Commonwealth of Independent States
FSU   -  Former Soviet Union
FTA   -  Funds Transfer Agreement
GOM   -  Government of Moldova
GPN   -  General Procurement Notice
GTZ   -  Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
IAS  -  International Accounting Standards
IBPI  -  Investing in Best Practice Information
IDA   -  International Development Association
IIMS  -  Investing in Improvement of Managerial Skills
MEBO   -  Management-Employee Buy-Outs
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
PSD I & II  -  Private Sector Development Projects I & II
QCBS   -  Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
SAL   -  Structural Adjustment Loan
SMEs  -  Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises
TA   -  Technical Assistance
TOR   -  Terms of Reference
TU   -  Technical Unit
MOLDOVA'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:  Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Director:     Basil G. Kavalsky, EC4DR
Division Chief:  Paul J. Siegelbaum, EC4EF
Staff:        Vladimir Goran Kreacic, EC4EF
Alessandra lorio, LEGEC
Gregory Jedrzejczak, EMTPS
Saha Meyanathan, EDI
Vesna Petrovic, EC4EF



MOLDOVA
Private Sector Development II Project
CONTENTS
I.      ENTERPRISE  SECTOR ........................................................1
A.    Sector Status .......................................................                                 I
B.    Issues and Progress ........................................................4
C.      The First Private Sector Development Project (PSD  I)-Early Results ........... 6
II.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A.    Background, Objectives and Scope ...................................................8
B.    Project Structure ...................................................9
C.    Investing in Best Practice Information Component (IBPI) ........................... 10
D.    Investing in Improvement of Managerial Skills Components (IIMS) .......... 12
E.     Economic Analysis and Rationale ..................................................                 13
F.     Detailed Project Costs and Financing Plan .................................................. 17
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .......................                                                                19
A.    Implementation Arrangements .................................................                       19
B.    Investing in Best Practice Information .................................................             19
C.    Investing in Improvement of Managerial Skills ...........................................  20
D.    Procurement ................................................. 21
E.     Disbursements ................................................. 25
F.     Project Accounting, Financial Reporting, Auditing and Supervision ........... 25
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ................................... 27
A.    Project Benefits ................................... 27
B.  Project Risks ...................................                                                     27
V.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                             .          ................................ 28
A.  Agreements ................................... 28
B.  Recommendations ...................................                                                   28
ANNEXES:
Annex I:  IIMS Component: Participants' Guidelines
Annex II: IIMS Component Implementation Plan
Annex III: Performance Indicators
Annex IV: Project Implementation Plan
Annex V:  Supervision Plan






I. ENTERPRISE SECTOR
A.    Sector Status
1.1    Moldova's industrial and agro-processing enterprises have been coping with a number of factors
inherited from the Soviet era: too many resources located in large loss-making enterprises, outdated
equipment with almost no process or product flexibility, loss of traditional inter-republic markets and
cooperation links, and perhaps most critically, inadequate management skills to cope with market-
induced changes. These structural challenges have been magnified by the implementation of a
stabilization program and rapid privatization. Early success with the stabilization program and mass
privatization was not complemented by adjustment at the enterprise level. By 1995, output had
decreased to 40% of its 1989 level. Contraction in industrial production appeared to have bottomed-out
in mid-1995 but following a slight recovery in early 1996, it continued to fall, reaching 8% for 1996.
With few exceptions, Moldovan enterprises have reacted to the new environment, with its hardening of
budget constraints, almost exclusively through passive strategies: the accumulation of arrears to the
budget, energy sector, wages and to the fragile commercial banks, as well as by increased recourse to
barter trade. Without inducing a more proactive stance of managers, a majority of privatized enterprises
would be forced into bankruptcy over the next few years. Moldova's First Private Sector Development
Project (PSD I), through its successful completion of radical restructuring in over 15 enterprises, has
demonstrated the benefits of non-investment, aggressive, cost-cutting and downsizing measures. These
enterprises, which are well down the road of recovery, are now demanding increasingly more
sophisticated forms of assistance. Such demand for Management Information Systems, Marketing and
Sales, Total Quality Management, ISO certification, as well as training of managers abroad, will only
increase as an additional 40 private enterprises are restructured in 1997.
1.2   Enterprise Sector Structure. Between 1992 and 1995, employment in the economy shrank by
18 percent (377 thousand people). This was mostly due to a sharp reduction of employment in industry
(more than 50 percent) while during the same period employment in agriculture increased by 3 percent.
In spite of reductions in employment in large enterprises--mostly in the former military complex--and
continuous labor reductions in the rest of the sector, large enterprises remain the dominant employers.
As in the other republics of the FSU, industrial enterprises are grossly oversized with a number of
employees listed on the employee rolls but without having been paid for months. The virtual non-
existence of a supportive network of industrial SMEs is a particularly acute problem for Moldova -- with
its small domestic market and traditional agricultural and agro-processing specialization. Over-sized
enterprises are still heavily dependent on cooperation with the producers and traders from the other
republics of the FSU. With the breakup of the USSR, and delay in re-establishing trade links with the
FSU, many production lines and markets were lost. In recent years, Moldovan enterprises have also
faced growing foreign competition in local markets. Participation of firms with foreign capital is low,
despite their dynamic growth in recent years in relative terms. Between 1992 and 1995, their volume of
production increased almost 50 times but by end 1995 they contributed only 3.3 percent of overall
industrial production and employed just 7566 people. This trend continued in 1996.
1



1.3    There have been              Bx 1 bnd strial Output  y   Stors
significant changes in the          (constarntrces, percntge of total00 output
industrial output of particular
sectors (see Box 1). The most       Sector                  1991    1992    1993    1994    1 995    1 996
consequential are: (1) the
practical collapse of light         Er                       2.     ;8;0    1        17.;8 14.6    16. 16
industry and (2) the fast relative    Engineern              5.7    13.6    14.3    10.7      9.2     7.4
growth of the energy sector.            d aperpocessing      3.4    3.1      4.4     4.3      4.1     3.6
growth                    ~~~~~~~~~~~Conistruction Materiafs  4.3  3.9  3.6  4.5     3.8      30
Structural changes measured in      GOssPoeig06                      1.       1.     2.       25      26
t et ra c an~~~~~~~ges mesurdi ciIsssing:::;;00;-0;; li Xft0-t0..l 1  [ .51 i;$¢t ;TtX;t$00.5$00 2.1  232;0 VRt;:2.000t0000t   I6:i
current prices were somewhat        Light Indusy         :22.2    180   :  7.9    6.2         5.A    6.4
different, due to the diversified   FoodjIndutr             40.6    36.1    46.3    42.3    48.6    50.19
sectoral pace of price growth --    s       Moliovan E-o A;mi   L;i dEE*
ysou ce:D Moldov n EconomWc0Trends 9i       0i00 00 0      ; 00 000:;AX00000
the role of the energy sector was
smaller (growth from 2.8 percent to 7.5 percent) but growth of the food industry was higher (from 40.6 to
56.5 percent) than measured by volumes of production.
1.4    Ownership structure began to change significantly in 1994 with the acceleration of mass
privatization. Moldova implemented one of the most rapid and broad-based mass privatization schemes in
the FSU. In addition, the Government has begun to offer some of the so-called "strategic" enterprises, such
as the national airline, through trade sales to strategic investors-preferably Western-while developing its
capacity for regulation and arms-length supervision. Despite these achievements, privatization of the
economy (privatization per se and emergence of a genuine private sector)--as measured by employment--is
not yet completed. In the industrial sector 18 percent of the employees still work for the state, in
agriculture 14 percent; in transport
more than 50 percent; in construction   o                  Eners
19 percent, and in trade 12 percent.    Fonn of Ownership     M192    1993    1994    1995    1 996::
The picture of privatization is also   ______;_________________________________________i___
blurred by the fact that the population  Individual         A5033:  10698  26918   15642:0- 4392!11
invested their vouchers into heavily    of which fs               5    2333   17636    3586   35917
Joint stock;companies    215      429::::: 1061    1854    1600
indebted enterprises, only to became   LimitedLiablit    i    7225      5398    2738    2714    2401
legal owners of firms that were        Cooerative              11461     837     23       19      26
effectively controlled by their        _____________________________________i;___L_i;__i_-______
creditors - which in a majority of     *QQ,19
cases was again the state (due to tax    source: Moldovan Economic Trends
and energy arrears). Nonetheless, there a significant growth of new private firms, particularly in the first
nine months of 1996 (see Box 2). The private sector is expected to further increase with the new
Privatization Program, focussing on cash privatization, that was recently adopted.
1.5    Enterprise Sector Performance. Historical challenges related to the collapse of the Soviet
Union, the severe stabilization program, and deteriorating terms of trade have led to extraordinary
pressure to adjust quickly. Yet, significant adjustment at the enterprise level has only just started to
materialize. Few relationships have been forged with enterprises in non-FSU markets and the new
situation has not stimulated much development of local supportive industries (SMEs) to offset the loss of
traditional suppliers. Enterprises have yet to assume full responsibility for design, marketing,
purchasing, sales decisions, and the development of strong links with local suppliers. Macroeconomic
incentives introduced by the Government are not understood fully or are treated as temporary-all driven
by the unrealistic expectation that "relations from the past will be reestablished." Thus, the structure of
the enterprise sector, by firm size and product range, has not changed for the most part nor has the
2



behavior of much of enterprise management -- except for the firms and their respective managerial ranks
that were and are exposed to the lessons of PSD I.
1.6    The economy continued to shrink for   Box 3. Performance of the Industry Sector (I half 96/1 half 95)
four consecutive years until mid-1995 when
some improvement took place. The tendency    Sector        Sales   Costs of Produc- Employ-
has continued in the first half of 1996 (see                       Sales  tion    ment
Box 3) but has begun to show signs of
reversal during the second half of 1996. The    Industry Total    99.4  100.7  117.4  82.8
financial situation of enterprises in the   MachineBuilding  85.6   S5.8  112.6  86.1
industrial sector is bad and still deteriorating.   LightIndustry   111.3  1M1A6  114.7  76.5
The ratio of earnings before interest and taxes   Furniture  112.3  114.3  121.8  88.3
to sales revenues decreased for industry as a    s     M
source, MinistryofEconomy
whole from 6 percent in the first half of 1995
to 5 percent in the first half of 1996, in machine industry from 9 percent to 7.6, in furniture production
from 8 percent to 6.2. Light industry reported growth of the ratio but at a very low level of 0.2 percent to
1 percent. These poor results--in most cases enterprises are not able to cover accrued interest and
overdue tax payments--are the consequence of too slow a reduction in costs per unit sold. Visibly,
downsizing has not had a significant impact on costs. Wages are low and a large part of employment was
only formal--employees have not been paid anyway. Sustainable improvement of the financial situation
of enterprises will require much deeper changes than a passive reduction of employment; deep cuts in
costs of energy and materials are also needed. In addition, growth of production has been faster than
growth of revenues from production sold. Improvement in this area will require fundamental changes in
marketing and finance -- cutting off clients who do not pay, searching for new clients and suppliers, and
selling off non-essential, unused assets.
1.7    From the perspective of medium term viability, Moldovan industrial enterprises, excluding newly
registered SMEs, can provisionally be divided into three groups, each with specific limitations and
restructuring needs:
*   Enterprises with salable products and local markets. This group is small, and includes
almost exclusively enterprises with an advantage in product characteristics over equivalent
imports, like basic foodstuffs, low priced furniture, services. Even this group is facing
growing competition from other Central and East European and Far East producers.
*  Large enterprises with obsolete products. These are enterprises which used to produce
electro-mechanical specialized and investment equipment, mainly for the military
complex and large state farms of the FSU. These were highly specialized units of an
integrated technological process dispersed all over the FSU and managed centrally from
Moscow. Recession and economic conversion in the FSU have made their products
obsolete. Their conversion as ongoing units will require a fundamental reorientation of
production and substantial long-term financing. Today in Moldova, neither is available.
*  Enterprises coping with one or more major constraints. Those dealing with a decline of
purchasing power domestically and in the FSU, the loss of foreign and domestic markets to
better quality products and/or poor managerial capacity to cope with the challenges. These
are the vast majority of enterprises and they are the primary target for both PSD projects.
3



B.    Issues and Progress
1.8   The major issue affecting the transition of the manufacturing and agro-processing sectors to
market-based behavior is the insufficient adjustment at the enterprise level to a much more competitive
environment. Enterprise adjustment in Moldova has lagged behind other European transition economies
which had similar success with stabilization and privatization. The lack of enterprise level adjustment is
due to a complex set of infrastructural, institutional, and capability deficiencies.
1.9   Proximity of competitive market economies. Given a hard budget constraint environment
introduced by the stabilization program--control of the state budget deficit, price liberalization, falling
inflation, and strong currency--the major factors influencing the slow adjustment of Moldovan firms
have been the lack of commercial contacts with competitive markets, long exposure to the Soviet
economic system and very little autonomy enjoyed by managers under central planning. Moldova--a
land-locked country between Romania and Ukraine--has not benefited from contacts with contestable
markets. In the transition economies of Central Europe, such markets forced local producers to react in
order to compete and survive. Proximity to Western markets made it much easier for Central European
managers to travel and visit similar firms and to access start-up capital, know-how, and equipment
producers. At the same time, Western producers have been increasingly crossing the borders of Central
European transition economies and establishing 'twinning arrangements' of some form. All of the above
have facilitated the transfer of missing skills and assisted Central European firms, particularly SMEs, in
their continuous adjustment to market demands. Lack of bottom-level contacts and inadequate
managerial skills made the interpretation of, and acting upon, economic signals in Moldova
immeasurably more difficult than in Central Europe.
1.10    An inadequate accounting and auditing system. Delays in adjustment are also heavily related
to inadequate accounting and auditing standards and weak incentives to change them. Accounting,
financial reporting and auditing are still oriented outward to feed "the center" with window-dressed
historical data rather than inward, to support managers in their decision-making process. This lack of
motivation was clearly demonstrated during recent pilot liquidations under the SAL when the existing
accounting procedures presented a misleadingly positive enterprise picture and gave managers an argument
not to proceed with necessary downsizing measures. Subsequent experiences with restructuring under PSD
I showed that firms, using GOSPLAN accounting principles (accounting only for cost of goods sold),
reported profits but when International Accounting Standards (IAS) were applied, huge losses appeared. As
the number of enterprises that have undertaken heavy downsizing with the assistance of PSD I increases,
so does the bottom-up demand for introduction of IAS -- from managers who now need proper accounts for
their new management information systems (MIS). The process is accelerated by the availability of the
EBRD and PSD I lines of credit -- both of which require IAS from sub-borrowers and commercial banks.
This increased demand for IAS has allowed NGOs, the Government, as well as US AID supported
consultants, to intensify their efforts on broader implementation of these standards.
1.11    Scarce managerial skills. Managerial skills required to address the deficiencies and achieve
necessary restructuring are scarce and there is insufficient determination to manage the adjustment
process through radical changes in operations, methods, and structure. This includes a lack of skills to
prepare "bankable" projects for financing. Managers of already privatized enterprises that have not yet
passed through the PSD I supported restructuring program lack basic business skills. They remain driven
by volumes of production and see restructuring as contingent on: (1) the purchase of new equipment; (2)
the reintroduction of long-term subsidized financing; and (3) the renegotiation of preferential trade
agreements with FSU countries. Substantial managerial energy is spent on pressuring the Government to
4



secure the above-even after the firms are privatized-thus putting pressure on the Government to soften
hard budget constraints.
1.12    Narrow, yet high volume, product range. Enterprises aiming to shift to more competitive
markets encounter major technological problems. The organization of production has been such that
existing companies have little, if any, process or product flexibility. Most Moldovan industrial
enterprises perform poorly according to common performance benchmarks. The result is low working
capital productivity, high energy dependence, and very high material costs. Improved production
methods demand close consultation with the customer and good relationships with a range of
complementary enterprises. All too often, the lack of orders has contributed to the preservation of
production systems that lack the design, engineering, and organizational capabilities to succeed in a
market economy. Instead, the existing production system combines the low productivity of short runs
with the lack of flexibility of batch production systems. Product flexibility is very limited, due to a
severe lack of industrial design capacity. Consumer goods enterprises are facing a decline in sales due to
declining purchasing power in the FSU and increased competition from firrns outside the FSU. Local
markets occupy only a fraction of installed capacity and enterprises are excessively dependent on
imports. The Moldovan firms visited during preparation of PSD I and the current Project have been
trying to compete by lowering prices but are finding this difficult due to the need to allocate large often
fixed overheads across a low volume of output. Enterprises graduating from the PSD I creditor-led, out-
of-court, debt reconciliation program have in most cases: (1) radically reduced labor; (2) sold unused
equipment, old stocks of raw material and real estate to new entrepreneurs at auction; (3) rationalized
production, resulting in major savings in energy consumption; and (4) intensified their marketing and
sales efforts. Although even these enterprises lowered their costs of production significantly, it is
unlikely that with present quality and design, they could continue to increase the market share for a long
time without a fundamental shift in managerial performance.
1.13    Deficient and untested laws. Poor laws and administrative procedures required to restructure
enterprises are also an impediment to the efficient implementation of adjustment measures. Seven pilot
liquidations which were initiated under the SAL and restructurings undertaken under PSD I highlighted
deficiencies in existing regulations. A new Bankruptcy Law and Collateral Law were enacted in 1996 but
have not been tested in the courts. A Pilot Bankruptcy project has been initiated to help identify
potential bottleneck in the process and will recommend areas that require additional training or fine-
tuning. Once the first experience with restructuring is analyzed, there will be a need for a more
systematic review of the legal system governing commercial activities. Improvement of the courts'
capacity to deal with new and complex commercial issues is also critical.
1.14    Poor corporate governance. Excessively broad distribution of corporate ownership, created
by mass privatization, underdeveloped capital markets, and a lack of functioning shareholders' registrars,
is the main obstacle to efficient corporate governance executed by new private owners. In fact, the
inability to convene General Meetings of Shareholders which could then empower Boards to start heavy
restructuring (downsizing, break-ups, sale of assets) is the major constraint, at the moment, to an
increased number of entrants into the PSD I supported program. Collective investment vehicles-
investment funds, trust companies and citizens' associations (voucher clubs)-have introduced a new form
of collective, indirect ownership which facilitates corporate governance through the accumulation of
larger blocks of voting power. By late 1996, over 40 close-ended investment funds were in operation.
The funds and the banks are not yet important mechanisms enhancing corporate governance and
promoting restructuring of companies, although their role grows steadily. The financial sector faces a
number of immediate structural and regulatory issues that need to be clarified to be an efficient tool to
5



strengthen corporate governance. Protection of secured creditors, and rights of minority shareholders are
two examples of necessary changes. A regulated secondary market for trading shares was established
when the Moldovan Stock Exchange launched its first operations in July 1995 but little trading has taken
place and it has had a minimal influence on corporate governance to date.
1.15    The non-market relationship between government agencies and enterprises. There are
powerful short-term incentives for all the parties involved to soften budget constraints. For the
Government, most of the enterprises are seen as "too big to fail." For creditors, which are often distressed
enterprises themselves, there may be value in waiting. Suppliers are reluctant to provoke a closure of
major customers. A creditor's position may give it additional control over its debtor's behavior.
Enterprises which are individually not "too big to fail" tend to create a network of inter-enterprise
payments and therefore, disperse the potential costs of liquidation throughout a web of enterprises. For
banks, taking action against an undisciplined borrower may reveal the extent of its non-performing debts.
For all creditors, the cost of liquidation combined with the obligatory payments to the budget and
employees, may be higher than the liquidation value of the assets. As a result, even an improved
bankruptcy law and the growth of debts may not be enough to expand the use of bankruptcy proceedings
significantly. While relieance on court bankruptcy procedures will take on an increased role, acceleration
of liquidations, spin-offs and substantial downsizing-- as administered under the SAL and PSD I -- will
have a more powerful psychological demonstration effect for the immediate future. Experience has shown
that fast disposal of unused or underutilized assets has allowed a few major debtors to repay their debts to
their creditors (a former state bank) and thus help the bank itself to significantly improve its porfolio.
1.16    The above deficiencies all contribute to low competitiveness. The GOM's initial reluctance to
privatize SMEs immediately and support the entry of private SMEs (through spin-offs of larger SOEs as
well as the establishment of new SMEs) has only aggravated the current structural weaknesses and
insufficient competitiveness.
C.   The First Private Sector Development Project - Early Results
1.17    The proposed project will build on the groundwork laid by the PSD I Project. PSD I was
specifically designed to help managers interpret their initial exposure to market signals and start
responding to them rationally. Thus, in addition to increasing the pressure on enterprises to adjust and
providing positive incentives for those that do, the project focused on developing local skills in the
private sector necessary to make such adjustment sustainable.
1.18    PSD I has started this adjustment process in a selected number of enterprises when, after a
number of organizational, non-investment measures have already been applied, the utilization of assets and
human resources has improved dramatically. Incentives--both positive and negative--are built into the
process -- an out-of-court, informal, debt-moratorium and restructuring program. The objective was to
jump-start enterprise adjustment by offering the firms and their creditors a voluntary system, supported by
a private contract instead of public legislation, which would: (1) give the enterprises some breathing room
by restructuring current debt service payments, (2) give creditors, both public and private, some hope of
future recoveries by providing an analysis and recommendation as to downsizing and asset sales, designed
to create liquidity that could be used to retire debt and past due budgetary obligations (taxes, social fund,
etc.) and (3) give the owners some hope that, through restructuring, a viable core business could be defined
and saved as a profitable unit which could be expanded later on.
6



1.19    A number of enterprises rushed into the program, expecting some form of traditional debt relief
or subsidy from the state. By October 1995, almost fifty enterprises had signed memoranda providing
them with a temporary freeze of past debts, while covering all the current obligations, and requiring
firms to prepare, agree with their creditors, and initiate implementation, of a restructuring plan. When
the first review in December 1995 showed that six of these enterprises managed to meet only about 80
percent of their current obligations, all six were eliminated from the program by the creditors committee.
This signal further energized the remaining firms--ten of which received TA during PSD I preparation
and SAL implementation--to be more active in reducing costs, collecting receivables, selling unused
assets and inventories, and searching for new markets. These ten firms are continuing their restructuring
by sending their managers on a pilot management training program to help us improve the design of the
Marshall Plan component of the Second Private Sector Development Project (PSD II, the Project) -- paid
by donor financing and the PSD I's technical assistance component.
1.20    Early results of        Box 4. Three Cases of Enterprise Restructuring
PSD I supported
restructuring include:          Industrial Refrigerators: By 1995 MFG, with its 1100 employees, was
improved production             producing about 4% of its 1989 output and average monthly sales volume of
efficiency, significant cost    about $50,000. GoM agreed with the consultants' proposal that the company
reductions (through a range    should be liquidated and that the project be TA used to help with the
reductons (trough   range establishment of SMEs. Less then a year since the inception of the project, on
of measures including           former MFG premises, there are over 30 registered companies, employing over
major downsizing of excess    300--mostly former MFG--workers with a monthly sales volume of around
labor, energy conservation,    $190,000 equivalent.
improved material
Furniture Factory. Stejaur was one of the first MEBOs in Moldova. In mid
management), creation of a    1994 the company started--with TA from PSD--implementing "20 Keys", an
number of new smaller           adapted Japanese package for increasing overall productivity. Stejaur today has a
firms (spin-offs) and           streamlined process which occupies only about 50 percent of the original plant.
sustained ability to meet       New space has been leased or sold to over 20 newly established SMEs (many of
their current obligations (see   them former Stejaur employees), the overall production costs are lower by 30
their current obligations (see   percent, and the company has introduced a range of products of more modem
Box 4). In the period           design. The company is profitable and expanding.
September 1995 - March
1996, state and local          Pharmaceuticals. Visiting parts of Farmaco that have not yet been restructured,
budgets, the Social Fund        resemblies ajourney into the 19 century. Afer signing the Memorandun with
budges,         .       creditors, 150 truck loads of trash were pulled out; 2/3 of premises were washed,.
and other creditors received    painted and equipment rearranged to allow smoothmaterial flow. Improved
US$ 103 million. The            quality control combined with aggressive marketing brought new contracts, and
process is accelerating as      by July the Government received five offers from abroad for its shares in
many of the 75 local            Farmaco. The govemment has now accelerated privatization of this and few
consultants trained during      remaining comnpanies-to make them eligible for the PSD credit line.
project preparation are providing basic restructuring services to enterprises at full cost recovery. The
demand for restructuring services continues to grow and over 100 enterprises have now signed
Memoranda with their creditors, seventeen of which are receiving restructuring assistance.
1.21     While the results achieved to date are excellent and may be unparalleled in the FSU, there is a
long way to go. The program has helped a number of enterprises directly and indirectly. Firms have
streamlined their production methods, attained positive cash flows, and thereby increased their chances
for long-term survival. None the less, the number of enterprises that have benefited from the
restructuring program is still only a freaction of the total number of similar efforts have to continue and
expand so that the results can be better measured at the aggregate level.
7



II. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A.    Background, Objectives and Scope
2.1    The Second Private Sector Development Project (PSD II, the Project) continues to support a broad
program of reforms initiated by the Government of Moldova in the enterprise and financial sectors. The
project builds on already achieved results of PSD I in the enterprise sector and facilitates further
adjustment of Moldovan enterprises towards regional and international levels of competitiveness. The
Project would be supported by a proposed IDA Credit of US$ 9 million, funding from other donors,
including EU(TACIS) and Germany, totaling US$ 2 million, cost sharing by the participating enterprises
totaling US$ 3 million and the Government in-kind contribution.
2.2    Moldovan enterprises have to buy energy and raw materials at world prices and are facing
growing competition in their domestic and traditional markets. PSD I began to address these issues
through the transfer of restructuring skills and the provision of medium-term credit by participating banks.
The initial results have provided a good starting point for a number of restructured enterprises to maintain
and continue improving their competitiveness. These enterprises and many others currently embarking on
the restructuring path require additional and increasingly more sophisticated assistance. Enterprises
which have successfully gone through their initial restructuring must accept continued improvement
efforts as a normal mode of operation and address insufficient product or process flexibility, poor quality
and outmoded design as they try to shift to more competitive markets. Even Moldovan firms which focus
on local markets are confronting increased competition and will also have to start adapting fast in order to
survive. Thus, improving and retaining regional competitiveness will require switching to a philosophy of
continuous improvement by export-oriented firms.
2.3    The vast majority of Moldovan enterprises lack the organizational, engineering and design
capabilities required by international markets. Lack of market information and insufficient managerial
skills compound the problems and contribute to their diminishing market share and poor penetration of
new markets. Moldova will not be able to improve the position of private and privatized firms in isolation
from organizational approaches utilized by successful companies, including those in transition economies,
which compete on regional, EU, or global markets. To improve the current situation, Moldovan managers
need to establish close ties with their customers and with a range of complementary enterprises, domestic
and abroad. The Second Private Sector Development Project aims to develop the competitive advantage
of Moldovan managers of recently privatized and private enterprises in the industrial and agro-
processing sectors vis-a-vis their major competitors in the region.
2.4    The Project concept is founded on the experiences of countries which--lacking in abundant natural
resource or capital endowments--focused on the development of human resources to improve their
competitive position. The best-known examples are found in post-WWII Japan, Western Europe during
the Marshall Plan, and the new industrialized countries of East Asia. All demonstrated a high return to
their efforts to strengthen managerial capacity and overall human resources with dramatic increases in
productivity. Moldova is at a comparable stage -- without the income from extractive industries to
finance growth, Moldova must develop its human resources which are vital to its efforts to turn its
industrial and agricultural sectors into competitive engines of sustained economic growth.
2.5    The principal objective of the Project is to assist the Government in its efforts to increase the
managerial capacity of recently privatized enterprises and thus, improve their productivity and
competitiveness in domestic and international markets (see Diagram 1). This will be achieved by:
8



(1) providing managers with competitiveness information about international and domestic benchmark
standards and marketing requirements and (2) investing in managerial skills through on-the-job training
for managers of private/privatized enterprises by way of secondments to leading industrial counterparts in
Central and Western Europe, East Asia and the United States.
Diagram 1: Project Layout for Moldova PSD II
Sponsors:     IBRD thru PSD I & If           Govemment of Moldova              Dono Community
.4 .--.Program to       _.
Objectives:                                       Improvem -.
F1<--               I .- -- -. L  . .  .   Competitiveness and Productivity .   Foreign
nstitutions: -  :ARIA W -~---~--- -             .Center (CPC)             - -COmpettveneS
v     I ,,- .   .  Como tlveness D.Dfl  IProducvtv Cent es .
InvestingIn      .Insingin.
Actions:                Best Practices                                 Managerial Skills
Total                                        Tralning/             Disseminstion
Products: -    quallty-             Benchmarks              Secondments                0 mgrs
: .: -:   Vmanagement    _F_ D40 mgrslv2n firms    _                             11300 firms 
2.6    The ability of Moldovan industrial and agro-processing firms to successfully compete
domestically and in the region (FSU and CEE) should become a national priority and be recognized as the
main potential advantage of the Moldovan economy. The Government already has a proven track record
of a full commitment to painful but successful reforms undertaken under PSD I. Significant financial
support for the Program will be one important element of the domestic commitment. To recognize the
efforts of participating managers, and acknowledge that they are the driving force for a "new Moldova",
the newly elected President is introducing annual Presidential awards for the Best Manager and Highest
Quality Improvement to further support this initiative.
B. Project Structure
2.7    To service implementation of the Program, a Competitiveness and Productivity Center (CPC, the
Center) will be created. The Center will be an independent, non-governmental and non-profit
organization. The proposed PSD II Project will support two activities: a competitiveness component,
Investing in Best Practice Information (IBPI), and a productivity component, Investing in Improvement of
Managerial Skills (IIMS), which are the two initial programs of the CPC. The first component of the
project, IBPI will invest in information by providing benchmarks on enterprise and sector performance as
well as identification of domestic and international opportunities. The second component, IIMS will
invest in human resources through provision of on-the-job training of managers abroad. IIMS will enable
at least 400 managers from about 200 private enterprises who have successfully completed pre-placement
training or can demonstrate comparative proficiency, to benefit from exposure to enterprises and
management behavior outside of the FSU for periods of up to six months. It is estimated that during the
life of the project, up to 2000 Moldovan managers will participate in pre-placement training--exposing
them to common business foreign languages (English, German, French, Italian), basic computer skills,
and management training. IIMS will also disseminate experiences brought from abroad to other managers
9



and enterprises - indirect beneficiaries of the Program. In Moldova, this represents a significant
proportion of the total enterprise sector and management population. Within the Pilot, the first group of
managers that have successfully completed pre-placement training, will begin their foreign intemships in
Britain on April 1, 1997.
C. Investing in Best Practice Information Component
2.8    The Investing in    *Bx.Coptivns
Best Practice Information                                                                    ...
(IBPI) Component totals    00   : 0 Competitiveness is a multifaceted concept. In essence, cometitiveness is.
US$ 2.50 million of        about creating additional value and capturing greater market share. It can be
which 28.0% would be       analyd at the national, sectoranid enterprise levels. At the natWinal leve/
financed by the proposed    competitiveness reports usually evalate eight1factors: domestic economic1strengt..
IDA Credit. The objective   internationalization, government policies,O finance, -infrascture,umanagement,.
of the IBPI is to enhance    science and technology, and human resources. :In the: non-QECDate gWy
the competitiveness and    Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia and Thaid are consistently rnked wi'th  th ei
raise the productivity of    mostncompetitive countriesaong LDCs.
Mo,dovan enterprises to           At the :ectal level,At t  I  he f ollow factors are important: available1factors-..
international standards    ofprioduction.demand,fistrategy and structure, and governthmentgpolicys as ,
through continuous         atth     rrire ev el n ter  of a met sha  dtrin         ic  an no .-
improvements infprice factors. Non-price factorsd ofcompettivene-such as quality, d    elivery, 'r
international expedrienes    marketplace.                                                       -X::
management prac.lces.  determinants of ernbetitve'641vantcrasmiemok ':e I  ttera'm       E
especially that ofrthe
leading East Asian economies (Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand )--demonstrates
that investment in measures enhancing competitiveness has a significant and long lasting impact on
economic growth (see Box 5). Over the last two decades, Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand have rapidly
learned the principles of the "productivity revolution" following policies of the more advanced
economies of Japan, Korea, and Taiwan. They have successfully implemented similar policies through a
spread of institutions disseminating and implementing better practices, resulting in increased productivity
and growth (see Box 6).
Box 6. Competitiveness and Productivity Centers in East Asia
In Fast Asia, the finctions of competitiveness centers have been distributed among a number of
institutions. l'he earliest institutions were the productivity centers focusing on business/production management
and entrepreneurial training. The most successful centers--found in Japan, Singapore, and Taiwan initially and
later in Malaysia and rhailand--were those that were demand driven. From the 1970's onwards, other institutes
were created that concentrated on standards and quality promotion, improving technical processes, promotion of
technology transfer and absorption. Separate market development centers to gather trade infornation and market
intelligence and to promote product packaging and design were also created in the 1970's and 1980's, e.g., China
External Trade Development Council and Malaysia's Export Promotion Organization. The functions of
competitive centers as seen in the US which deal with competitive strategies and benchmarking slowly crept into
the East Asian institutions in the early 1990's.
Based on the above, together with the ongoing success of ARIA, the envisaged CPC in Moldova should
be a sinall, independent, non-governmental, and non-profit organization operating on the principle of
connections and partnerships. These connections will assist in the acquisition and provision of specific
international best practice information--correcting for the information and knowledge failures endemic to
management in the country. The partnerships will leverage resources and facilities from other institutions and
donors in order to most effectively implement measures to overcome the skills gaps and thereby increase
enterprise competitiveness.
10



2.9    Process. In the first phase (year one) of its operations, the competitiveness program will acquire,
analyze, and disseminate information on competitiveness at the strategic and operational levels. At the
strategic level, it will acquire benchmarking informnation and will disseminate to policy makers and
enterprise managers the competitive position of selected Moldovan industrial and agro-processing sectors.
At the operational level, it will acquire and disseminate benchmarking information on productivity;
technological, organizational, and managerial capabilities of Moldovan enterprises relative to their main
competitors in Central Europe, Romania, and FSU as well as to best practices elsewhere--East Asia, EU.
In so doing, it will establish collaborative linkages with similar competitiveness centers in East Asia,
Europe, and the US, and have access to commercial databases. It will foster an environment for
productivity and quality education and improvement and instill a mind set for productivity and quality at
the national and enterprise levels. With ARIA, the restructuring agency created under PSD I, the CPC
will build close relationships with the best private, export-oriented enterprises including the best
enterprises which have graduated from restructuring and are able to take the next steps to improved
productivity and competitiveness. ARIA, through its restructuring and training programs, will generate
the initial demand for the CPC's services.
2.10    In the second
phase (year two onwards)   Diagram 2: CPC's Organizational Structure and Main Partners
the CPC, in partnership
with other local                Department of
institutions (government        Standardization         Supervisory             Economi
agencies and academia),
will promote and facilitate   Technical
implementation of          Universi                       anagemcnt
international quality and           l
standards at the enterprise                       sProductivity                      A
level. In this regard, the     \                                  -!  rLrn 
CPC will collaborate           ntellectua                      
closely with the               Property
Department of                  Protection
Standardization,               Agency                  ntemaona
Metrology and Technical                                    ctns
Supervision, the State
Agency on Intellectual
Property Protection, the Technical University, and the Economic Academy (see Diagram 2).
2.11    Dissemination Activities. The CPC will sponsor an on-going Competitiveness Forum as part of
its dissemination work on benchmarking, marketing and related activities on continuous improvements in
productivity and quality. The Forum will help the Center establish a standard of excellence based on the
best firms to pull other firms along. It will also provide a platform for the dissemination of views of
visiting foreign experts, for the exchange of local experience to promote cross-learning between
Moldovan managers, and for the interchange of views on competitiveness between representatives of
management, government and labor. The CPC will also produce a Newsletter which summarizes
activities and proceedings of the Forum, and will produce a web-site that includes the cumulative editions
of the Newsletter and other public information. The CPC will have available for dissemination foreign
language translated materials (books, videos, and training materials) and will--following a public
education on quality and productivity--select nominees for the Presidential Awards to the Best Manager
and for Highest Quality Improvement of Firms.
11



D. Investing In Improvement Of Managerial Skills Component (IIMS).
2.12     The IIMS component totals US $1 1.5 million and consists of US$10.8 million to finance
secondments of 400 managers and US$0.7 million to cover the costs of the Productivity Department of
the CPC -- responsible for
organization of secondments      Bx7   asalPa
and dissemination of
experien ces. Out  of the US$    -The Tehnica Assistance Program of the Marshall Plan was the largest and
most comprehensive program of Wassistanceto civilian industry ever undertaken.
11.5 million, 72.2% would be    Ina fw years, between: 1948 and 1960,. and at low cost of $300 million:(or
financed by the proposed            .5 percent of the Marshall Pla), these prgrams Ireached alnost every plant uin
Credit. The basic objective of    every industry, marketing agency, and agriculturalfentity: inthe war-devastated
the IIMS component (Marshall  counriesof Western Europe, introducing them to atechnology more1than a
Plan) is the extensive exposure   generation in advancebof"what they  were then tusing;t: Thebasic instrumentso of
of the management of private    the program were hundreds of studtours, which brought some 24,000 Western
and recently privatized           Europeans0 first hand experienceaof new concepts of organization oftiet
enterprises in industrial and     workplace, marketing and business organization ne  productsand den     d
new equipment. The TA was. offered free,oftcharge ~the high motivation. of
agro-processing sectors to new -g;-ij gg gigi0ig      g.:gf  g Xii        g;i
cgro-prceptssn  skectorsitentew    partlcipants stemmed fronltheir well recogized self-interest and patriotism.
concepts of market-oriented
management, marketing and
production. This will be followed by dissemination to non-participating firns in Moldova. The program
emphasizes the reverse approach to that being practiced today: instead of only sending Western
consultants to Moldova, it will send large numbers of Moldovan managers to advanced producers in
developed countries or countries which have recently restructured their enterprises. The IIMS program
has its precedence in the very successful post-WWII Marshall Plan TA Component wherein West
European managers visited the USA
and which resulted in the non-capital     Box 8  JIMS.: .The PROCESS
productivity increase in individual       BlockI. Pre-Secondment TraininginMoldova
firms by 25 to 50 percent (see Box 7).    Crs Course [50-65 half.daysl:
In Moldova, the expected improvement  A. Language
may be even higher due to the severe      B.-Computer Skills (Word Processor, Spreadsheet; Presentations, Intemret)
misallocation of assets inherited from    C. Management Toolkit (Strategy of Continuousty imnproving Firms .-CIFs,;
Finance; Marketing; I luian Resource Development; Quality Control)
central planning, the low cuffent level    0---   ;0:4X10000000i t  - Sjt-00f:0                       ;S;    
of management training and a huge         Block I1. gSecondments Abroad:. "  
drop in production during the last five    1asic Module: 12 weeks
years.                                    Week. t o 12:
'  oMnday - Thursday: on-the-job training in selected frms
Friday..: in-class training on management techniques
2.13     The Process. Within the          0       j\Xttj00Satuirday: rtepor writlDGgimd: dSnagdren itvini and discussion
CPC, a special program will be            Optional Module: 4 - 8 weeks
established to service implementation     Week I:to] ~4(8):
of the secondments (see Box 8). The               0onday - W ldnesday:" on-te-job trainig
will sr is  Thursday: visitingother enterprisesi
programwlllstarltSworkb                  t-- i -t:01' t 'Frid;Wgtiay:lass'tratningtFi   in-class training
organizing or subcontracting crash                Sura:report preparation.
course training for selected candidates
covering: English or a language of a      BlocktL  Dissemination inf MoldovaW
secondment country, computer skills       3 weeks at CPC debrielingand finalizinthe report, preparation of
Presentations
(word processing, spreadsheet,            3                                                  _weeks:dissemination by series of workshops and visits to Moldovan
presentation package, Intemnet), as well   etrrss
as a basic management "tool kit". It is
expected that approximately 2000 participants will complete these introductory courses, from which
12



candidates will be selected for secondments to selected foreign firms in the same sub-sector to see how
skills, organization, and technology are combined to respond to continuously changing market demand.
Candidates will have to commit to a rigorous and demanding work program. To ensure transparency, the
final choice of secondment candidates will be made by a Selection Committee representing ARIA, CPC,
MOF, as well as the banking and enterprise sectors. They will be obliged by up-front contracts to "pay
back" this investment through their availability in their home country for follow-up dissemination
activities. To minimize costs and maximize the synergy effect, participants will be organized into groups.
The standard group will consist of three members visiting the same host firm. For training purposes two
to four groups can be combined. The secondment period will be divided into two modules: a 12-week
Basic Module and a 4- to 8-week Optional Module. A standard week work load will be as follows: (1)
four days in the host firm on-the-job training, (2) one day of in-class training based on case studies and
specific management courses, and (3) one day of report preparation. The second (Optional) module
would also consist of visits to other leading firms. Approximate costs are presented in Box 9 (page 21).
2.14    Dissemination. On their return, the groups will prepare, with the assistance of the CPC staff, a
thorough written report, including technological information on the operations of the visited firm,
performance studies, quality control, job structure and management, accounting and financing systems,
marketing channels and techniques, and export promotion. They will convene a series of workshops,
wide enough in scope to ensure that everyone with a stake in the industry was exposed to new know-how
acquired by the seconded participants. Managers returning to Moldova will also assist the CPC in
preparation of the next secondments and follow-up activities.
E. Economic Analysis and Rationale
2.15    The Project will assist governmental efforts to increase the managerial capacity of recently
privatized enterprises to improve their productivity and competitiveness, both domestic and international.
This will be achieved by: (1) providing managers with competitiveness information about international
and domestic benchmarking standards and marketing requirements and (2) investing in managerial skills
through on-the-job training for managers of private/privatized enterprises by way of secondments to
leading industrial counterparts in Central and Western Europe, East Asia and the US.
2.16    CAS Priorities. The project addresses two priorities: (1) hardening of the budget constraint in
the enterprise sector and (2) private sector development. To make both processes sustainable, positive
efforts are needed to promote the adjustment of Moldovan enterprises through technical assistance and
dissemination of best practices. SAL and PSD I aimed at accelerating the slow structural changes in the
enterprise sector -- while maintaining financial discipline and thus helping to underpin macroeconomic
stability. PSD I has demonstrated through a pilot that--given political will and readiness to confront large
layoffs--restructuring of enterprises emerging from the Soviet system is possible -- by breaking-up
enterprises and downsizing parts to their viable core. Previously unused assets, freed through this
process, are now being used by entrepreneurs. Under PSD I, the number of restructured enterprises will
be increased to about 50 over the next year with an additional 50 in the following year. However, for the
above process to have a significant impact on aggregate activity, a much larger number of former Soviet--
now privatized--enterprises has to be restructured and a much larger number of managers has to
understand and start interpreting the new "market signals" appropriately. Building on the lessons learned
from the SAL and PSD I, PSD II will enable about 400 managers from approximately 200 private
enterprises to benefit from exposure to enterprises and management behavior outside of FSU and
disseminate their experiences to other managers and enterprises - indirect beneficiaries of the Program. In
Moldova this represents a significant proportion of the total private enterprise sector (15%) and
management population (20%) who will benefit with direct participation in the Project.
13



2.17    The Project is coordinated with other providers of the TA: EU(TACIS) and GTZ. The Project is
pioneering this type of the TA in the Region, however, experience of successful countries of the Region
(Poland, Slovenia, Estonia, Czech Republic, and Hungary) strongly indicates that exposure to Western
management know-how and competition has a critical role in translating macroeconomic signals to
enterprises.
2.18    Adequacy of Policy Environment. Initially, a relatively mild contraction of output was
predicated for FSU countries. This was to be followed by a turnaround stemming from efficiency gains
expected to be released through liberalization and ownership reform. In other words, these macro and
structural reforms were expected to release significant gains -- where managers (and employees) in a
liberalized environment and with incentives from new owners are unconstrained and motivated to increase
efficiency. However, efficiency gains have been slow to materialize. Instead of an U-shaped recovery,
the output has followed an L-shaped pattern of "drop-and-stagnate." The vast majority of newly
privatized enterprises 'refused' to adjust and continued to wait for some kind of assistance from the
Government -- as taken together, they are 'too big to fail'. Early successes of the PSD I out-of-court led
restructuring program, convinced the policy makers in Moldova that restructuring, liquidation and
rationalization of employment may bring quick positive results. PSD II will further refocus the policy
from the short-term interventions--combination of discipline and support--toward a long-term and arms-
length policy of investment in access to commercial information, professional education, and improved
skills of managers and employees. In Moldova, as shown by the SAL and PSD I, the demonstration effect
provided by this Project will have a critical impact on institutional, legal, accounting and other reforms
and--more importantly--on their practical implementation.
2.19   Public/Private Justification. The Project will be funded from the IDA Credit for PSD II in the
amount of US$ 9 million equivalent; participating firms in the amount of US$ 3 million; and grants from
international and multinational donors in the amount of US$ 2 million, over the first five years of Project
implementation. Involvement of the Government as a co-financier of the project is justified by the
infrastructural character of the assistance, the need to continue the privatization effort after its mass
privatization phase, expected large externalities for other enterprises (dissemination) and for employment
and incomes in the economy as a whole. The proposed program resembles in its background and objectives
the TA component of the Marshall Plan implemented in 1950s. Under the Marshall Plan some 24, 000
managers from Western Europe visited the US to learn new methods of organization of production and new
management skills. The program was fully financed by the US Government. Reportedly, the productivity of
participating companies was increased from 25 to 50 percent due just to the improvement in organization and
management, without new investments. This successful model was later followed by Japan and East Asian
countries with similar results. In Moldova, one could expect even better results as Western European
enterprises suffered "only" war devastation and technological gap, with basic market skills and institutions
intact; while the Moldovan economy has to cope with the devastating consequences of the breakdown of the
Soviet system, including huge wastage of resources "programmed" into the system, lack of communication
with external suppliers, producers and consumers for more than fifty years, and a perverse incentive system
for managers and workers.
2.20   At the present stage of transition, understanding the vital necessity for continuous improvement
of firms and attainment of product competitiveness, both of which require investment in related skills, is
not yet internalized and demand-driven. A vast majority of Moldovan enterprises are cash-strapped and
do not see investment in the human (management) factor high on their priority list. There is also no
supply of similar services available in the private sector. An emerging local consultancy business is at the
stage of providing basic services - preparation of business plans for lending purposes, generic
14



management training. For the coming 3-5 years, a new type of institution: non-profit, non-governmental
(but government sponsored and financed) agency is believed to be the best catalyst of (and not a substitute
for) private sector providers of information and consulting services. Preparation of the managers for
foreign secondments (language training, basic computer skills and basic management) will be fully
contracted-out to local private parties.
2.21    Cost/Benefit Analysis. Preliminary cost-benefit analysis indicates significant net benefits from the
Project. Its total costs will depend on the number of participating managers and the duration of their
secondment. An initial sampling of 20 eligible enterprises suggests that some 200 enterprises would be
prepared to cover part of the costs of secondments for approximately 400 managers to participate in the
Program. The Program, realized over a five year period, would cost approximately US$ 11.5 million. The
cost of establishing and maintaining the Productivity Department (PD) of the CPC (responsible for domestic
pre-secondment training, managing the logistics of secondments, and dissemination) for four years would
be close to US$ 0.7 million. The remaining US$ 2.5 million, will be used in IBPI.
2.22    The benefits will be direct and indirect. Principal direct benefits are: (1) the increased value
added (profit and wages) per employee, mostly through cost cutting; (2) increased productivity (energy
efficiency, materials management, plant utilization, and product quality); and (3) increased level of
capacity utilization (through regaining of markets) in participating firms. The indirect benefit is the
externality of productivity improvement in firms which did not participate in the Program but received
detailed reports and participated in free-of-charge, follow-up dissemination of productivity improvement
measures 'copied' from abroad. Without the catalyst of improved management, many privatized firms
would slowly end up in bankruptcy. The Project provides the benefit of preserving and eventually
creating new jobs, thus reducing or eliminating related social costs.
2.23    An estimation of the increase in the value added which may be attributed to the proposed
secondments is complex and has been based on "proxy" indicators: (1) comparison of the present value
added per employee in Moldova with other Central and Eastern European economies in transition and in the
West, and identification of the "room for improvement"; (2) results from implementation of the PSD I.
2.24    An analysis of Moldovan light industry undertaken under PSD I shows that the value added
(wages and profits) per employee per year is between US$300 and US$400. For comparison, in Slovenia
in the same sub-sector it is US$10,000 and in the European Union the average value added is between
US$29,000 and US$39,000. The differences may be mostly attributed to the failures of the previous, and
still prevailing, economic system of management (low X-efficiency). The value added in the former East
Germany was about 27 percent of the West German level, and in the Czech Republic about 31 percent of
the Austrian level. It is clear that in Moldova there is room for dramatic improvement in the value added.
It can be increased easily by a factor of 2, but it will still not come close to the levels of Central European
transition economies.
2.25    Early results in ten out of 11 enterprises restructured under the PSD I Program include improved
production efficiency, significant cost reductions (through a range of measures including major
downsizing of excess labor, energy conservation, improved material management) and creation of a
number of new smaller firms through spin-offs with sustained ability to meet their current obligations. In
one case, due to the restructuring through liquidation, over 30 new private enterprises were established as
spin-offs of the old state enterprise. They doubled the turnover of the former firm and created over 300
new jobs which would have been lost. In another case, a reorganized company, streamlined its processes,
doubled its sales and now occupies 50 percent of its original plant--selling or leasing the rest to 25 new,
15



private companies. Energy costs today are less than 10% of what they were a year ago, while overall
production costs were lowered by 30 percent (see Box 4 on page 7).
2.26    These results are not unusual; in fact, they were achieved by a one-time intervention of local and
foreign consultants. World-wide experience confirms that there is a strong synergy effect when managers
are professionally qualified and motivated to change their enterprises continuously (by using consultants
and own expertise) on a day-to-day basis.
2.27   It is an important underlying requirement of the Program that the managers participating in the
secondments will: (1) prepare detailed reports of their findings during the secondment, and (2) "pay back"
by participation in dissemination of the results in workshops, seminars, visits and explanations to non-
participating enterprises. In Moldova, as PSD I experience shows, there is a very strong demonstration
effect. There are numerous examples of demonstrated interest regarding the results of enterprises
undergoing restructuring under PSD I from other, non-participating firms.
2.28    Sensitivity and Risk Analysis. The risk of project failure or low effectiveness is minimal if the
Project can be implemented according to the proposed guidelines and terms of reference. The potential
risk related to project implementation results from two extreme scenarios: (1) insufficient demand for the
TA provided by the Project, or (2) serious diversion from the approved criteria for participation.
Insufficient demand may result from the shortage of co-financing resources required from candidates
and/or inability to pass strict selection criteria (foreign language, computer literacy, basic knowledge of
managerial techniques). An initial group of eight managers has just completed a three-month training
course, while some 60 additional managers, each paying the full $2000 fee, have signed up for the next
several rounds of training. On the other end, selection criteria may be scaled-down to include lower
quality candidates. There is a potential risk that selected participants will not fully use the opportunities
available to them during the foreign secondment. All of these risks may be minimized by proper Project
set-up in Moldova and in visited countries. Project implementation will be based on formal agreements
with participating firms and with host countries (host firms and organizing counterparts).
2.29    Fiscal Impact/Cost Recovery. On the cost side, there will be no immediate fiscal impact, in the
long run it will be the repayment of the IDA Credit and service charge. On the benefit side, it is expected
that participating companies will increase their incomes shortly after participation in this Program and
therefore, make tax payments to the budget. (As noted in par. 2.20, in the period September 1995 - March
1996, the State and local budgets, the Social Fund and other creditors received US$103 million as
enterprises participating in PSD I started making their current payments.) The Social Fund will also save
on severance and unemployment benefit payments to employees who would lose their jobs if firms were
not restructured and went bankrupt.
2.30    Institutional Capacity. Moldova is only starting to build new institutional capacity supporting
emerging private businesses, following Western models. The largest asset in this effort is a genuine
understanding and enthusiasm at the highest level of the government for institution building. Experience
and achievements of PSD I supported Agency for Restructuring and Enterprise Assistance (ARIA) and the
Technical Unit are very encouraging. In just over a year, ARIA has become a center of excellence: over
70 local consultants have been trained in basic restructuring techniques, the first seventeen enterprises
have been restructured and results are regularly disseminated, thus increasing the demand and motivation
for restructuring in the enterprise sector. To service implementation of the Project, a Competitiveness and
Productivity Center (CPC, the Center) has been created. The Center will be an independent, non-
governmental and non-profit organization. The proposed PSD II Project will support a competitiveness
16



component, Investing in Best Practice Information, and a productivity component, Investing in
Improvement of Managerial Skills, which are the two initial programs of the CPC.
F. Detailed Project Costs and Financing Plan
2.31    The total project cost is US$14 million of which US$ 9.0 million equivalent will be financed by
an IDA Credit. The Investing in Best Practice Information (IBPI) component totals US$2.5 million of
which only US$0.7 million will be financed by the IBRD Credit, the remainder will be supported by EU
TACIS (US$1.8 million).
2.32   US$8.3 million from IBRD will assist the Government in supporting the Investing in Managerial
Skills (IIMS) component which supports the Productivity Department of the CPC as well as the Marshall
Plan for Moldova study tours (the Marshall Plan). Firms participating in the Marshall Plan segment of the
Project will contribute US$ 3 million to IIMS and GTZ will finance US$ 0.2 million thus bringing the total
project cost for IIMS to US$ 11.5 million. The majority of this amount, US$10.8 million, will be used to
invest in the development of managerial skills of local managers (400 managers at $23,000 - $28,000 each)
through a three pronged program. This program will consist of: (1) local training to bring the participating
managers up to minimum business practices standards (language, computer, management, etc.)--financed
entirely by the participating firm; (2) Secondment to foreign firms which will provide on-the-job training--
the majority of which will be financed by the Credit; and (3) dissemination of lessons learned from the
secondments so that firms/individuals who are unable to participate will be able to access the lessons
learned by their peers and also benefit. Dissemination will largely be financed by participating firms.
2.33   It is expected that no more than 2-3 individuals per firm will participate in the secondment
program to allow a greater number of firm's managers to be exposed to international practices. Based on a
demand survey completed during project preparation, eligible firms have agreed to provide up to $5000
per participant in the secondment program, which includes the approximately $2000 fee required for pre-
placement training. Total costs for the 90 day overseas on-the-job training, per person in a group of 3
people each, has been approximated at US$23,000 - $28,000 (transportation 500; per diem and hotel
8,100; foreign training institute 7,200; 5% overhead; and fees to the host company 6,000).
2.34    This technical assistance supports the efforts of the Bank, the Government and the international
donor community to implement the Government's reform program in the enterprise and financial sectors.
To date, the Donor community has been in full agreement with and wholeheartedly supports, the
objectives of PSD II and have generously provided resources to that effect. EU (TACIS) has agreed to
support IBPI in the amount of ECU 1.5 million and will consider additional allocations at the Project's
mid-term review. GTZ is supporting pilot secondments as part of project preparation activities and will
consider additional resources upon evaluation of the initial results.
2.35    Domestic financing (US$ 3 million equivalent) is envisaged from participating firms, on a cost-
sharing basis, for the Marshall Plan component of the project. The Government is also expected to support
PSD II by in-kind grants such as office space, office equipment, and telephone lines to the CPC. The main
merit of this source is that it demonstrates the Government's commitment to the proposed Program and its
objectives.
17



Detailed Project Costs
US$ million equivalent
COSTS                  FOREIGN COSTS        COMPONENT
PROJECT COMPONENT                                                                      % TOTAL          COSTS % TOTAL
LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOTAL        PROJECT COST        PROJECT COST
INVESTING IN BEST PRACTICE INFORMATION                       2.50        2.50            100.0                17.9%
INVESTING IN MANAGEMENT SKILLS
Productivity Department of CPC                           0.70        0.70            100.0                 5.0%
Marshall Plan                                  3.0       7.80       10.80             72.2                77.1%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                3.0       11.0       14.00            78.6%               100.0
Detailed Financing Plan
US$ million equivalent
LOCAL                      FOREIGN
PROJECT COMPONENT                                    GOM/       IDA                    OTHER    TOTAL         % IDA
FIRMS                                                   FINANCING
INVESTING IN BEST PRACTICE INFORMATION                          0.70                     1.80        2.50       28.0%
INVESTING IN MANAGERIAL SKILLS
Productivity Department of CPC                             0.70                                 0.70       100.0%
Marshall Plan                                    3.00       7.60                    0.20       10.80        70.4%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                  3 .00      9.00                    2.00       14.00        64.3%
18



III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Arrangements
3.1    The Executing Agency for the Borrower (the Republic of Moldova) would be the MOP through
which the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is currently responsible for overseeing and coordinating the
implementation of PSD I. The PIU would continue to perform the same functions for PSD 1I. The PIU
would coordinate with the Competitiveness and Productivity Center which will be responsible for each of
the two Project components. Once the IDA Credit becomes effective, the PIU would be authorized to
request disbursements from the Credit Account and be in charge of opening and administering the
associated Special Account. The PIU, as part of the External Financing Department of the MOF would--in
addition to already existing staff--require budgeting for one additional professional staff who would be in
charge of day-to-day operations regarding PSD II. The appointment of this individual will be a condition
of effectiveness. The Director of the PIU, a senior member of the External Financing Department, already
managing PSD I on a part-time basis, would also be responsible for managing PSD II.
B. Investing in Best Practice Information
3.2   To manage and coordinate technical assistance required for both components--Investing in Best
Practice Information and Investing in Improvement of Managerial Skills--a Competitiveness and
Productivity Center has been established. The Competitiveness Department of the CPC will be responsible
for implementation of the IBPI component. Funding for IBPI, totaling US$2.5 million would be channeled
through the PIU to the CPC in the form of a non-reimbursable allocation from the Government. Efforts to
fund this component from foreign grants have already bome fruit. EU(TACIS) has already approved ECU
1.5 million (US$1.80 equivalent). Only US$0.7 million is expected from the IDA Credit to cover the
recurrent costs. A Funds Transfer Agreement (FTA) between the MOF and the CPC for the non-
reimbursable allocation from the Government will be signed. The guidelines for the FTA, financially
supporting the CPC's responsibility for both project components, were reviewed with the Moldovan
authorities during project preparation, and a satisfactory version of such an Agreement will be signed by
the responsible parties and delivered to the Association as a condition of effectiveness.
3.3    The CPC is a non-governmental, not-for-profit, independent legal entity, supervised by a
Supervisory Board, composed of two high-level government officials, two representatives of the donors
financially supporting the CPC, and one representative each from academia, business, and labor. The
Board will be responsible for the overall strategy of the Center, coordination with donors, and it will
monitor the use of resources committed by the Government and donors. The appointment of the
Supervisory Board and its President will be a condition of effectiveness. Staffing of the CPC, upon the
Association's "no objection" to the relevant TORs, will be the responsibility of its Executive Director.
3.4    The Center's programs will be implemented and administered by the Executive Director who will
be a full-time paid employee of the Center. The Excecutive Director of the CPC, satisfactory to the
Association, has been appointed. The Executive Director will report directly to the President of the
Supervisory Board and carry out all functions related to the Center. Recurent costs related to maintaining
the CPC on an on-going basis will be financed 100% from the Credit. Foreign experts will be hired as
consultants and be eligible for financing as consultant services using TACIS funds.
1 9



C. Investing in Improvement of Managerial Skills
3.5    The Productivity Department of the CPC will be responsible for implementation and dissemination
of experiences from the Investing in Improvement of Managerial Skills component. Funding for the IIMS
totaling US$ 8.3 million would also be channeled through to the CPC through the MoF in the form of a
grant from the Government. Participating enterprises are expected to provide US$3 million on a case-by-
case basis, while further efforts will be made to fund part of this component with foreign grants. US$8.3
million is expected to require financing from the IDA Credit. Financial arrangements would be finalized
between the MoF and CPC under a Funds Transfer Agreement (see par. 3.2 above).
3.6    The basic objective of the Productivity Department of the CPC is to manage the entire process of
seconding 400 managers from about 200 private or privatized Moldovan enterprises. This will enable the
maximum dissemination of experiences gained abroad to the widest number of local beneficiaries--
managers and enterprises that did not directly participate in the secondments. To secure optimal benefits
of the secondments, a special selection process will be developed covering basic foreign language
training, computer skills and introduction to management skills/training. Final selection of secondment
participants will be made by a Selection Committee (see para 2.13) to ensure transparency. To facilitate
start-up of these foreign placements, a pilot secondment program has been initiated during project
preparation. This pilot will train, test and select the first group of managers to participate -- under an
already approved GTZ grant. A specialized, independent training institution--the Multimedia Training
Center--has already been established and has begun operations with the first group of managers at full
cost recovery. Guidelines, regulating the mutual obligations between the enterprise/manager, and the
CPC as well as a sample Participation Agreement, regulating obligations between the CPC and seconded
managers are presented in Annex I.
3.7    Staffing. The productivity program, IIMS, will be locally managed by the CPC. There will be a
mix of experienced (retired) local and foreign managers, a group of young professionals, and support
staff -- whose primary task will be to monitor the quality of pre-placement training, ensure selection of
the best candidates, and organize dissemination. During project implementation, young professionals
may participate in the secondments as interpreters while at the same time, assimilating on their own as
additional participants. A person or organization in the host country will be designated as the
coordinator to be responsible for contacts with host firms and for the organization of host country
training activities (likely sub-contracted to a local productivity or specialized training organization). The
host firm will designate a guide to be responsible for day-to-day, on-the-job training and supervision of
the progress made with presentation of reports in selected host firms.
3.8    Targeted Participants and Eligibility Criteria. The targeted participants are medium-to-senior-
level managers of private/privatized companies from industrial and agro-processing sectors with a strong
motivation to learn. They will have basic competency of English or another commercial language, basic
computer skills and knowledge of management techniques (as defined in Block I or the successful
completion of Block I training). Eligible firms willing to designate managers for the Program have to be
private, without any overdue obligations to the state budget, or privatized firms in the process of
restructuring following the creditor-led restructuring program within the framework agreed under PSD I.
3.9    Cost Sharing. The participating firm would be expected to cover all the local costs during the
first and the last blocks of training (pre-placement training and dissemination of lessons learned), per
diem abroad, and transportation costs. A survey undertaken in October 1996 indicated that out of 20
firms, 16 were prepared to cover up to US$5000 per person. This is a significant effort for most of the
interviewed firms. On average, this sum is proportionally much greater than spending by Western firms
of comparative size on training activities. To secure participation of SMEs--which can economically
20



justified only very small expenditures on training--in exceptional cases and upon a decision of the
Supervisory Board of the Center, a larger part of secondment costs may be covered from PSD II
proceeds or grant financing.
3.10    Total Program Costs for        Box-9 Approximate Costs per Participant [US Dollars]
Investing In Improvement Of
Managerial Skills. An initial sampling of  BLOCK I
20 eligible enterprises suggests that some    Locl Costs
200 enterprises could be ready to             Training       2000
delegate approximately 400 managers to   BLOCK 1l1Module I
participate in the Program. The basic          Cosits Abroad: [90 days, per person]
Program (Blocks I, & II/Basic Module)         Transportation    500
would cost some US$11.5 million,               Per Diem       3,600 [90 days @'$401
Accommodation   4,500 [90 days @ $601
including the costs of establishing and       T               7,200 [24 days @ $300]
maintaining the productivity program           Host Company    6.000 [60 days & $100]
IIMS of the CPC for two years (one             Total Direct                      21,800
foreign expert, two senior local staff, 14    TOvethead costs 5%                  1.u090
young professionals serving secondments       Total BLOCK llMOdUIe I             22,890
as interpreters and learning on their own,     Total BLOCKS I & li/Basic Module  24,890
partly financed from the Program, two
support staff, and start-up costs).           BLOCK Il/Optional Module
Approximate costs per participant are          Specification as BLOCK II/Module 1: between 10,000 - 20,000
shown in Box 9 and an Implementation
Plan are found in Annex II.
3.11    A list of process and outcome performance indicators (Annex III ) has been discussed with and
agreed to, by the Government. These indicators, on the process side, include the creation and maintenance
of a database of international product benchmarks in the CPC, the identification of private/ privatized firms
committed to investing in their managers, and the number of host firms committed to participation in the
secondment program. The most important outcome indicators are: the number of benchmark comparison
reports requested by local firms, the number of firms with ISO certification, the participation of secondees
in dissemination efforts of lessons learned, and the financial self-sustainability of the CPC. The increase in
the profits of participating firms over five years (after subtracting the firm's cost sharing) should so
substantially exceed the grant funding to the participating firm that secondments might be continued for
other firms on a commercial basis at full cost recovery after the grant funding is finished.
D. Procurement
3.12    The project will finance the recurrent costs of the CPC--US$0.7 million for the Competitiveness
Department (IBPI component) and another US$0.7 million for the Productivity Department (IIMS
Component). The project will also include the IDA financed procurement of services in accordance with
the " Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" of January 1997.
3.13    Procurement process for placement of 400 managers into firms abroad. The borrower has
prepared a General Procurement Notice (GPN) and it has been published in the April 16, 1997 issue of
United Nations Development Business (UNDB). After a period of sixty days, the borrower will advertise
to identify firms interested in organization of secondments of Moldovan managers in foreign firms. The
borrower--thirty days--after advertising in a national newspaper and in UNDB -- will shortlist up to six
companies and invite them to prepare proposals. The invitation will include the TOR, prepared by the
Borrower, outlining the specific nature of this project: (1) the training will include in-company (80 percent)
21



as well as classroom (20 percent) placements during 3-6 month secondments and-- (2) regional preference
(at least 60 percent of placings should be in Central and Eastern European transitional economies). The
TOR, Letter of Invitation (LOI), Request for Proposal (RFP) and Information to Consultants will be
submitted to the Association by May 31, 1997.
3.14     The borrower will select--through a Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) process the
short list of firms to manage the training process. Only the financial proposal of the firms scoring 75
points or more in the technical evaluation will be opened and up to three of the top ranked firms will be
hired to manage the training program. The financial proposal will be based on a lump sum for the
training of 50 managers in one year. The details of the assignment (i.e. 4 month foreign placements, 50%
in EU countries, 50% in CEE countries) shall be clearly stated in the LOI and TOR.
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Methods                       Total
Project                       ~~~~~~~~QCBS    QBS    Other       NIF          cost
1  Goods
1.1              Office supplies                                  .05                     0.05
(.05)                  (0.05)
2  Contract Services
2.1              Foreign Placements        7.60                  .05                      7.65
(7.60)                 (.05)                   (7.65)
3  Consultancies
3.1              Technical Assistance                                         2.00        2.00
3.2               Training                                                    3.00        3.00
4  Miscellaneous
4.1              Recurrent Costs                                 1.30                     1.30
(1.30)                   (1.30)
TotalBank/I1DA                    ~7.60                                   -1.40                     :9.0
1.QCBS, Contract Services for foreign placementsvwill be procured on the basis of Janury: 1997 XGuidelines on the Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World BankDlTrrowers                            ...
2. Other: Recurrent costswill be financed by the Credit's proceeds on a grant basis through a Funds Transfer Agreement
betweentihleMOF and CPC.0 0 0000000000;.-0 
K3..NonIA Financing (NIF) ifor technical assistance to the CPCwill Ibe provided by; EU TACIS and other bi-lateral:donors.
4. Technical Assistance includes those services required by the CPCjto establish, implement, disseminate best practicee
lin ratiton
m5iTrainingis expected to include the pre-secondment training of managers for aonthe-job training abroad (the Marshall Plan
component (IIMS) of the Project) which is0being implemented by the CPC. Additional training of CPC staff is expected but
will be,minimal, the majority of which is financed bythe existing PURDgrant.
6. Goods: (office equipmnt) will be procured using National Shopping methods.
7. The CPC£ is a non-governmental, not-for-profit,independent entity.
22



Procurement Information
--Section 1: Procurement Review
..         .          . ~~~~~~~~~~~~..  on        ire.
Element (Goods/Works)            ICB               NCB                IS                    NS                Other methods
1. Procurement method thresholds                                                            office supplies:    prior approval of annual budget
n.a.             n.a.                n.a.                 <$50,000          for operating costs
2. Prior Review                  n.a.              n.a.               n.a.                  no                yes
Element (Consultant Services)    QCBS              QBS                Sole Sourcing         Least Coast       Other methods
3. Procurement method thresholds                                      <$100,000 - Expert(s)
>$200,000         n.a.               for IBPI/IIMS        n.a.              n.a.
4. Prior Review                  yes               n.a.               yes                   n.a.              n.a.
5. Ex-post Review: contracts not  Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism: Ex-post review will be done in accordance with Appendix I of the
subject to prior review          Guidelines for IBRD Loans and IDA Credits.
- ... -Section 2. Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
6. Brief statement: Primary responsibility for overseeing implementation of procurement procedures will rest with the staff of the CPC. CPC will develop
monitoring and reporting system. Reports will be submitted quarterly.
7. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status:  8 Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the
Country Procurement Strategy Paper is being finalized.                          first year ready by negotiations? Draft documents by negotiations;
Final versios ready by Board
Section 3. Training, Information and Development on Procurement
9. Estimated date of Project Launch   10. Date of General  11. Indicate if contracts are subject to   12. Domestic  13. Domestic Preference
Workshop: Sept. 1997             Procurement Notice       mandatory SPN in Development        Preference for     for Consultant Services:
publication: March 97   Business:        Yes                Goods/Works: No    Yes
14. Retroactive financing: none                                               i 15. Advanced Procurement      No
16. Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System and Information System: The CPC will develop a monitoring/reporting system for timely implementation
of training.
.:. ::Section 4. Procurement Staffing
17 Indicate name of Procurement Staff as part of Project Team:                     Division:             Ext.
Vesna Petrovic, Operations Analyst, EC4EF, x38966 with back-up from Snezana Mitrovic, Procurement Analyst, x32182
18. Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement:
Field Office will provide back-up on procurement issues to project team.
23



3.15    Each of the qualifying firms will be hired to organize placement and training for a group of
Moldovan managers not exceeding 150 over a five year period. The project will be divided into three
Phases (not more than 50 managers will be trained in each Phase). Following each Phase, the Borrower
and the firms will evaluate results and decide whether to proceed with the next phase/batch. The LOI and
TOR will describe the guidelines establishing the basis for the allocation of the trainees under each of the
contracts in a fair and efficient manner (by sector, remaining capacity, geographical spread, etc.) as well
as the selection criteria and basic qualification requirements of the trainees. The LOI would indicate that
contracts may be subject to extension under same terms and conditions for the following years with the
prior approval by the Association.
3.16    Procurement review: For IIMS component, prior Association review will be required for the: (i)
GPN and Specific Procurement Notice; (ii) TOR; (iii) the short list of firms; (iv) the evaluation reports
(technical and combined proposals); and (v) the contract. The Association will also review and approve ex-
ante: (i) the contracts of the selected firms and (ii) the evaluation report of each completed phase and
decision to continue/discontinue with the next phase (managerial group). Prior review will also be required
for the CPC's annual budget and any sole-source consultant contracts.
Procurement Plan: Moldova PSD II Project
-      3X   L  4         54 |_ 4  5          6. 0Estimated&Schedule
No.    Est.   Proc.      Pre-    Doc.   Invit.  Contract  Contract
Description'    Type'  stages3  cost   method5   qualif  Prep.   to bid  signing    Completion
1st Placement    TR       3      1.9    QCBS       May    June    June   Sept 97    Sept 2001
2nd___ Placement    TR  3  1.9    QCS May  June      une Sept997  97  972001
2nd Placement    TR       3      1.9    QCBS       May    June    June   Sept97    Sept 2001
_______  ________ 97   97       97     _ _ _ _ _
3rd Placement    TR       3      1.9    QCBS       May    June    June   Sept97    Sept 2001
_______  ________ 97   97       97     _ _ _ _ _
4th Placement    TR       3      1.9    QCBS       May    June    June   Sept 97    Sept 2001
_______  ________ 97   97       97     _ _  _ _
T.A.             n.a.    n.a.    2.0    NIF        n.a     n.a      n.a    n.a.       n.a.
Training         n.a.    n.a.    3.0    NIF        n.a     n.a      n.a    n.a.       n.a.
Recurrent Costs   n.a.    n.a.    1.3    Other     n.a     n.a      n.a    n.a.       n.a.
TOTAL I:         __   _   1 .0     _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ __            _  _     _   _  _
Firms interested in organizing the foreign placements of Moldovan managers in foreign firms.
2 TR for training.
3The foreign placement contracts will be divided into three, consecutive stages. Successful completion of prior
stage is required for subsequent award. Lump-sum Contracts, Indefinite Quantity Agreements will be used.
4Expressed in US$ millions.
5Indicate QCBS (for Quality and Cost Based Selection); Other (for recurrent costs procured on the basis of
administrative procedures based on a schedule and budget acceptable to the Association); NIF (not IDA
financed).
24



E. Disbursements
3.17    To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower will establish a Special Account in one of the
major foreign commercial banks with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association to cover the
Association's share of expenditures. The Authorized Allocation to the Special Account will be US$
600,000. During the early stage of the Project, the initial allocation to the Special Account will be
limited to US$ 300,000. When the aggregate disbursements have reached the level of US$ 1,000,000, the
initial allocation may be increased up to the Authorized Allocation of US$ 600,000 by submitting the
relevant Application for withdrawal. Applications for replenishment of the Special Accounts will be
submitted monthly or when one-third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs first.
Documentation requirements for replenishment will follow standard Association procedures as described
in the Disbursement Handbook, Chapter 6. Monthly bank statements of the Special Account, which have
been reconciled by the Borrower, will accompany all replenishment requests. The minimum size of
application for payment directly from the account will amount to 20% of the authorized allocation to the
Special Account.
3.18    Disbursements will be made against Statements of Expenditures for contracts below
US$100,000 for consultant firms and below US$50,000 for individual consultants. All disbursements
above a threshold of US$ 100,000 for firms and above US$50,000 for individual consultants will be made
against fully documented withdrawal applications. The prior review for SOEs will be the same as for the
procurement prior review (see Procurement Infonnation table on page 23).
3.19    The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001. The proposed closing date is
June 30, 2002.
F. Project Accounting, Financial Reporting, Auditing and Supervision
3.20   Accounting. The Borrower will have responsibility for the appropriate accounting of the funds
provided under the Credit, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that audits of the
financial statements or reports are submitted to the Association. The PIU, on behalf of the Borrower,
will establish an appropriate accounting system to provide information on the proper receipt and use of
funds in accordance with the Credit Agreement. The system should ensure timely and accurate
accounting of all transactions under the Credit and clear presentation of the financial information.
3.21    Financial Reporting. Financial reporting for the Project components will be carried out by the
PIU closely reflecting the specific requirements of the Credit. It will consist of a statement of receipts
and payments for the reporting period since the beginning of the Project. The reporting will be in
accordance with disbursements classified and reported by the expenditure categories agreed to with the
Borrower and spelled out in the legal documents. Semi-annual progress reports will be submitted by the
CPC to the PIU, which will act as coordinator for all financial reporting. The PIU's quarterly reporting
will include a separate report with respect to the Special Account. An Implementation Completion
Report will be submitted to the Association by the PIU promptly after the completion of the program, not
later than six months after the Credit's closing date.
3.22    Auditing. Financial statements and reports on the Credit (including the Special Account) will
be audited by an auditor acceptable to the Association and audit reports will be submitted to the
Association within six months of the end of the fiscal year. Selected auditors must be: (1) impartial and
independent from the entity to be audited; (2) well-established and reputable; (3) experienced in the type
25



of assignment to be undertaken; and (4) able to fulfil! the terms of reference required within the specific
timetable.
3.23    Project Supervision. The proposed project focuses on the establishment of a new institution,
the Competitiveness and Productivity Center, through which the project's components will be
implemented. There will be a strong emphasis on Association supervision to ensure that the activities of
the CPC conform with plans and agreements. Program supervision input by Association staff is therefore
expected to be above average, particularly at the early stage of project implementation. The use of the
existing PIU from PSD I will help facilitate smooth project implementation and supervision. In addition,
annual, audited reports will be prepared by an auditor acceptable to the Association and audit reports will
be submitted to the Association within six months of the end of the CPC's fiscal year. A mid-term
review, scheduled for 2 years after implementation,--tentatively scheduled for June 1999--will review the
Project's success in meeting its objectives and mid-course adjustments will be made as appropriate.
26



IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Project Benefits
4.1    Anticipated benefits of the proposed Project are:
(i)    strengthening the management capacity of managers of new private and privatized firms;
(ii)   providing a supply response for the Government's stated policy of export promotion by
improving the competitiveness of firms through on-the-job secondments to
internationally competitive firms;
(iii)  improvement in the quality of products through an introduction of Total Quality
Management and access to informational database benchmarks; and
(iv)   enabling the absorption of lessons learned by those firms unable to participate in the
Project through extensive dissemination efforts of the CPC.
B.    Project Risks
4.2    The Project risks to be addressed are complex and diversified: institutional, cultural, and
psychological. Similar Centers have well established track records in providing successful assistance to
enterprises in other emerging economies, such as those in Asia. The lessons learned in those countries,
although strongly encouraging, may be of limited importance in Moldova--a country with a different
cultural and economic background. The project, in particular, faces the following risks:
(i)   the selection mechanism for participation in the secondment program may not
effectively identify those managers willing to change and follow through with
dissemination efforts organized by the CPC--the Letter of Understanding has been
drafted to specifically address this risk;
(ii)   possible decline of Governmental commitment that would lead to pressure on the CPC
resulting in the selection of non-qualified managers to the program so that the
secondments become junkets -- the Project design requiring the firm's financing of all
the local costs specifically addresses this risk through mandatory, pre-secondment
training in languages, basic computer skills, and management; and
(iii)  institutional weakness of the CPC which would lead to the inefficient dissemination of
lessons learned from the on-the-job-placements-technical assistance has been
incorporated into the project design specifically to address this risk
4.3    The project design introduces a number of measures for early identification of symptoms, their
prevention, and mitigation of consequences. These measures are:
(i)   full transparency of the process of attracting and selecting candidates;
(ii)    measurable tests for skills proficiency of candidates, published in advance;
(iii)   measurable and detailed performance indicators for subcontracted secondments
coordinators in host countries;
(iv)   financial commitment of participants and a very stringent budget of government
financial support;
(v)    close, formal and informal, links of the Project Team with the CPC Supervisory Board,
management and staff.
4.4    All of these should lead to the Program's perception as being an attractive but fair and "no pain
no gain" investment in professional skills.
27



V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Agreements
5.1   During negotiations, agreements were reached on all Credit documentation, as well as the
following:
(i) the establishment and appropriate staffing of the CPC (para's. 3.2 and 3.4); (ii) the specific set
of eligibility criteria for participants in the Marshall Plan (para. 3.8); (iii) the Participation
Agreement between the CPC and participating enterprise including a Letter of Understanding
between the CPC and the seconded managers (para 3.6); (iv) completion of a draft Funds Transfer
Agreement between the MOF and the CPC (para 3.2); (v) General Procurement Notice for QCBS
of Contract Services (para 3.13); and (vi) confirmation on type of Bank lending instrument.
5.2   As effectiveness conditions:
(i) The appointment to the PIU of professional staff who would be in charge of day-to-day
operations regarding PSD II.
(ii) Satisfactory version of a Funds Transfer Agreement between the MOF and the CPC will be
signed by the responsible parties and delivered to the Association.
(iii) The appointment of the CPC's Supervisory Board and its President
B.    Recommendations
5.3   The proposed Project provides a suitable basis for an IDA Credit to the Republic of Moldova.
The Credit will be in and amount equivalent to SDR 6.6 million (US$9.0 million), with 35 years
maturity, including a grace period of 10 years.
28



Annex I
An Agreement Between the Competitiveness and Productivity Center and an Enterprise
Participating in
"Investment in Improvement of Managerial Skills Program"
[The Guidelines]
1.    Background. It is the Government policy and priority to increase managerial capacity of
recently privatized enterprises in industrial and agro-processing sectors and to improve their
productivity and competitiveness domestically and internationally. One of the important
components of this policy is an "Investment in Improvement of Managerial Skills Program" (the
Program). The program is a vehicle for investing in managerial skills through on-the-job training
for managers of privatized enterprises by way of secondments to leading industrial counterparts
in Central and Western Europe and East Asia. The implementation of this Program has been
entrusted to a Competitiveness and Productivity Center (CPC), an independent, non-
governmental and non-profit organization.
2.    The basic objective of the Program is the extensive exposure of management of private
and recently privatized enterprises to new concepts of market-oriented management, marketing,
and production. This will be followed by dissemination to non-participating firms in Moldova.
3.    Targeted Participants and Eligibility Criteria. Eligible firms willing to designate
managers for the Program have to be private, without any overdue obligations to the state
budget or privatized firms in the process of restructuring following the creditor-led restructuring
program within the framework agreed under the PSD I. The targeted participants are medium-to
senior-level managers from private/privatized companies from industrial and agro-processing
sectors with passive knowledge of English or a language of a visited country, basic computer
skills and knowledge of management techniques, and strong motivation to learn. Candidates will
have to commit to a rigorous and demanding work program. The candidates have to prove their
passive knowledge of English or a language of a secondment country, computer skills (word
processing, spread sheet, presentation package, Internet), as well as knowledge of basic
management techniques and continuous improvement. The Center will organize, for fee, a
crash-course training for selected candidates in the above mentioned areas. The candidates will
be obliged by this contract to "pay back" this investment through their availability for follow-up
dissemination activities.
4.    The Program Components. The Program will have three components (blocks):
preparatory training qualifying managers for the second block of secondments abroad, and the
third block for finalizing a detailed report from the secondments and its dissemination in
Moldova.
5.    BLOCK I: MOLDOVA.Crash Course [320 hours]. Language, Computer Skills (Word
Processor, Spreadsheet, Presentation Package, Basics of Management Techniques (Strategy of
Continuously Improving Firms, Finance, Marketing, Human Resources Management, Quality
Control)
6.    BLOCK II: ABROAD. The secondment period will be divided into two modules: a 12
week Basic Module and a 4 to 8 weeks Optional Module. A standard week work load will be as
follow: (1) four days in host firm on-the-job training, (2) one day in-class training based on case
studies and specific management courses, (3) one day of report preparation. The second
(Optional) module would also consist of visits to other leading firms. To minimize the costs and
I



Annex I
to maximize the synergy effect, participants will be organized in groups. The standard group will
consist of three members visiting the same host firm. For training purposes two to four groups
can be combined.
7.    BLOCK III: MOLDOVA. One week: debriefing and finalizing the report and
preparation of presentations with assistance of the CPC; three weeks of dissemination by series
of workshops and visits to Moldovan enterprises.
8.    Approximate Costs per Participant. Average costs of secondments abroad for the
Basic Secondment [90 days, per person in a group of 3 people each] would be between US $
23,000 - 28,000; including transportation 500; per diem 3,600 [90 days @ 40]; accommodation
4,500 [90 days @ 60]; training and report preparation 7,200 [24 days @ 3001; host company
6,000 [60 days @ 100]; overhead costs (5%).
The Optional Module would cost additional 10,000 - 20,000
The actual cost will differ depending on country of secondment and enterprise fees should be
reflected in the contract.
9.    Cost Sharing. The participating firm will be required to cover the local costs during the
first and the last blocks of training, per diem abroad, and transportation costs to and from the
Secondment, up to US$ 5,000. The remaining costs will be covered by the Government or
donors. To secure participation of SMEs--which can economically justify only very small
expenditures on training--in exceptional cases, larger part of costs may be covered by the
Government or grant financing. In case the demand among qualifying enterprises is greater than
the available financing, these resources will be auctioned to those enterprises prepared to cover
bigger percentage of the overall costs from their own resources.
10.   Dissemination. On their return, the participants will complete, with the assistance of the
CPC staff, a thorough written report, including technological information on the operations of
the visited firm, performance studies, quality control, job structure and management, accounting
and financing systems, marketing channels and techniques, export promotion. They will convene
a series of workshop, to transfer a new know-how acquired by the secondment participants.
Seconded managers will also assist the CPC in preparation of the next secondments and follow-
up activities. The costs of dissemination related to participation of a manager will be covered by
the participating firm and are included in the up to $5000 figure.
2



Macro Plan of the 5 year Program organized within the framework of IIMS Component of the CPC
1997                 1998        |        1999                 2000                 2001                 2002                  2003
-        N~~DIJF      ,16 .F               J A S11N1jF   A JJIJA 8  NDJF AM  1J  $  ND9                  MI J N NJE            44 J     N IJF       JIJA    ND
osaea pa uuuecoea eapaiauuJPecosaapa.uecoa.   pauuuecosa aea tuue... aea apu   uecoaeae ae uueo
.ar Orot.. Paon v on b r rn. Ig |p t v c n b r r Y n I g P  v c n                     b r  r Inl I                       tv I  C|y|n IgPt   cn lPC InbIrI r|In  | ryII g   n|D t v c nIb f rn t v c
1997 G2-  __ _
03
GS
06
= _ =:1 1 -=eL.- .1 , .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .                                         r .....  .- ,.....I
_ z 1 1 z~~~~~~- _- -   -.-                                                                                     -     - -- -    -- 
011
=G12                                                            =|||>...... .                          .......     .     .. .....  .   ..._. . _
0G12
0123
_   14  -_                                                                                 _ _ _ _  _                                               ________-___-_-   _____ 
1989 17                                                                              U__40011  1_1_          _I
019N||.|.I_._I|I_.  -    - -|
_ -First Training Block (foreign language, computer skills, modern management concepts)
_ -Second Training Block (on-the-job training) 
-1    Dissemination of accumulated know-how and experience
0   Implementation of now concepts
021~                                                                   .*                      *      ~        *           - -






PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                       Annex III
1. OBJECTIVES: The Project will assist Governmental policies aimed at increasing the
domestic and international competitiveness of recently privatized firms through the continuous
improvement of management capacity. This Project will focus on (1) providing strategic and
operational benchmarks on enterprise and sector performance and on information on domestic
and international market opportunities and requirements and on (2) investing in managerial skills
through on-the-job training for managers of privatized enterprises by way of secondments to
leading industrial counterparts in Central and Western Europe and East Asia. To service
implementation of these programs, a Competitiveness and Productivity Center (CPC, the Center)
will be created. The Center will be an independent, non-governmental and non-profit
organization.
2. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS: PROCESS
Investing in Best Practice Information
Investing in Managerial Skills Component
*  Number of managers participating in in-company placements.
* Number of firms co-financing in-company placements.
* Number of contracts signed with foreign firms interested in hosting local managers.
Competitiveness and Productivity Center:
* Number of productivity/competitiveness centers contacted and actively exchanging
information.
* Number of non-participating firms who attend dissemination sessions run by seconded
managers.
* Number of links established with local universities, technical colleges and institutes.
3. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS: OUTCOME
Investing in Best Practice Information
* Number of firms with ISO certification.
* Number of Benchmark Comparison Reports requested by local firms.
Investing in Managerial Skills Component
* Increase in value of first five year's profits (net of firm's cost sharing) so greatly exceeds the
grant funding to the firm that secondments might be continued for other firms on a
commercial basis after the grant program is terminated.
Competitiveness and Productivity Center:
* At least 50% of beneficiaries would have diversified into new markets and products.
* All participating managers have actively disseminated lessons learned from placements.
* Materials on lessons learned available for individuals not participating in study tours.
* Financial self-sustainability of the CPC.






MOLDOVA
Second Private Sector Development Project
Implementation Plan
1997              1998               1999               2000               2001               2002
Ql Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Ql Q2 Q3 Q4 Ql Q2 Q3 Q4 Ql Q2 Q3 Q4
Funds Transfer Agreement signed between MoF and CPC
Bank no objection of: TOR, LOI, RFP, ITC for QCBS contracts* *
GPN issued
Establishment and staffing of CPC
CPC operational
Implementation Plan (2 yr) submitted to Bank by CPC
Prequalification of firms managing foreign placements
Preparation of QCBS bid documents
Invitation to bid
Indefinite Quantity Agreements signed
Pilot: Foreign Placement of 8 mgrs
Foreign placements: 100 mgrs/yr                                      -                                                                  -
Indefinite Quantity Agreements completed
Establishment of CPC's Supervisory Board and its President
Appointment of full-time staff for PSD II to PIU
Board Presentation
Loan Signing
Loan Effectiveness
Project Launch                                                    +
Supervision Missions
Mid-Term Review
Project Completion Report                               _
Abbreviations:
Competition and Productivity Center (CPC)
General Procurement Notice (GPN)
Information to Consultants (ITC)
Letter of Invitation (LOI)                                                                                                                                        >
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)
Request for Proposal (RFP)                                                                                                                                        X
Terms of Reference (TOR)






Annex V
Moldova
Second Private Sector Development Project
Supervision Plan
APPROXIMATE DATES  ACTIVITY               STAFF COMPOSITION       STAFF WEEKS
Sept 1997      Project Launch       Task Manager                    5
PSD Specialist
Productivity Specialist
Proc/Disb Specialist
Lawyer
March 1998      Supervision          Task Manager                    3
PSD Specialist
Productivity Specialist
October 1998     Supervision          Task Manager                    3
PSD Specialist
Productivity Specialist
June 1999      Mid-Term Review       Task Manager                   4
PSD Specialist
Productivity Specialist
Proc/Disb Specialist
Sept 1999      Supervision          Task Manager                    3
PSD Specialist
Productivity Specialist
March 2000      Supervision          Task Manager                    3
PSD Specialist
Productivity Specialist
Sept 2000      Supervision          Task Manager                    3
PSD Specialist
Productivity Specialist
March 2001      Supervision          Task Manager                    3
PSD Specialist
Productivity Specialist
Sept 2001      Supervision          Task Manager                    3
PSD Specialist
Productivity Specialist
June 2002      Project Completion    Task Manager                   5
PSD Specialist
Productivity Specialist
Proc/Disb Specialist
Lawyer









IMAGING
Report No.:         16496   MD
Type:     SAR



