Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2962 MD
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Private Sector Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 3, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2962 MD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 3, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from other donor sources a grant or 
grants (the Additional Grants) in an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 to assist in 
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the Additional Grant Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
additional donors; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
 
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
shall have been suspended 
with respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of 
thirty (30) days, or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required 
to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, 
or (c) at any time, the Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices 
were 
engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and  appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of 
the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit Account, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals 
with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount 
of the Credit shall be cancelled.”
 Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Competitiveness and Productivity Center” or “CPC” means the 
Competitiveness and Productivity Center established as a non-profit, non-governmental 
organization pursuant to Decision No. 335 of the Borrower dated April 9, 1997;
(b)
“Eligible Private Enterprise” means a Private Enterprise (as hereinafter 
defined) fulfilling the criteria referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Participants” means Participants (as hereinafter defined) 
fulfilling the criteria referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(d)
“Enterprise Assistance Agency” or “ARIA” means the Enterprise Assistance 
Agency, established as a non-profit organization pursuant to Resolution No. 426 of the 
Borrower, dated June 21, 1995, and registered in the Borrower’s Enterprise Register on 
June 21, 1995;
(e)
“Funds Transfer Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance, and CPC and referred to in Section 3.01 
(b) of this Agreement;
(f)
“Participation Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between 
CPC and an Eligible Private Enterprise referred to in paragraph 6 (c) of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Page  3
(g)
“Participants” means managers or other staff of Private Enterprises (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(h)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established within the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance by Government Decree No. 799, dated December 5, 1995 
and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(i)
“Private Enterprise” means a commercial entity registered in accordance 
with the applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower, in which more than fifty 
percent (50%) of the proprietary interest is held by local persons or companies other 
than the Borrower, the Borrower’s local authorities or any subdivision thereof, or 
entities controlled by the Borrower;
(j)
“Selection Committee” means the selection committee to be established by 
the Borrower for Part B(2) of the Project and referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; and
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to six million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 6,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  4
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2007 and ending March 15, 
2032.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2017, 
shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of  
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause 
CPC to carry out the Project with due diligence and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial practices and shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to CPC under 
a Funds Transfer Agreement, on a grant basis, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Association.
(c)
The Borrower shall cause CPC to perform in accordance with the provisions 
of the Funds Transfer Agreement, all the obligations of CPC therein set forth and 
shall cause CPC to take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources necessary or appropriate to enable CPC 
Page  5
to perform such obligations and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Funds Transfer Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Funds Transfer 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall cause CPC to carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
Page  6
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether  the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause CPC to maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and 
financial condition.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause CPC to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) above 
for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently  applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, in any case not 
later than 
six (6) months after the end of each year: (A) certified 
copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts and financial statements and the audit 
thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
CPC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Funds 
Transfer Agreement;
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Credit 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that CPC will be able to perform its obligations under the Funds Transfer Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CPC or for the suspension of its 
operations;
(d)
The Additional Grant Agreements shall have failed to become effective by 
June 30, 1999, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, 
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available 
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(e)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement 
Page  7
providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (e),(i),(B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (e),(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Funds Transfer Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and CPC;
(b)
the members of the supervisory board of CPC, including its president, 
have been appointed, with membership and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(c)
a project officer has been appointed to the PIU with qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association; namely that the Funds Transfer 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CPC and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower and CPC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  8
Ministry of Finance
Cosmonaut Street, 7
277005 Chisinau
Republic of Moldova
Telex:
(3732) 228610
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
By /s/ N. Tau
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ R. Grawe 
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
     Credit Allocated
    % of
             (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category
      SDR Equivalent) 
to be Financed
(1)
Training
         5,500,000
       100%
under Part B (2) of 
the Project
(2)
Training
            40,000
       100%
under Part C of
the Project
(3)
Equipment under
      40,000
       100% of foreign
Part C of the Project
       expenditures (ex-
                            factory cost) and 
Page  9
                            80% of local
                            expenditures for
                            other items 
                            procured locally 
(4)
Operating Costs
     950,000
       100%
(5)
Unallocated
             70,000 
                               ________
TOTAL
                 6,600,000
                 =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule “Operating Costs” means operation and 
maintenance costs of CPC and the PIU which would not have been incurred absent the 
Project and including, inter alia, costs with respect to: (i) office equipment and 
supplies; (ii) fees of consultants to assist CPC in Project implementation; (iii) 
communications; (iv) utilities and maintenance; (v), transportation; and (vi) other 
administrative and operating expenses incurred for the purposes of Project management 
and implementation.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) in respect of any payments under Category (1), unless the 
Participants under Part B (2) of the Project have been selected in accordance with the 
criteria and procedures set out in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Credit Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (i) 
equipment under Part C of the Project not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (ii) 
training and consultants’ services not exceeding $200,000 equivalent under such terms 
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in increasing the 
managerial capacity of private and recently privatized enterprises and in improving 
their productivity and competitiveness in domestic and international markets.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
1.
Provision of technical assistance for the development of a competitiveness 
program by CPC for the acquisition and analysis of information on the relative 
competitiveness of domestic enterprises, including benchmarking information on best 
practice and identification of domestic and international opportunities.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to CPC in the implementation and dissemination 
of programs to provide enterprise managers with information on international and 
domestic benchmark standards and marketing and production requirements for enterprise 
and sector performance.
Part B:
Investing in Improvement of Managerial Skills 
1.
Provision of training to about 2,000 Participants in foreign language skills, 
computer skills and management techniques.
2.
Provision of training to about 400 Eligible Participants through secondment to 
industrial and agro-enterprises in Central and Western Europe, East Asia and the 
United States.
3.
Carrying out of dissemination activities by Eligible Participants following 
completion of the training provided under Part B(2) of the Project for the benefit of 
Page  10
other domestic enterprises and managers.
Part C:
Implementation Support to CPC
Provision of support to, and office equipment and training for, the staff of the 
competitiveness and productivity departments of CPC to assist CPC in implementation of 
the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedure
National Shopping
Office equipment estimated to cost less than an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$50,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part C.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Post Review
With respect to each contract for goods, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II: 
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
Page  11
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost less than the equivalent 
of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall maintain the PIU with functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Association and with staff whose qualifications, experience and 
terms of reference are satisfactory to the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall cause CPC to ensure that each Private Enterprise from which 
Participants under Part B (2) of the Project are selected:
(a)
is not overdue in respect of any of its payment obligations to the 
Borrower or any agency of the Borrower; or
(b)
is participating in the Borrower’s out-of-court voluntary restructuring 
program established pursuant to: 
(i)
Law on Enterprise Restructuring No. 958-XIII dated July 1996; 
(ii)
Government Decision No. 306 dated May 15, 1995; or
(iii)  Government Decision No. 82 dated February 9, 1996; and 
(c)
is an enterprise, including but not limited to manufacturing, 
transportation, construction or agro-processing.
3.
The Borrower shall and shall cause CPC to ensure that Participants from Private 
Enterprises receive training in foreign language skills, computer skills and 
management techniques under Part B (1) of the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall, by September 1, 1997, establish a Selection Committee with 
representatives from the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, ARIA, CPC, academia and the 
private sector, to select Eligible Participants under Part B (2) of the Project from a 
shortlist compiled by CPC.
5.
The Borrower shall cause CPC to submit on a quarterly basis a shortlist of 
Eligible Participants for Part B (2) of the Project to the Selection Committee.
6.
The Borrower shall cause CPC to ensure that each Participant under Part B (2) of 
Page  12
the Project:
(a)
is a mid-to-senior level manager or, with the prior agreement of the 
Association, any other professional staff of an Eligible Private Enterprise; 
(b)
has completed basic training under Part B(1) of the Project in foreign 
language skills, computer skills and management techniques or otherwise meets the 
proficiency standards agreed with the Association in order to participate in Part B 
(2) of the Project; 
(c)
is a citizen of the Republic of Moldova;
(d)
is employed by an Eligible Private Enterprise which has entered into a 
Participation Agreement with CPC providing for the contribution by such enterprise of 
at least the cost of travel of the Participant under Part B(2) of the Project and of 
any dissemination activities under Part B (3) of the Project; and
(e)
has been approved by the Selection Committee.
7.
The Borrower shall cause CPC to submit to the Association for the Association’s 
prior review, evidence that the first five (5) Participants under Part B (2) of the 
Project from five (5) Eligible Private Enterprises have fulfilled the criteria set out 
in paragraph 6 of this Schedule 4 to the Credit Agreement.
8.
The Borrower shall cause CPC to ensure that each Eligible Participant under Part 
B (2) of the Project enters into a dissemination agreement with CPC to disseminate 
information acquired during any secondment under Part B (2) of the Project to managers 
of other domestic enterprises in the relevant sector.
9.
The Borrower shall and shall cause CPC to:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 31, 1999, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
 (c)
review with the Association, by June 30, 1999, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and he Association views on the matter. 
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $600,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Page  13
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $450,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 700,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
Page  14
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
