Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4331 BOS 
 
RS Project Agreement 
 
(
Avian Influenza Preparedness Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA 
 
Dated August 31, 2007  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4331 BOS 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated August 31, 2007, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (
“Association”) and REPUBLIKA SRPSKA (“RS”) 
(“Project Agreement”) in connection with the Financing Agreement of same date 
between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (“Recipient”) and the Association (the 
“Financing Agreement”).  The Association and Republika Srpska hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Project 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or 
the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II - PROJECT
 
2.01. 
Republika Srpska declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To 
this end, Republika Srpska: 
 
(a) 
through its representatives on the TSG from the RS MOA and the RS 
MOH; and 
 
(b) 
through the support to be provided to the TSG by the RS PCU for the 
purposes of Part 2 of the Project; 
 
shall participate in the carrying out of Part 3 of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for its 
Respective Part of the Project. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Association and Republika Srpska shall otherwise agree, Republika Srpska:  
 
(a) 
through its representatives on the TSG from the RS MOA and the RS 
MOH; and 
 
(b) 
through the support to be provided to the TSG by the RS PCU for the 
purposes of Part 3 of the Project; 
 
Page  3
2
shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
3.01. 
Republika Srpska’s Representative is the Minister of Finance of Republika 
Srpska. 
 
3.02. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
3.03. 
Republika Srpska’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska  
 Ul. Vuka Karadzica 4 
78000 Banja Luka 
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
 
Facsimile: 
 
387 51 331351 
 
Page  4
3
AGREED at Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Marco Mantovanelli 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA 
 
By /s/ Aleksandar Dzombic   
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of Republika Srpska
’s Respective Part of the Project 
 
Section I
.
Institutional Arrangements
Republika Srpska shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance 
with the following coordination mechanisms: 
 
1. 
The Technical Support Group (TSG) shall have overall responsibility for Project 
implementation, and for the purposes of Part 3 of the Project shall be supported by the RS 
PCU.  The TSG shall comprise the following staff, whose qualifications and terms of 
reference shall be satisfactory to the Association: (i) a Project Coordinator, who shall be a 
permanent civil servant within SVO and who shall report to the Minister of Foreign 
Trade and Economic Relations of the Recipient, who in turn shall report to the 
Recipient’s Council of Ministers; (ii) one representative of MCA; (iii) one representative 
of Federation MOA; (iv) one representative of Federation MOH; (v) one representative of 
RS MOA; (vi) one representative of RS MOH; (vii) a communications specialist; and 
(viii) a monitoring and evaluation specialist.   
 
2. 
Republika Srpska, through the RS MOA and the RS MOH, respectively, shall 
appoint and thereafter maintain at all times during Project implementation, two duly 
qualified representatives on the TSG, with terms of reference and resources satisfactory 
to the Association, and shall cause such representatives at all times to participate in the 
performance of TSG’s obligations under the Project in a timely and effective manner, and 
in accordance with the terms of the Project Operational Manual, the RS FM Manual and 
the Poultry Culling Compensation Scheme Manual. 
 
3.  
Republika Srpska, through the RS MOH, shall maintain the RS PCU at all times 
during Project implementation, with terms of reference and resources satisfactory to the 
Association, and with competent staff in adequate numbers.  
 
4.  
Republika Srpska, through the RS PCU, shall cause procurement and financial 
management activities under Part 3 of the Project to be carried out by the RS PCU in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the Financing Agreement, the General 
Conditions, the Project Operational Manual, the RS FM Manual and the Poultry Culling 
Compensation Scheme Manual.
 
Section II
.
Implementation Covenants
1.  
 Republika Srpska, through the RS MOA, the RS MOH and the RS PCU, shall 
implement its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with the Environmental 
Management Plan, the Project Operational Manual, the RS FM Manual and the Poultry 
Culling Compensation Scheme Manual, respectively.  Republika Srpska: (i) shall 
maintain the Environmental Management Plan, the Project Operational Manual, the RS 
Page  6
5
FM Manual and the Poultry Culling Compensation Scheme Manual each in form and 
content acceptable to the Association; (ii) shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Environmental Management Plan, the Project Operational Manual, the RS FM Manual 
and the Poultry Culling Compensation Scheme Manual in a timely manner and in 
accordance with their respective terms, and apply and implement, as the case may be, the 
criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements therein respectively set forth; and (iii) 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Environmental Management Plan, the 
Project Operational Manual, the RS FM Manual or the Poultry Culling Compensation 
Scheme Manual or any provision of any one thereof, without obtaining the prior written 
approval of the Association. 
 
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section II of the 
Schedule to this Agreement, Republika Srpska shall perform its obligations under the 
Poultry Culling Compensation Scheme in a timely manner and in accordance with the 
Recipient’s Veterinary Law, published in the Recipient’s Official Gazette No. 34/02, and 
the Compulsory Instructions on Measures for Determination, Prevention and Eradication 
of Avian Influenza of the Veterinary Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, No. 01-1-27-
692-44/05, dated October 26th 2005, and pay cash compensation to poultry owners 
referred to in Part 3.D of Schedule I to the Financing Agreement. 
 
3. 
The RS, for the purposes of making available its counterpart contribution to the 
financing of the Project, shall: (i) open and maintain during the implementation of the 
Project, an account (the Project Account) in the RS MOF; and (ii) make quarterly 
contributions to the Project Account, in the amount equivalent to ten thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 10,000), starting three (3) months after the date of the initial 
contribution referred to in paragraph (1) (c) of Part B of Section VI of Schedule 2 to the 
Financing Agreement. 
 
Section III
.
Subsidiary Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part 3 of the Project, Republika Srpska shall 
enter into a subsidiary agreement with the Recipient pursuant to which the Recipient shall 
make part of the proceeds of the Credit available to Republika Srpska (“RS Subsidiary 
Agreement”), under terms and conditions approved by the Association, which shall 
include the following:  
 
(i) 
the Recipient shall relend to Republika Srpska an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 1,400,000), being the amount allocated from time 
to time to Categories (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 2 of 
Part A of Section VI of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement; 
 
(ii) 
the term of the Subsidiary Credit shall be twenty (20) years, including a 
ten (10)-year grace period; 
 
Page  7
6
(iii) 
the Recipient shall charge Republika Srpska a commitment charge at a 
rate equal to the rate payable under Section 2.03 of the Financing 
Agreement, on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Financing not 
withdrawn from time to time; 
 
(iv) 
the Recipient shall charge Republika Srpska a service charge on the 
principal amount of the Subsidiary Financing withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to time at a rate equal to the rate payable under Section 2.04 of 
the Financing Agreement; and 
 
(v)  
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Financing shall be repayable in 
Euro and shall be the equivalent in SDRs  (determined as of the date or 
respective dates of repayment) of the value of currency or currencies 
withdrawn from the Financing Account on account of expenditures for 
the Project. 
 
2.  
Republika Srpska shall exercise its rights under the RS Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, Republika Srpska shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the RS Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
Section IV
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A.  
Project Reports 
 
1. 
(a) 
Republika Srpska, through the RS PCU, shall provide to the TSG 
whatever support may be required to monitor and evaluate the progress of its Respective 
Part of the Project and shall assist the TSG to prepare Project Reports in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 4.08(b) of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators 
agreed with the Association.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
quarter, and shall be furnished to the Association not later than twenty one (21) days after 
the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
(b) 
Republika Srpska, through the RS PCU, shall provide to the TSG 
whatever support may be required to: 
 
(i) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association, on or about May 30, 2009, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of Republika Srpska
’s 
Respective Part of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of its Respective Part of the 
Page  8
7
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
 
(ii) 
review with the Association, by June 30, 2009, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, Republika Srpska 
shall take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
B.  
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
Republika Srpska shall maintain a financial management system and prepare 
financial statements in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and financial condition of 
Republika Srpska, including the operations, resources and expenditures related to its 
Respective Part of the Project. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, Republika Srpska, 
through the RS PCU, shall prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for 
its Respective Part of the Project covering such quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
3. 
Republika Srpska, through the RS PCU, shall have its financial statements 
referred to above periodically audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association.  Each audit of the financial statements shall cover the period of one fiscal 
year of Republika Srpska or such other period as agreed by the Association.  The audited 
financial statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section V
.
Procurement
All goods, works, services, operating costs and training required for Republika 
Srpska’s Respective Part of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Financing shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the 
Financing Agreement. 
 
