Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4331 BOS 
 
Federation Project Agreement 
 
(Avian Influenza Preparedness Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
Dated August 31, 2007  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4331 BOS 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated August 31, 2007, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (
“Association”) and FEDERATION OF BOSNIA 
AND HERZEGOVINA (“Federation” or “FBH”) (“Project Agreement”) in connection 
with the Financing Agreement of same date between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
(“Recipient”) and the Association (the “Financing Agreement”).  The Association and the 
Federation hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Project 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or 
the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II - PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Federation declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Federation: 
 
(a) 
through its representatives on the TSG from the Federation MOA and the 
Federation MOH; and 
 
(b) 
through the support to be provided to the TSG by the Federation PIU for 
the purposes of Part 2 of the Project; 
 
shall participate in the carrying out of Part 2 of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for its 
Respective Part of the Project. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Association and the Federation shall otherwise agree, the 
Federation:  
 
(a) 
through its representatives on the TSG from the Federation MOA and the 
Federation MOH; and 
 
(b) 
through the support to be provided to the TSG by the Federation PIU for 
the purposes of Part 2 of the Project; 
Page  3
2
shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
3.01. The 
Federation
’s Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Federation of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina. 
 
3.02. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
3.03. 
The Federation’s Address is: 
 
Federal Ministry of Finance  
Mehmeda Spahe 5 
71000 Sarajevo 
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
 
Facsimile: 
 
387 33 203 152 
 
Page  4
3
AGREED at Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Marco Mantovanelli  
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
By /s/ Borjana Kristo 
 
  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of the Federation
’s Respective Part of the Project 
 
Section I
.
Institutional Arrangements
The Federation shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance 
with the following coordination mechanisms: 
 
1. 
The Technical Support Group (TSG) shall have overall responsibility for Project 
implementation, and for the purposes of Part 2 of the Project shall be supported by the 
Federation PIU.  The TSG shall comprise the following staff, whose qualifications and 
terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Association: (i) a Project Coordinator, who 
shall be a permanent civil servant within SVO and who shall report to the Minister of 
Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of the Recipient, who in turn shall report to the 
Recipient’s Council of Ministers; (ii) one representative of MCA; (iii) one representative 
of Federation MOA; (iv) one representative of Federation MOH; (v) one representative of 
RS MOA; (vi) one representative of RS MOH; (vii) a communications specialist; and 
(viii) a monitoring and evaluation specialist.   
 
2. 
The Federation, through the Federation MOA and the Federation MOH, 
respectively, shall appoint and thereafter maintain at all times during Project 
implementation, two duly qualified representatives on the TSG, with terms of reference 
and resources satisfactory to the Association, and shall cause such representatives at all 
times to participate in the performance of TSG’s obligations under the Project in a timely 
and effective manner, and in accordance with the terms of the Project Operational 
Manual, the Federation FM Manual and the Poultry Culling Compensation Scheme 
Manual. 
 
3.  
The Federation, through the Federation MOA, shall maintain the Federation PIU 
at all times during Project implementation, with terms of reference and resources 
satisfactory to the Association, and with competent staff in adequate numbers.  
 
4.  
The Federation, through the Federation PIU, shall cause procurement and 
financial management activities under Part 2 of the Project to be carried out by the 
Federation PIU in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Financing Agreement, 
the General Conditions, the Project Operational Manual, the Federation FM Manual and 
the Poultry Culling Compensation Scheme Manual.
 
Section II
.
Implementation Covenants
1.  
 The Federation, through the Federation MOA, the Federation MOH and the 
Federation PIU, shall implement its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with the 
Environmental Management Plan, the Project Operational Manual, the Federation FM 
Manual and the Poultry Culling Compensation Scheme Manual, respectively.  The 
Page  6
5
Federation: (i) shall maintain the Environmental Management Plan, the Project 
Operational Manual, the Federation FM Manual and the Poultry Culling Compensation 
Scheme Manual each in form and content acceptable to the Association; (ii) shall duly 
perform all its obligations under the Environmental Management Plan, the Project 
Operational Manual, the Federation FM Manual and the Poultry Culling Compensation 
Scheme Manual in a timely manner and in accordance with their respective terms, and 
apply and implement, as the case may be, the criteria, policies, procedures and 
arrangements therein respectively set forth; and (iii) shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Environmental Management Plan, the Project Operational Manual, the 
Federation FM Manual or the Poultry Culling Compensation Scheme Manual or any 
provision of any one thereof, without obtaining the prior written approval of the 
Association. 
 
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section II of the 
Schedule to this Agreement, the Federation shall perform its obligations under the 
Poultry Culling Compensation Scheme in a timely manner and in accordance with the 
Recipient’s Veterinary Law, published in the Recipient’s Official Gazette No. 34/02, and 
the Compulsory Instructions on Measures for Determination, Prevention and Eradication 
of Avian Influenza of the Veterinary Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, No. 01-1-27-
692-44/05, dated October 26th 2005, and pay cash compensation to poultry owners 
referred to in Part 2.D of Schedule I to the Financing Agreement. 
 
3.  
The Federation, for the purposes of making available its counterpart contribution 
to the financing of the Project, shall: (i) open and maintain during the implementation of 
the Project, an account (the Project Account) in the Federation MOF; and (ii) make 
quarterly contributions to the Project Account, in the amount equivalent to fifteen 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,000), starting three (3) months after the date 
of the initial contribution referred to in paragraph (1)(c) of Part B of Section VI of 
Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement. 
 
Section III
.
Subsidiary Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part 2 of the Project, the
 
Federation shall enter 
into a subsidiary agreement with the Recipient pursuant to which the Recipient shall 
make part of the proceeds of the Credit available to the Federation (“Federation 
Subsidiary Agreement”), under terms and conditions approved by the Association, which 
shall include the following:  
 
(i) 
the Recipient shall relend to the Federation an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 1,900,000), being the amount of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to Categories (1), and (2)  set forth in the 
table in paragraph 2 of Part A of Section VI of Schedule 2 to the 
Financing Agreement; 
 
Page  7
6
(ii) 
the term of the Subsidiary Credit shall be twenty (20) years, including a 
ten (10)-year grace period; 
 
(iii) 
the Recipient shall charge the Federation a commitment charge at a rate 
equal to the rate payable under Section 2.03 of the Financing Agreement, 
on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Financing not withdrawn from 
time to time; 
 
(iv) 
the Recipient shall charge the Federation a service charge on the 
principal amount of the Subsidiary Financing withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to time at a rate equal to the rate payable under Section 2.04 of 
the Financing Agreement; and 
 
(v)  
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Financing shall be repayable in 
Euro and shall be the equivalent in SDRs  (determined as of the date or 
respective dates of repayment) of the value of currency or currencies 
withdrawn from the Financing Account on account of expenditures for 
the Project. 
 
2.  
The Federation shall exercise its rights under the Federation Subsidiary 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Federation shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the Federation 
Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
Section IV
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A.  
Project Reports 
 
1. 
(a) 
The Federation, through the Federation PIU, shall provide to the TSG 
whatever support may be required to monitor and evaluate the progress of its Respective 
Part of the Project and shall assist the TSG to prepare Project Reports in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 4.08(b) of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators 
agreed with the Association.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
quarter, and shall be furnished to the Association not later than twenty one (21) days after 
the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
(b) 
The Federation, through the Federation PIU, shall provide to the TSG 
whatever support may be required to: 
 
(i) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association, on or about May 30, 2009, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Federation
’s 
Page  8
7
Respective Part of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of its Respective Part of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
 
(ii) 
review with the Association, by June 30, 2009, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, the Federation shall 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based 
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
B.  
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Federation shall maintain a financial management system and prepare 
financial statements in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and financial condition of 
the Federation, including the operations, resources and expenditures related to its 
Respective Part of the Project. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Federation, 
through the Federation PIU, shall prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial 
reports for its Respective Part of the Project covering such quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
3. 
The Federation, through the Federation PIU, shall have its financial statements 
referred to above periodically audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association.  Each audit of the financial statements shall cover the period of one fiscal 
year of the Federation or such other period as agreed by the Association.  The audited 
financial statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section V
.
Procurement
All goods, works, services, operating costs and training required for the 
Federation’s Respective Part of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Financing shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the 
Financing Agreement. 
 
