RESTRICTED
FILE       COPY                       Report No.  P-614
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
SECOND PORT PROJECT
June 13, 1968



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
FROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A SECOND PORT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to us$8.5 million to
the Republic of Tunisia to assist in financing improvements to the ports
under the control of the Office des Ports Nationaux Tunisiens (OPNT).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The proposed credit would be the second lending operation for
port development in Tunisia. The first $7.0 million Bank loan 380 TUN was
signed on June 5, 1964 but did not become effective until June 1965 because
of the difficulties encountered in meeting the condition that an autonomous
port authority be established. Thereafter, the project was carried out
satisfactorily and work was completed by November 1967. The loan was fully
disbursed by its revised Closing Date of March 31, 1968.
3.        In August 1966 OPNT approached the Bank group requesting financing
for a number of supplementary items to improve the efficiency and capability
of the Port of La Goulette. The project consisting of such items was prepareC
and appraised in the course of discussions between the Tunisian authorities
and Bank missions which visited Tunisia in March and November 1967 and March
1968. As a result of these discussions some of the original items were
dropped from the project and others were added, in particular a grain
storage silo and associated handling equipment. The credit as finally
negotiated includes more items and, at $8.5 million, is for a larger amount
than originally contemplated.
4.        Negotiations took place in Washington on June 5-11, 1968.   The
Government of Tunisia was represented by Messrs. Ammar, Minister at the
Tunisian Embassy and Ladjimi, of the Public Works Ministry, and OPNT by
Messrs. Goucha, Director General of OPNT and Aouij, legal adviser.
Bank, IDA and IFC Operations
5.        The proposed credit, the fourth for Tunisia, would increase the
Association's total lending to Tunisia to $32.5 million, while the Bankts
lending amounts to $34.0 million. Following is a summary statement of
Bank loans and IDA credits to Tunisia as of May 31, 1968:



2-
Loan or                                                  (Amount US$ million)
Credit                                                                 Undis-
Number   Year       Borrower             Purpose         Bank    IDA   bursed2
29     1962   Republic of Tunisia     Education                 5.0    -
380     1964   Republic of Tunisia     Port Develop-
ment           7.0
449     1966   Societe Nationale       Development
d'Investissement        Finance Co.    5.0           2.0
94     1966   Republic of Tunisia     Education                13.0  10.7
484     1967   Republic of Tunisia     Cooperative
Farms         12.0          10.6
99     1967   Republic of Tunisia     Cooperative
Farms                  6.o   5.3
512     1967   Soci6t6 Nationale       Development
d'Investissement        Finance Co.   10.0          10.0
Total                                           34.0    24.0
of which has been repaid                      0.3      -
Total now outstanding                     33.7    24.0
Amount sold                  0.9
of which has been repaid  0.1                 0.8      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  32.9    24.0
Total undisbursed                               22.6    16.0  38.6
6.        In NIay 1966, IFC made an investment of D 300,000 (about $571,500)
in Societ6 Nationale dlInvestissement. In addition to this, IFC has invested
$1.5 million in, and lent $2.0 million to, NPK-Engrais, a phosphate ferti-
lizer company.
7.        The Bank is considering a $15 million loan for a water supply pro-
ject that is expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors before the
end of 1968. An appraisal mission for a proposed railway project is presently
in Tunisia. The Bank is executing agent for a current UNDP Transport Survey,
which is expected to lead to further lending in this sector. The Bank also
leads the Consultative Group for Tunisia.



- 3 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
8.        Borrower:         Republic of Tunisia
Beneficiary:      Office des Ports Nationaux Tunisiens (OPNT)
Amount:           The equivalent of us$8.5 million in various
currencies
Purpose:          Financing the foreign exchange costs of
improvements to the ports under the control
of the Office des Ports Nationaux Tunisiens
Amortization:     50 years, including ten-year grace period,
in semi-annual installments beginning
October 15, 1978 and ending April 15, 2018
Service charge:   3/4 of 1 percent per annum
Relending terms:  The Government would relend the proceeds of
the credit to OFNT at 6-1/4 percent per annum
and to be repaid in twenty years, including
a three-year grace period.
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.        A report entitled "Appraisal of the Second Tunisian Port Project"
TO-648a on the proposed project will be circulated on June 14.
10.       Tunisia is served by a relatively well-developed transport system.
There are four major ports, of which Tunis-La Goulette is the country's
largest.  The access routes to these ports are generally adequate even for
growing traffic volumes, with the exception of the existing road linking
Tunis and La Goulette and the access to La Goulette from the south, on
which improvements have now been undertaken. The establishment in 1966 of
the Directorate of Transport in the Ministry of Public Works with responsi-
bility for formulating and recommending transport policies was a step forward
towards establishing a coordinated national transport policy. Further
improvement in transport policy can be expected from the implementation of
the recommendations of the UNDP Transport Survey, now in the final stages
of preparation.
11.       As required by the Bank under Loan 380 TUN, OPNT was established
by law in 1965 as an independent authority responsible for the operation,
development and maintenance of the ports of Bizerte-Menzel Bourguiba, Tunis-
La Goulette, Sousse and Sfax. OPNT is managed by a General Director who is
responsible to a Board of Directors composed of three representatives of the



Government and four representatives of port users and related interests.
OFNT has a satisfactory degree of autonomy in both financial and adminis-
trative matters; its organization has proved adequate to the tasks required
of it and, with the assistance of consultants, its management and staff are
capable of carrying out the Project.
12.       The proposed project consists of dredging at the ports of La
Goulette (Tunis), Bizerte-Menzel Bourguiba and Sfax; provision of a dredger
and attendant tug for maintenance dredging; replacement of cargo-handling
equipment, provision of additional equipment and rehabilitation of quay
cranes; reconstruction of the island breakwater at Bizerte; construction
of an additional berth for bulk cereals, bulk grain storage silo and associ-
ated handling equipment; training of a financial manager and other senior
staff; and the provision of accounting and engineering consultants. The
project is expected to be completed within a period of four years. Total
cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$10.7 million equivalent,
and the estimated foreign exchange cost, to be covered by the proposed credit,
is US$8.5 million; the rest would be financed by OPNT's internal cash genera-
tion. Considering only quantifiable benefits of the project, all items
included in it have internal rates of return ranging from 10 to 25 percent,
which are considered satisfactory.
13.       Contracts for procurement of equipment and execution of dredging
and other works will be let in accordance with the Association's procedures
for international competitive bidding. Disbursement of the Credit would be
on the basis of actual approved foreign currency expenditures. Provision
is made for the reimbursement of expenditures on the project since April 1,
1968. Since this credit is presented "subject to replenishment" and the
date of its signature remains uncertain, it is not possible to estimate
exactly how much reimbursement would be involved. However, up to the
present time only $50,000 has been expended on the continuing employment
of consultants already retained under Loan 380 TUN, and further disbursement
requirements to the end of 1968 are estimated at only $150,000.
14.       OPNT's net revenues are larger than those forecast at the time of
the previous Loan 380 TUN. However the present financial rate of return on
the recently valued net fixed assets is only 3.9 percent. OPNT would be
required to raise its rate of return to at least 6 percent by 1971 and to
7 percent by 1973 and such rate above 7 percent as may be agreed upon
between the Association and the Office from time to time thereafter. Such
rates of return can be achieved through moderate tariff adjustments or an
increase in traffic higher than anticipated or a combination of both. They
would assure adequate coverage of debt service requirements by internal cash
generation.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
15.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Tunisia and the Association, and the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the Office des Ports Nationaux Tunisiens, and the Report



of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
The draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft Project Agreement
generally follow the usual pattern for port projects.
PART V - THE ECONONY
16.       An economic report entitled "The Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Tunisia" (MA-3a) dated M4arch 19, 1968 was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 1, 1968. In recent discussions with the
Tunisian Government, broad agreement has been reached on the following eco-
nomic policies: (1) curbing the growth of current expenditures; (2) restric-
ting the use of external medium term credit; (3) emphasizing productive
projects in the investment program; (4) improving the profitability of the
public enterprises; (5) encouraging private investment; (6) promoting exports
and export oriented investments. The Government has expressed its intention
to act along these lines and, in many respects, it has already taken the
appropriate steps.
17.       Because of the relatively high burden of the service on its external
debt and in the light of Tunisia's satisfactory progress in economic growth
and performance, Tunisia can be considered as eligible for this proposed IDA
credit. This is also in conformity with the consensus reached at the recent
meeting of the Consultative Group for Tunisia to the effect that the country
deserved substantial amounts of foreign aid at concessionary terms.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
18.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
19.       I recommend that the Executive Directors of the Association adopt
the following resolution:
RESOLUTION NO. IDA
Approval of Development Credit to the Republic of Tunisia
in an amount equivalent to US$8,500,000
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to the
Republic of Tunisia in an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight
million five hundred thousand United States dollars (U.S.$8,500,000) to



- 6 -
mature on and prior to April 15, 2018, to bear a service charge at the rate
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1 percent) per annum, and to be upon
such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with
the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Development Credit Agree-
ment (Second Port Project) between the Republic of Tunisia and the Associ-
ation, and Project Agreement (Second Port Project) between the Association
and the Office des Ports Nationaux Tunisiens, which have been presented to
this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachment
June 13, 1968



