RESTRICTED
FILE    COPY                Report No. P-649
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SECOND PORT LOAN
TO THE
OFFICE DES PORTS NATIONAUX TUNISIENS
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
November 13, 1968



INTF,I.ATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEIOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED SECOND FORT IOAN TO THE OFFICE
DES PORTS NATIONAUX TUNISIENS (OPNT) WITH
THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
US$8.5 million to the Office des Ports Nationaux Tunisiens (OPNT)
with the Guarantee of the Republic of Tunisia to assist in
financing improvements to the ports under the control of OPNT.
2.        This report and recommendation replaces the one which
was circulated to the Executive Directors under cover of the
Secretaryws memorandum of June 13, 1968. At that time it was
envisaged that the project would be financed by the international
Development Association and a draft Development Credit Agreement
was forwarded for your consideration along with the Project Agree-
ment. In view of the delays in IDA rreplanishment, it is proposed,
with the concurrence of the Governnant of Tunisia, to have the
project financed by the Bank. New lhoan d'ocuments to replace the
draft credit documents are being distributed to reflect this change.
PART I - HISTORICAL
3.        The proposed loan would be the second for port development
in Tunisia.  The first, Loan 380 TUN, in the amouint of $7 million,
was signed on June 5, 1964, but did not become effective until
June 1965 because of the difficulties encountered in meeting the
condition that an autonomous port authority be established.
Thereafter, the project was carried out satisfactorily and work
was completed by November 1967. The loan was fully disbursed
by its revised Closing Date of March 31, 1968.
4.        In August 1966 OPNT approached the Bank group requesting
financing for a number of supplementary items to improve the effi-
ciency of OPNT1s Ports. The project consisting of such items
was prepared and appraised in the course of discussions between
the Tunisian authorities and Bank missions wjhich visited Tunisia
in March and November 1967 and March 1968. As a result of these
discussions some of the original items were dropped from the
project and others were added, among the latter being a grain
storage silo and associated handling equipment, and the restoration
of the breakwater at Bizerte. The loan as finally negotiated has
increased in scope and, at $8.5 million, is for a larger amount
than originally contemplated.



- 2 -
5.       Negotiations for the originally proposed IDA credit took
place in Washington on June 5-11, 1968.  The Government of Tunisia
was represented by Messrs. Ammar, Minister at the Tunisian Embassy,
and Ladjimi, of the Ministry of Public Works, and OPNT by Messrs.
Goucha, Director General of OPNT, and Aouij, legal adviser.
Bank, IDA and IFC Operations
6.       The proposed loan, the fifth for Tunisia, would increase
the Bankls total lending to Tunisia to $42.5 million, while the
Associationts lending amounts to $23.9 million. Following is a
summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits to Tunisia as of
October 31, 1968:
Loan or
Credit                                                  Amount (US$ million)
Number    Year       Borrower          LLPe_se         Bank  IDA Undisbursed
29      1962   Republic of Tunisia   Education       -    4.9
380      1964   Republic of Tunisia   Port Develop- 7,0;     -     -
ment
449      1966   St6 Nat. dlInvestis-  Dev. Finance   5XO     -    1.5
sement                Co.
94      1966   Republic of Tunisia   Education          13¢O   .8,;9
484      1967   Republic of Tunisia   Coopeiative    12.0    -   10.2
Farms
99      1967   Republic of Tunisia   Coop3rative      -   6.0    5.1
Farms
512      1967   St6 Nat. dtInvest.    Dev. Finance   10.0    -    9.4
Co.
Total (less cancellations)                  34.0  23.9
of which has been repaid to
Bank and others                              _
Total now outstanding                       33.6
Amount sold                      .9
of which has been repaid        __2                -     -
Total now held by Bank and IDA             I2.   23.9  3
Total undisbursed                          21.1 14.0    35.1
7.       None of the loans and credits made to Tunisia poses unusual
problems of execution. The fairly large amounts still undisbursed for
education and cooperative farms reflect the nature of the projectswhich
requirec. long design and organization lead times before expenditure
reaches its full pace.



8.        In May 1966, IFC made an investment of D 300,000 (about
$571,50o) in Societ6 Nationale d'Investissement.  In addition to this,
IFC has invested $1.5 million and lent $2,0 million to NPK-Engrais,
a phosphate fertilizer company.
9.        A $15 million loan for water supply is to be submitted
shortly to the Executive Directors and a $15-16 million loan for
railway rehabilitation and modernization which is expected to be
submitted to the Executive Directors early in 1969. The Bank is
executing agency for a well advanced UNDP Transport Survey, which
might lead to further lending for transport. The Bank also leads
the Consultative Group for Tunisia, which held its most recent meeting
in May 1968.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
10.       Borrower:               Office des Ports Nationaux Tunisiens
(OPNT)
Guarantor:              Republic  of Tunisia
Amount:                 The equivalent of US$865 million in
various currencies
Purpose:                Financing the foreign exchange costs
of improvements to the ports of the
Office des Ports Nationaux Tunisiens
Amortization:           29½ years, including ten year grace
period, in semi-annual installments
beginning October 15, 1978 and ending
April 15, 1998
Interest rate:          Six and one half (6½) percent per annum
Commitment charge:      3/4 of 1 percent per annum
Estimated economic
return on the project:  10 to 25 percent (see paragraph 14)
PART III - THE PROJECT
11.       A report entitled "Appraisal of the Second Tunisian Port
Project" dated Oct. 15, 1968 (TO-648.b) on the proposed project is attached
hereto. It has to be regarded as being modified to reflect the change
from an IDA credit to a Bank loan.
12.       Tunisia is served by a relatively well-developed transport
system. There are four major ports, of which Tunis-La Goulette is the
largest. The access routes to these ports are generally adequate, even
for the growing traffic, with the exception of the existing road linking
Tunis and La Goulette and the access to La Goulette from the south, on
which improvements are now under way. The3 establishment in 1966 of the



Directorate of Transport in the Tinistry of Public Works with respon-
sibility for formulating and recommending transport policies was a
step towards establishing a coordinated national transport policy.
Further improvement in transport policy can be expected from the
implementation of the recommendations of the UNDP Transport Survey,
now in the final stages of preparationo
13.       As required by the Bank under Loan 380 TUN, OPNT was estab-
lished by law in 1965 as an independent authority responsible for the
operation, development and maintenance of the ports of Bizerte, Menzel-
Bourguiba, ..Tunis-La Goulette, Sousse and Sfax. OFNT is managed by a
General Director who is responsible to a Board of Directors composed of
three representatives of the Government, and four representatives of
port users and related interests. OPNT has a satisfactory degree of
autonomy in both financial and administrative matters; its organization
has proved adequate to the tasks required of it, although the accounting
department needs further strengthening and, with the assistance of
consultants, it is capable of carrying out the project.
14.       The proposed project consists of dredging at the ports
of La Goulette (Tunis), Bizerte,, Menzel-Bourguiba and Sfax; provision
of a dredger and attendant tug for maintr.n-ance dredging; replacement
of cargo-handling equipment, provision of add.itonal equi,:,_-ent and
rehabilitation of quay cranes; reconstruction of the island breakwater
at Bizerte; construction of an additional ber-,h to handle bulk cereals,
with a bulk grain storage silo and associated handling equipment;
training of a financial manager and other sewi.or staff; and the provision
of accounting and engineering consultants. The project is expected to
be completed within a period of four years. Total oost of the proposed
project is estimated at US$10)7 million equivalent, and the estimated
foreign exchange cost, to be covered by the proposed loan, is US$8.5
million; the balance would be financed by OPNTIs internal cash generation.
Considering only quantifiable benefits of the project, all items included
in it have internal rates of return ranging from 1la to 25%, which are
considered satisfactory.
15.       Contracts for procurement of equipment, execution of
dredging, and other works will be let in accordance with the Bank's
procedures for international competitive bidding. Disbursement of
the Loan would be on the basis of actual approved foreign currency
expenditures.  Provision is made for the reimbursement of expenditures
on the project since April 1, 1968.  Up to the time the operation was
presented as a proposed IDA Credit I"subject to replenishmentt", only
$50,000 had been expended on the continuing employment of consultants
already retained under Loan 380 TUN; further disbursement requirements
to the end of 1968 are estimated at $150,000.



16.      OPNT's net revenues are larger than those forecast at the
time of the previous Loan 380 TUN. However, the present financial
rate of return on the recently valued net fixed assets is only
3.9%. OPNT would be required to raise its rate of return to at
least 6% by 1971, and to 7% by 1973, and such rate above 7% as
may be agreed upon between the Bank and OPNT from time to time
thereafter. Such rates of return can be achieved through moderate
tariff adjustments or an increase in traffic higher than expected
or a combination of both. They would assure adequate coverage of
debt service requirements.
17.      In view of its impact on the viability of the port of Sfax,
which serves the same general area, the effects of the development
of the new port of Gabes on OPNT traffic and financial forecasts
and the possibility of its incorporation in OPNT on agreed terms and
conditions wrill be discussed and agreed with the Government when the
national port program is submitted to the Dank.   Meanwhile the
Government has agread to maintain the existing lsvel of phosphate
traffic through Sfax.
PART IV - LEGAL                         Y
18.      The draft Loan Agreement betweein the Bank and OYNT and
the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Tiuisia and
the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in A;tiicle
V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are attached hereto,
The draft Loan Agreement and the draft Guarantee Agreement generally
follow the usual pattern for port projects.
PART V - TrE ECONOMY
19.      An economic report entitled "The Current Economic Position
and Prospects of Tunisia" (MA-3a) dated March 19, 1968, was distribu-
ted to the Executive Directors on t4priI 1, 1968. In discussions
with the Tunisian Government, broad agreement has been reached on
the following economic policies: (1) curbing the growth of current
expenditures; (2) restricting the use of external medium term
credit; (3) emphasizing productive projects in the investment
program; (4) improving the profitability of the public enter-
prises; (5) encouraging private investment; (6) promoting exports
and export oriented iinrvestments. The Government has expressed
its intention to act along these lines and in gelneral has already
taken appropriate steps.
19.      In view of the fact that the ratio of debt service charges
to 1967 export earrings was 23% and that this ratio is likely to
remain on the order of 20% over the coming few years, and in the



-6-
light of Tunisiats undertalkings with respect to the above, and its
past record of econoiic growth, Tunisia was considered as eligible
for an IDA Credit for the proposed project. This would also be
in conformity with the consensus reached in the May meeting of
the Consultative Group for Tunisia. In view of the need to
proceed with the Project without awaiting the replenishment of
IDA funds, it is proposed, however, to finance the Project with
a Bank loan, but one having an extendsd grace and repayment period
in view of Tunisia's high debt service in the next few years.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
21.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the BarLk.
PART VTI - RECQOYIMDATT0N
22.      I recommend that the Executiva Directors of the Bank
adopt the following rosolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Office des Ports Nationaux Tun-isiens
in an amount eqaivalent to U.S.$8,500,000
to be guaranteed by the Republic of Tunisia.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Office des Ports
Nationaux Tunisiens to be guaranteed by the Republic of Tunisia,
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million
five hundred thousand United States dollars (U.S,$8,500,000),
to mature on and prior to October 15, 1998, to bear interest
at the rate of six and one half per cent (6 1/24) per annum,
and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be
substantially in accordance with the terms and conditions set
forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Second Port Project)
between the Bank and Office des Ports Nationaux Tunisiens, and
the form of Guarantee Agreement (Second Port Project) between
the Republic of Tunisia and the Bank, which have been presented
to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment                                   by S.R. Cope
Washington, D.C.
Noveanmer 1Ž, 1968



