E- 352
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION
SPATE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(SlIP)
PROJECT PREPARATION REPORT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
March 2000
05/24/00






Republic of Yemen
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
Environmental Impact Assessment
Wadi Tuban
and
Wadi Zabid
March 2000
05/24/00



ABBREVIATIONS
AREA   -    Agricultural Research and Extension Authority
EIA     -    Environmental Impact Assessment
DOA    -    Department of Agriculture
IPM     -    Integrated Pest Management
LWCP   -    Land and Water Conservation Project
MAI    -    Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
NWRA  -    National Water Resources Authority
PIM     -    Participatory Irrigation Management
PIU     -    Project Implementation Unit
PMU    -    Project Management Unit
SAR     -    Staff Appraisal Report
SMU    -    System Management Unit
TA      -    Technical Assistance
TDA     -    Tihama Development Authority
WUA    -    Water Users Association
WUG    -    Water Users Group
05/24/00



1. Background
For centuries, agriculture in the two areas covered by the project, Zabid and Tuban has
relied on floodwaters of high intensity and low duration (spates). Many traditional
irrigation schemes have been replaced by modem diversion schemes which, however, are
not performing efficiently, as they have been insufficiently maintained. The main
problems include poor water diversion and distribution and high siltation. As a result,
much less water is available to farmers than was originally envisaged.
The proposed Spate Irrigation Improvement Project (SIIP) aims at alleviating the above
problems through rehabilitation and improvement of present structures and the
introduction of participatory irrigation management (PIM) whereby farmers would
gradually take more responsibility in operating and maintaining the spate scheme.
SIPP will include a program for 7 sub-projects to be implemented over a 10 year period
in 2 phases (2001-2004) (2004-2010) and will cover a total area of 90,000 hectares. The
first phase will cover about 26,000 ha. with an estimated population of about 166,000
inhabitants. The project does not significantly change biological and/or ecological
characteristics of the areas as it deals with rehabilitation works and with hydrologically
closed systems. It has therefore been rated as a B category project.
This is the executive summary of the site specific environmental impact assessment
(EIA) plans which have been prepared for each of the two wadis during Project
preparation. Both proposed ELAs identify the potential environmental impacts with the
proposed mitigation and monitoring programs to alleviate/reduce the negative impacts
and enhance the positive ones. The EIAs aim at establishing the conditions required for
sound environmental management in the project area through: (i) promoting through
participation and capacity building local knowledge and awareness of the major issues
threatening the well-being of wadi populations, particularly in terms of health and
sustained water availability; and (ii) encouraging participatory management of natural
resources by the institutions established by SIIP. This will be obtained through
systematic monitoring of water characteristics, information campaigns, training and
support to the fledgling water management institutions. SlIP will integrate all the
components of the environmental mitigation and monitoring program on soil and water
management issues and establish linkages with national water authorities, local
government and other projects in the fields of water supply, sanitation and health.
2. Environmental Policy, Legal, and Administrative Framework
The proposed project will follow the World Bank guidelines OP 4.01 on environmental
assessment and will adhere to the requirements of the Government of Yemen (GOY) for
such projects, as are outlined in the Environmental Protection Law, No. 26 enacted by the
Parliament in 1995 and the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) prepared by the
Environmental Protection Council (EPC), 1996.
05/25/00



3. Description of Project activities
SIIL aims at improving water delivery efficiency and establishing Participatory Irrigation
Management (PIM) through introduction of Water User Associations (WUAs), System
Management Units (SMUs) and sustainable Operation and Maintenance (O&M). Each
spate irrigation scheme with its canal network will be one sub-project. For Wadi Tuban it
will consist of 13 diversion structures with a net command area of about 12,590 ha. For
wadi Zabid it consists of five diversion structures with a net command area of 11,046 ha.
In addition to the rehabilitation of access and farm roads the major engineering works
include for both wadis: (1) rehabilitation/improvement of diversion structures (divide
walls, skimming weir, sluice weir, weir crest, toe), (2) rehabilitation of turnout structures,
protection work in downstream portion of drop structures, box culverts, silt ejectors, and
cross regulators, (3) bank protection works. For Tuban there also will be (4) replacement
of gates in primary and secondary canals as well as (5) improvement of canals to increase
their ability to carry larger spate flows.
4. Potential Environmental Impacts
Potential problems in the area include are degradation of irrigation land due to
salinization and alkalisation as well as waterlogging and use of agro-chemicals, upstream
and localised erosion and sedimentation, sand dune encroachment due to wind erosion,
and health issues because of poor quality of drinking water, low levels of hygiene and
sanitation. Though addressing these issues is important to protect the populations living
in the wadis, guarantee the stability of their production systems and ensure the
sustainability of the proposed investments in spate irrigation, only some minor impacts
on soil quality could be expected from the proposed project.
There is also the problem in the Wadi Zabid groundwater mining (unrelated to the
project). In order to minimize groundwater depletion, it is necessary to put in place a
groundwater management system which can rely on data collected during the monitoring
of water levels and quality in the project area. Most of the problems can be mitigated
through technically simple measures that can be implemented through the involvement of
the Water User Associations and their federation once they are aware of the limits to the
use of groundwater resources. Involvement of the water users and studies in monitoring
the impact during the first phase (4-year) are crucial elements for the success of the
project.
The EAP also recognizes the need for coordination with other projects and NGOs
operating in the same area and which are involved in the sectors of infrastructure and
health. In particular, the new Water Supply and Sanitation Project and the Child
Development Project (both financed by the World Bank) are well equipped to take lead
responsibility in these domains. By contrast, SIIP should take leadership in soil and
water management issues which are the main focus of the project.
05/24/00



5. Recommendations of the Environmental Action Plan
I. Environmental Monitoring of Groundwater:
Groundwater mining for irrigation and water supply is the most serious environmental
issue in the Wadi Zabid project area, as it has consequences on water availability for the
population, on water quality and human health, and on the sustainability of horticulture
production, which is a major source of income in the region. The EAP emphasizes the
need for monitoring of water quality and availability, for transferring water management
responsibilities to the new wadi institutions, for training extension workers and farmers
on water management for irrigation and for informing stakeholders.
Systematic groundwater monitoring in the first phase (4 years) will be undertaken by
TDA for water quality for wells and that for household consumption. In year 4 of the
project, available results will be reviewed, and decisions reached as to the type and
modalities of further monitoring.
NWRA is responsible to monitor nitrate levels in groundwater, whose concentration
should be kept under internationally acceptable thresholds for potable water, i.e. less than
50 mg/l according to WHO recommendations (1993). In rural areas, however, NWRA
has no capacity to sample and analyse the groundwater used for human consumption.
Since TDA is presently sampling groundwater for water quality studies on a monthly
basis, they appear to be the best candidate for undertaking this task.
2. Sanitation and Potable Water:
This issue will be mainly addressed through two other World Bank projects which cover
the same areas, the Water Supply and Sanitation Project dealing with infrastructure
improvements to ensure satisfactory water supply and used water treatment and the Child
Development Project. Modalities to link up SIIP to the two other projects will be
developed during appraisal.
3. Participation and Capacity Building:
Capacity BuildingStrengthening in Water Resource Management through
constitution of organised Water users Associations. Special emphasis will be given on
water management training which will include demonstrations and collective discussions
to reach a consensus within water user groups and WUAs. The program will also cover
groundwater management, focusing on conveyance losses reduction, water quality,
leaching and crop specific water requirements. The project will also provide extensive
training on water management to TDA's extension workers.
Human Health: As there is very limited awareness in the project area, even among
women, of the role of water, hygiene and sanitation in the transmission of diseases
systematic education campaigns will be necessary. The Child Development Project is
best suited to provide such education. It is therefore envisaged that the Project
Implementation Unit would link up with the management of the Water Supply and
Sanitation Project and the Child Development Project to coordinate an education
program. For its part, SIIP would contribute by providing regular data on water quality
from its monitoring program indicated above.
05/24/00



Pesticide Use and Handling Program: A study should be carried out to better know the
current practices through interviews of farmers, medical doctors and retailers; improve
farm advisory service training in pesticide handling and utilisation: and awareness
campaign to farmers through demonstrations and media.
4. Studies:
(a) Soil Salinity/Sodicity Mapping Study to avoid soil sodicity occurrence and
advise farmers on irrigation practices will be undertaken for the Tuban area.
(b) Upper Watershed Management Study will be carried out to assess the status
and trends of erosion, review experience of watershed management so far and
formulate a strategy and a program to reduce erosion in the catchment areas of
Wadi Tuban.
(c) Sand Dune Fixation to arrest sand dune movement and protect agricultural
field from further encroachment in Tuban by improving irrigation systems used
so far if it is not implemented through LWCP.
The attached tables present a summary of the proposed action plan and responsible
agencies.
Table 1 is for the Wadi Tuban and Table 2 for the Wadi Zabid.
05/24/00



Table 1 Summary of Mitigation Measures and Responsible Agencies
For Wadi Tuban
Issues                    Mitigation Measures              Time             Responsible        Base          Implementation
Institute         Cost
US$
Land and Soil Resources
Salinity/sodicity Mapping    Rigid special soil survey     2001              PIU, Lahej and Al  190,000       Short term TA (1.5mm)
Khod Research                    Soil laboratory at Al Khod
Station
Erosion and sedimentation   Upper Watershed Study will be  2001              PMU               US$250,000   To be determined at apprais;
carried out to:                                                      (d)
- assess status of erosion and trends.
- review experience in watershed
management
-formulate strategy and program
Sand Dune Encroachment   Mechanical and vegetative control   2001-2004       LWCP              p.m. (c)       PIU, include TA (Imm) for
(selected support)                                                                 improved irrigation efficienm
River Bank Protection      conservation measures (natural and  2001-2004    PMU                (b)            SHIP, MAI
structural)
Groundwater
Water quantity            Groundwater Monitoring           2001-2004         NWRA              6,000/yr       Al Khod chemistry laborato
and                   Additional Monthly water sample                                                     NWRA field teams/equipm4
Water quality             analyses (SAR)
Groundwater monitoring for       2001-2004        NWRA               10,000/yr     NWSA water sampling tean
pathogens, F and N03                                                               laboratory facilities, field
Monthly water sampling and                                                         equipment
analysis
Capacity Building and
Participation
Health                    Awareness (training on hygiene,  2001-2004         Water supply and   to be financed  not identified.
sanitation and water quality)                     sanitation Project,  under these
Child             projects
Development.
Project
Water Resources           Transfer of water management to    2004            MAI                              PMU and PlUs
Management                the new wadi institutions
Water and soil management        2003-2004        Agricultural       191,000       Short term. TA (6.5 mm) a
training                                          University, AREA,                national specialists from
Awareness, training and                           DOA                              university and research inst
demonstration to water user groups                                                  (Al Khod, Dhamar)
and WUAs
Demonstrations,
TDAs extension workers training
Groundwater resource control     2002-2004        PMU with MAI    p.m. (a)          WUG, WUAs and Irrigatio]
Decide and enforce rules on well                  and local                        Council
drilling and water abstraction                    govemment
Community unawareness    Training and Awareness campaign   2001-2004
(a)   This activity would be part of the services provided by water user institutions, provided they accept to take on this
responsibility.
(b)   Cost has been included with rehabilitation work costs.
(c)   Falls within the mandate of LWCP - Provisions made for the continuation of this project need to be verified at
appraisal.
(d)   For both wadis.
05/24/00



Table 2: Summary of Mitigation Measures and Responsible Agencies
For Wadi Zabid
Issues                   Mitigation Measures               Time         Responsible       Base               Implementation
Institute        Cost
US$
Land and Soil Resources
Erosion and sedimentation   Upper Watershed Study will be  2001         PMU               US$250,000 (c)     To be determined at appraisal
carried out to:
- assess status of erosion and trends,
- review experience in watershed
management
-formulate strategy and program
River Bank Protection     conservation measures (natural and  2001-2004    PMU            (b)                PMU, MAI
structural)
Groundwater
Increased irrigation      Groundwater Monitoring           2001-2004    TDA               6,000/yr           TDA chemistry laboratory, TI
demand                    Additional Monthly water sample                                                    field teams/equipment
Quantity                  analyses (SAR)
Reduced water quality
Groundwater monitoring for       2001-2004    NWRA (National  10,000/yr            GWC water sampling team,
pathogens, F and N03                          mandate)                             TDA laboratory facilities, fie
Monthly water sampling and                                                         cquipment
analysis
Capacity
Building/Participation
Health                    Awareness (training on hygiene,  2001-2004    Water Supply and  to be financed     not identified.
sanitation and water quality)                 Sanitation project  under these projects
and Child
Development
Project and PMU
Water Resources           Transfer of water management to    2004       MAI                                   PMU and PlUs
Mauagement                the new wadi institutions
Water resources management       2003-2004    Agricultural      178,000             short term. TA (6.5 mm) anc
training Awareness, training and              University,                           national specialists from
demonstration to water user groups            AREA, TDA                             university and research instit:
and WUAs                                                                            (Al Khod, Dhamar)
Demonstrations,
TDAs extension workers training
Groundwater resource control     2002-2004    PMU with MAI   p.m. (a)               WUG, WUAs and Irrigation
Decide and enforce rules on well              and local                             Council
drilling and water abstraction                government
Community unawareness    Training and Awareness campaign   2001-2004
(a)   This activity would be part of the services provided by water user institutions, provided they accept to take on this
responsibility.
(b)   Cost has been included with rehabilitation work costs.
(c)    For both wadis.
World Bank User
P:\!units\mnsre\elhanbal\yemen\pip\EACover Memo.doc
3/23/00 9:28 AM
05/24/00



PID
Project Information Document
Project Name               YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF-IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Region                     Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                     Al - Irrigation & Drainage
Project                    P0627 14
Borrower(s)                GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN
Implementing Agency        MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION
Address                     Ministry of Agriculture, Sana'a, Republicof Yemen
Contact Person: Mr. Farid Mujawwar, Deputy Minister
Tel: 967-1-282-445   Fax: 967-1-282-445     Email:
Environment Category       B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared          May 18, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date    June, 2000
Projected Board Date       August 24, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Irrigated agriculture is estimated to use more than 90 percent of Yemen's water and it provides most of
rural income (nearly 85 percent of the value of crop production - $600 million or some 8 percent of total
GDP). However, irrigated agriculture in Yemen faces a number of challenges, including: sustainability of
spate irrigation, sustainability of groundwater irrigation, low productivity of irrigated agriculture and the
need for change in Government's role in the irrigation sector. Government strategy for dealing with
these challenges is set out in the recent National Water Strategy, adopted by the Council of Ministers in
December 1998.
The main lines of Government's strategy are as follows:
Sustainability of public spate schemes: since the 1950s, Government has been taking on a growing
responsibility for developing and managing spate irrigation schemes. Since the public sector crisis of the
1990s, Government's ability to finance and manage the operation and maintenance of these schemes has
rapidly eroded. Government strategy is now to improve the cost-effectiveness of management, and to
involve users more and more in managing and paying for operation and maintenance. This would
involve decentralization of responsibility to scheme level, promotion of user associations and cost
sharing, and selected investments to rehabilitate the irrigation systems and improve the efficiency of
water use.
Sustainability of groundwater irrigation: rapid overdraft of the aquifer is endangering the future of
agriculture, and making urban water supply increasingly difficult and expensive to develop and manage.
Government strategy is to apply macroeconomic measures (diesel price increases, increasing import
duties on drilling rigs, etc.) that are progressively putting up the effective cost of water, together with
legal, regulatory and management measures for an expanded direct involvement of water users.
Low productivity of irrigated agriculture: by regional standards, returns to water in irrigation in
Yemen are low. Government strategy is, first, to eliminate distortions in relative prices and move
towards the scarcity pricing of water that will provide incentives to water use efficiency. Second,
Government policy is to promote the adoption of improved irrigation technology. Finally, Government
proposes a reinforced effort to develop research on water use efficiency and conservation in agriculture
and to disseminate results through a National Agriculture Technology Project (proposed for IDA



2
PID
financing in FY02).
Need for change in Government's role: Government institutions for irrigation were set up when policy
was for Government to develop and manage modern irrigation schemes. Now public policy is to reduce
Government role to the essential minimum and to involve users more and more in investment and
management. The challenge is, therefore, to restructure public institutions to focus on planning and
support to users. A second major challenge is to improve the efficiency of public sector resource
allocation and use in irrigation: this will require improved value for money of the recurrent expenditures
in the sector, and focussing further public investment on high return projects where there is ownership
and cost sharing by the beneficiaries.
2. Objectives
In line with the above-stated goal of the Program, the objectives of the proposed first-phase project
would be to ensure sustainable and efficient water conveyance, distribution and use in the two spate
irrigation schemes of Tuban and Zabid. The second phase would expand geographically drawing from
the experience of Phase I.
Program purpose and phasing
The Program, of which the proposed project is the first phase, seeks to ensure sustainable water
resources management in the spate irrigation schemes in Yemen, contributing therefore to improving
agriculture productivity and smallholder incomes in these areas. To achieve this, major institutional
changes will be introduced in addition to systems rehabilitation and improvement. These would
encompass issuance of the needed legal instruments, decentralization of Government management
services to the regional level, and increased Government's technical and financial support for and
farmers' participation in operation and maintenance of the irrigation schemes.
The Program aims at implementing, over a period of about 10 years, an approach of progressive
geographic expansion in two phases:
(a) Phase I (over 5 years), supported by the proposed project, covering the country's two
main spate irrigation schemes of Zabid (in Tihama Province) and Tuban (in Lahej Province),
totaling 22,000 ha; and
(b) Phase II (over 5 years), covering the country's other five main spate irrigation schemes of
Bana, Hassan, Mawr, Rima and Siham, totaling 68,000 ha.
The proposed Program lends itself to the Adaptable Program Lending (APL) approach. The second
phase would build on the experience and progress of the first phase and would only start after certain
milestones (to be defined in detail during project preparation and agreed upon with the Government at
Negotiations) are met. Major outcomes of the Program's two phases are sunmmarized in Annex 3.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
IDA would bring to the proposed project a series of advantages, i.e.,
- a strong dialogue with Government on water resources management, irrigation and agriculture
sector policies, exemplified in the partnership approach during the preparation of the Water
Strategy, the Agriculture Strategy and the Irrigation Srategy Notes. IDA is the preferred
partner for Government on policy dialogue in these sectors;



3
PID
- a long history of involvement in spate irrigation, including financing over 25 years of the
construction of many of the main diversion structures of the schemes;
- strong technical involvement in the preparation of the spate irrigation reform agenda and
involvement in the development of the participatory irrigation management (PIM) agenda, in
partnership with the WBI team;
- strong IDA involvement in the restructuring program for the Ministry of Agriculture (Aden
Agenda) and in the larger administrative reform program (PSMAC); and
4. Description
The following Phase I project components are proposed:
A. Rehabilitation, Improvement and Protection of Spate Irrigation Infrastructure in the Tuban
and Zabid Schemes, totaling about 26,000 ha
(a) topographical survey, detailed design, hydraulic models testing and supervision for high
priority works in Tuban and Zabid spate irrigation schemes; and
(b) rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation systems at farm level (e.g. at the tertiary canal
and/or branch levels), as well as at primary, headwork and wadi levels.
B. Irrigation and Environment Management Component
(a) provision of equipment and spare parts for operation and maintenance of the schemes;
(b) development and testing of water management information systems (MIS), O&M procedures
and a flood warning system;
(c) establishment of WUAs, SWUFs and joint management mechanisms (ICs) at Tuban and
Zabid (including management facilities, supplies and equipment); and
(d) environmental mitigation and enhancement measures including monitoring and awareness
for sustainable water resources management and upper watersheds study.
C. Agriculture Intensification Demonstration Program
(a) implementation of an intensive demonstration program covering about 5,000 ha in Tuban and
Zabid to make farmers familiar with new varieties and improved agricultural practices;
(b) extension services, on contractual basis, to transfer existing, proven technologies from the
research stations to farmers fields; and
(c) local and international technical assistance to support the extension services.
D. Community Development Component



4
PID
(a) studies to identify priorities of needed social infrastructures in Zabid and Tuban areas based
on consultation with the communities and active participation of the population. This might
include village water supply, sewerage/sanitation, and income generation activities if
justified (NB implementation would be through existing facilities such as Social Fund,
Public Works Project or IDAS);
(b) construction of priority and agreed social infrastructure; and
(c) support and training for off-farm activities.
E. Institutional Strengthening Component
(a) institutional assessment of the irrigation institutions, including central and regional
institutions, preparation of action plan, and support to implement the plan;
(b) assistance for GDI in developing, planning and preparation guidelines for the PIM program
in Yemen, including establishing a special unit in GDI for that purpose, and training,
incremental staff and technical assistance for GDI;
(c) monitoring and evaluation of the project and its impacts;
(d) feasibility studies and preliminary design for the irrigation schemes to be rehabilitated and
improved under the second phase of the Program;
(e) assistance to development of the new irrigation law; and
(f) project implementation unit (PMU) in Sana'a with small field implementation teams (FITs)
in Zabid and Tuban.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                 3.1
E3RD
IDA                        15.0
BENEFICIARIES              0.7
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT 10.0
Total Project Cost         28.8
6. Implementation
The institutional and implementation arrangements for project management would be as follows:
(a) At the Government Level
The Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (MAI) would have overall authority for project
implementation, and would be responsible for formulating and enforcing any administrative and legal
arrangement to be agreed upon under the project. To this effect, a Steering Committee (SC) would be
established under MAI to oversee implementation of the project. The exact composition and
organization of the SC would be determined during project appraisal. The committee is expected to



PID
include at least the Deputy Minister of MAI, the Deputy Minister of MOPD, the Project Director,
and the General Director of the Irrigation Department.
The project would be coordinated and its implementation supervised from a main PMU office in
Sana'a, with field implementation teams (FITs) in both Zabid and Tuban to be established before
project start. The main task of the PMU would be coordination of project implementation activities
including: (i) procurement of goods, civil works and consultant services; (ii) management of
technical assistance; (iii) verification and processing of statements of expenditure and withdrawal
applications; (iv) reporting, accounting and auditing arrangements; (v) preparation of periodic
progress reports for review by the SC, MAI and IDA; and (vi) monitoring and evaluation of project
impact. Also, the PMU would be responsible for supervising and coordinating support to the
establishment and development of WUAs and SWUFs. The PMU would report to the Chairman of
SC. PMU staff would consist of the following key personnel: director, engineer/procurement officer,
institutional specialist, finance and administration officer, and a monitoring and evaluation officer).
The two field implementation teams would be responsible for supervising implementation of project
activities in the Tuban and Zabid schemes. Their composition would be determined during project
appraisal. Staff would be recruited and managed according to the agreed PMU guidelines. FIT staff
would be largely seconded from MAI' s Tihama Regional Development Authority (for the Zabid
scheme) and from the MAI's Lahej Regional Irrigation Department (for the Tuban scheme).
(b) At Farmers' Level
Farmers within the project schemes would participate in the project through WUAs and through their
involvement in the SMUs. WUAs would be the main vehicle for ensuring beneficiary participation
in the project at all levels from identification and design through construction supervision to
participation in operation and maintenance and to eventual system transfer. The SMUs would be
answerable to all stakeholders through a board that would comprise both farmer and community
representatives and Government staff. Detailed arrangements for farmer participation will be
determined in detail during project preparation.
(c) Conditions to be met before project start
Given the critical importance of the institutional issues (described above) for the success of the
Project and the Program, assurances would be soughtfrom the Government to take the following
actions before the start of the project:
(i) Commitment of the Government to provide enough O&M budget for all spate irrigation
schemes in year 2001 and beyond;
(ii) Enacting A Policy Statement to promote the establishment of water users associations
(WUAs), scheme water users fererations (SWUFs) and Irrigation Councils ( ICs), and that
financing of any rehabilitation works would be conditional upon the prior formation of the
concerned the WUAs, SWUFs and ICs; and
7. Sustainability
The project aims to provide an appropriate policy and institutional framework for technically,
environmentally and fiscally sustainable irrigation management. The project would:
*   associate farmers in all stages of engineering and institutional development, so that the two go hand
in hand - this linking of engineering and institution building will increase the sense of ownership of



6
PID
the irrigation facilities among farmers and give incentives to subsequent participation in
management.
*   establish farmers' association (WUAs) at the lower hydraulic levels, and include WUA
representatives at each higher level, including the scheme management organizations (SMUs),
raising the willingness to participate in management and financing of the schemes.
*   support scheme management by providing them with equipment, training and support to recurrent
budget to enhance their capacity for management of irrigation system.
*   select schemes to be rehabilitated and improved where there is evident potential for farmer
involvement.
*   improve water use efficiency of spate irrigation by introducing the advanced measuring and
controlling devices, allowing more flows to be diverted and distributed to the irrigated areas and
allowing recharge of nearby groundwater aquifers, thus reducing the exhausting of groundwater
supply.
*   improve the planning and execution of the small dams program through capacity building support to
GDI.



7
PID
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The most important lesson in irrigation development worldwide is that sustainability of irrigation
systems requires intensive beneficiary participation in all stages, starting from identification and design
right through to the operation and maintenance of constructed facilities. Sustainability is achieved
through the involvement of farmers in investment and management decisions and, subsequently, through
their involvement in operation and maintenance activities. This lesson is incorporated in the design of
the proposed project, which lays emphasis on involvement of beneficiaries throughout and on the
development of beneficiary and joint beneficiary/technical institutions. In addition, the physical works
program is linked to the concurrent development of the capacity and participation of farmer institutions.
A second lesson from previous successful IDA projects in Yemen is that simple design is likely to make
for a successful project. Thus the present project incorporates a simple project design focused on
improving rehabilitation and O&M of the two existing spate irrigation schemes and building on existing
institutional capacity to implement the institutional reforms sought.
A third lesson that has been particularly learned from projects in Yemen with spate irrigation
components, is that timely availability of operating budget is vital. Otherwise, the structures quickly
deteriorate and yields and productivity fall off. Risks from flood damage also increase. The means by
which this problem will be tackled would be defined during project preparation. First, the needs have to
be determined, and then a financial plan worked out that will inevitably require Government to pay more
for an interim period, until the financing ability of WUAs can be developed. As mentioned in section C -
4 (c). Government agreement to provide enough 0 & M budget for all spate irrigation schemes would be
reached before project start.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI) Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues:
There are no major environmental issues. The proposed project is expected to have beneficial impacts on
the environment as it would increase the reliability of spate irrigation water, and reduce overdraft of the
groundwater aquifers. However, due to changes in the pattern of water distribution as a result of
rehabilitation of spate irrigation infrastructure, reduction of recharge to certain areas may occur. On the
other hand, improved water distribution should result in reduction of groundwater use in those areas.
The project will also improve health conditions of the rural population in some project areas by providing
them with domestic water under the community development component. These benefits are expected to
outweigh any minor adverse environmental impacts (soil quality, waterlogging, water quality) arising as
a result of the agricultural activities in the improved areas.
The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) aims at establishing the conditions required for sound
environmental management in the project area. It incorporates three main components.
(a) Environmental Awareness and Participatory Management. This covers: (i) promoting (through
participation and capacity building), local knowledge and awareness of the major issues
threatening the well-being of wadi populations, particularly in terms of health and sustained
water availability; and (ii) encouraging participatory management of natural resources by the
institutions established under the project. This approach will be supported by systematic
monitoring of water characteristics, information campaigns, training and support to the fledgling
water management institutions.



8
PID
(b) Groundwater. In order to minimize groundwater depletion (which although barely to be linked to
the project is nonetheless the most significant environmental problem in the Zabid area), the
EMP would support a groundwater management system which would rely on data collected from
the monitoring of water levels and quality in the project area. In order to monitor any changes to
quality or quantity of groundwater in the Zabid area, where there is currently overpumping,
detailed analysis and modeling of water resources and water quality monitoring would be carried
out. An awareness campaign would also be included to infonn the users about the impact of
groundwater use, and measures to sustain that use. These actions have been included in project
costs. Most of the problems can be mitigated through technically simple measures that can be
implemented through the involvement of the Water User Associations and Irrigation Councils
once they are aware of the limits to the use of groundwater resources. Involvement of the water
users and studies in monitoring the impact during the Project would help improve overall water
resources management in the project areas.
(c) Building the Knowledge Base. The EMP incorporates three studies (of which numbers (i) and
(ii) are already programmed under other components of the project): (i) soil salinity/sodicity
mapping study to avoid soil sodicity occurrence and advise farmers on irrigation practices will be
undertaken for the Tuban area; (ii) upper watershed management study will be carried out to
assess the status and trends of erosion, review experience of watershed management so far and
formulate a strategy and a program to reduce erosion in the catchment areas of the wadis; and
(iii) sand dune fixation study to assess the need for further action to arrest sand dune movement
and protect project farming areas. For the latter study, coordination will be sought during
appraisal with the Land and Water Conservation Project and IFAD Tihama Environmental
Protection Project for implementing protective measures for sand dune fixation.
The above measures represent an adequate response to the environmental aspects of the project, and also
contribute to the improvement of the general environment of the regions, outside of the strict remit of the
project.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Usaid I. El-Hanbali
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-1925
Fax: 202-477-1374
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop



9
PID
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.






EDS
Environmental Data Sheet for Projects In the IBRD/IDA
Lending Program
Country:                                         Project ID No.:
YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF                               P062714
Project Name:
IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Appraisal Date:                                  IBRD Amount (US$m):
Board Date:                                      IDA Amount (US$m):
15
Managing Division:                               Sector:
AI - Irrigation & Drainage
Lending Instrument:                              Status:
Adaptable Program Loan (APL)                     Appraisal
Date for receipt of EA report by Bank:           Date Assigned:
03/21/2000                                       N/A
EA Category: B
Date data sheet prepared/updated:
05/18/2000
Major Project Components:
A. Rehabilitation and Improvement of Spate Irrigation Infrastructure
B. Participatory Irrigation Management
C. Institutional Development and Capacity Building
D. Agriculture Demonstration Intensification
E. Community Development
E. Project Management Unit (PMU)
Project Location: (besides geographic location, information about the key environmental characteristics of the
area likely to be affected by the project, and proximity of any protected areas or sites or critical natural habitats)
Major Environmental Issues: (identified or suspected in project)
There are no major environmental issues. The proposed project is expected to have beneficial impacts on
the environment as it would increase the reliability of spate irrigation water, and reduce overdraft of the
groundwater aquifers. However, due to changes in the pattern of water distribution as a result of
rehabilitation of spate irrigation infrastructure, reduction of recharge to certain areas may occur. On the
other hand, improved water distribution should result in reduction of groundwater use in those areas.
The project will also improve health conditions of the rural population in some project areas by providing
them with domestic water under the community development component. These benefits are expected to
outweigh any minor adverse environmental impacts (soil quality, waterlogging, water quality) arising as
a result of the agricultural activities in the improved areas.
Other Environmental Issues: (of lesser scope associated with project)
Proposed Actions: (to mitigate environmental issues described above)



2
EDS
The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) aims at establishing the conditions required for sound
environmental management in the project area. It incorporates three main components.
(a) Environmental Awareness and Participatory Management. This covers: (i) promoting (through
participation and capacity building), local knowledge and awareness of the major issues
threatening the well-being of wadi populations, particularly in terms of health and sustained
water availability; and (ii) encouraging participatory management of natural resources by the
institutions established under the project. This approach will be supported by systematic
monitoring of water characteristics, information campaigns, training and support to the fledgling
water management institutions.
(b) Groundwater. In order to minimize groundwater depletion (which although barely to be linked to
the project is nonetheless the most significant environmental problem in the Zabid area), the
EMP would support a groundwater management system which would rely on data collected from
the monitoring of water levels and quality in the project area. In order to monitor any changes to
quality or quantity of groundwater in the Zabid area, where there is currently overpumping,
detailed analysis and modeling of water resources and water quality monitoring would be carried
out. An awareness campaign would also be included to inform the users about the impact of
groundwater use, and measures to sustain that use. These actions have been included in project
costs. Most of the problems can be mitigated through technically simple measures that can be
implemented through the involvement of the Water User Associations and Irrigation Councils
once they are aware of the limits to the use of groundwater resources. Involvement of the water
users and studies in monitoring the impact during the Project would help improve overall water
resources management in the project areas.
(c) Building the Knowledge Base. The EMP incorporates three studies (of which numbers (i) and
(ii) are already programmed under other components of the project): (i) soil salinity/sodicity
mapping study to avoid soil sodicity occurrence and advise farmers on irrigation practices will be
undertaken for the Tuban area; (ii) upper watershed management study will be carried out to
assess the status and trends of erosion, review experience of watershed management so far and
formulate a strategy and a program to reduce erosion in the catchment areas of the wadis; and
(iii) sand dune fixation study to assess the need for further action to arrest sand dune movement
and protect project farming areas. For the latter study, coordination will be sought during
appraisal with the Land and Water Conservation Project and IFAD Tihama Environmental
Protection Project for implementing protective measures for sand dune fixation.
The above measures represent an adequate response to the environmental aspects of the project, and also
contribute to the improvement of the general environment of the regions, outside of the strict remit of the
project.
Justification/Rationale for Environmental Category: (presents reasons for environmental category selected
and explanation of any changes from initial classification, including whether any changes relate to alternatives)
The Project has been considered as B Category because it is expected that there will be no major
environmental issues. The proposed project is expected to have beneficial impacts on the environment as
it would increase the reliability of spate irrigation water, and reduce overdraft of the groundwater
aquifers.
Reporting Schedule: (Category A EA report: Start-up date, date for first draft, and current status. Category B: Is
there a separate environmental analysis? If yes,when is it due?)



3
EDS
Start-up date
Date for first draft
Current status
Remarks: (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local groups and local NGOs consulted and,
where EA reports were made public locally, tells whether borrower has given permission to release EA report, etc.)
Consultation with the stakeholders (Gov., NGOs, Beneficiaries) took place during preparation of the EA.
Government has given permission to release the EA report.
Signed by: Usaid EI-Hanbali,-7<-'    Wit,    (Team Leader)
Signed by:3Salah Darghouth 4:                      (Sector Manager/Director)
Signed by-:arif Arif                               (Head, Regional Environment Sectoral Unit)



