Report No. PID8115
Project Name                     Yemen, Republic of-Irrigation (@+) ...
Improvement Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Irrigation & Drainage
Project ID                       YEPE62714
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN
Implementing Agency
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION
Ministry of Agriculture, Sana'a
Republic of Yemen
Contact Person: Mr. Farid Mujawwar,
Deputy Minister
Tel: 967-1-282-445
Fax: 967-1-282-445
Email: SIIP@Y.net.ye
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                July 17, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         June 2000
Projected Board Date             September 7, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Irrigated agriculture is estimated to use more than 90 percent of Yemen's
water and it provides most of rural income (nearly 85 percent of the value
of crop production - $600 million or some 8 percent of total GDP).
However, irrigated agriculture in Yemen faces a number of challenges,
including: sustainability of spate irrigation, sustainability of
groundwater irrigation, low productivity of irrigated agriculture and the
need for change in Government's role in the irrigation sector. Government
strategy for dealing with these challenges is set out in the recent
National Water Strategy, adopted by the Council of Ministers in December
1998. The main lines of Government's strategy are as
follows:Sustainability of public spate schemes: since the 1950s,
Government has been taking on a growing responsibility for developing and
managing spate irrigation schemes. Since the public sector crisis of the
1990s, Government's ability to finance and manage the operation and
maintenance of these schemes has rapidly eroded. Government strategy is
now to improve the cost-effectiveness of management, and to involve users
more and more in managing and paying for operation and maintenance. This
would involve decentralization of responsibility to scheme level,
promotion of user associations and cost sharing, and selected investments
to rehabilitate the irrigation systems and improve the efficiency of water
use.Sustainability of groundwater irrigation: rapid overdraft of the
aquifer is endangering the future of agriculture, and making urban water
supply increasingly difficult and expensive to develop and manage.
Government strategy is to apply macroeconomic measures (diesel price
increases, increasing import duties on drilling rigs, etc.) that are
progressively putting up the effective cost of water, together with legal,
regulatory and management measures for an expanded direct involvement of



water users.Low productivity of irrigated agriculture: by regional
standards, returns to water in irrigation in Yemen are low. Government
strategy is, first, to eliminate distortions in relative prices and move
towards the scarcity pricing of water that will provide incentives to
water use efficiency. Second, Government policy is to promote the
adoption of improved irrigation technology. Finally, Government proposes
a reinforced effort to develop research on water use efficiency and
conservation in agriculture and to disseminate results through a National
Agriculture Technology Project (proposed for IDA financing in FY02). Need
for change in Government's role: Government institutions for irrigation
were set up when policy was for Government to develop and manage modern
irrigation schemes. Now public policy is to reduce Government role to the
essential minimum and to involve users more and more in investment and
management. The challenge is, therefore, to restructure public
institutions to focus on planning and support to users. A second major
challenge is to improve the efficiency of public sector resource
allocation and use in irrigation: this will require improved value for
money of the recurrent expenditures in the sector, and focusing further
public investment on high return projects where there is ownership and
cost sharing by the beneficiaries.
2. Objectives
In line with the above-stated goal of the Program, the objectives of the
proposed first-phase project would be to ensure sustainable and efficient
water conveyance, distribution and use in the two spate irrigation schemes
of Tuban and Zabid, and to increase agriculture production and rural
incomes. The second phase would expand geographically drawing from the
experience of Phase I. Program purpose and phasingThe Program, of which
the proposed project is the first phase, seeks to ensure sustainable water
resources management in the spate irrigation schemes in Yemen,
contributing therefore to improving agriculture productivity and
smallholder incomes in these areas. To achieve this, major institutional
changes will be introduced in addition to systems rehabilitation and
improvement. These would encompass issuance of the needed legal
instruments, decentralization of Government management services to the
regional level, and increased Government's technical and financial support
for and farmers' participation in operation and maintenance of the
irrigation schemes.The Program aims at implementing, over a period of
about 10 years, an approach of progressive geographic expansion in two
phases:(a) Phase I (over 5 years), supported by the proposed project,
covering the country's two main spate irrigation schemes of Zabid (in
Hodeidah Governorate, Tihama) and Tuban (in Lahej Governorate), totaling
26,000 ha. Other smaller spate irrigation schemes (Hijr, Ahwar, Meifa'a,
Surdud, Harad and Rasyan) may be included if they meet the criteria used
to select the above main schemes; and (b) Phase II (over 5 years),
covering the country's other five main spate irrigation schemes of Bana,
Hassan, Mawr, Rima and Siham, totaling 64,000 ha.     The proposed Program
lends itself to the Adaptable Program Lending (APL) approach.     The second
phase would build on the experience and progress of the first phase and
would only start after certain milestones are met. Major outcomes of the
Program's two phases are summarized in Annex 3.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
IDA would bring to the proposed project a series of advantages:- a strong
dialogue with Government on water resources management, irrigation and
-2 -



agriculture sector policies, exemplified in the partnership approach
during the preparation of the Water Strategy, the Agriculture Strategy
and the Irrigation Strategy Notes. IDA is the preferred partner for
Government on policy dialogue in these sectors;- a long history of
involvement in spate irrigation, including financing over 25 years of the
construction of many of the main diversion structures of the schemes;-
strong technical involvement in the preparation of the spate irrigation
reform agenda and involvement in the development of the participatory
irrigation management (PIM) agenda, in partnership with the WBI team; and-
strong IDA involvement in the restructuring program for the Ministry of
Agriculture (Aden Agenda) and in the larger administrative reform program
(PSMAC).
4. Description
The following Phase I project components are proposed: A. Rehabilitation
and Improvement of Spate Irrigation Infrastructure in the Tuban and Zabid
Schemes, totaling about 26,000 ha(a) topographical survey, detailed
design, hydraulic models testing and supervision for high priority works
in Tuban and Zabid spate irrigation schemes; and(b) rehabilitation and
improvement of irrigation systems at farm level (e.g. at the tertiary
canal and/or branch levels), as well as at primary, headwork and wadi
levels. B. Irrigation and Environment Management and PIM(a) provision of
equipment and spare parts for operation and maintenance of the schemes;
(b) development and testing of water management information systems (MIS),
O&M procedures and a flood warning system; (c) establishment of WUAs,
SWUFs and Government/farmers joint management structure (ICs) at Tuban and
Zabid (including management facilities, supplies and equipment); and(d)
environmental mitigation and enhancement measures including monitoring and
awareness for sustainable water resources management and upper watersheds
study.C. Intensive Agriculture Demonstration Program(a) implementation of
an intensive demonstration program covering about 5,000 ha in Tuban and
Zabid to make farmers familiar with new varieties and improved
agricultural practices;(b) extension services, on contractual basis, to
transfer existing, proven technologies from the research stations to
farmers fields; and(c) local and international technical assistance to
support the extension services.D. Institutional Development and Capacity
Building and PMU(a) institutional assessment of the irrigation
institutions, including central and regional institutions, preparation of
action plan, and support to implement the plan;(b) assistance for GDI in
developing, planning and preparation guidelines for the PIM program in
Yemen; (c) monitoring and evaluation of the project and its impacts;(d)
feasibility studies and preliminary design for the irrigation schemes to
be rehabilitated and improved under the second phase of the Program;(e)
assistance to development of the new irrigation law; and(f) project
implementation unit (PMU) in Sana'a with small project implementation
units (PIUs) in Zabid and Tuban.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               3.1
IBRD
IDA                      21.3
BENEFICIARIES            1.2
Total Project Cost       25.6
-3-



6. Implementation
The institutional and implementation arrangements for project management
would be as follows:(a) At the Government Level The Ministry of
Agriculture and Irrigation (MAI) would have overall authority for project
implementation, and would be responsible for formulating and enforcing any
administrative and legal arrangement to be agreed upon under the project.
To this effect, a Steering Committee (SC) would be established under MAI
to oversee implementation of the project. The committee is expected to
include at least the Deputy Minister of MAI, the Deputy Minister of MOPD,
the Project Director, and the General Director of the Irrigation
Department. The project would be coordinated and its implementation
supervised from a main PMU office in Sana'a, with project implementation
units (PIUs) in both Zabid and Tuban to be established before project
start. The main task of the PMU would be coordination of project
implementation activities including: (i) procurement of goods, civil works
and consultant services; (ii) management of technical assistance; (iii)
verification and processing of statements of expenditure and withdrawal
applications; (iv) reporting, accounting and auditing arrangements; (v)
preparation of periodic progress reports for review by the SC, MAI and
IDA; and (vi) monitoring and evaluation of project impact. Also, the PMU
would be responsible for supervising and coordinating support to the
establishment and development of WUAs and SWUFs. The PMU would report to
the Chairman of SC. PMU staff would consist of the following key
personnel: director, engineer/procurement officer, institutional
specialist, finance and administration officer, and a monitoring and
evaluation officer). The two field implementation teams would be
responsible for supervising implementation of project activities in the
Tuban and Zabid schemes. Their composition would be determined during
project appraisal. Staff would be recruited and managed according to the
agreed PMU guidelines. PIU staff would be largely seconded from MAI's
Tihama Regional Development Authority (for the Zabid scheme) and from the
MAI's Lahej Regional Irrigation Department (for the Tuban scheme). (b) At
Farmers' LevelFarmers within the project schemes would participate in the
project through WUAs and through their involvement in the SMUs. WUAs
would be the main vehicle for ensuring beneficiary participation in the
project at all levels from identification and design through construction
supervision to participation in operation and maintenance and to eventual
system transfer. The SMUs would be answerable to all stakeholders through
a board that would comprise both farmer and community representatives and
Government staff. (c) Implementation AspectsThe PMU and the two PIUs will
be responsible for implementing all project components. PMU will prepare,
with the help of the technical assistance, necessary procurement documents
while PIUs will supervise the construction of the civil works. Also, PMU
will recruit the project consultants and oversee their works. PMU and
PIUs will also oversee the organization and establishment of WUAs and
provide the necessary training for PIUs staff and farmers. In addition,
an NGO would be contracted by the PMU on project financing to assist in
user mobilization and organization activities under the
project.Implementation of the Saturation and Localized High Impact
Demonstration Program (SLHIDP) would be undertaken through contractual
services between the PMU and qualified local public or private sector
institutions.
7. Sustainability
The project aims to provide an appropriate policy and institutional
- 4 -



framework for technically, environmentally and fiscally sustainable
irrigation management. The project would:associate farmers in all stages
of engineering and institutional development, so that the two go hand in
hand - this linking of engineering and institution building will increase
the sense of ownership of the irrigation facilities among farmers and give
incentives to subsequent participation in management.establish farmers'
association (WUAs) at the lower hydraulic levels, and include WUA
representatives at each higher level, including the scheme management
organizations (SMUs), raising the willingness to participate in management
and financing of the schemes.support scheme management by providing them
with equipment, training and support to recurrent budget to enhance their
capacity for management of irrigation system.select schemes to be
rehabilitated and improved where there is evident potential for farmer
involvement.improve water use efficiency of spate irrigation by
introducing the advanced measuring and controlling devices, allowing more
flows to be diverted and distributed to the irrigated areas and allowing
recharge of nearby groundwater aquifers, thus reducing the exhausting of
groundwater supply.improve the planning and execution of the small dams
program through capacity building support to GDI.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The most important lesson in irrigation development worldwide is that
sustainability of irrigation systems requires intensive beneficiary
participation in all stages, starting from identification and design right
through to the operation and maintenance of constructed facilities.
Sustainability is achieved through the involvement of farmers in
investment and management decisions and, subsequently, through their
involvement in operation and maintenance activities. This lesson is
incorporated in the design of the proposed project, which lays emphasis on
involvement of beneficiaries throughout and on the development of
beneficiary and joint beneficiary/technical institutions. In addition,
the physical works program is linked to the concurrent development of the
capacity and participation of farmer institutions.A second lesson from
previous successful IDA projects in Yemen is that simple design is likely
to make for a successful project. Thus the present project incorporates a
simple project design focused on improving rehabilitation and O&M of the
two existing spate irrigation schemes and building on existing
institutional capacity to implement the institutional reforms sought.A
third lesson that has been particularly learned from projects in Yemen
with spate irrigation components, is that timely availability of operating
budget is vital. Otherwise, the structures quickly deteriorate and yields
and productivity fall off. Risks from flood damage also increase. The
means by which this problem will be tackled would be defined during
project preparation. First, the needs have to be determined, and then a
financial plan worked out that will inevitably require Government to pay
more for an interim period, until the financing ability of WUAs can be
developed.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
- 5 -



Issues        There are no major environmental issues. The
proposed project is expected to have beneficial impacts on the environment
as it would increase the reliability of spate irrigation water, and reduce
overdraft of the groundwater aquifers. However, due to changes in the
pattern of water distribution as a result of rehabilitation of spate
irrigation infrastructure, reduction of recharge to certain areas may
occur. On the other hand, improved water distribution should result in
reduction of groundwater use in those areas. These benefits are expected
to outweigh any minor adverse environmental impacts (soil quality,
waterlogging, water quality) arising as a result of the agricultural
activities in the improved areas.The Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
aims at establishing the conditions required for sound environmental
management in the project area. It incorporates three main components.(a)
Environmental Awareness and Participatory Management. This covers: (i)
promoting (through participation and capacity building), local knowledge
and awareness of the major issues threatening the well-being of wadi
populations, particularly in terms of sustained water availability; and
(ii) encouraging participatory management of natural resources by the
institutions established under the project. This approach will be
supported by systematic monitoring of water characteristics, information
campaigns, training and support to the fledgling water management
institutions. (b) Groundwater. In order to minimize groundwater
depletion (which although barely to be linked to the project is
nonetheless the most significant environmental problem in the Zabid area),
the EMP would support a groundwater management system which would rely on
data collected from the monitoring of water levels and quality in the
project area. In order to monitor any changes to quality or quantity of
groundwater in the Zabid area, where there is currently overpumping,
detailed analysis and modeling of water resources and water quality
monitoring would be carried out. An awareness campaign would also be
included to inform the users about the impact of groundwater use, and
measures to sustain that use. These actions have been included in project
costs. Most of the problems can be mitigated through technically simple
measures that can be implemented through the involvement of the Water User
Associations and Irrigation Councils once they are aware of the limits to
the use of groundwater resources. Involvement of the water users and
studies in monitoring the impact during the Project would help improve
overall water resources management in the project areas. (c) Building the
Knowledge Base. The EMP incorporates three studies (of which numbers (i)
and (ii) are already programmed under other components of the project):
(i) soil salinity/sodicity mapping study to avoid soil sodicity occurrence
and advise farmers on irrigation practices will be undertaken for the
Tuban area; and (ii) upper watershed management study will be carried out
to assess the status and trends of erosion, review experience of watershed
management so far and formulate a strategy and a program to reduce erosion
in the catchment areas of the wadis. The above measures represent an
adequate response to the environmental aspects of the project, and also
contribute to the improvement of the general environment of the regions,
outside of the strict remit of the project.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Usaid I. El-Hanbali
The World Bank
-6-



1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-1925
Fax: 202-477-1374
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 11, 2000.
- 7 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.
-8-



