Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20720-YEM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.2 MILLION
(US$21.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR THE FIRST PHASE OF AN
IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
August 9, 2000
Rural Development, Water and Environment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 10, 2000)
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YR)
YR 1 = US$ US$0.00625
US$ 1 = YR 160
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL                   Adaptable Program Loan
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
EMP                   Environmental Management Plan
FAO                   Food and Agriculture Organization
GDI                   General Directorate of Irrigation
GOY                   Govermnent of Yemen
IC                    Irrigation Council
IDA                   International Development Association
IMT                   Irrigation Management Transfer
LWCP                  Land and Water Conservation Project
MAI                   Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
M&E                   Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS                   Management Information System
MOPD                  Ministry of Planning and Development
NWRA                  National Water Resources Authority
PCD                   Project Concept Document
PIP                   Project Implementation Plan
PIM                   Participatory Irrigation Management
PIU                   Project Implementation Unit
PMU                   Project Management Unit
PPU                   Project Preparation Unit
PSMAC                 Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit
PY                    Project Year
O&M                   Operation and Maintenance
SA                    Social Assessment
SC                    Steering Committee
SWUF                  Scheme Water Users Federation
ROY                   Republic of Yemen
WBI                   World Bank Institute
WUA                   Water Users Association
WUG                   Water Users Group
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:   Inder Sud
Sector Manager/Director:    Doris Koehn
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Usaid El-Hanbali



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                               3
2. Project development objective                                                     4
3. Key performance indicators                                                        4
B. 'Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                6
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                 6
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     8
3. Benefits and target population                                                    9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                         14
4. Indications of borrower comnmitrnent and ownership                               14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      15
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         15
2. Financial                                                                        16
3. Technical                                                                        18
4. Institutional                                                                    18
5. Environmental                                                                    20
6. Social                                                                           21
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               23
F. Sustainability and Risks
1]. Sustainability                                                                  24
2. Critical risks                                                                   24
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   25



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           25
2. Other                                                                             25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         26
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        26
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         27
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        44
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  52
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              59
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      70
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    83
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  84
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 86
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           88
Annex 11: Institutional Arrangements                                                    90
Annex 12: Environment Aspects                                                          109
Annex 13: Social Assessment                                                            114
Annex 14: Implementation Schedules                                                     120
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 30790
IBRD No. 30791
IBRD No. 30792



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSRE
Date: August 9, 2000                              Team Leader: Usaid I. El-Hanbali
Country Manager/Director: Inder K. Sud            Sector Manager/Director: Doris Koehn
Project ID: P062714                               Sector(s): AI - Irrigation & Drainage
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): Water
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
lProgram Financing Data
.                  ~~~~~~Estimated
APL            Indicative Financing Plan         Implementation Period          Borrower
________  ______________    _________    __________  (Bank_FY)
IDA             Others      Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m       US$ m        Date        Date
APL 1       21.30    83.2     4.30       25.60     10/15/2000   06/30/2006 Government of Yemen
Loan/
Credit   _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
APL 2       23.70    54.2   20.00        43.70     12/31/2004   06/30/2011 Govermnment of Yemen
Loan/
C redit __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
APL 3
Loan/
Credit
APL 4
Loan/
C redit   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _
Total    145.00  1           24.30   169.30    __________________________
Project Financing Data
II Loan        N Credit         El Grant       FEl Guarantee    El Other (Specify)
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $21.3 Million Equivalent
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard                               Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         FoOnTotal
GOVERNME NT                                                     3.101          0.001 3.10
IDA                                                             8.10          13.20         21.30
BENEFICIAIRIES                                                  1.20           0.00          1.20
Total:                                                         12.40          13.20  1      25.60
Borrower: GIOVIERNMENT OF YEMEN
~Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION1



Address: Ministry of Agriculture, Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Contact Person: Mr. Farid Mujawwar, Deputy Minister
Tel: 967-1-282-445                Fax: 967-1-282-445               Email: SIIP@Y.net.ye
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
Annual     0.0           3.5         5.0         6.0         5.0         1.3
Cumulative     0.5          4.0         9.0        15.0        20.0        21.3
Project implementation period: 5
Expected effectiveness date: 01/01/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
OCSAPL PAD F- R. 1h. 20DO
-2 -



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. P'rogram purpose and program phasing:
The Program, of which the proposed project is the first phase, seeks to ensure sustainable water resources
management in the seven main spate irrigation schemes in Yemen, contributing thereby to improved
agriculture productivity and smallholder income in these areas. To achieve this, the schemes would be
rehabilitated and improved, intensive agriculture demonstration program implemented, and institutional
changes would be introduced. These changes would include: (i) passage of an irrigation law and decrees
providing for user participation and cost recovery in irrigation; (ii) increased Government technical and
financial support for operation and maintenance of the irrigation schemes; and (iii) increased farmer
participation in irrigation management at all levels, leading ultimately to transfer of management of the
schemes to water user associations (WUAs) and their federations.
The Program would be implemented over a period of about 10 years in two phases following a progressive
geographic coverage:
(a) Phase I (over five years): supported by the proposed project, covering two of the country's seven
main spate irrigation schemes: Zabid (in Hodeidah Govemorate) and Tuban (in Lahej
Govemorate), with a total command area of about 26,000 ha; and
(b) Phase II (over a further five years): covering the country's five other main spate irrigation
schemes of Bana, Hassan, Mawr, Rima and Siharn, with a total command area of about 64,000 ha.
Other smaller spate irrigation schemes (Hijr, Ahwar, Meifa'a, Surdud, Harad and Rasyan) may be
included if they meet the criteria used to select the above seven main schemes.
The proposed Program lends itself to the Adaptable Program Lending (APL) approach. The second
phase would build on the experience and progress of the first phase and would only start after certain
milestones are met during Phase I implementation. Appendices 1 and 2 of Annex 2 show those milestones
and outcomes which would be used to monitor development and implementation progress of Phase I and to
trigger the start of Phase II. In summary, before the decision is taken at the end of Project-Year (PY) 4 to
proceed with Phase II , the following would have to be true:
(a) transfer of irrigation management from the field turn-out up to the branch canal level in Wadi
Zabid is complete; establishment of WUAs from the tertiary level up to the main canal level for
Wadi Tuban is complete; and farmers have paid their share of O&M cost for PY3;
(b) agreed Government share of O&M costs has been paid on schedule in PY3;
(c) Irrigation Council (IC) in Wadi Tuban is initiated;
(d) implementation of rehabilitation works has reached target (about 80% completion in the Tuban and
60% completion in Zabid);
(e) formation of Scheme Water User Federations (SWUFs) at scheme level is underway; and
(f) Irrigation Law has been enacted.
-3 -



2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
In line with the above-stated goal of the Program, the main objective of the proposed Phase I project would
be to ensure: (i) sustainable and efficient water conveyance, distribution and use in the two spate irrigation
schemes of Tuban and Zabid through rehabilitation and participatory irrigation management (PIM); and (ii)
increase in agricultural productivity and rural incomes through implementation of an intensive
demonstration program. The second phase project would complete the process of rehabilitation and PIM
for the remainder of the spate irrigation schemes, drawing from the experience of the proposed Phase I
project.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress towards Program and Project development objectives would be measured by monitoring and
evaluating key performance indicators. Some of these indicators would be provided by the achievement of
the implementation milestones (indicated in Appendix I of Annex 2). Others would require broader
monitoring of outcomes and impacts as detailed in Appendix 2 of Annex 2. These would include: (i)
adequate financing of O&M of the spate irrigation schemes through increased Government budgetary
allocations and through farmers' contributions under cost-sharing arrangements; (ii) decentralization of
Government services, farmer participation in management, and progressive transfer of management
responsibility for irrigation systems to farmers; (iii) increased water availability and area cropped under
spate irrigation; and (iv) increased agricultural productivity and farmers income.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: 19073-YEM                Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/25/99
The main areas of focus in the FY99 CAS are: (i) public administration modernization; (ii) support to
private investment; (iii) improving water management for sustainability; and (iv) social improvements
targeted at poverty alleviation. The proposed project is fully consistent with the CAS as it would support
its objective (iii) regarding improved water management. It would also contribute to achieving objective (i)
of the CAS through the restructuring of public irrigation services and the progressive transfer of
responsibility for managing and financing operation and maintenance from Government to farmers. In
addition, the project's focus on improving the reliability of irrigation water, together with an intensive
agricultural demonstration program, would help increase agricultural productivity and would have a
poverty reduction impact on small farmers, relevant under Objective (iv) of the CAS.
The CAS focus on improved water management and water use efficiency in agriculture is built on the
extensive sector dialogue carried out between the Government of Yemen and the Bank over the last three
years. The main thrusts of this dialogue are summarized in three recent World Bank reports: (i) Towards a
Water Sector Strategy ( August 13, 1997, Report No. 15718-YEM); (ii) the Agriculture Strategy Note
(September 15, 1998, Report No. 17973-YEM); and (iii) the Irrigation Sector Note (issued in January
1999).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Irrigated agriculture is estimated to use more than percent 90 of Yemen's water and it provides most of
rural income (nearly 85 percent of the value of crop production - $600 million or some 8 percent of total
GDP). However, irrigated agriculture in Yemen faces a number of challenges, including: sustainability of
spate irrigation, sustainability of groundwater irrigation, low productivity of irrigated agriculture and the
need for change in Government's role in the irrigation sector. Government strategy for dealing with these
challenges is set out in the National Water Strategy, adopted by the Council of Ministers in 1998 and in the
- 4 -



National Irrigation Strategy, adopted by the Council of Ministers in 1999. The main lines of this strategy
are as follows:
(a) Sustainability of Public Spate Schemes. Spate irrigation covers 120,000 ha (of which the major
modem schemes cover about 90,000 ha) and accounts for about 25 percent of the total irrigated
area and 11 percent of the total farmed area in Yemen. Up to the mid-eighties, Government made
large investments in developing the major modem schemes, and subsequently assumed
responsibility for their management, with little user involvement or cost recovery. Now, the
capacity of the public sector to manage the schemes has been eroded by the crisis in public budget
resources. Most of the spate irrigation infrastructure is deteriorating due to poor maintenance
caused by these budgetary constraints. Government strategy is now to improve the
cost-effectiveness of management, and to involve users in managing and paying for operation and
maintenance. This would involve decentralization of responsibility to scheme level, promotion of
user associations and cost sharing, and selected investments to rehabilitate the irrigation systems
and improve the efficiency of water use. The ultimate goal is for users to take responsibility for
entire schemes, and for Government to withdraw.
(b) Sustainability of Groundwater Irrigation. Rapid overdraft of aquifers is endangering the future
of agriculture, and making urban water supply increasingly difficult and expensive to develop and
manage. Government strategy is to apply macroeconomic measures (diesel price increases,
increasing import duties on drilling rigs, etc.) that are progressively putting up the effective cost of
water, together with a package of rules and incentives designed to get stakeholders themselves
involved in reducing the overdraft and applying water in its highest value use.
(c) Low Productivity of Irrigated Agriculture. By regional standards, returns to water in irrigation
in Yemen are low. Government strategy is, first, to eliminate distortions in relative prices and
move towards the scarcity pricing of water that will provide incentives to water use efficiency.
Second, Government policy is to promote the adoption of improved irrigation technology. Finally,
Government proposes a reinforced effort to develop research on water use efficiency and
conservation in agriculture and to disseminate results through a Farmer Services Project (proposed
for IDA financing in FY02).
(d) Need for Change in Government's Role. Government institutions for irrigation were set up when
policy was for Government to develop and manage modem irrigation schemes. Now public policy
is to reduce Government role to the essential minimum and to involve users more and more in
investment and management. The challenge is, therefore, to restructure public institutions to focus
on planning and support to users and to concentrate further public investment on projects where
there is ownership and cost sharing by the beneficiaries, and which advance Government's goal of
progressively withdrawing the public sector from direct involvement in irrigation management.
- 5-



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Amongst the various strategic objectives in the irrigation sector (see B2 above), Government is now giving
priority to actions on the spate irrigation sector over other possible investments in irrigation and agriculture
for the following reasons: (i) spate irrigation is an important economic sector in rural Yemen, which
provides a livelihood for about half a million people in the relatively poorer coastal districts of Yemen; and
(ii) restructuring of public interventions in irrigation forms a principal component of Government's overall
restructuring plans for the agriculture sector (the "Aden Agenda"), within the administrative and fiscal
reform program being supported by IDA (under the ongoing IDA-supported Public Sector Management
Adjustment Credit - PSMAC).
For these reasons, the first sector issue to be addressed under the project is the unsustainability of the
existing major spate irrigation schemes managed within the public sector. Following recent studies and
workshops, including a national workshop organized with WBI in 1999, Government has decided to adopt
the concept of participatory irrigation management (PIM). This would involve farmers taking a growing
share of the responsibility for operation and maintenance (O&M) of spate schemes. On this basis, the
Governnent has made the folloving strategic choices to deal with the above problems:
(a) to rehabilitate and improve the physical infrastructure in spate irrigation schemes in order to
improve water distribution in those schemes and to capture those parts of flood flows that are lost
to the sea;
(b) to decentralize responsibility for management of spate schemes to local management organizations
in line with the principle that management should be at the lowest feasible level. A joint Irrigation
Council (IC) at scheme level comprising representatives of both Government and farmers would be
responsible for the overall coordination of spate irrigation in a given scheme;
(c) to promote user participation and create the conditions for ultimate financial self-sufficiency of
schemes by progressively supporting the development of water user associations (WUAs) and their
federations and their participation in O&M and financial management; and
(d) to finance operation and maintenance costs of the schemes at an efficient level and to phase out
public financing progressively as users contribute more.
The second sector issue to be addressed under the project is the restructuring of irrigation institutions in
line with the changing role of Government in the sector. This issue is discussed below (Section C2).
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
See Section A above.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The description of the Program is summarized in Section Al. As for the Phase I project's concerned, the
following components are proposed:
-6-



A. Rehabilitation, Improvement and Protection of Spate Irrigation Infrastructure Component
(Tuban and Zabid Schemes, totaling about 26,000 ha)
(a) topographical survey, detailed design, hydraulic models testing and supervision for high
priority works in Tuban and Zabid spate irrigation schemes;
(b) rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation systems at canal level (e.g. at the tertiary canal
and/or branch, and main levels), as well as at headwork and wadi levels; and
(c) construction of flood protection works and rehabilitation of roads.
B. Irrigation and Environment Management and PIM Component
(a) formation of PIM (Participatory Irrigation Management) organizations - Establishment of
WUAs, SWUFs and joint management mechanisms (ICs) at Tuban and Zabid (including
management facilities, supplies and equipment) as well as institutional support to them;
(b) improvement of spate irrigation management - Development and testing of water management
information systems (MIS), flood warning system, spate management model, and hydrological
monitoring for wadis in the Phase II project;
(c) provision of O&M equipment - Provision of equipment and spare parts for operation and
maintenance of the schemes, which will be leased to WUAs (to the government institutions
during initial periods on a declining basis) by PIUs, as well as of incremental recurrent costs;
and
(d) environmental mitigation and enhancement measures - Groundwater and hydraulic monitoring
and awareness for sustainable water resources management, upper watersheds study, and soil
salinity/sodicity mapping (Tuban).
C. Intensive Agriculture Demonstration Component
(a) implementation of an intensive agriculture demonstration program covering about 5,000 ha in
Tuban and Zabid to make farmers familiar with new varieties and improved agricultural
practices;
(b) extension services, on contractual basis, to transfer existing, proven technologies from the
research stations to farmers' fields; and
(c) local and international technical assistance to support the extension services.
D. Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building and PMU Component
(a) support to Government irrigation sector - Institutional assessment including GDI and other
relevant irrigation institutions, preparation of guidelines for the PIM program, and
training/technical assistance for supporting the activities;
(b) support to legal framework development including new irrigation law;
(c) preparatory studies and preliminary design for the irrigation schemes to be rehabilitated and
improved under the second phase of the program; and
(d) establishment of project management unit (PMU) in Sana'a with two small project
implementation units (PIUs) in Zabid and Tuban as well as institutional support to them.
-7 -



Cost Summary
Indicative             Bank-       % of
Conmonent                    Sector         Costs     % of    finiain ti    Ba nk-
_________ _________ _______  _ _________ _   (US$M) TOta  ~ (U S$ M!)  financing
A. Rehabilitation, Improvement and  Irrigation &         12.40       48.4      10.50      49.3
Protection of Spate Irrigation      Drainage
Infrastructure
B. Irrigation and Environment       Irrigation &          8.80       34.4       6.80      31.9
Management and PIM                  Drainage
C. Intensive Agriculture            Agricultural         0.60         2.3       0.50       2.3
Demonstration Program               Extension
D. Institutional Strengthening,     Institutional        3.80        14.8       3.50      16.4
Capacity Building and PMU           Development
Total Project Costs                     25.60      100.0      21.30      100.0
Total Financing Required                     25.60       100.0     21.30      100.0
The project financing plan provides for an IDA Credit of US$21.3 million equivalent, for Government
financing of US$3.1 million and for beneficiary share in capital and recurrent costs of US$1.2 million. The
Government of Netherlands has expressed interest in financing part of the technical assistance. It is
expected that this interest will be confirmed by the Royal Dutch Embassy in Yemen by October 2000.
The financing plan will be adjusted if this extra financing is confirmed.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
(a) Achieving Sustainability of Spate Irrigation Schemes through Decentralization and User
Participation. MAI is presently responsible for operation and maintenance down to and including
the secondary canals in the main spate irrigation systems of the country while the farmers take care
of the tertiary and field systems. However, Government capacity to finance and manage the
schemes has dwindled, and it is now public policy to progressively withdraw from activities better
done by the private sector or by beneficiaries. The strategy for doing this is to decentralize
responsibility for management of spate schemes to scheme level organizations, and to promote user
participation in the financing and management of scheme operation and maintenance, with the
ultimate objective of scheme autonomy and financial self-sufficiency (see details in Section E2).
Therefore, the project would support a program of decentralization and user participation
according to the following institutional model: (i) at the level of the canal system (up to and
including primary canals), water user associations (WUAs), based on existing informal water users
groups (WUGs), would take responsibility for operation and maintenance; (ii) at the scheme level,
the WUAs would be federated into a Scheme Water Users' Federation (SWUF) that would
ultimately take responsibility for O&M of the whole scheme except the headworks; and (iii) a
scheme level Irrigation Council (IC) would act as a joint farmer/Government forum for ensuring
public interest aspects of water management and for setting water charges. Details are shown in
Annex 11.
(b) Restructuring of Regional/National Irrigation Institutions in Line with the Aden Agenda (see
B-3). As responsibility for irrigation management is progressively decentralized and passed to
users, the role of official irrigation agencies has to change, as is already foreseen in principle under
the Aden Agenda. These changes will take place at two levels: (i) at the level of the regional
-8 -



agencies like the Tihama Development Authority (TDA) which is currently responsible for Zabid
scheme, and the Lahej Agriculture Department, which is currently responsible for Tuban scheme;
and (ii) at the central level, where the recently created General Directorate of Irrigation (GDI) has
focused hitherto on small dams and has had virtually no role in planning irrigation development. As
the decentralization and participation program proceeds, it is envisaged that the regional agencies
like TDA and the Lahej Irrigation Department will reorganize to play a smaller technical support
role whilst their scheme level staff may join the scheme management team that will be employed
and paid for by the SWUFs. At the central level, the GDI is expected to take on a role in overall
planning of the sector, beginning with the spate improvement program. As the GDI is currently
very weak and focused almost exclusively on the small dams program, it is expected that during the
project period only a progressive and quite modest development of its mandate would take place.
This will comprise a development of GDI's overall planning role, beginning with the spate
improvement program (where GDI will prepare guidelines and policies for irrigation improvement
nationwide) and further support to its current core function of small dam development, including
follow on to support in dam design currently being provided under another project, and inventory
of small dams, beginning with those in the catchments of wadis Zabid and Tuban (see Annex 11,
Chapter 4 D).  The project will assist the GDI in preparing guidelines and policies for
participation, management transfer and improvement (in close collaboration with the PMU). As
these institutional changes depend on the initial experience with user organizations and on the
development of the Aden Agenda, it is proposed that the future of irrigation institutions as a whole
would be the subject of analysis and dialogue with stakeholders during the first two years of the
project. The consequent restructuring would fit within the larger processes of the Aden Agenda
and the national administrative reform program.
3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits would derive from: (i) improved diversion efficiencies and installation of canal control
structures, resulting in improved dependability and availability of distribution and use of spate flows to
expand the irrigated areas; (ii) agronomic improvements to increase returns to water; (iii) halt of the decline
in, the area cropped and crop yields that would otherwise happen, due to continuous deterioration of the
spate infrastructure; (iv) decrease the risks of damage from flood events; and (v) possible reduction of
groundwater pumping. The target population are the farmers, farm workers and their families who would
benefit from the program over a total area of 90,000 ha (covering the seven main spate irrigation systems in
Yemen), of which an area of 26,000 ha would be covered under the proposed Phase I project. Many of this
target population are poor (28 percent of families live below the poverty line in Tuban, and 35 percent in
Zabid - see E6 below).
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The institutional and implementation arrangements for project management would be as follows:
(a) At the Government Level
The Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (MAI) would have overall authority for project
implementation, and would be responsible for formulating and enforcing any administrative and legal
arrangement to be agreed upon under the project. To this effect, a Steering Committee (SC) would be
established under MAI to oversee implementation of the project. The committee would be chaired by
the Minister of MAI and include the Deputy Minister of MAI, the Deputy Minister of MOPD, the
Deputy Minister of Finance (MOF), the Project Director of PMU, and the General Director of the
General Directorate of Irrigation.
-9



The project would be coordinated and its implementation supervised from a main PMU office in
Sana'a, with project implementation units (PIUs) in both Zabid and Tuban to be established before
project start. The main task of the PMU would be coordination of project implementation activities
including: (i) procurement of goods, civil works and consultant services; (ii) management of technical
assistance; (iii) verification and processing of statements of expenditure and withdrawal applications;
(iv) reporting, accounting and auditing arrangements; (v) preparation of periodic progress reports for
review by the SC, MAI and IDA; and (vi) monitoring and evaluation of project impact. Also, the PMU
would be responsible for supervising and coordinating support to the establishment and development of
WUAs and SWUFs. The PMU would report to the Chairman of SC. The PMU staff would consist of
the following key personnel: director, engineer, procurement officer, institutional specialist;
communication specialist, finance and administration officer, and a monitoring and evaluation officer.
The two PIUs would be responsible for supervising implementation of project activities in the Tuban
and Zabid schemes. During project implementation, the PIUs would work closely with the existing
regional irrigation/development agencies (TDA for Zabid, Lahej Irrigation Department for Tuban).
Staff would be recruited and managed according to the PMU guidelines agreed with IDA. The PIU
staff would be largely recruited on competitive basis from MAI's Tihama Regional Development
Authority (for the Zabid Scheme) and from the MAI's Lahej and Aden regional irrigation departments
(for the Tuban scheme). Also, the LWCP PIU staff would be given priority in the competitive
selection of the Tuban PIU. Each PIU would include the following key personnel: director, engineer,
agriculturist, institutional specialist and accountant. Investment works would be carried out on
contract by the PIU according to a program agreed and coordinated with TDA and the Lahej Irrigation
Department. The formation of WUAs would be carried out through the staff of the PMU and PIU
working with the regional irrigation agency and the extension service. Operation and maintenance
would remain the task of the regional agency until such time as the WUAs are able to take over.
Support to GDI would be implemented through contracts led and supervised by the PMU according to
a program agreed between GDI and the PMU.
(b) At Farmers' Level
The institutional model for farmers participation is set out at C2 (a) above. The milestones set out in
Appendix 1 of Annex 2 show the timetable for development of these institutions. The milestones would
be used to monitor progress in the development of this institutional structure at the end of each project
year and to trigger adjustments and, ultimately, the Phase II investment.
Farmers and their organizations would be involved in implementation at two levels. At the level of
investment, the creation of a working farmer organization at the relevant level (WUGs at the tertiary
canal level, WUAs at secondary/primary level, and SWUFs at scheme level) would be a precondition
for project investment, and farmers would be involved in identification, design, construction,
supervision and cost sharing. At the level of management, user organizations would participate in
operation and maintenance, leading to eventual system management transfer.
(c) Implementation Aspects
The PMU and the two PIUs will be responsible for implementing all project components. The PMU
will prepare, with the help of the technical assistance, necessary procurement documents while PIUs
will supervise the construction of the civil works. Also, PMU will recruit the project consultants and
oversee their works. The PMU and PIUs will also oversee the organization and establishment of
WUAs and provide the necessary training for PIUs staff and farmers. The extension staff of regional
agencies, NGOs, or private consultants could be contracted to assist in user mobilization and
organization activities under the project.
- 10-



Implementation of the intensive agriculture demonstration component would be undertaken through
contractual services between the PMU and qualified local public or private sector institutions. These
institutions would include AREA, TDA, RDA-Lahej, the General Seed Multiplication Corporation,
NGOs etc. The PMU would prepare the TORs and letters of invitation for proposals, prepare a short
list of contractors and evaluate proposals. The lowest bidder would be awarded a one-year contract
within the framework of a multi-year program with the stipulation that future annual contracts would
be conditional on the satisfactory implementation of previous contracts.
In order to expedite project implementation, it was agreed to carry out some pre-project activities
before project effectiveness, including a socio-economic baseline survey, a communication campaign to
initiate the establishment and organization of WUAs, and recruitment of project consultants.
(d) Conditions to be Met Before Project Start
Given the importance of the institutional issues (described above) for the success of the Project and the
Program, Government has provided the following before Negotiations:
(i) a Policy Statement has been sent to IDA reflecting Government's commitment to the principles
of user participation and cost sharing, to a program of scheme rehabilitation and upgrading
linked to effective participation (including the principle that financing of any rehabilitation
works would be conditional upon the prior formation of the concerned WUAs), and to
progressive irrigation management transfer and restructuring of public irrigation agencies
(condition of Negotiations) (see Annex 11); and
(ii) that each year, Government would provide a specified (declining) share of O&M budget for the
schemes (covenant).
Also, the Government has agreed that, before Board Presentation:
(i) a decree would be issued providing for the initial establishment of WUAs under the existing
cooperative Law No. 39 of December 27, 1998;
(ii) the Project Steering Committee (SC) has been set up; and
(iii) the Project Management Unit (PMU) has been established and that the staff of the existing
preparation unit is converted to the PMU.
All the above conditions have been met.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The following alternative approaches were considered:
(a) Not Using the APL Approach. In the absence of the Adaptable Program Lending (APLj
instrument, IDA would have had to choose between: (i) limiting its support to one or two spate
irrigation schemes; or (ii) providing support for a larger scope program dimensioned to cover most
- 1 1 -



of the country's spate irrigation schemes. The former alternative would have prevented a longer
term perspective on key development issues of the sector and limited the leverage to support
program expansion in a progressive and flexible way. The latter would have implied a larger
financial commitment and would have faced risks and uncertainties of achieving sustainability in
the management of the spate irrigation schemes within the life span of the project. Farmer
participation, which is needed to ensure sustainability, is a complex process which would need time
to be successfully adopted on a large scale in most irrigation schemes of the country. Under the
APL, Phase I would allow the Government to establish strong foundations for the national
development program. Its expansion to Phase II would be based on the satisfactory results and the
lessons learned from Phase I.
(b) Including Construction of Major Upstream Watershed Management Works. Government
originally proposed that this project would include a major component to deal with all upstream
problems of watershed and basin management in the wadis concerned in order to address problems
of flooding and siltation. This component would have included a thorough study of the watershed
regime, the identification of problems and construction of the upstream protection works needed -
erosion control structures, spate breakers, terrace rehabilitation, mechanical and biological
watershed protection works, small dams, hill lakes, earth embankments and dikes. During
preparation, it was agreed to limit this component to the study aspect only and to the improvement
of flood warning systems, on the grounds that little or no significant link with, or impact on, the
spate irrigation improvement components has been identified.   Moreover, in terms of
implementation, the upstream areas are remote and far off, and implementation would have been
technically, institutionally and socially difficult and slow. In the event that the studies establish
causal relationships that can be corrected in an economically justified way, the follow-on Phase II
project of the program could include some investments.
(c) Including Small Dams Construction Program. Government had suggested that, in addition to
the needed capacity building support to GDI in the area of small dams and preparation of IIP
guidelines included in the project, a component should be added to provide for the financing of a
few "trial" dams on which the skills acquired might be further developed.  However, this
component was dropped because: (i) it would complicate the project and add another executing
agency for civil works; and (ii) abundant financing is already available to the small dams program.
(d) Including Community Development. The rehabilitation of spate irrigation and transfer of
management responsibilities to users will primarily benefit farners, although farm laborers should
also benefit. As such, the project would not directly have an impact on the significant number of
poor landless households living in the project area. For this reason and to improve the poverty
alleviation impact of the project, a community development component (social infrastructure and
off-farm income generation) was proposed at preparation. The problem would be the risk of
overloading the PMU and of duplicating existing implementation capacity. Therefore, it was
decided not to include this component in the project.
- 12 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
I                                ~Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                       Project                   (PSR) Ratings
__________________________  _______________________j (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                      Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
IDA-financed
- Improved water use efficiency    - Wadi Hadramawt                    S              S
through optimization of spate flows    Agricultural Development
Project III [closed]
- Tihama V Agriculture             S              S
Development Project [closed]
- Sustainability of spate investments   -Southern Region Agricultural   S             S
& possible beneficiary participation    Development Project
in O&M (piloting WUAs)              (SRADEP), [closed]
- Eastern Region Agricultural      S              S
Development Project
(ERADEP), [closed]
- Reducing groundwater              - Land and Water Conservation       S             S
over-exploitation and introducing small Project (LWCP) [on going]
spate irrigation schemes
- Mitigation of floods and rehabilitation - Emergency Flood Rehab.      S             S
of damaged works                     [on-going]
Other development agencies
IFAD
- Flood Mitigation and Improved Spate - Eastern Region Agricultural
conveyance with beneficiary         Development Project
participation                       [on-going]
- Protection of Spate and well irrigated  - Tihama Environmental
areas from sand dune encroachment    Protection Project (on-going)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 13 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The most important lesson in irrigation development worldwide is that sustainability of irrigation systems
requires beneficiary participation in all stages, starting from identification and design right through to the
operation and maintenance of constructed facilities. Sustainability is achieved through the involvement of
farmers in investment and management decisions and, subsequently, through their involvement in operation
and maintenance activities. This lesson is incorporated in the design of the proposed project, which lays
emphasis on involvement of beneficiaries throughout and on the development of beneficiary and joint
beneficiary/agency institutions. In addition, the physical works program is linked to the concurrent
development of the capacity and participation of farmer institutions. Moreover, global good practice
suggests that we avoid "blueprints" and take into account local conditions and traditions. Thus, the
proposed WUAs build on the informal existing water user groups, and the proposed Irrigation Councils are
a renewal of currently existing joint farmer-Government institutions (as in Tuban).
A second lesson from previous successful IDA projects in Yemen is that simple design is likely to make for
a successful project. Thus the present project incorporates a simple project design focused on improving
rehabilitation and O&M of two existing spate irrigation schemes and building on existing user
organizations and institutional capacity to implement the institutional reforms sought.
A third lesson that has been particularly learned from projects in Yemen with spate irrigation components,
is that timely availability of operating budget is vital. Otherwise, the structures quickly deteriorate and
yields and productivity fall off. Risks from flood damage also increase. The means by which this problem
will be tackled were defined during project preparation. The needs have been determined, and a financial
plan worked out that will require Government to pay more for an interim period, until the financing ability
of WUAs can be developed (see E2 below).
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Government commitment to water sector reform and to the project concept is shown:
(a) at the water sector policy level, by the development of the National Water Strategy over the last
three years, culminating in its adoption by the Council of Ministers in December 1998;
(b) at the macroeconomic level, by the series of pricing reforms (e.g., the rise of municipal water
tariffs, the adoption of full O&M cost recovery as a principle for rural water supply, and the
successive rises in the price of diesel) that are aiming at removing the distortions in the incentive
structure for water use;
(c) at the level of water resources management and planning, by the creation of NWRA in 1995, by
the preparation of a draft water law for presentation to parliament, and by the implementation of a
series of planning and monitoring exercises to improve management of water in key areas;
(d) at the irrigation sector level, by joint work with IDA on the report "Irrigation Strategy Note", by
the development of a national irrigation policy adopted by the Council of Ministries in 1999, by the
preparation of a draft irrigation law, and by the implementation of the Land and Water
Conservation Project, designed to pilot a wide range of water conservation measures in both
surface and groundwater irrigation; and
(e) specifically in the spate irrigation sector, by joint work between Government, FAO and WBI in
1997/8 to identify issues and to develop a series of studies, workshops and seminars on the scope
for rehabilitation of the spate schemes and for the involvement of users in operation and
maintenance; and by the joint work between Government, FAO and the Bank in 1999/2000 on
project preparation.
- 14 -



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA would bring to the proposed project a series of advantages, i.e.:
(a) a strong dialogue with Government on water resources management, irrigation and agriculture
sector policies, exemplified in the partnership approach during the preparation of the Water
Strategy, the Agriculture Strategy and the Irrigation Strategy Notes. IDA is the preferred partner
for Government on policy dialogue in these sectors;
(b) a long history of involvement in spate irrigation, including financing over 25 years of the
construction of many of the schemes;
(c) strong technical involvement in the preparation of the spate irrigation reform agenda and
involvement in the development of the participatory irrigation management (PIM) agenda, in
partnership with the WBI team; and
(d) strong IDA involvement in the restructuring program for the Ministry of Agriculture (Aden
Agenda) and in the larger administrative reform program (PSMAC).
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$ 1.17 million; ERR = 11.2 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
Economic evaluation methodology:
Lx ] Cost benefit    [ ] Cost effectiveness   [ Other [specify]
The detailed economic analysis is included in Annex 4. The main points are summarized below:
A cost-benefit analysis was carried out to estimate the net present value (NPV) and the internal rate of
return (IRR) of the project. Quantified benefits are the incremental value in agricultural production
stemming from: (i) the expansion of the area that will be irrigated annually after rehabilitation of the
scheme (10 percent more in Zabid and 35 percent more in Tuban); (ii) a modest improvement in crop yields
(2 percent) due to the rapid speed with which spate flows will be able to move from one part of the scheme
to the next following rehabilitation; and (iii) the adoption by farmers of improved technology, which is
available but remains to be demonstrated.
The corresponding costs included in the analysis are: (i) project investment costs for the rehabilitation/
modernization of irrigation infrastructure, O&M equipment, and agricultural demonstration; (ii) the
incremental agricultural production costs; and (iii) the incremental O&M costs of irrigation infrastructure.
The overall project is economically viable as it has a rate of return of 11.2 percent, above the opportunity
cost of capital. Expected returns in Wadi Tuban (9.6 percent) are lower than in Zabid (12.9 percent) and
do not reach the threshold of 10 percent. Despite its lower return, Wadi Tuban sub-project is justified, as
the area and beneficiaries are particularly poor, and the scheme represents the best opportunity for testing
and developing the model of participation and user management that can subsequently be extended to other
schemes. Moreover, additional benefits not quantified in the analysis are expected to occur. They include:
(i) a possible increase in the share of higher-value crops (i.e. cotton in Tuban) after rehabilitation of the
- 15 -



scheme and a more reliable supply of water; (ii) an increase in the value of land; (iii) a possible increase of
groundwater recharge through deep percolation from the irrigated fields; (iv) improved equity in water
distribution and hence incomes; (v) the prevention of rural migration, the creation of jobs for the landless
farmers as seasonal workers; (vi) the improvement of food security for the local population that often
suffers from malnutrition; and (vii) the savings in transportation costs after rehabilitation of rural roads.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Financial analysis of the project is shown in Annex 5, while Government commitment for financial and
institutional policies are shown in Annex 11. The following are the main points:
Farmers Participation in Capital Investments and Cost Recovery
Beneficiaries are expected to contribute to about 30 percent of the costs of civil works, or about US$3.3
million (US$1.8 million in Tuban and US$1.5 million in Zabid). The total contribution is about
US$127/ha of Net Command Area (NCA) over 30 years (constant prices), and would be collected in two
stages:
(a) a contribution during implementation of the works of about US$740,000 (US$28/ha) (US$415,000
for Wadi Tuban and US$325,000 for Wadi Zabid) which is about 7 percent of civil works costs.
This share would be provided either as labor, materials or in cash; and
(b) an annual cash repayment, starting 5 years after completion of the works, of about US$6.4 and
US$3.8/ha of NCA in Wadi Tuban and Zabid respectively. This annual repayment is set to
recover, over a twenty-year period, about 25 percent of the civil works expenditures for the
improvement and rehabilitation of the schemes.
Farmers Contribution to O&M Costs and Government Subsidy
O&M Costs Requirements. The O&M costs were estimated according to the maintenance loads required
between PYI - PY7. The unit O&M costs (per ha of Net Command Area) for Wadi Tuban, including staff
costs, operation and maintenance costs of equipment, depreciation of newly purchased costs, and structural
maintenance costs, will vary from US$12/ha to US$19/ha over the years and will stay at about US$17/ha
after PY7. The unit O&M costs per hectare for Zabid will also vary from US$13/ha to US$16/ha and stay
at about US$15 ha after PY7. The annual maintenance loads are expected to decrease during the project
intervention periods as well as after the completion of the rehabilitation.
Beneficiaries Contribution to O&M Costs. The suggested general principle for O&M costs sharing is
that the WUAs should cover all O&M costs corresponding to those portions of the system that would be
fully under their jurisdiction while the Government pay the balance of the O&M costs. Accordingly,
WUAs' contribution to O&M costs increases over time while Government's share decreases.
In practice, water users would pay O&M fees to the WUA and federation. Fees would remain with the
WUA/federation for use directly on scheme operation and maintenance activities. The target would be 90
percent financing of the scheme O&M by the WUAs by PY7.
Government Financing. The Government is required to provide about US$300,000 for the two schemes
in PYI, which will be gradually decreased to about US$40,000 in PY7. The total amount of the
- 16 -



Government subsidies will be about US$1.7 million from PYI to PY7, during which period the O&M
handover from the Government to WUAs will be completed.
In aLddition, the O&M costs for other wadis to be implemented in the Phase II project, namely Wadi Mawr,
Rima'a, Bana, and Hassan, need to be allocated annually from 2001 by the Government to prevent further
deterioration before the Phase II project starts.  The annual O&M  costs were estimated at about
US$550,000 based on the unit rate of US$8/ha for the total area of about 69,000 ha and the Government
will[ have to provide a total of about US$2.8 million during the first five years of the proposed Phase I
project.
Affordability of Capital and O&M Costs by Beneficiaries
Beneficiaries (farmers and landowners) capacity to pay for capital investment and O&M costs is analyzed
in this section.
As shown in the graphs and tables included in Annex 5, average incremental farm incomes are expected to
be higher than both O&M and capital repayment contributions. In PYI 1, when repayment of capital costs
starts, average farm benefits, after contribution to capital and O&M costs, would be about US$28/ha in
Wadi Tuban and US$4/ha in Wadi Zabid.
However, this will not be true in all situations. Incremental farm incomes vary depending on the amount of
water received, which determines the type of crops than could be cultivated and their performance. Actual
charges for O&M would be weighted towards those farmers deriving the most benefit, in particular towards
fanners enjoying perennial flow, so that charges to poorer farmers would be correspondingly less. It is
therefore realistic to propose that water user fees commensurate with water allocations. More specifically,
the actual payment could take into account the following criteria:
(a) the type of flow: separate fees to cover perennial base flow, spate flow, and spate flow with
groundwater, should be derived. Farmers receiving base flow would likely need to pay at least
double the fee for spate flow;
(b) the actual area cropped should be accounted for in the charges; and
(c) the type of crop grown: farmers growing crops with high gross margins should expect to pay
higher fees than those growing subsistence crops alone.
Refinements will be needed to set charges depending on local circumstances during project implementation.
The PIUs and their technical assistance team will propose to the WUAs options for fair O&M charges that
could be mutually agreed with farmers.
Fiscal Impact:
The project will not pose any overall fiscal problem. The project cost would be borne by the budget (12
percent of the costs), the IDA credit (83 percent) and the contributions (in kind or financial) of beneficiaries
(5 percent). Over the 5-year implementation period of the project, Government will have to provide
US$3.1 millions counterpart funds, an average of about US$600,000 a year. This is about 6 percent of
capital budget for the agricultural sector (YR 1,458 millions in 2000) and less than I percent of the total
Government capital budget. Government will provide incremental recurrent funds for a total of
US$930,000 over 5 years, or an average of US$186,000 a year. This would include a total of US$870,000
for the O&M of Tuban and Zabid Irrigation schemes and PMU and US$60,000 for the operation of the
spate warning system.
- 17 -



On the benefits side, since agriculture is exempt from taxation, increases in tax revenues will be negligible.
However, savings are expected in recurrent expenditures, as the costs of required maintenance will decrease
following the rehabilitation/improvement of the schemes and will be, for the most part, taken over by
beneficiaries. It has been proven that transferring the responsibility of O&M tasks to beneficiaries increase
the life of infrastructure. As a result, savings are also expected in replacement/rehabilitation costs.
Finally, Government's contribution to capital investments will be lower than it has been for similar projects
in the past as beneficiaries will contribute about 30 percent of civil works costs of spate irrigation schemes
rehabilitation/improvement, some of it by direct contribution, some by cost recovery over time.
In the long-run, improved incomes, food security and productivity of rural populations would add to
national income, which in turn would have a positive fiscal impact.
3. Technical:
Project technical issues are:
(a) the project would mainly finance rehabilitation of spate irrigation facilities, such as water diversion
structures, distribution canals and turnouts. Whilst these pose no substantial technical challenge,
the key issue will be to identify improvements that are economically justified and cost effective and
which simplify the maintenance task and lower its cost. This issue will be dealt with using criteria
developed during project preparation which identified the higher priority works needed and provide
simple economic rules of thumb for each engineering decision; and
(b) sedimentation upstream of the diversion weirs and in the irrigation canals is an issue causing
maintenance problems. It will be studied further in detail during project implementation using a
hydraulic model and design modifications will be incorporated in the proposed rehabilitation and
improvement works.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
As described in Section C-4, the project executing agency will be the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
(MAI). The project steering committee (SC) will include also representatives of the Ministry of Planning
and Development (MOPD), Ministry of Finance (MOF), in addition to representatives of MAT's concerned
departments.
4.2 Project management:
MAI has long experience with implementing IDA-financed projects and has good technical capacity in
irrigation at the regional and scheme levels. The performance of MAI and its Project Preparation Unit
(PPU) during preparation has been particularly good. The PMU and PIU models have been implemented in
other projects in Yemen with success and it is expected to work successfully under the proposed project
provided that: (i) good staff are appointed; (ii) adequate management autonomy is provided; and (iii) top
policy level support is available through an effective Steering Committee.
4.2.1 Institutional/Legal Aspects
As described in Section C2 and C4, the project would include institutional reforms in irrigation
improvement at two levels: (i) at the farmer level, the development of WIUAs as the basic management
building block; and (ii) at scheme level, the establishment of water user federations (SWUIFs) and a joint
- 18-



management mechanism (IC) that will provide a forum for Government and water users to undertake joint
decisions.
There is an issue regarding the legal statute for WUAs and SWUFs. There is currently no law especially
providing for formal user organizations. Alternatives such as the cooperative law and the NGO law were
assessed for their relevance and acceptability at preappraisal. It was agreed that the cooperative law
provided an adequate framework for the initial set up of WUAs. Based on that, a decree by the Minister of
MAI has been issued (before Board Presentation) containing model articles for the establishment of WUAs.
It was also agreed that the draft irrigation law currently under discussion would be reviewed and specific
provisions made for WUAs and SWUFs and for the conversion of WUAs set up under the cooperative law
to migrate to the new statute. This approach has the advantage that the initial lessons from setting up
WUAs can still be reflected in the new irrigation law, which will be finalized and submitted to Parliament
by June 30, 2001.
A second issue is whether WUAs can function as representative and effective management units when they
may include both larger and smaller fanners, and both landlords and tenants or sharecroppers. Extensive
consultations during the social assessment confirm interest in cooperation from all types of farmers. Initial
efforts to organize farmers have been carried out and detailed implementation steps have been developed.
However, progress in Zabid, in particular, will need careful monitoring to ensure that all groups have
representation in WUAs and that they participate in key decisions.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The procurement assessment that has been conducted for the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation and the
existing Project Preparation Unit (PPU) showed that the Ministry and the PPU have previous experience
with Bank financed projects and procurement guidelines. However, and in order to strengthen the Ministry,
the PMU and PIUs in procurement, on-job training program would be provided under the project including
recruitment of a short-term procurement specialist, and conducting several seminars and workshops on
procurement (Annex-6).
4.4 Financial management issues:
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements:
The central PMU will handle all financial matters of the project including procurement, financial
transactions and treasury functions, accounting and periodic and annual financial reporting. It is being
constituted through the conversion of the existing PPU, which has been (since June 1999) handling the
management of the project preparation. The PPU's financial functions are undertaken by an experienced,
qualified accountant (Financial Officer), assisted by an accounting clerk; the PPU General Director, who
reports directly to the Minister of MAI, heads the PPU and has overall responsibility of PPU's day-to-day
operations. The financial management procedures used by PPU are acceptable and adequate in terms of
the size of the its mandate, except for its reporting procedures and certain weaknesses in the internal control
arrangements. Remedial action is underway as agreed with IDA mission (Annex 6).
The transition of the PPU's financial functions into a full fledged unit capable of undertaking the project
financial management, is currently underway and coordinated by the PPU's Financial Officer. In a first
step, the PPU has decided to acquire a locally-developed accounting software that is available to, and is
being used by PIUs in charge of implementation of IDA-financed projects. It is based on generally
acceptable accounting principles, adequate internal control procedures and a PMR-based capabilities. In a
- 19 -



next step, the PPU - as it transforms into a PMU - will acquire the services of a consultant who will
complete the development of the financial management (FM) systems and the project's FM procedures
Manual in accordance with TORs and schedules to be agreed with IDA. A plan of Action to ensure that
systems are ready by Credit Effectiveness is being agreed with the PPU. The cost of this assignment will
be financed from the project preparation funds.
The PMU will provide IDA with regular quarterly financial reporting on the project activities to the
Government and to IDA, in addition to project's annual financial statements. A quarterly project
management reports (PMR) will be generated from the new system and will be submitted to IDA regularly
within 45 days after the close of each quarter; the first PMR will be made available by November 15,
2001.
The project financial statements will be audited annually by independent, private auditors acceptable to
IDA, and in accordance with TORs and terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Annual audited financial
statements and audited reports will be submitted to IDA within 6 months after the end of the Government
fiscal year. The cost of the audit will be financed from the credit.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environrnental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
There are no major environmental issues. The proposed project is expected to have beneficial impacts on
the environment as it would increase the reliability of spate irrigation water, and reduce overdrafl of the
groundwater aquifers. However, due to changes in the pattern of water distribution as a result of
rehabilitation of spate irrigation infrastructure, reduction of recharge to certain areas may occur. On the
other hand, improved water distribution should result in reduction of groundwater use in those areas.
These benefits are expected to outweigh any minor adverse environmental impacts (soil quality,
waterlogging, water quality) arising as a result of the agricultural activities in the improved areas.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) aims at establishing the conditions required for sound
environmental management in the project area. It incorporates three main components.
(a) Environmental Awareness and Participatory Management. This covers: (i) promoting (through
participation and capacity building) local knowledge and awareness of the major issues threatening
the well-being of wadi populations, particularly in terms of sustained water availability; and (ii)
encouraging participatory management of natural resources by the institutions established under
the project. This approach will be supported by systematic monitoring of water characteristics,
information campaigns, training and support to the fledgling water management institutions.
(b) Groundwater. In order to minimize groundwater depletion (which although barely to be linked to
the project is nonetheless the most significant environmental problem in the Zabid area), the EMP
would support a groundwater management system which would rely on data collected from the
monitoring of water levels and quality in the project area. In order to monitor any changes to
quality or quantity of groundwater in the Zabid area, where there is currently overpumping,
detailed analysis and modeling of water resources and water quality monitoring would be carried
out. An awareness campaign would also be included to inform the users about the impact of
groundwater use, and measures to sustain that use. These actions have been included in project
- 20 -



costs. Most of the problems can be mitigated through technically simple measures that can be
implemented through the involvement of the Water User Associations and Irrigation Councils once
they are aware of the limits to the use of groundwater resources. Involvement of the water users
and studies in monitoring the impact during the project would help improve overall water resources
management in the project areas.
(c) Building the Knowledge Base. The EMP incorporates three studies (of which numbers (i) and (ii)
are already programmed under other components of the project): (i) soil salinity/sodicity mapping
study to avoid soil sodicity occurrence and advise farmers on irrigation practices will be
undertaken for the Tuban area; (ii) upper watershed management study will be carried out to assess
the status and trends of erosion, review experience of watershed management so far and. formulate
a strategy and a program to reduce erosion in the catchment areas of the wadis; and (iii) sand dune
fixation study, if is not implemented through Land and Water Conservation Project (LWCP), to
assess the need for further action to arrest sand dune movement and protect project farming areas.
The above measures represent an adequate response to the environmental aspects of the project, and also
contribute to the improvement of the general environment of the regions, outside of the strict remit of the
project.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: March 21, 2000
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
EA team consulted stakeholders through participatory field assessment.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
See 5.2 above.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A social assessment (SA) was carried out as part of project preparation. The SA is in the project files, and
its findings are summarized in Annex 13 to the PAD.
The SA highlighted three social issues related to the project, namely:
(a) Poverty. More than 28 percent of families live below the poverty line (US$203) in Tuban, and
more than 35 percent in Zabid. Many people visibly suffer from extremely poor hygiene, the
absence of sanitation facilities, and inappropriate knowledge of hygienic measures for food and
water. The rural population also suffers from limited access to food, and malnutrition and anemia
are widespread;
(b) Farmer Organization as the Key to Sustainability.  The SA  highlights water users'
long-standing tradition of self-reliance and analyses how current dependence on Govenmuent for
- 21 -



O&M is at the root of the present poor prospects for sustainability of the schemes. The SA found
positive farmer attitudes toward overcoming this dependence by forming autonomous WUAs with
responsibility for O&M, ultimately up to the level of scheme management. The project therefore
proposes to facilitate the formation of WUAs with advice and technical support, and to provide
assistance in bringing about the necessary institutional and legal changes to give the WUAs the
authority they need to manage the schemes sustainably; and
(c) Reconciling Different Interests within the User Associations. The SA expressed concern that
WUAs need to ensure that poor farmers have a voice and that they would not be captured and
dominated by large landholding interests. The challenge is to facilitate the cooperation of rich and
poor members under what might, at times, be difficult circumstances. The project approach is to
work through democratic and inclusive WUAs, with intensive coaching and monitoring of this risk.
In this regard, consultation of water users, in particular, downstream farmers at every stage of the
scheme improvement process is crucial. The consultations that have already taken place as part of
project preparation will continue throughout the project period.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
As described above, the primary beneficiaries are to be grouped into user organizations at each hydraulic
level. The WUAs are to be involved at every stage of the project development and implementation. The
intensity of participation would gradually increase from consultation to assumption of management
responsibilities, thus enhancing the water users' sense of ownership, ensuring adequate O&M, and
minimizing disputes in water distribution. This participatory strategy was agreed during the preappraisal
mission of February/March 2000. The SA documents the following main points:
(a) the Government agreement in principle that the project would be based on the principle of users'
participation in operation and maintenance (O&M) of the spate irrigation schemes;
(b) users consulted were ready to participate in designing, implementing, and managing the schemes;
(c) once the project approach had been explained to them, users and landowners consulted said that
they were ready to organize themselves into formal water users' associations (WUAs) as a way of
working cooperatively to overcome past problems, and to have more leverage in negotiating with
the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation over equitable water distribution. Both groups requested
assistance in this effort, and agreed on the principle of cost-sharing; and
(d) the Government agreed that WUAs should be established before any physical works are
implemented to ensure their agreement on scheme design, and their commitment to managing the
schemes once construction is completed.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Several groups of formal and nonformal organizations were consulted during project preparation. These
included the political leadership, technical experts, universities, cooperatives, NGOs active in Yemen, and a
wide range of farmer groups. A national PIM workshop was held with WBI collaboration in 1998. During
implementation, the whole project approach will be structured around stakeholder organizations, from the
WUG through the WUA and the SWUF up to the IC.
- 22 -



6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project would concentrate on the range of activities required to develop an appropriate process for
transferring management of the spate schemes from Government to user groups. These activities would be
concerned with:
(a) building on the traditions of local cooperation and self-reliance, including partial user financing of
improvement works;
(b) supporting the formation of democratic associations of users, with equitable representation of all
user groups;
(c) following a logical sequence from initial awareness campaigns through user mobilization and
physical system improvements, to final participatory management of schemes; and
(d) building institutional capacity in the WUAs through training in participatory management.
The detailed methodology and process for helping farmers to organize themselves in WUAs effectively are
described in Annex 11. The project would recruit specialists attached to the PMU and PIUs, who would
work with fanners and the local extension service. In addition, there would be PIM study tours, training
and preparation of a manual.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Project M&E will track implementation and impacts on a participatory basis. Starting from a baseline
survey, M&E will focus particularly on three main parameters: (i) the creation of efficient and sustainable
water users' associations; (ii) ability to work as a group in the associations including the tribal elites, as
well as the lower and disenfranchised groups; and (iii) changes in income and social welfare status amongst
the target population.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1  lo any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                     Applicability
L Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01. GP 4.01)            [3 Yes L3 No
El Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   C3 Yes Z No
El Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    O Yes Z No
El Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        Yes Z No
El Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  LI Yes Z No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   El Yes Z No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             Cl Yes Z No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37                               El Yes Z No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50. BP 7.50. GP 7.50)   CI Yes Z No
El P:rojects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60. GP 7.60)        C3 Yes Z No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The proposed project will follow the World Bank guidelines OP 4.01 on environmental assessment and will
adhere to the requirements of the Government of Yemen for such projects, as outlined in the Environmental
Protection Law, No. 26 enacted by the Parliament in 1995 and the National Environmental Action Plan
(NEAP) prepared by the Environmental Protection Council (EPC) in 1996.
- 23 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project aims to promote the development of a policy and institutional framework for technically,
environmentally and financially sustainable irrigation management. The project would:
(a) select schemes to be rehabilitated and improved where there is evident potential for farner
involvement;
(b) establish a structure of farmer-owned and managed associations that would progressively take over
responsibility for scheme management and financing;
(c) associate farmers in all stages of engineering and institutional development, so that the two go hand
in hand - this linking of engineering and institution building will increase the sense of ownership of
the irrigation facilities among farmers and give incentives to subsequent participation in
management;
(d) improve water use efficiency of spate irrigation by improving distribution system and provide
needed control devices, allowing more flows to be diverted and distributed to the irrigated areas
and allowing recharge of nearby groundwater aquifers, thus reducing the exhausting of
groundwater supply;
(e) support scheme management by providing them with equipment, training and support to recurrent
budget to enhance their capacity for management of irrigation system; and
(f) develop a nationally replicable model for PIM and support preparation of PIM Guidelines through
institutional support to GDI.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
_isk                    Risk Rating           Risk  lIMinimizan Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Farmers do not contribute adequately to     S         Project design reflects results of study of farmer
recurrent and capital costs, and the                  incentives and likely motivations through social
objective of ultimate scheme handover to              and financial assessments. Constant training
farmers cannot be achieved.                           and monitoring are built in to the project, and
altemative O&M and handover strategies will be
studied if the basic model proves unlikely to
work.
Failure to establish sufficient Water User  S         Project incorporates extensive support including
Association capacity to operate and                   training, technical assistance and equipment.
maintain transferred facilities.
- 24 -



From Components to Outputs
Insufficient capacity in planning,         M         Adoption of the cost effective "PMU"
impleimentation, supervision, and                    implementation model, together with specialized
monitoring and evaluation.                           support for participation, M&E and planning
with internationally recruited advisers, private
consultants.
Overall Risk Rating                         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The PMU will establish a Financial Management System.
2. Otther [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
*   Dated Covenants:
-  The Borrower shall prepare by June 30, 2001 a suitable legal framework, satisfactory
to IDA, for the establishment of WUAs and submit it to the Borrower's Parliament for
enactment.
-  The Borrower shall establish by March 31, 2002 a suitable system, acceptable to IDA,
to recover an appropriate portion of the capital costs for the irrigation schemes in
Tuban and Zabid.
*   Disbursement:
-  No disbursement shall be made for civil works (Category 2 of the Development Credit
Agreement) under any sub-project unless WUAs for that sub-project are duly
established, and engineering designs relative to that sub-project are prepared and are
found satisfactory to IDA.
*   Monitoring and Reportingi:
-  The PMU will submit to IDA consolidated semi-annual progress reports at the end of
January and July of each year. It will also complete a mid-term review of project
progress by September 30, 2003 and submit to IDA a final evaluation report of project
achievements by December 31, 2006.
- 25 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
C 1. b) Not applicable.
C: 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0I 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
F 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Usaid I. El-Hanbali               Doris Koehn                        Inder K. Sud
Team Leader                        Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
- 26 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Key Perfonnance
Hierarchy of Objectives               Indicators             Monitoring & Evaluation         Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:               Sector/ country reports:       (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improved water management  Spate schemes managed             Economic reports and Public    Government and IDA remain
and sustaiinability.          autonomously without recourse to Expenditure Review.          committed to the program over 10
Government budget.                                           years.
Program Purpose:              End-of-Program Indicators:  Program reports:                  (from Purpose to Goal)
To ensure sustainability of spate  Government budget contribution  MAI data on yields.      Normal climatic conditions.
irrigation in Yemen.          reduced to zero.
Individual scheme and MOF     Stable commodity prices and
accounts and data.            adequate returns to farmers from
farming.
Farmer-owned organizations    Monitoring reports.
manage the schemes.
Fair sharing of incremental
Increase agricultural productivity. Crop yields and cropped area in                         costs and benefits between
spate schemes increased.                                     farmers/sharecroppers and
landowners.
Project Development           Outcome I Impact               Project reports:               (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                    Indicators:
1. Effective spate water control   Head-works and main canals of  Projects reports.         Government commitment to
and conveyance infrastructure.   spate schemes rehabilitated .                              reform of the irrigation sub-sector
Project accounts.             and its continued support to
scheme O&M budgets.
2. Effective PIM institutions.  WUA established for sub-scheme Project reports              Farmers understanding of project
level water management and IC   WUAs reports and accounts.   concept and acceptance of PIM.
for scheme level management.
Agreed cost shares paid.      ICs reports and accounts.      Active participation of farmers in
WUAs.
3. Improved agricultural incomes. Agricultural productivity of spate Extension reports and survey  Demonstrated packages and
schemes improved.             data.                          practices adopted by farmers.
- 27 -



Hierarchy of Objectioo             lXdIo0wirs              Mnto               IEvaluation   Criticai Assumptions
Output from each              Output Indicators:            Project reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Rehabilitation of facilities    All rehabilitation works in Tuban Project reports.     No major climatic calamity.
(diversion weirs, canals, gates    and rehabilitation works on
etc.) in wadis Tuban and Zabid.  headworks of diversion 3 and 4 in
Zabid as well as all canal
improvement and gate repair   Project accounts.             Continued Government
replacement completed by end of                             commitment to reform in line
Phase I (MS12).                                             with the Aden Agenda
2. WUAs and ICs established,  WUAs formed in Tuban at       Procurement records.          Farmer acceptance of PIM and
capacity developed and irrigation primary/secondary level by PYI                          willingness to contribute to
management transfer to users    (MS 1) and participate in choice                          rehabilitation and O&M costs.
effected.                     of works and design by PYI
(MS2) and in procurement
process by PY2 (MS4 and WUAs
formed in Zabid at
primary/secondary level by PY2
(MS4) and participate in choice
of works and design by PY2
(MS5) and in procurement
process (MS7).
Decision on formation of ICs  Disbursement records.         Reform process accepted by
taken by PY3 (MS3) in Tuban                                 society at large (legislators and
and in Zabid by PY4 (MS] 6), ICs                            staff of agencies as well as
constituted by PY5 (MS 16) in                               farmers).
Tuban and PY6 (MS 16) in Zabid
and fully functioning by PY5
(MS 16) in Tuban and PY6
(MS 16) in Zabid.
Irrigation management transfer of
primary/secondary system
completed by PY4 (MS 11) in
Tuban and Zabid.
- 28 -



Key Pirformance
Hierarchy of Objectives              Indktors              Monitoring & Evaluation        Critical Assumptions
Project Components I         Inputs: (budget for each      Project reports:              (from Components to
Sub-components:              component)                                                  Outputs)
1. Rehabil.itation & ImDrovement
Works
1.1 Wadi Tuban               Works completed.              Project reports.              Good project management and
coordination.
13 sub-projects              (US$6.8 million)
13 diversion structure improved /
rehabilitated with 48 radial gates
Canals disilted/reshaped
including sediment basins
(580,000 ni3) as well as 1,031
canal control gates repaired/
replaced
47 km roads rehabilitated
Protection works for 11 villages
1.2 Wadi Zabid               Works completed.              Project accounts.
5 sub-proi cts                 (US$5.6 million)
2 diversion structure improved/
rehabilitated with sediment
sluices
Canals disilted/reshaped
including sediment basins
(550,000 m3) as well as control
structure built! improved (10
cross regulators, 26 turnouts)
33 km roads rehabilitated
Protection works for I village and
I diversion structure
2. Irrization and Environment                              Project audit reports.        Timely availability of counterpart
Manazement ImDrovement                                                                   funds and beneficiary
Formation of PIM organizations  No. of WUA formed at different                           contributions.
Establish ICs                levels.
Prepare O&M manual           No. of ICs established.
Institute MIS                Manual prepared.
Establish flood warning system   MIS system operational.
Develop Spate flow model     Flood warning system
Produce Soil salinity map    established.
Establish Groundwater        Model developed.
monitoring system            Soil map prepared.
Commence environmental       Monitoring system operational.
extension                    No. of extension messages
delivered . (US$8.8 million)
3. Aericultural Developmenr  Area covered by demonstrations. Project supervision.
Implement a high intensity
demonstration program in Tuban    (US$0.6 million)
and Zabid
- 29 -



4. Institution Strenetheninz and  Legal framework prepared.
Capacity Building
Assist with legal framework   Sector institutional assessment
review and reform process     made.
Conduct institutional assessment   (US$0.9 million)
of sector institutions
5. Prolect Management
PMU                           PMU established and running    MTR report.
(US$2.4 million
Phase 2 Studies               Studies for phase 2 completed.
(US$0.5 million)
- 30 -



Annex 2: Project Description
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$12.40 million
Rehabilitation and ImDrovement of Spate Irritation Infrastructure Component
This component would fund rehabilitation and improvement of spate irrigation infrastructures, including
headworks, canals, flood protection works and access roads in Tuban (l1,000 ha) and Zabid (15,000 ha)
schemes totaling 26,000 ha, which were selected for the Phase I project. The following th.ree major
components would cover:
(a) topographical survey, detailed design, hydraulic models testing and supervision for high priority
works;
(b) rehabilitation and improvement works of the irrigation systems at the canal levels (e.g. at the
tertiary and/or branch and main canal levels), as well as at headworks and wadi levels; and
(c) construction of flood protection works and rehabilitation of roads.
Wadi Tuban (US$6.8 million)
In Wadi Tuban, a total of 13 sub-projects have been identified.
The secondary and tertiary canal system exist only in the modernized area in Al Arais, Ras Al Wadi and
Beizag sub-project areas, which account for about 3,250 ha out of the corresponding command area of
about 4,000 ha. The remaining schemes in Wadi Tuban, Kabier and Saghier, which about 7,000 ha, are all
traditional spate schemes.
The basic main works to be funded under the project in Tuban includes rehabilitation of modem and
traditional irrigation scheme by replacing the broken or vandalized gates, the number of which is more than
1,000,, and removing the accumulated sedimentation deposits in the canal system. It is expected that the
risk of vandalism or damaged on rehabilitated structures, including gates in canals, will be minimum as
these gates and structures will be managed by the WUAs. Also, sedimentation basins will be built at the
entrance of the main canals in order to improve the efficiency of the sedimentation exclusion. The
sedimentation basins will greatly reduce the regular maintenance loads allowing for the efficient use of
machinery.
The main rehabilitation and improvement works would comprise the following:
(a) Repair or replacement of 48 radial gates at diversion structure;
(b) Repair or replacement of 1024 gates in canal control structures;
(c) Improvement or rehabilitation of 13 diversion and canal structure (concrete placement 5,600 m3,
stone masonry work 4,700 m3, gabion work 1 1,000 m3, etc.);
(d) Desilting and reshaping of main, secondary, and tertiary canals (170,000 m3 embankment and
- 31 -



580,000 m3 excavation) including sediment basins installment at the head of the main canals;
(e) Rehabilitation of 47 km of roads, mainly in the form of shaping and gravelling; and
(f) Wadi protection works for 11 villages extending over 2.8 km.
Wadi Zabid (US$5.6 million)
In Wadi Zabid, five sub-projects corresponding to five diversion weirs, two of which will cover both
headworks and canal works (diversion III and IV), have been identified.
The canal system in Zabid is not modernized and water is taken directly from turnouts along the canals and
then distributed from field to field in a traditional manner. Since no cross regulators are available at
present, farmers build earth bunds to divert water to their fields during floods and cause breaching and
overtopping to the embankment of the canal system. The accumulated sedimentation and debris in the
canals have also aggravated the water distribution efficiency.
The rehabilitation of canal sections and installation of cross regulators, as well as enlarged field turnouts,
will improve the water distribution significantly to the end of the canal system and fields. The improved
design will reduce the need for repeated water supply to the field turnouts where the downstream fields
were not irrigated by the previous flood.
The rehabilitation concept of the headwork aims to reduce the maintenance loads by improving the
efficiency of the sediment excluders as well as to increase water intake efficiency by raising the weir crest
for increasing the water head. The project proposal is to construct skimming weirs separating the approach
to the inlet and scouring gates beside the main diversion weirs, which will allow for effective exclusion of
the coarse bed loads from the diverted flows. In addition, the head over the scouring gates will increase the
scouring capacity by raising the crest of the weirs.
However, a full-scale test in addition to a hydraulic modeling should be carried out at diversion III, which
would allow for the modification of the design for the subsequently built diversion IV and others planned in
Phase II. Moreover, a proper operation of the regulator and scouring gates is critical to reduce the
sedimentation influxes to the canal system. Farmers tend to close scouring gates to take as much as water
possible, which resulted in heavy bed load deposits in canals. A phased approach will check and secure the
implementation of an effective operation and maintenance procedure.
For all diversion systems including diversion 1, 2, and 5, sedimentation basins are to be built at the
entrance of the main canals immediately after the regulators' inlets in order to reduce the maintenance loads
for the sedimentation removal significantly. The sections of the sedimentation basins are to be constructed
wide enough to allow for the efficient use of heavy machinery.
The main rehabilitation and improvement works would comprise the following:
(a) Improvement of 2 existing diversion structures (diversion No. 3 and 4), including improving of silt
exclusion arrangements at the intakes, raising weir crests repairs and alterations to intake gates, 2
new head regulators and 1 new sluice;
(b) Linking of traditional ogma systems in wadi Nasery through new canals to diversion No 4;
- 32 -



(c) Desilting and reshaping of the canal systems totaling 550,000 m3 including construction of new
canals and sediment basins at the head of the primary canals;
(d) Improvement of canal structure including 10 cross regulators, 26 turnouts, and 32 drop structure;
(e) Rehabilitation of 33 km roads, mainly in the form of shaping and gravelling; and
(fl Wadi protection works for a new "splitter" weir upstream of diversion No 4 and for one village
between diversion No 3 and 4.
Project Component 2 - US$8.80 million
Irrigration and Environment Mana!ement and PIM Component
(1) Formation of PIM Organizations (US$3.0 million)
The institutional support for establishing the participatory irrigation management (PIM) organizations, i.e.
WUAs, SWUFs and ICs, in both wadis would be provided under the project including technical assistance,
transportation facilities, training, and preparing and printing manuals. The proposed technical assistance
comprises inputs by four intemational specialists to direct activities in the areas of institutional
development, communication, irrigation management and training, respectively. Then, at each wadi
scheme, a national community development expert and a national irrigation management expert, supported
by local facilitators and field staff, would coordinate and undertake the mobilization and capacity building
activities on a full-time day-to-day basis. Transportation facilities commensurate with this effort would be
provided for. Envisaged training and other capacity building activities include PIM study tours and
in-country training activities, WUA formation catalyst activities, training of facilitators and WUA leaders,
training equipment and materials, and preparation of manuals for facilitators (program implementation)
and WUAs (irrigation management).
(2) Improvement of Spate Irrigation Management (US$0.9 million)
(a) Management Information Systems (MIS) (US$0.2 million)
A management information system (MIS) will be provided to make water distribution efficient and
equitable, as well as to facilitate proper and timely maintenance works. The system would include
the following features: (i) providing timely hydrological information enabling efficient and
equitable water distribution linked with flood monitoring system; (ii) monitoring and recording
information on actual water distribution patterns and volumes, which would be the basis to refine
the allocation rule; and (iii) recording machinery and equipment operation, financial expenditures
under specific O&M budget headings, and water charge collection rates.
(b) Flood Warning System (US$0.1 million)
The flood warning system would provide and install simply telemetered hydrological monitoring
equipment at a number of designated sites in the upper and middle catchments, as well as at the
main diversion weir sites in each wadi. The early warning information would help operate the
gates at diversions weirs more efficiently.
- 33 -



(c) Spate Management Models (US$0.2 million)
Spate flow management models, including water diversion and distribution system, would be
developed for the following objectives: (i) providing the information on the water distribution and
irrigable lands based on some flood sizes/patterns and seasons; (ii) providing guidance to establish
a criteria as to how much water should be diverted at each weir for different size and patterns of
floods under each diversion weir; and (iii) providing information on the impacts by the changes of
the operation rule of diversion wiers.
(d) Hydrological Monitoring for Phase II (US$0.4 million)
Hydrological monitoring would be carried out for the wadis to be implemented during phase II in
order to collect adequate data (rainfall, wadi flow, groundwater) for the improved planning, design,
and O&M. Required site and office equipment, technical assistance for the analysis, and minimum
recurrent costs will be provided for the monitoring in these wadis.
(3) Provision of O&M Equipment (US$3.8 million)
The operation and maintenance equipment would be provided for the two wadis, including limited but
necessary spare parts and incremental recurrence costs for adequate operation and maintenance. The total
investment costs for the purchase of equipment account for US$2.5 million (US$1.1 million for Tuban and
US$1.4 million for Zabid) and the total incremental recurrent costs account for US$1.3 million (US$0.6
million for Tuban and US$0.7 million for Zabid). PIUs would manage the equipment. When necessary,
they would lease the equipment to users.
(4) Environmental Management Plan (EMP) (US$1.1 million)
This component would provide support for environmental mitigation and enhancement measures: soil
salinity/sodicity mapping in wadi Tuban, upper watersheds study, monitoring and awareness activities for
the sustainable water resources management.
(a) Monitoring and Awareness Activities for Sustainable Water Resources Management
(US$0.6 million)
The status of groundwater is gradually deteriorating due to increasing water pumping. The project
aims to restore spate irrigation facilities, thus reducing groundwater pumping. However, the
groundwater monitoring would be funded to check the groundwater depletion trend and sea water
intrusion in the lower reaches of wadi Tuban and Zabid. Also, awareness activities through WUAs
for the sustainable water resources management would be supported.
(b) Upper Watersheds Study (US$0.3 million)
The status of the upper catchments has a major effect on water and sediment management aspects
in the lower wadi spate irrigation schemes. This component would support a study for upper
catchment in Wadi Tuban and wadi Zabid, including aerial photography and/or satellite imagery,
preferably at two time points so that trends in catchment characteristics can be identified. Rainfall
and streamflow data would also be collected over the same timeframe.
- 34 -



(c) Soil Salinity/Sodicity Mapping in Wadi Tuban (US$0.2 million)
The soil survey of the lower wadi Tuban would be conducted to determine the extent of saline,
sodic, and saline-sodic soils. The survey would aim to determine appropriate soil and water
management measures for each soil type and whether some areas should be excluded from project
interventions.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.60 million
Intensive A2riculture Demonstration Prop-ram Component
The objective of the proposed agriculture development component is to increase agricultural production in
the Tuban and Zabid irrigation schemes. This objective would be achieved through the implementation of
an intensive on-farm demonstration program aimed at increasing crop yields. Progress towards the
achievement of this objective would be monitored essentially through the evolution of crop yield in the
project areas.
The agriculture development component would capitalize on the rehabilitation and upgrading of the spate
irrigation infrastructure to help foster greater agricultural development and bring about increased value.
Under this component, the SIIP would finance an innovative Saturation and Localized High Impact
Demonstration Program (SLHIDP) that would have a rapid impact on the yields of major crops cultivated
in the Tuban and Zabid schemes. The proposed SLHIDP would cover about ten percent of the cultivated
area of each of the Tuban and Zabid schemes annually. This is much higher than the usual 2 to 4 percent
area coverage used in other demonstration programs. Hence, the name "saturation" demonstration program
was adopted. The SLHIDP would target not only the farms that are irrigated from spate water but also
those farms within the scheme that use underground water exclusively or in conjunction with spate water.
The SLHIDP would transfer existing, proven technologies from the research stations to farmers fields by
using the successful Rapid Impact Program (RIP) of the Agricultural Research and Extension Authority
(AREA) as a model. The SLHIDP would demonstrate a number of proven technologies, which would
include the introduction of superior varieties (for cotton, sorghum, sesame, etc.), the usage of quality seeds,
better leveling of cropped parcels, improved on-farm water management (where ground water is used),
better crop husbandry techniques (near optimal seeding dates, better weeding and crop protection from
pests and diseases, etc.), and the introduction of new crops, as well as inter-cropping of compatible crops.
Implementation of the SLHIDP would be undertaken through contractual services between PMU and
qualified local public and private sector institutions. These institutions might include AREA, TDA,
RDA-Lahej, the General Seed Multiplication Corporation (GSMC), NGOs, and the Almaz Co. The PMU
will draft Terms of Reference and an invitation for proposals based on IDA standard procurement
documents. The TORs and the letter of invitation should be sent to a short list of institutions no later than
project Board approval. The PMU would evaluate the submissions of interested bidders. In the short listing
and selection process, the PMt should encourage joint ventures between agencies that have complementary
mandates such as research, extension and seeds production and distribution skills. The successful bidders
would be awarded a one-year contract within the framework of a multi-year program with the stipulation
that fiature annual contracts would be conditional on the satisfactory implementation of previous contracts.
The successful bidders is required to conduct annual farmer surveys to: (i) ascertain the validity of the
technological package proposed for the site; and (ii) identify constraints that farmers think should be
resolved as a matter of priority.
- 35 -



After contracts are signed, the PMU in collaboration with TDA and RDA-Lahej would designate a
SLHIDP supervisor for each of Tuban and Zabid. The supervisor would: (i) monitor the programming and
implementation of the program; (ii) follow-up and monitor execution of the contracts; (iii) supervise and
evaluate the performance of the agencies implementing the contracts; and (iv) monitor and gather data on
the implementation and impact of the SLHIDP in farmers yields and productivity.
Project Component 4 - US$3.80 million
Institutional StrenLthenine and Capacitv Building and PMU Component
(1) Support to Government Irrigation Sector (US$0.6 million)
This component would provide the institutional assessment of the irrigation institutions, including GDI and
relevant institutions, the action plan to be formulated within the framework of the Aden Agenda, and
assistance for GDI in developing, planning and preparation guidelines for the PIM program in Yemen,
including training and technical assistance in these areas and for other irrigation agencies based on the
results of the assessment. The component will also include inventory and assessment for dams in upper
wadis Tuban and Zabid, which would affect the performance of the spate irrigation facilities downstream.
(2) Support to Legal Framework Development (US$0.3 million)
This component would provide technical assistance to help the Government advance the draft irrigation
law, which would be critical for the long term institutional reform.
(3) Project Preparation Studies for Other Wadis in Phase II (US$0.5 million)
This component would include the preparatory studies and preliminary design for other wadis to be
implemented in Phase II of the project.
(4) Support to Project Management Unit (US$2.4 million)
The project would establish and support the Project Management Unit (PMU) in Sana'a and a small Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in both Tuban and Zabid. The total investment costs would be US$2.1 million,
which is broken down for PMU in Sana'a account for US$1.1 million, as well as US$0.5 million each for
PIUs in Tuban and Zabid. The total recurrent costs would be US$0.3 million, including the PMU in
Sana'a and the two PIUs in Tuban and in Zabid.
The PMU staff would consist of a project director, a project engineer, a project institutional specialist,
finance and administration officer, a procurement specialist and a monitoring and evaluation officer. The
Tuban and Zabid PIU offices would have an assistant engineer and an assistant institutional specialist.
Support staff, office equipment and vehicles are also included. Key staff would receive training in project
management.
- 36 -



Annex 2: Appendix 1
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 1.1 Implementation Milestones for Phase I and Phase II
Milestone          Timing                                       Action    iiated
Phase I of the                                       Tuban                            Zabid
Program
-MS I              End of first year of    -Formation and training of Water  -Formation and training of Water
implementation.      User Associations (WUAs) at    User Associations (WUAs) at
primary/secondary level based on  primary/secondary level based on
existing informal Water User   existing informal Water User Groups
Groups (WUGs).                 (WUGs) is initiated.
-MS2                                     -Participation of WUAs in the  -Agreement on cost-sharing
concept and design of          arrangements for capital cost
rehabilitation works.          recovery.
-MS3                                     -Increased contribution of GOY to -Increased contribution of GOY to
O&M cost for the main spate    O&M cost for the main spate
irrigation schemes.            irrigation schemes,
-MS4               End of second year of  -WUAs participate in procurement Formation and training of Water User
implementation.      process of main packages.      Associations (WUAs) at
primary/secondary level based on
existing informal Water User Groups
(WUGs) is complete.
-Irrigation management transfer
-MS5                                     (IMT) of secondary systems to    -Participation of WUAs in the
WUAs initiated.                concept and design of rehabilitation
works.
-Design and agreement on
-MS6                                     cost-sharing arrangements for  -Design and agreement on
O&M.                           cost-sharing arrangements for O&M.
-MS7               End of third year of    -Irrigation management transfer   -WUAs participate in procurement
implementation.      (IMT) of primary systems to    process of main packages.
WUAs is initiated.
-MS8                                     -Irrigation management transfer   -Irrigation management transfer
(IMT) of secondary systems to    (IMT) of primary/secondary systems
farmers is complete.           to WUAs is initiated.
-MS9                                     -Scheme Water User Federations
(SWUF) and joint management
mechanisms (Irrigation Council)
are initiated.
-MS 10                                   -Farmers start paying their share of -Farmers start paying their share of
O&M cost.                      O&M cost.
- 37 -



-MSI I             End of fourth year of  -Irrigation management transfer
implementation.      (IMT) of primary systems to
farmers is complete.
-MS12                                    -Formation of Scheme Water User -Scheme Water User Federations
Federations (SWUF) is completed. (SWUF) is initiated.
-Enactment of Irrigation Law.
-MS13                                                                   Enactment of Irrigation Law.
-Decision on whether to proceed or
-MS 14                                   not with Phase II program (based  -Decision on whether to proceed or
on performance against MS 1 to    not with Phase II program (based on
11).                           performance against MS1 to 11).
-MS 15             End of fifth year of                                 -Irrigation management transfer
implementation.                                     (IMT) of primary/secondary systems
to farmers is complete.
-MS16                                   -Rehabilitation of works for Phase  -Rehabilitation of works for Phase I is
I is complete.                 complete.
-MS17                                    -Preparation for sub-projects under -Preparation for sub-projects under
Phase II has started.          Phase II has started.
-Irrigation Council (IC) is fully    -Irrigation Council (IC) is initiated,
functioning.                   and formation of Scheme Water User
Federations (SWUF) is completed.
Phase 11 of the
Program
-MS1 8             End of sixth year of   -Implementation of rehabilitation  -Implementation of rehabilitation
implementation.      works for Phase II has started.    works for Phase II has started.
-MS9                                                                    -Irrigation Council (IC) is fully
functioning.
-MS20                                    -Complete formation and training  -Complete formation and training of
of WUAs for primary systems in   WUAs for primary systems in Phase
Phase II schemes.              II schemes.
-MS21              End of seventh year of -SWIUFs and ICs for Phase II  -SWUFs and ICs for Phase II
implementation.      schemes are formed.            schemes are formed.
- 38 -



-MS22                 End of eight year of    -All rehabilitation works for Phase -All rehabilitation works for Phase II
implementation.         II are completed.                  are completed.
-MS23                                         -WUAs and SWUFs for Phase II   -WUAs and SWUFs for Phase II are
are functional.                    functional.
-MS24                                         -Joint management mechanisms    -Joint management mechanisms for
for Phase II schemes are fully     Phase II schemes are fully functional.
_________________   ____________________    functional.
- 39 -



Annex 2: Appendix 2
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Program Context
What Will be done                         What will be Done
Full Program                                 Phase I
Major Issues                 (Phases I & II)
(To cover 90,000 ha in the following seven (To cover 26,000 ha in the following two spate
main spate irrigation schemes in Yemen:  irrigation schemes: Tuban and Zabid; over a
Tuban, Bana, Hassan, Mawr, Zabid,    period of five years).
Siham, and Rima'a (over a period of ten
years).
- Financial               Government to provide enough O&M       Government to provide enough O&M budget
sustainability of O& M    budget (Government) by year 2001 for    (Government) by year 2001 for all main
all main schemes.                     schemes.
Establish a mechanism for O&M         Establish a mechanism for 0 & M cost-sharing
cost-sharing by which users would     by which users would contribute to O&M cost.
contribute to O&M cost. Government    Government contribution would be provided on
contribution would be provided on a   a decreasing basis in relation to the expected
decreasing basis in relation to the   increasing farmer contributions.
expected increasing farmer
contributions.
Implement the cost-sharing        *  Implement the cost-sharing mechanism for
mechanism for O&M cost for all the    O&M cost for the two schemes by year 2002.
seven spate irrigation schemes by year
2007.
Provide incremental O&M budget to cover new
activities of O&M in the two schemes starting
year 2002 and through the life of the project
(Phase I).
-Week institutions and    Decentralize management of the seven   Decentralize management of the two spate
poor management of        spate irrigation schemes to scheme     irrigation schemes to scheme level, and
spate irrigation systems    level, and establish all seven joint  establish two joint Irrigation Councils (ICs)
Irrigation Councils (ICs) and Scheme  and Scheme Water User Federations (SWUFs)
Water User Federations (SWUFs) at     at that level with the participation of the users
that level with the participation of the  (year 2004).
users (year 2008).
Establish xxx Water Users'            Establish 29 Water Users Associations
Associations (WUAs) in the country    (WUAs) at the tertiary and branch canal levels
seven main schemes at the tertiary and    to be responsible for operation and
branch canal levels to be responsible  maintenance of the two spate irrigation
for operation and maintenance of the  schemes.
seven spate irrigation schemes.
-40 -



Redefine the role of the Government   Redefine the role of the Government
Institutions by year 2003 for irrigation    Institutions by year 2003 for irrigation
including:                           including:
Restructuring those institutions to   Restructuring those institutions to focus on
focus on planning and support to      planning and support to users (Study).
users (Study).                        Decentralization of responsibilities (WUAs
Decentralization of                   and ICs).
responsibilities (WlUAs and ICs).
*  Training for WUAs, SWUFs, ICs and     Training for WUAs, SWUFs, ICs and
Government staff of the country seven  Government staff of the 2 project schemes.
schemes.
- Poor O&M service        Provide O&M equipment and spare       Provide needed O&M equipment and spare
parts for irrigation systems in all   parts for the two project schemes (Zabid and
seven schemes.                        Tuban).
Development and implementation of     Development and testing of water information
water information system (MIS) in all    system (MIS) in the two schemes.
seven main schemes.
Training and TA.                      Training and TA.
- Deteriorating           Rehabilitation and improvement of     Rehabilitation and improvement of
infrastructure           infrastructure in the seven irrigation  infrastructure in the two project irrigation
systems at tertiary, branch and main  systems at tertiary, branch and main canal and
canal and headworks levels, including  headwork levels, including wadi protection.
wadi protection.
- 41 -



Annex 2: Appendix 3
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
New Equipment for Tuban
Type               Unit cost (US$)     New Equipment        Total Costs (US$)
Number
Bulldozer (D6)                         165,000                    1                165,000
Bulldlozer (d4)                        137,000                    1                137,000
Front-end loader                       108,300                   1                 108,300
Hydraulic excavator                    150,000                    1                150,000
Dump truck (15 tons)                    60,000                   2                 120,000
Water tanker                           100,000                    1                100,000
Crane                                  110,000                    1                110,000
Flat bed truck(3 tons)                  30,000                    1                 30,000
Total Machine                                                    9                 920,300
Pick up 4WD                             18,000                    1                 18,000
Landcruiser4WD                          20,000                   2                  40,000
Total Vehicle                                                    3                  58,000
Total                                                           12                 978,300
Note: New equipment will be procured considering the O&M loads estimated for each year
and replacement schedule of the existing equipment over years.
Existing Equipment in Tuban
Type             Maker          Model         Year        Owner             Condition
Bulldozer D6        Fiat Hitachi    FD175             1987    Lahej         overhaul+spare+chain
Bulldozer D6        Fiat Hitachi    FD175             1987    Lahej         overhaul+spare+chain
Bulldozer D6        Komatsu         Komatsu 65        1985    Lahej         overhaul+spare+chain
Bulldozer D6        Komatsu         Komatsu 66         1985    Lahej        overhaul+spare+chain
Bulldozer D4        Caterpillar                       1987    Lahej         overhaul-spare+chain
Front end loader    Fiat Hitachi    FR100             1996    Lahej
Excavator           Fiat Hitachi    FH200 LC-3        1996    Lahej         repair
Landcuiser          Toyota                            1990    Lahej         spairs
Landcuiser          Toyota                             1987    Lahej        spairs
Bulldozer D6        Catapillar      DGE               1994    LWCP PIU
Front end loader    Hundai          HL17              1994    LWCP PIU
Back hoe            Case            580SK             1995    LWCP PIU
Flat bed truck      Iveco           ML120E            1994    LWCP PIU
Pick up 4WD         Mitsubishi      K32TJ              1995    LWCP PIU
Pick up 4WD         Mitsubishi      K32TJ             1995    LWCP PIU
Pick up 4WD         Mitsubishi      K32TJ              1995    LWCP PIU
Note: The equipment will be refurbished by the allocated maintenance budget in the project.
- 42 -



Annex 2: Appendix 4
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
New Equipment for Zabid
Type                Unit cost (US$)         Number        Total Costs (US$)
Bulldozer (D6)                           165,000                   1                165,000
Front-end loader                         108,300                   2                216,600
Hydraulic excavator                      150,000                   1                150,000
Dump truck (15 tons)                      60,000                   3                180,000
Back hoe                                  70,000                   1                 70,000
Flat bed truck(3 tons)                    30,000                   1                 30,000
Water tanker                             100,000                   1                100,000
Crane                                    110,000                   1                110,000
Generators (350KVA)                       50,000                   2                100 ,000
Total Machine                                                     13              1,121,600
Pick up4WD                                18,000                   2                 36,000
Landcruiser 4WD                           20,000                   2                 40,000
Total Vehicle                                                      4                 76,000
Total                                                             17              1,197,600
Note: New equipment will be procured considering the O&M loads estimated for each year
and replacement schedule of the existing equipment over years.
Existing Equipment in Zabid
Type            Maker        Model        Year       Owner            Condition
Bulldozer           Cat          D6D              1987    TDA         overhaul+spare+chain
Bulldozer           Komatsu      D6H              1986    TDA         overhaul+spare+chain
Front end loader    Komatsu      WA180            1989    TDA         repairs
Hydraulic excavator   Komatsu    PC220            1989    TDA         spares
Flat bed truck      Nissan       TM80F            1983    TDA         overhaul+spares
Flat lbed truck     Nissan       CM80F            1983    TDA         overhaul+spares
Water tanker        Nissan       198              1987    TDA         overhaul+spares
Water tanker        Nissan       199              1987    TDA         overhaul+spares
Crane               Nissan       CK20L            1987    TDA         overhaul+spares
Generator (350 KVA)                                       TDA
Back hoe *          Case         SK580            1995    LWCP PIU
Back hoe *          Case         SK580            1998    LWCP PIU
Notet:
1) * Back hoe is part-time available only due to its continuous activities for pipe distribution system, but
would be used to ease peak O&M loads during flood seasons.
2) The equipment will be refurbished by the allocated maintenance budget in the project.
-43 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Local       Foreign        Total
Pr   o osct  0 t4 B oponet                 US$million    U  $ion    US $nillion
A. Rehabilitation and Improvement of Spate Irrigation      6.40          4.10        10.50
Infrastructure
B. Irrigation and Environment Management and PIM           2.00          6.00         8.00
C. Intensive Agriculture Demonstration Program             0.20         0.30          0.50
D. Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building and PMU  2.10       1.20         3.30
Total Baseline Cost                                       10.70         11.60        22.30
Physical Contingencies                                    0.90         0.90          1.80
Price Contingencies                                     . 0.80         0.70          1.50
Total Project Costs              12.40        13.20         25.60
Total Financing Required              12.40         13.20        25.60
-44-



Detailed Cost Table
Project Cost by Component                        Local        Foreign          Total
_ _____________________________________S VSS                               Us$           USS
A. Rehabilitation and Improvement of Spate Irrigation
Infrastructure
1. Wadi Tuban
Topographical Survey Investigation                    14,000         56,000         70,000
Detailed Design for Main Contracts                   186,500         186,500       373,000
Supervision of Construction                           80,000         80,000        160,000
Rehabilitation Works                               3,328,136       1,821.272     5.149,408
Subtotal Wadi Tuban                                      3,608,636       2,143,772     5,752,408
2. Wadi Zabid
Topographical Survey Investigation
Detailed Design for Main Contracts                    35,000          35,000        70,000
Supervision of Construction                          146,000         146,000       292,000
Hydraulic Model Testing                               62,480         62,480        124,960
Rehabilitation Works                                  16,000         64,000         80,000
Subtotal Wadi Zabid                                      2,555.135       1,610,226     4,165.361
Subtotal Rehabilitation and Improvement of Spate Irrigation  2,814,615      1,917,706     4.732.321
Infrastructures                                             6,423,251      4,061,478     10,484,729
B. Irrigation and Environment and Participatory Irrigation
Management (PIM)
1. Formation of PIM Organizations                           498,000       2,206,500     2,704,500
2. Improvement in Spate Irrigation Management
Monitoring for Phase II                                93,850        305,150       399,000
Management Information System (MIS)                    76,700         68,300       145,000
Flood Warning System (incl. O&M)                      20,100          80,900       101,000
Spate Management Model                                49,000         132,000       181,000
Subtotal Improvement in Spate Irrigation Management        239,650         586,350       826,000
3. Improved O&M Equipment                                  887,704       2,539,687      3,427,391
4. Enviromnent Oriented Operations                         337,234         639.437       976,671
Subtotal Irrigation and Environment and Participatory     1,962,588      5,971,974      7,934,562
Irrigation Management (PIM)
C. Intensive Agricultural Demonstration Program               185,000        285,000       470,000
D. Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building and
PMIJ'                                                          94,500        150,000       244,500
Improved Legal Framework                                110,000        365,000       475,001
Support to Government Irrigation Issues                 95,000         380,000       475,000
Other Wadis Project Preparation Studies              1,841,390        339.010     2,180,400
PMU                                                 2,140,890       1,234,010     3,374,901
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
and PMU
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                                       10,711,729      11,552,463    22,264,191
Physical Contingencies                                     890,446        878,303      1,768,750
Price Contingencies                                       799,731        740,755      1,540,486
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                        12,401,906      13,171,521    25,573,427
a/ Main office in Sana'a with two branch offices respectively in Wadi Tuban and Wadi Zabid.
-45 -



Yemen
Spate Irriation Improvement Project (SIIP)
Components Prolect Cost Summay
(YR 000)                                                (USS)
%     %Total                                                  % Total
Foreign   Base                                          ForeIgn   Base
Local     foreign      Total   Exchange  Costs       Local       ForeIgn       Total    Exchange Costs
A. RehabIlltatlon and Improvement of Spate IrrigatIon Intrastructure
1. Wadl Tuban
Topogaphicat Swvey vwestigatron                                                  2.212       8,848      11,060      80                14,000      56,000       70,000       80       -
Detailed Design for Main Contracts                                              29,467     29,467      58,934       50       2      186.500      186,500      373,000       50       2
Supervision of Constnrdion                                                      12,640      12.640     25,280       50       1       80,000       80,000      160,000      50        1
Rehabitilation Works                                                           525.845    287,761     813.606       35      23     3,328,136    1,821,272    5,149,408      35      23
Subtotal Wadi Tuban                                                              570,164    338,716     908,880      37      26      3,608,636   2,143,772     5,752,408     37      26
2. Wadi Zabid
Topographical Survey Investigation                                               5,530       5,530      11.060      50       -       35,000       35,000       70.000       50
Detailed Desin for Main Contracts                                               23,068      23,068     46,138       50       1       146,000      146,000     292,000       50       1
Supervision of Consinxubon                                                       9,872       9.872      19,744      50       1       62,480       62,480      124,960       50       1
Hydraulc Model Testing                                                           2,528      10,112      12,640      80                16,000      64,000       80,000       80
Rehabriltation Works                                                           403,711     254.418    658,127       39      19     2.555,135    1.610,226    4.165.361      39      19
Subtotal Wadl Zabid                                                              444,709     302,998    747,707      41       21     2,814.615    1.917,706    4,732.321     41      21
Subtotal RehabiltatWon and Improvement of Spate Irrigation Infrastructure        1.014,874    641,714    1,656,567     39      47      6,423,251   4,061,478    10,484,729     39      47
B. Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM
I. Formalion of PIMOrganisalions(WWUAsand SMUs)                                  78,684     348,627     427,311      82      12       498,000    2,206,500    2,704,500      82      12
2. Improvement In Spate IrrigatIon Managemen
Moniloring for phase I                                                          1t4,828     48,214     63,042       76       2       93.850      305,150      399,000       76       2
Management lInformalion System (MIS)                                            12,119      10,791     22,910       47       1       76,700       68.300       145,000      47       1
Spate Warning System                                                             3,176      12,782      15,956     Be        -       20,100       80,900       101,000      80
CD          Spate Management Model                                                           7,742      20,850      28,598      73       1        49,000      132,000      181,000      73       1
Subtotal Improvement In Spate Irrigation Menagemen                                37,865     92.643     130,508      71       4       239,650      586,350      826.000      71       4
3. Improved O8M on Irrigalion Inlrasniudures                                     140,257    401.271     541,528       74      15      887,704     2,539,687    3.427.391      74      15
4. Environment Oriented Operations                                                53,283     101,031    154,314       65       4      337,234      639,437      976,671      65        4
Subtotal Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM                                 310,089    943,572    1,253,661     75      36      1,962,588   5,971,974    7,934,562      75      36
C. tnstluttonal StrengthenIn
Inmproved Legal Framework                                                         14,931     23,700      38,631       61       1       94,500      150,000      244,500      61        1
Support to Government Irrigation Retated Institutions (MAt. GDI, TDA...)          17.380     57,670      75,050      77        2      110,000      365,000      475,001      77       2
Other Wadis Preparation Studies                                                   15,010     60,040      75,050      80       2        95.000      380,000      475.000      80       2
Subtotal Instiuttional Strenglhentnt                                               47,321     141.410     188,731      75       5       299,500      895,000     1.194,501     75       5
0. Intensive Agricultural Demonstration Programme                                  29,230      45.030      74,260      61       2       185,000      285,000      470,000      61       2
E. Prolect Management Unit (PMU) la                                                290,940     53,564     344,503       16     10      1,841,390     339.010    2.180,400       16     10
Total BASEUNE COSTS                                                               1.692,453    1,825,289    3,517,742   52     100    10,711,729    11,552,463    22.264,191    52     100
Physical Contingencies                                                           140,691     138,772    279,462       50      8       890,446      878,303     1,768,750     50       8
Price Contingencies                                                              248,580    229,976     478,U3_    48         14      799,731      740,755     1,540,486,     U       7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                              2,081,711    2,194.037    4,275,748    51     122    12.401,906    13,171,521    25,573,427    52     115
\a Main office in Sanasa with two branch-ofices respectivety in Wadi Tuban and Wadi Za%hd



Yemen
Spate Irrigation Improvement Project (SIIP)
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
(YR '000)                                                (US$)
%     % Total                                           %      % Total
Foreign   Base                                          Forelgn   Base
Local      Foreign      Total    Exchange  Costs     Local        Foreign       Total    Exchange  Costs
l. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Headworks                                 282,999     182,681     465,680      39       13     1,791,132    1,156,212    2,947,344      39       13
Earthworks                                366,451     199,266     565,717      35       16     2,319,308    1,261,180    3,580,488      35       16
Canal Structures                           58,474      37,271      95,745      39        3      370,089       235,892      605,981      39        3
Roads                                      74,289      31,838     106,126      30       3       470,18i      201,506       671,687      30       3
Other Civil Works                         136,680      91,120     227,800       40       6      865,062       576,708    1,441,770      40        6
Subtotal Civil Works                        918,892     542,177    1,461,069     37      42      5,815,771    3,431,498    9,247,269      37      42
B. Machinery                                 80,620     241,859     322,478      75       9       510,250     1,530,750    2,041,000      75       9
C. Vehicles                                  20,975      62,924      83,898      75       2       132,750      398,250       531,000      75        2
D. Equipment                                 19,924      78,273      98,197      80       3       126,100      495,400      621,500       80       3
E. Training
Abroad                                      8,058      15,642      23,700      66        1       51,000       99,000       150,000      66        1
In Country                                  3,237       9,387      12,624      74                20,490        59,410       79,900      74
4       Subtotal Training                             11,295     25,029      36,324       69       1        71,490      158,410      229,900       69       i
F. Technical Assistance
International TA                            1,580     334,960     336,540      100      10        10,000    2,120,000    2,130,000      100      10
National TA                                48,585      55,300     103,885      53        3      307,500       350,000      657,500      53        3
Subtotal Technical Assistance                50,165     390,260     440,425      89       13      317,500     2,470,000    2,787,500      89       13
G. Studies                                  122,984     240,094     363,078      66       10      778,380     1,519,580    2,297,960      66       10
H. Others                                   326,220      62,566     388,786      16       11     2,064,684     395,988     2,460,671      16       11
Total Investment Costs                       1,551,074    1,643,180    3,194,254   51       91     9,816,925    10,399,876    20,216,800    51       91
II. Recurrent Costs
A. National Stalf Salaries                   73,395           -      73,395        -       2      464,525            -       464,525        -       2
B. Operation & Maintenance
O&MonEquipement                             6,115      15,215      21,330      71        1       38,700        96,300      135,000       71       1
O&M on Vehicules                           36,160      36,340      72,500       50       2       228,858      230,002      458,860       50       2
O&Mon Machinery                            17,444     119,823     137,267      87        4       110,408      758,372      868,780      87        4
O&M on Irrigation Infrastructures           1,849       4,313       6,162      70        -        11,700       27,300       39,000      70
Subtotal Operatlon & Maintenance             61,567     175,692     237,259      74        7      389.666     1,111,974    1,501,640      74       :7
C. Others                                     6,417       6,417      12,834      50                40,613        40,613       81,226      50
Total Recurrent Costs                         141,379     182,109     323,488      56        9      894,804     1,152,587    2,047,391      56        9
Total BASELINE COSTS                         1,692,453    1,825,289    3,517,742    52     100    10,711,729    11,552,463    22,264,191     52     100
Physical Contingencies                      140,691     138,772     279,462      50        8      890,446       878,303    1,768,750      50        8
Price Contingencies                         248,568     229,976     478,543      48       14      799,731       740,755    1,540,486      48        7
Total PROJECT COSTS                          2,081,711    2,194,037    4,275,748    51     122    12,401,906    13,171,521    25,573,427     52     115



Yemen
Spate Irrigation Improvement Progect (SIIP)
Components by Financiers
(US$)                                                                                     Benlticlarles             IDA             The Government             Total                      Local (Ercl.   Dutfes S
Amount       %       Amount        %       Amount       %        Amount        %      For. Exch.     Taxes)       Taxes
A. Fehabiltlatlon and Improvement of Spate Itrrigation Intrastructures
1. Wadi Tuban
Toporgrapical Survey investigation                                                        -                79,008    100.0           0                 79,008     0.3        63,206        15,802
Delailed Design for Main Conracts                                                                 -       424,249    t000-                            424,249      1 7      212,124       212.124
Supervision ci Construction                                                                       -       189,546    100.0           -                189,546     0.7        94.773        94,773
Rehabfiitation Works_ 415,874                                                                   6.9    5,023,419      03.0     613,030     te1O     6.052,323    23.7     2,142,957     3,607,183    302,183
Subtotal Wati Tuban                                                                   415.874     62      5.716.221     84.7     613,030      9.1     6,745,125    26.4     2.513,060     3,929,882    302.183
2. Wadt Zabid
Topographial Survey Investigation                                                                 -        80,636    100.0           0                 80,636     03         40,318        40,318          -
Detailed Design tlo Main Contracts                                                                        334,848    100.0           *                334,848      1.3      167,424       167,424
Supervision ot Construction                                                                                48,310    100.0           -                148.310     0.6        74,155        74,155
Hydrautic Model Testing                                                                   *                89,128    100.0                             89,126      03        71,30t        17,825
Flehabiitalion Works                                                                326,058      6.5    4,099.1 t9    82.2     562,092     1 .3     4,987.269     19.5     1,930,346    2.811,080    245.843
Subtotal Wadi Zabid                                                                   326.058      5.8     4,752,039    84.3     562,092     10.0     5.640,189     22.1    2,283,544      3,110,802    245,843
Subtotat Rehabilitation and Improvement o1 Spate trrlgalton Intrastructures             741,932      6.0    10,468,260    84.5    1,175,122     9.5    12.385.314     48.4     4.796.604     7,040,684    548,026
B. ParticIpatory Irrigation Management (PIM)
1. Foornalionot PIM Organsatiorts (WtAs ani SMUs)                                      85.033     2.8     2,426.256     81.0     484,212     16.2     2,995,500     11 7    2,437,496       537,056    20,948
2. tmptovement In Spate Irrigation Management
Monitoringtfor phase It                                                                           -       442,347     97.7      1D,347      2.3       452,693      1.8      347,114       105,579
Management Inormnafion System (MIS)                                                                       122,833     75,6      39,571     24.4       162.404     0.6        76,408        85,996
Spate Warning System                                                                                       92,749     80.7      22.168     193        114.917     04         91.727        23,190
Spate Managemont Mode                                                                                  _  '94,032     99.6         836      0.4       194.867     0.8       141.539        53,328
Subtotal tmprovement In Spate irrigation Management                                         -       *       851.961     92.1      72,921      79        924,882     3.6       656,789       268,093
1         3. frniproved OM oan Irrigalion Intrastructuros                                        385,400    t0.0     2.475,139    642       997,070     258      3,857,610    is 1     2,865,326       819,426    t72,858
Z.-        4 Environment Oriontei Operations                                                                          1,077.618    99.2       8,889      08      1.086,507      42       7t3,739       372.768
tX       Subtotal Patlicipatory Irrigatlon Management (PIM)                                      470Q433      5.3     6,830,974    77.1   1563,092     17.6     8,864,499     347      6,673,349     t,997,344    193,806
C. tnstlullonal Strengitening
Improved Legal Framewort                                                                                    264.991    100.0                            264,991      1.0      161.606       103,385
Suppod toGovemmentIrrigationFolatledlnstilutons (MAI,GDI.TDA...)                 * -                        542,748    100.0           0                542.748      2.1      416,131    t 26,617
Other Wadis Preparation Stuties                                                             -               535,694    100.0           0        .       535,694      2.1      428.555       107,139
Subtotal Institutlonal Strenglhentng                                                          -        -     1,343.433    1000           0        -     1.343,433      5.3     1.006.292      337,141
D. Inlensive Agricullural Demonstralion Programme                                                             547,572    100.0           -                547,572      2.1      328.923       218,649          -
E. Proqeci Management Init (PMU) /a                                                           -       .      2.130,711    87.6     301,899     12.4     2.432,610      9.5      366,353     2,048,008     18.249
Total dCsbursement                                                                     1,212,365     4.7    21,320,949    83.4    3,040,112     11.9    25,573,427    1000    13,171,521    11,641,825    760,081
ba Main oflice in Sanaa avth two branch-doices respectively in Wack Tuban and Wacb Zabid



Yemen
Spate Irrination Improvement Project (SilP)
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(US$)                                           Benificlaries            IDA            The Government             Total                    Local (Excl.  Duties &
Amount      %       Amount        %      Amount       %       Amount        %      For. Exch.     Taxes)      Taxes
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Headworks                                       -             3,187,081    90.0     354,120    10.0    3,541,201     13.8    1,390,039     1,974,101    177,060
Earlhworks                                424,405    10.0    3,395,236    80.0      424,405    10.0    4,244,045    16.6    1,496,910      2,534,933    212,202
Canal Structures                           71,688     10.0      573,502    80.0      71,688    10.0       716,877     2.8       279,191      401,842    35,844
Roads                                      76,196    10.0       609,571    80.0      76,196    10.0       761,964     3.0       228,589      495,277    38,098
OtherCivil Works                           169,644    10.0    1,357,148    80.0     169,644    10.0    1,696,435      6.6       678,574      933,039    84,822
Subtotal Civil Works                        741,932     6.8    9,122,538    83.2   1,096,052    10.0   10,960,522    42.9    4,073,303       6,339,193    548,026
B. Machinery                                      *             2,148,769    95.0     113,093     5.0    2,261,862      8.8     1,696,396      452,372    113,093
C. Vehicles                                       -        -      547,375    95.0      28,809      5.0      576,184     2.3       432,138      115,237    28,809
D. Equipment                                              -       670,207    95.0      35,274      5.0      705,481     2.8       562,010      143,471
E. Training
Abroad                                          -               1 163,697   100.0         0               163,697     0.6       108,040       55,657
In Country                                      *       -        88,590   100.0           0                88,590     0.3        65,840       22,749
Subtotal Training                                 -               252,286   100.0           0       -       252,286     1.0       173,880       78,406
F. Technical Assistance
International TA                                *             2,346,076    100.0          -       -    2,346,076      9.2    2,335,163        10,913
National TA                                     *       -       730,859   100.0           -       -       730,859     2.9       387,072      343,787
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                   3,076,935   100.0           -       -    3,076,935     12.0    2,722,235       354,700
G. Studies                                                -    2,607,872    100.0           0       -     2,607,872    10.2     1,718,865      889,007
H. Others                                                       2,715,946    97.2      79,070      2.8    2,795,016    10.9       462,306    2,332,710         -
Total Investment Costs                        741,932     3.2   21,141,928    91.0   1,352,298      5.8   23,236,158    90.9    t1,841,133    10,705.096   689,928
11. Recurrent Costs
A. National Stall Salaries                   49,089      9.5       54,797    10.5     415,545    80.0       519,431     2.0            -       519,431         -
S. Operation & Maintenance
O&M on Equipement                               -        -       29,838    20.0      119,351.   80.0      149,188     0.6       106,200       42,988         -
O&M on Vehicules                           54,197    10.3        51,108     9.7      421,220    80.0      526,526     2.1       266,352      241.891     18,282
O&M on Machinery                          353,340    35.0             -       -     656,204    65.0      1,009,544    3.9       882,341       80,663     46,540
O&M on Irrigation Infrastructures           13,807    30.0            -       -      32,215    70.0        46,022      0.2       32,215       11,505      2,301
Subtotal Operation & Maintenance            421,344    24.3        80,946     4.7   1,228,990    71.0      1,731,280    6.8     1,287,109      377,048    67,123
C. Others                                         -       -        43,279    50.0      43,279    50.0        86,558     0.3        43,279       40,249     3,030
Total Recurrent Costs                         470,433    20.1       179,022     7.7   1,687,814    72.2    2,337,269      9.1     1,330,388      936,728    70,153
Total Disbursement                           1,212,365     4.7   21,320,949    83.4   3,040,112     11.9   25,573,427   100.0   13,171,521    11,641,825   760,081



Yemen
Spate Irrigation Improvemei
Disbursement Accounts t
(US$)                       Beniticlarles             IDA            The Government             Total                     Local (Excl.  Duties &
Amount      %        Amount       %       Amount       %       Amount        %      For. Exch.     Taxes)      Taxes
1. Civil Works          741,932     6.7    9,122,538    82.6    1,175,122     10.6   11,039,592    43.2      4,073,303    6,418,263   548,026
2. Goods                              -    3,292,649     95.0      173,297     5.0    3,465.947     13.6    2,627,205       696,840    141,902
3. Services                           -     8,671,036    100.0       3,879       -    8,674,915     33.9     5,096,062    3,578,853
4. Miscellaneous        470,433     19.7      234,726     9.8    1,687,814    70.5    2,392,974      9.4     1,374,951      947,869    70,153
Total                    1,212,365     4.7   21,320,949    83.4   3,040,112      11.9   25,573,427    100.0    13,171,521    11,641,825   760,081
('
0



Yemen
Spate Irrigation Improvement Project (SIIP)
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$)
Totals Including Contingencies
2001        2002        2003        2004        2005        Total
A. Rehabilitation and Improvement of Spate Irrigation Infrastructures
1. Wadi Tuban
Topographical Survey Investigation                                               38,993      40,015                       -           -        79,008
Detailed Design tor Main Contracts                                              167,112     171,492      85,645           -                   424,249
Supervision of Construction                                                                  34,298      66,874       69,830      18,544      189,546
Rehabilitation Works                                                            192,179    1,483,860    2,328,620    1,745,035   302,631    6,052,323
Subtotal Wadi Tuban                                                               398,284    1,729,664    2,481,138    1,814,865   321,174    6,745,125
2. Wadi Zabid
Topographical Survey Investigation                                               11,141      34,298       35,197                       -       80,636
Detailed Design for Main Contracts                                               77,986     137,193      119,669                              334,848
Supervision of Construction                                                       5,570      30,868      37,543       38,527      35,801      148,310
Hydraulic Model Testing                                                          89,126           -                                    -       89,126
Rehabilitation Works                                                            109,080     525,088    1,115,572    1,773,442    1,464,087   4,987,269
Subtotal Wadi Zabid                                                               292,903     727,448    1,307,980    1,811,969    1,499,888  5,640,189
Subtotal Rehabilitation and Improvement of Spate Irrigation Infrastructures         691,186    2,457,112    3,789,119    3,626,834    1,821,063    12,385,314
B. Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM)
1. Formation of PIM Organisatlons (WUAs and SMUs)                                 727,874    1,026,585    732,437     384,559      124,045    2,995,500
c.n    2. Improvement In Spate Irrigation Management
Moniloring for phase 11                                                               -     261,499       71,673     119,521           -      452,693
Management Information System (MIS)                                                   -       4,677       97,591      33,164      26,972      162,404
Spate Warning System                                                                         97,179        5,759       5,910       6,069      114,917
Spate Management Model                                                          144,324      37,105       13,439          -            -      194,867
Subtotal Improvement In Spate Irrigation Management                               144,324     400,459      188,462     158,596      33,041      924,882
3. Improved O&M on Irrigation inlrastructures                                    1,374,966    269,215      232,143    1,698,107    283,179     3,857,610
4. Environment Oriented Operations                                                515,913     267,267      118,709     156,297      28,321     1,086,507
Subtotal Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM)                                 2,763,077    1,963,526    1,271,751    2,397,559  468,586    8,864,499
C. Institutional Strengthening
Improved Legal Framework                                                          113,332     116,302       35,357          -            -      264,991
Support to Govemment Irrigation Related Institutions (MAI, GDI. TDA ... I         362,077           -       58,661      60,198      61,812      542,748
Other Wadis Preparation Studies                                                    26,586      27,283      251,976     229,849           -      535,694
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening                                                501,995     143.585     345,994      290,047      61,812     1,343,433
D. Inlensive Agricultural Demonstration Ptogramme                                    41,221     151,224      142,173     126,417      86,537      547,572
E. Project Management Unit (PMU) /a                                                 674,748     423,667     433,826      444,232     456,137    2,432,610
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                4,672,227    5,139,115    5,982,862    6,885,088    2,894,134    25,573,427
\a Main office in Sanea awith two branch-offices respectively In Wadi Tuban and Wadi Zabid



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
This annex details the results and the methodology followed in the financial and economic analyses of the
Yemen - Irrigation Improvement project - IIP. The analyses are carried out for both Wadi Tuban (in Lahej
Govemorate) and Wadi Zabid (in Hodeidah Governorate) and for the overall project.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Base Case Scenario - Net Present Values (million US$)
Base case scenario                     Wadi Tuban       Wadi Zabid       Overall project
Incremental Agricultural Benefits          6.61            7.41              14.02
Project Investment costs                   5.38            4.63              10.01
Incremental O&M costs                      1.43            1.40              2.83
Net Present Value @ 10%                   -0.21            1.38               1.17
Economic Rate of Return                   9.6%            12.9%             11.2%
Main Assumptions:
1.    Back2round. The project seeks to ensure sustainable water resources management in both wadi
Tuban and Zabid, contributing thereby to increase agricultural production, household incomes and food
security in the project areas. Sustainable and efficient water conveyance, distribution and use in the two
spate irrigation schemes will be achieved through the rehabilitation, improvement and protection of spate
irrigation infrastructure, covering an area of about 26,000 ha, and institutional changes based on the
concept of Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM). In addition, an intensive on-farm demonstration
program will be introduced to enhance the economic viability of the proposed works and to improve the
long-term sustainability of agriculture in the wadis by increasing farmers' capacity to pay for O&M
charges. The demonstration program aims to increase crop yields through the transfer to farmers of
existing, proven improved varieties and technological packages.
2.    Beneficiaries are farmers, farm workers and their families whose livelihood depends on the 26,000
ha of Net Command Areas in both wadi Tuban and Zabid. A total of 27,000 households (150,000 people)
live in both wadis. Many of these beneficiaries are poor. More than 28% of families live below the
poverty line (US$203) in Tuban and more than 35% in Zabid. Most of the poor are landless, laborer or
small-scale subsistence farmers. They suffer from limited access to food and water. Malnutrition and
anemia are widespread. The project will improve their situation by increasing agricultural production,
thereby household income and food security.
-52 -



Basic Social Data in Project Areas
Wadi Tuban        Wadi Zabid
Net Command Area (ha)                                         11,046            15,215
Population (people)                                           75,000            76,000
Number of Households                                          13,000            14,000
Number of Spate scheme users                                   8,100             7,100
% of households landless (seasonal agricultural workers)       25%               50%
% of households below the poverty line                         28%               35%
3.     Cost-Benefit Analysis. A cost-benefit analysis was carried out to estimate the net present value
(NPV) and the internal rate of return (IRR) of the project. First, financial flows were calculated for both
the "with" and "without" project scenarios. Then, conversion factors were used to translate the financial
flows into economic values, and the economic NPV and IRR were calculated. The main distortion is
caused by a high subsidy on fuel. Agricultural inputs are not subsidized except for cotton. Labor has been
shadow priced at 50% in recognition of the high unemployment rate that prevails in the project area. No
residual values were included in the analysis. It was assumed that the shadow exchange rate equals the
market exchange rate (US$1 = YR 160). The period of analysis is 35 years, starting in 2001. Based on
IDA norms for project in Yemen, a 10% discount rate was used.
(a)    Quantified Economic Benefits
Based on the findings of the preparation studies revised during pre-appraisal, detailed crop budgets and
farm models were estimated for both the "with" and "without" project scenarios. Both crop budgets and
farm models are available in the project files.
Benefils quantified are the incremental value in agricultural production. Improved agricultural
production will materialize in three ways:
(i) The first will be through the expansion of the area that will be irrigated annually after
rehabilitation of the scheme. This expansion is modest in wadi Zabid, where the system is still
generally in good condition of operation, more substantial in wadi Tuban, where the structure are
older and have suffered from violent flood episodes and long deferred maintenance. It is
anticipated that after completion of the rehabilitation works, the amount of water saved through
these works would allow to irrigate under spate 10% more area annually in wadi Zabid and 35% in
wadi Tuban. This translates into much less increase in cropping intensities for both wadis since
total cropped area include groundwater irrigated areas which will not be modified;
- 53 -



Share of the Land Under Various Crops (% of Net Command Area)
Before Rehabilitation of (First Year of   After Rehabilitation (At Project
Project Implementation)                Comr letion)
Crops                         Tuban           Zabid             Tuban            Zabid
Cotton                         15               10               19                11
Sorghum Grain                  7               24                 9               27
Sorghum Fodder                 14               19               19               21
Sesame                         5                9                 7                10
Other                          3                 7                4                9
Total Field Crops              44               70               58                77
Banana                                           8                                 8
Fruits                          2                1                2                1
Vegetables and Okra            17               15               17                15
Total Hortic. Crops            19               24               19               24
Total Cropped Area             63               94               77               101
Cropping Intensity             63               103              77               110
Remarks: The increase in irrigated area only concerns the crops that we irrigated under pure
spate, namely field crops.
The increase in the area irrigated will follow by one year the schedule of rehabilitation of the
works.
Scheduling of Schemes' Rehabilitation (% of the Net Command Area Rehabilitated)
2002          2003            2004            2005           2006
Wadi Tuban             3%            29%            68%             95%            100%
Wadi Zabid             2%            13%            36%             72%            100%
In addition, the future without-project situation assumes that the irrigated area under pure spate (field
crops) will further decrease by an average of 2% per year over 25 years as a result of reductions in the
amount of water reaching the cultivated land.
(ii) The second factor is also the result of scheme's rehabilitation and would come through the very
modest improvement in crop yields due to the increased speed with which spate flows will be able
to move from one part of the scheme to the next. This will unable farmers to seed their crops a few
days closer to the optimal seeding dates and hence would improve their crop yields by an average
of 2%. The future without-project situation assumes that crop yields would decrease on average
by 2% over 10 years. This will only concern the crops irrigated under pure spate; and
(iii) The third and most significant factor that is expected to improve agricultural production will come
from improved technology, which is available but remains to be demonstrated to farmers. This
component will concern both spate and groundwater crops. Improved, proven technologies include
superior varieties, the usage of quality seeds, better leveling of cropped parcels, improved on-farm
water management, better crop husbandry techniques and the introduction of new crops and
inter-cropping of compatible crops. It is assumed that the improved farming practices will be
adopted on 45% of the cropped area in wadi Tuban and 35% in wadi Zabid at project completion.
- 54 -



Yield Increases Due to the Adoption of Improved Farming Practices
Wadi Tuban              Wadi Zabid
Cotton                           15%                     13%
Sorghum Grain                    3%                     3%-5%
Sorghum Fodder                   8%                     3%-5%
Sesame                           10%                     10%
Maize                             -                      18%
Cucurbits                        3%
Tomatoes                         20%                     20%
Onions                           20%                     20%
Eggplant                         20%
Red Chilies                      20%
Banana                            -                    10%-15%
Mango                                                    10%
Okra                                                     15%
Note: Increase in yields for traditional subsistence crops (sorghum) would be more
difficult to achieve, as farmers showed a strong preference for their traditional cereal
crops.
The build-up of yield increases on the area concerned would be as follows:
Share of the Cropped Area that will Adopt the Improved Farming Practices
Cumulative      2001        2002        2003      2004                    2005
Tuban            2%         9%          20%         31%                    45%
Zabid            2%         7%          16%         25%                    35%
Economic Prices. Input and output prices were converted into their economic values, when required.
Agcultural produce. Based on commodity price data published by the World Bank, import parity prices,
adjusted to the point of the farmgate, were calculated for sorghum and export parity prices for cotton and
bananas. Market prices for Saudi Arabia were used to calculate export parity prices for onions and
tomatoes. All other crops including by-products are valued at their local market prices.
Inputs. Import parity prices were calculated for fertilizers. Labor has been shadow priced at 50% in
recognition of the high unemployment or under-employment rates that prevail in the region. For energy, a
conversion factor of 150% has been applied, in recognition of the subsidy on diesel. The economic costs of
machinery and pumped water were calculated based on their constituents in energy, labor, depreciation and
the machine owner margin.
(b)    Quantified Economic Costs
The expansion of the irrigated area and the adoption of more intensive farning practices are made possible
by the combination of several factors: (i) the rehabilitation/modernization of irrigation infrastructure with
the results of improving water use efficiency, equity and timing; (ii) the transfer to and adoption by farmers
of improved farming practices; and (iii) a better access to inputs and outputs markets through the
rehabilitation of access rural roads. All these aspects are insured by different components of the project.
- 55 -



Accordingly, the costs included in the analysis are: (i) project investment costs for the rehabilitation/
modernization of irrigation infrastructure; (ii) O&M equipment, and agricultural demonstration; (iii) the
incremental agricultural production costs; and (iv) the incremental O&M costs of irrigation infrastructure.
Detailed calculation of the economic capital and recurrent costs are available in the project files. The
translation of financial costs into economic costs involves removing taxes and taking into account the
opportunity cost of labor and energy.
Project Economic Costs Included in the Analysis
Tuban    Zabid    Total
Capital costs (US$ million)                              6.5       5.7    10.15
- Irrigation infrastructure rehabilitation             5.3       4.2      9.7
- O&M equipment                                         1.0      1.3      2.3
- Agriculture Demonstration                             0.2      0.3      0.5
Av. Annual Incremental recurrent costs (US$ per of NCA)  10.1      8.5
Notes : the incremental agricultural production costs are already taken into account in the crop
budgets and farm models used to calculate project's agricultural benefits.
The costs of the participatory irrigation management (US$8.8 million), the cost of institutional
strengthening component (US$1.3 million) and the PMU costs (US$2.4 million) were excluded from the
analysis, as their benefits are difficult to quantify and do not contribute directly to the increase in
agricultural production. They total more than 50% of project costs.
(c)    Economic Returns
Base Case Scenario - Net Present Values (million US$)
Base case scenario                        Wadi Tuban        Wadi Zabid         Overall project
Incremental Agricultural Benefits             6.61              7.41               14.02
Project Investment costs                      5.38              4.63               10.01
Incremental O&M costs                         1.43              1.40                2.83
Net Present Value @ 10%                       -0.21             1.38                1.17
Economic Rate of Return                      9.6%              12.9%               11.2%
The overall project is economically viable as it has an expected rate of return of 11.2%, above the
opportunity cost of capital. Expected returns in wadi Tuban are lower than in Zabid and do not reach the
threshold of 10%. The difference in returns between the two wadis is explained by: (i) a higher cost of
rehabilitation per ha in wadi Tuban as the scheme is more complex and in a poorer state of repair due to
recent flood damage and differed maintenance; and (ii) lower incremental agricultural benefits per ha in
wadi Tuban as the wadi has a higher share of field crops for which expected benefits are lower. Indeed,
additional benefits not quantified in the analysis are expected to occur. Accordingly and despite its low
return, Wadi Tuban sub-project should be implemented.
Other Benefits. Additional benefits of the schemes rehabilitation and improvement and agricultural
demonstration components that are not accounted for in the economic analysis include:
- 56 -



(a) a decrease in soil salinity after rehabilitation of the schemes;
(b) an increase in the value of land;
(c) a possible increase of groundwater recharge through deep percolation from the irrigated fields;
(e) a relative decrease in the reliance on groundwater resources and decrease in pumping;
(d) improved equity in water distribution and hence incomes;
(e) rehabilitation of the infrastructure will benefit the farmers, thus facilitating the introduction of
reforms such as Participation Irrigation Management and Institutional Strengthening. It will
ultimately contribute to the empowerment of the local communities;
(f) the prevention of rural migration, the creation of job for the landless farmers as seasonal workers,
the improvement of food security for the local population that often suffers from malnutrition; and
(g) the savings in transportation costs after rehabilitation of access rural roads.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Several risks that would jeopardize the successful implementation of the project and affect its EIRR were
identified. They include: (i) a reduction in benefits because assumptions regarding yields and irrigated
areas were over-estimated; (ii) an increase in costs because of unexpected expenditures; and (iii) a lag in
benefits because of unexpected delays.
The table below presents the project's critical risks and how these risks could affect the NPV and EIRR.
Critical Risks                                      Parameters
- Farmers do not contribute adequately to recurrent and  Reduction or delayed in agricultural benefits
capital costs, and the objective of the ultimate scheme   1. Benefits brought about by the agricultural component:
handover to farmers cannot be achieved.
- Adoption rate of the improved technology by farmers;
-Failure to establish sufficient Water User Association   - Adoption schedule of the improved technology by
capacity to operate and maintain transferred facilities.  farmers; and
- Yield increase after adoption of the new technology.
-Farmers are not interested in the improved technology.
2. Benefits brought about by scheme rehabilitation:
- Increase in cropped area following rehabilitation;
- Yield increase after rehabilitation of the scheme;
- Decrease in cropped area in the without project
scenario; and
- Yield increase in the without project scenario
-Insufficient capacity in planning, implementation,        Increase in capital and O&M costs
supervision and M&E.
- 57 -



As can be seen in the table below, the EIRR is still above 10%, if capital costs increase by 12%, O&M
costs by 40%, and agricultural benefits decrease by 8.5%.  The analysis is most sensitive to the
concretization of agricultural benefits, and more specifically to the variation in cropped area, result of
scheme rehabilitation and yield increases, result of the demonstration component.
PARAMETERS                            BASE CASE    SWITCHING                  %
VALUE             VALUE          CHANGE
Capital costs                                               1602               1794            12%
O&M costs                                                   453                634             40%
Agricultural benefits                                       2242               2051           -8.5%
Benefits brought about by the agricultural component
Adoption rate of the new technology                     T 45%; Z 35%       T 37%; Z 29%       -18%
Yield increase following the adoption of the new           3-20%              2-15%           -23%
technology (depends on the crop)
Benefits brought about by the rehabilitation component
1. With project scenario:
- Increase in the cropped area                         T 35%; Z 10%       T 23%; Z 7%         - 35%
- Increase in yields                                        2%               NONE           < - 100%
2. Without project scenario
- Decrease in cropped area                                  2%                1.54%          - 40%
- Decrease in yields                                        2%               NONE           < - 100%
Notes: T stands for Tuban and Z for Zabid.
- 58 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Years Ending
Million US$
Year 1     Year 2     Year 3      Year 4      Year 5     Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project: Costs
Investment Costs             0.7         4.0         5.6        6.5         5.5        1.5        0.0
Recurrent Costs               0.2        0.3         0.4         0.3        0.2         0.1       0.0
Total Project Costs             0.9        4.3         6.0        6.8         5.7         1.6       0.0
Total Financing                0.9         4.3         6.0        6.8         5.7         1.6       0.0_
Financing
IBRD/IDA                     0.5         3.5        5.0         6.0        5.0        1.3        0.0
Government                   0.3        0.7         0.8         0.6        0.5        0.2        0.0
Central                  0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Provincial               0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Co-financiers                                                                         0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries      0.1        0.1         0.2         0.2        0.2        0.1         0.0
Others                       0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing        0.9        4.3         6.0        6.8         5.7        1.6        0.0
Main assumptions:
Note for above table: The above include Governnent and beneficiaries incremental contributions to
O&M costs.
- 59 -



Financial Analysis
Cost Recovery from Beneficiaries and Fiscal Impact
This Annex presents analyses of the project financial impacts on stakeholders - particularly farmers and
Government. A financial analysis was carried out based on the crop budgets and farm models prepared for
the Wadi Tuban and Wadi Zabid schemes. Financial benefits for farmers, financial implications for
WUAs, farmers' ability to pay for O&M, proposed O&M financial arrangements and project's fiscal
impact are discussed below.
(a) Farms' Financial Benefits
The main financial benefits accruing to farmers are the increase in revenue stemming from an
intensification of agricultural production (increase in both yields and cropping intensity) (see Annex 4 for
detailed assumptions). Average incremental incomes per ha of Net Command Area (NCA) are expected to
reach US$50 at one year after project completion in Wadi Tuban and US$56 in Wadi Zabid.
Incremental farm incomes per ha of Net Command Area - Constant prices - US$/ ha of Net
Command Area
2001           2002            2003            2004             2005           2006
Wadi Tuban                1              8               24              39              49              50
Wadi Zabid               2               8               17              33              51              56
Notes
Average incremental farm income, is the difference between future and present farm incomes. It is before the possible payment of Zakat and before
sharing of income between landowner and farmer/sharecropper. These estimates must be considered with caution. Incremental farm incomes are
calculated for an average farm, in an average year. Actual farm income may differ a great deal from this average according to its location in the wadi
and the characteristic of the flood event. Indeed, farm income depends primarily on water availability, as it determines cropping choice and crop
performance. In a spate irrigation scheme, water availability varies across the wadi, and from year to year.
(b)     Farmers Participation to Capital Investments and Cost-Recovery
The costs of rehabilitation/improvement of the irrigation schemes total US$12.4 million (48%  of total
project costs), of which US$6.7 million for Wadi Tuban and US$5.6 million for Wadi Zabid. These costs
include US$1 I million of civil works and US$1.4 million of technical assistance.
Beneficiaries are expected to contribute to about 30% of the costs of civil works, or about US$3.3 million
(US$1.8 million in Tuban and US$1.5 million in Zabid). The total contribution is about US$127/ha
(constant prices) of Net command area over 30 years, and would be collected in two stages:
(i) a contribution during implementation of the works of about US$740,000 (US$28/ha) (US$415,000
for Wadi Tuban and US$325,000 for Wadi Zabid) which is about 7% of civil works costs. This
share would be provided either as labor, materials or in cash. Specific arrangements would be
negotiated up front with the WUAs on a case by case basis; and
(ii) an annual cash repayment, starting 5 years after completion of the works, of about 6.4 and 3.8
US$/ha of NCA in Wadi Tuban and Zabid respectively. This annual repayment is set to recover,
over a twenty-year period, about 25% of the civil works expenditures for the improvement and
rehabilitation of the schemes. This will total about US$1.4 million in Wadi Tuban and 1.1 million
- 60 -



in Zabid. Specific arrangement and mechanism for cost recovery would be submitted to IDA by
March 31, 2002.
Detai[led calculation of these contributions is detailed in Appendix I at the end of this annex.
(c)     Farmers Contribution to O&M  Costs and Government Subsidy
O&M Costs Requirements. The O&M costs were estimated according to the maintenance loads required
between PYI - PY7. The unit O&M costs (per ha of net command area) for Wadi Tuban, including staff
costs, operation and maintenance costs of equipment, depreciation of newly purchased costs, and structural
maintenance costs, will vary from US$12/ha to US$19/ha over the years and will stay at about US$17/ha
after PY7. The unit O&M  costs per hectare for Zabid will also vary from US$13/ha to US$16/ha and stay
at about US$15 ha after PY7. The annual maintenance loads are expected to decrease during the project
intervention periods as well as after the completion of the rehabilitation.
Detailed calculation of O&M costs requirements are detailed in Appendix 2 of this Annex.
Beneficiaries Contribution to O&M Costs. The suggested general principle for O&M costs sharing is
that the WUAs should cover all O&M costs corresponding to those portions of the system fully under their
jurisdiction while the Government pays the balance for O&M costs for relevant schemes.
Accordingly, WUAs' contribution to O&M costs would increase over time while Government's share
would decrease. As shown in the tables below, the O&M charges to farmers (WvUAs) will be increased
gradually from an initial figure of zero in PYI to US$15 and US$13 per ha for Tuban and Zabid
respectively in PY7, at which time the WUAs and ICs/SWUFs should be in charge of 90% of the irrigation
scheme management except some critical operational functions during floods. In PY5 when the Phase I is
completed, the WUAs are expected to assume half of the O&M responsibility for the entire scheme in terms
of the O&M costs, which will cover up. to secondary canal plus part of the main canal system. The O&M
costs initially sustained by the Government will decrease to about US$I to US$2/ha by PY7.
Required O&M Expenditures and Financing (US$ per ha of Net Command Area)
Year                Government                              WUAs                             Government + WUAs
Zabid (15,000 ha)    Tuban (11,000 ha)    Zabid (15,000 ha)    Tuban (11,000 ha)    Zabid (15,000 ha)    Tuban (11,000 ha)
Unit Rate   Total   Unit Rate   Total   Unit Rate   Total   Unit Rate   Total   Unit Rate   Total   Unit Rate   Total
US$/ha    US$      US$/ha    US$    US$/ha       US$    US$/ha      US$    US$/ha    US$    US$/ha    US$
1         13.0  195,000      17.5  192,000       0.0        0       0.0        0       13.0  195,000      17.5  192,000
2         14.3  214,200      15.0  165,150       1.6   23,800       1.7   18,350       15.9  238,000      16.7  183,500
3         10.7  160,800      12.1  133,600       2.7   40,200       3.0   33,400       13.4  201,000      15.2  167,000
4          8.7  130,325       8.5   93,763       4.7   70,175       4.6   50,488       13.4  200,500      13.1  144,250
5          7.8  116,500       9.6  105,250       7.8  116,500       9.6  105,250       15.5  233,000      19.1  210,500
6          4.8   72,000       5.6   61,650      11.2  168,000      13.1  143,850       16.0  240,000      18.7  205,500
7          1.5   22,100       1.7   18,750      13.3  198,900      15.3  168,750       14.7  221,000      17.0  187,500
Total             910,925            770,163            617,575            520,088           1,528,500          1,290,250
- 61 -



In practice, water users would pay O&M fees to the WUA and SWUF. Fees would remain with the
WUA/SWUF for use directly on scheme operation and maintenance activities. As mentioned above, the
target would be 90% financing of the scheme O&M by the WUAs by PY7.
Government Contribution. The Government is required to provide about US$400,000 for the two
schemes in PYI, which will be gradually decreased to about US$40,000 in PY7. The total amount of the
Government subsidies will be about US$1.7 million from PYI to PY7, during which period the O&M
handover from the Government to WUAs will be completed.
In addition, the O&M costs for other wadis to be implemented in Phase II, namely Wadi Mawr, Rima'a,
Siham, Bana, and Hassan, need to be allocated annually from 2001 by the Government to prevent further
deterioration before the Phase II Project starts.  The annual O&M  costs were estimated at about
US$550,000 based on the unit rate of US$8/ha for the total area of about 69,000 ha and the Government
will have to provide about US$2.8 million for five years during Phase I.
(d)    Affordability of Capital and O&M Costs by Beneficiaries
Beneficiaries (farmers and landowners) capacity to pay for capital and O&M costs is analyzed in this
section.
As shown in the following graphs and tables, average incremental farm incomes are expected to be higher
than both O&M and capital repayment contributions. Indeed, in PYI 1, when repayment of capital costs
starts, average farm benefits, after contribution to capital and O&M costs, is US$28/ha in Wadi Tuban
and US$41/ha in Wadi Zabid.
However, this might not be true in all situations. Incremental farm incomes would vary depending on the
amount of water received (flood event, location of the farm within the wadi), which determines the type of
crops than could be cultivated and their performance. Actual charges for O&M would be weighted
towards those farmers deriving the most benefit, in particular towards farmers enjoying perennial flow, so
that charges to poorer farmers would be correspondingly less. It is therefore realistic to propose that water
user pay fees commensurate with water allocations. More specifically, the actual payment could take into
account the following criteria: (i) the type of flow: separate fees to cover perennial base flow, spate flow,
and spate flow with groundwater, should be derived. Farmers receiving base flow would likely need to pay
at least double the fee for spate flow; (ii) the actual area cropped should be accounted for in the charges;
and (iii) the type of crop grown: farmers growing crops with high gross margins should expect to pay
higher fees than those growing subsistence crops alone.
Refinements will be needed to set charges depending on circumstances during implementation. The PIUs
and their TA team will propose to the WUAs options for fair O&M charges that could be mutually agreed
to by WUAs and GOY.
(e)    Fiscal Impact
The project will not pose any overall fiscal problem.
The project cost would be bome by the budget (12% of the costs), the credit (83%) and the contributions
(in kind or financial) of beneficiaries (5%). Over the 5-year implementation period of the project,
Government will have to provide US$3.1 million counterpart funds, an average of about US$600,000 a
-62 -



year. This is about 6% of capital budget for the agricultural sector (YR 1,458 millions in 2000) and less
than 1 '%o of the total Government capital budget. Government will provide incremental recurrent funds for a
total of US$930,000 over 5 year, or an average of US$186,000 a year. This would include a total of
US$870,000 for the O&M of Tuban and Zabid Irrigation schemes and PMU and US$60,000 for the
operation of the spate warning system.
On the benefits side, since agriculture is exempt from taxation, increases in tax revenues will be negligible.
However, savings are expected in recurrent expenditures, as the costs of required maintenance will decrease
following the rehabilitation/improvement of the schemes and will be, for the most part, taken over by
beneficiaries. It has been proven that transferring the responsibility of O&M tasks to beneficiaries increase
the life of infrastructure. As a result, savings are also expected in replacement/rehabilitation costs.
Finally, Governmenfts contribution to capital investments will be lower than it has been for similar projects
in the past as beneficiaries will contribute about 30% of civil works costs of spate irrigation schemes
rehabilitation/improvement, some of it by direct contribution, some by cost recovery over time.
In the long-nn, improved incomes, food security and productivity of rural populations would add to
national income, which in turn would have a positive fiscal impact.
Project Costs and Fiscal Impact
Total Project Costs      Government's         Annual Government's
(2001-05)          Counterpart Funds    Counterpart Funds (US$)
(US$ million)      (2001-05) (US$ million)
Capital Costs                    24.2                     2.1                  420,000
Incremental Recurrent             1.4                     1.0                   190,000
Costs
Total                            25.6                     3.1                   600,000
- 63 -



Affordability of Capital and O&M Costs Contribution by Beneficiaries
Incrementalfarm incomes versus capital and O&M costs contributions
Wadi Tuban - Affordability of capital and O&M costs contributions
40 -                     f  l +Average farms' incremental incomes
/    | -t    Total Beneficianes' contribution          i
30-
20 -                                   _
~2O
0
1     2      3     4      5     6      7     8      9     10    11    31
Project Year
Wadi Tuban - Affordability of O&M and capital contributions (US$/ Ha of Net command area)
Year                                          1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10    11            31
Repayment of capital costs (30% of civil works)  0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    6.4         6.4
WUAs'shareofO&M costs                         0    2    3    5    10   13   15   15   15   15    15            15
Total Beneficiaries' contribution             0    2    3    5    10   13   15   15   15   15    22            22
Average farms' incremental incomes             1    8   24   39   49   50   50   50   50   50    50            50
Wadi Zabid - Affordability of capital and O&M costs contributions
60-
so 1 ~-~     -----    ''~'
-/ -Average farms' incremental incomes
40 -
0-- Total Beneficiaries' contribution
, 30
20-
10   -/ ____ - 
10
1     2      3      4      6     6      7      8      9     10    11    31
Project Year
Wadi Zabid - Affordabilitv of O&M and capital contributions (US$/ Ha of Net command area)
Year                                             1    2    3    4       5    6    7       8    9    10   11   31
Repayment of capital costs (30% of civil works)  0    0     0    0    0    0    0         0    0      0    4    4
WUAs' share of O&M costs                        0     2    3    5    8    11   11   11   11    1 1   11   11
Total Beneficiaries' contribution               0     2    3    5    8    11   11   11   11    11   15   15
Average farms' incremental incomes              2      8    17   33   51   56   56    56   56   56   56   56
- 64 -



Annex 5: Appendix 1
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Cost Recovery - Beneficiaries' Contribution to Investments Costs
Beneficiaries' contribution to capital costs totals about 30% of project civil works expenditures. It includes
two tpes of contribution: (i) a participation to 6.8% of the civil works expenditures during construction;
and (ii) a repayment of 25% of the remaining civil works expenditures, starting 5 years after completion of
the works.
1. Beneficiaries' Contribution to Civil Works during Construction
Beneficiaries        Total Costs
US$         %             US$
Headworks               0         0.0%            3,541,201
Earthworks           424,405      10.0%           4,244,045
Canal Structures      71,688      10.0%             716,877
Roads                 76,196      10.0%             761,964
Other Civil Works    169,644      10.0%           1,696,435
Total Civil Works    741,933      6.8%           10,960,522
Beneficiaries will contribute to 6.8% of civil works expenditure during construction or about US$740,000,
of which US$415,000 in Tuban and US$325,000 in Zabid.
2. Capital Cost Repayment after Construction
Beneficiaries' Repayment of Civil Works (US$)
Tuban            Zabid          Overall
Total cost of civil works (a)                    6,043,659        4,916,864      10,960,522
Bene. contribution during construction (b)        415,874          326,058          741,932
Remaining civil works (c) = a-b                  5,627,785        4,590,806      10,218,591
Beneficiaries' contribution @ 25% (d) = 0.25 * c  1,406,946       1,147,701       2,554,647
Annual contribution over 20 years (e) = d /20      70,347            57,385         127,732
Per ha of Net command area (f) = e / NCA              6.4              3.8              4.9
Beneficiaries will contribute to 25% of the remaining civil works expenditures or about US$2.5 million, of
which US$1.4 million in Wadi Tuban and US$1.1 million in Zabid. This corresponds to an average annual
contribution of about US$5/ha of Net Command Area, combination of a contribution of about US$3.8/ha
in Zabid and US$6.4/ha in Tuban.
- 65 -



Annex 5: Appendix 2
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
O&M Costs Calculation - Methodology
The O&M costs were estimated based on the following components:
(a)    Total O&M Costs Required
(i)    Staffing
The annual staff costs were estimated at about US$60,000 for 95 staff for Zabid and US$50,000
for 84 staff for Tuban considering the minimum required number of the staff and salary level in
1998.
The staffing costs will be reduced to nearly 50% in PY7 when 90% of the Government O&M
function is transferred to WUAs. The average staff costs per person were assumed to be reduced
by half when the function is transferred from the Government to WUAs considering the salary level
of the WUAs staff (farmers) and job demands required only during flood seasons, mainly from
March to September.
(ii)    Equipment
The required number of heavy equipment, such as bulldozer, loader, excavator, etc., was estimated
based on the simulated maintenance loads, which will change from PY1 to PY7, considering the
annual sedimentation deposit volume as well as the reduction of the maintenance loads during the
project implementation period and the improved design and operation through sedimentation basins
and sluicing gates, etc. The method and results were discussed and confirmed by technical staff
from TDA and Lahej Directorate.
The required number of the heavy equipment was then calculated considering the actual working
capacity in canals as well as the increased capacity in sediment basins. Both the operation and
maintenance costs were limited to the required number of machine for each year, reflecting the
procurement and replacement schedule as well as the gradually decreasing maintenance loads
thanks to the improved irrigation system. The existing equipment from the Land and Water
Conservation Project (LWCP), which will be closed at the end of 2000, was also taken into
account to determine the number of the equipment to be purchased.
-  Purchase Costs of New Equipment. The number of the newly purchased equipment
was estimated based on the maintenance loads for each year as explained above. Also,
the type and number of the existing equipment both at government offices (TDA and
Lahej Directorate) and the LWCP were checked in order to reduce the number of the
new equipment purchase.
- Depreciation Costs of New Equipment. The depreciation costs of newly purchased
equipment were estimated to be spread over 10 years for vehicles and 15 years for
- 66 -



other equipment. Depreciation costs emerge from the next year after the purchase of
the new equipment until its full depreciation. Since most of the existing equipment is
older than 15 years, their depreciation costs were not included.
-   Operation Costs. The fuel and lubrication costs for each equipment were calculated
based on 7 hours per day and 120 working days (20 days for six months). The
operation costs were limited to the required number and type of equipment for each
year based on the simulation of the maintenance loads.
- Maintenance Costs. Maintenance costs were estimated as 5% of the capital costs for
new equipment and 7% for existing equipment. The total estimated refurbishment
costs are to be covered by the maintenance costs for existing equipment in PYI and
PY2. The maintenance costs were limited to the required number and type of
equipment for each year.
(iii)    Structural Maintenance
The maintenance costs of the irrigation structures was estimated at about 1% of the headwork
rehabilitation costs, which will cover the regular maintenance of the gates, such as greasing,
painting, etc, and some minor repair of the structure. No major structural rehabilitation was taken
into account for this cost estimate.
O&M Requirements for Wadi Tuban
Unit: US$
YRI          YR2         YR3          YR4          YR5          YR6          YR7
WUA share(%)                     0           10           20           35           50           70           90
Staff costs                  50,000      47,500       45,000       41,250       37,500       32,500       27,500
Annual Depreciation              0        17,000       17,000      17,000       73,000       73,000       73,000
Operation costs             22,000        18,000      16,000       15,000       14,000       14,000       12,000
Maintenance costs           120,000     101,000       89,000       71,000       64,000       64,000       53,000
Repair of structure              0            0            0            0       22,000       22,000       22,000
Total                       192,000      183,500      167,000     144,250      210,500      205,500      187,500
O&M Costs per ha               17.5         16.7         15.2        13.1         19.1         18.7         17.0
WUAs' Share per ha              0.0          1.7         3.0          4.6           9.6        13.1         15.3
Gov. Share per ha              17.5         15.0        12.1          8.5          9.6          5.6          1.7
- 67 -



O&M Requirements for Wadi Zabid
YRI         YR2          YR3         YR4          YR5         YR6          YR7
WUA share(%)                    0           10          20           35           50          70           90
Staff costs                 60,000      57,000       54,000      49,500       45,000       39,000      33,000
Annual Depreciation             0       46,000       46,000      46,000       79,000       79,000      79,000
Operation costs             20,000      20,000       16,000      17,000       15,000       17,000      15,000
Maintenance costs          115,000     115,000       85,000      88,000       77,000       88,000      77,000
Repairof structure              0            0           0            0       17,000       17,000      17,000
Total                      195,000     238,000      201,000     200,500      233,000      240,000     221,000
O&MCostsperha                 13.0        15.9         13.4        13.4         15.5         16.0        14.7
WUAs'Shareperha                0.0         1.6          2.7         4.7          7.8         11.2        13.3
Gov. Share per ha             13.0        14.3         10.7         8.7          7.8          4.8         1.5
O&M Requirements for Phase 2 - Wadis
Tuban                        Zabid
Area (ha)                                         11,000                       15,000
Staff costs                                       50,000                       60,000
Operation costs *2)                               11,000                       10,000
Maintenance costs *3)                             36,000                       34,000
Repair of structure *4)                           6,000                        4,000
Total (US$)                                      103,000                      108,000
O&M Unit Cost (US$ / ha)                           9.4                           7.2
Average O&M Unit Cost (US$ /ha)    8
Notes:
I ) Minimum O&M costs of Tuban and Zabid are estimated for other wadis to be implemented in Phase II.
These figures are almost half of the required costs for making the systems sustainable.
2) Operation costs only for critical heavy machinery are estimated.
3) Maintenance costs for limited spares and repairs are estimated.
4) Limited maintenance costs for gates are estimated.
- 68 -



(b)    O&M Costs Covered by Project
The recurrent O&M costs are mainly to be covered by the Government counterpart fund (66%), as well as
by beneficiaries' contribution (30%).
(i)    Staffing Costs
The incremental staffing costs due to additional activities for the project were estimated at about
30% of the total required staffing costs. The average increased rate, 30%, was estimated based on
the requested salary level in the project report versus the current salary level (1998).
(ii)    Equipment Costs
- Depreciation Costs for New Equipment. The depreciation costs for newly purchased
equipment are not covered by the project.
-  Incremental Operation Costs for Equipment. The full operation costs of newly
purchased equipment are to be covered by the project. Also, 70% of the maintenance
costs for existing equipment are to be covered as an incremental operation costs
considering the current maintenance level of the irrigation scheme.
-  Incremental Maintenance Costs for Equipment. The full maintenance costs for
newly purchased equipment, which were estimated at 5% of the capital costs, are to be
covered by the project. Also, 70% of the maintenance costs for existing equipment,
which were estimated at 7% of the capital costs, are to be covered as an incremental
maintenance costs considering the current maintenance level of the equipment. The
scheduled refurbishment of the existing equipment are to be covered by the
maintenance costs for the existing equipment during the first two years.
(iii)   Maintenance Costs for Irrigation Structure
The full maintenance costs of the irrigation structures, which were estimated at about 1% of the
rehabilitation costs of headwork, are to be covered by the project considering the current status of
the facilities and maintenance, which has not been carried out for long years due to the lack of
budget.
- 69 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Procurement
The Credit would finance selected activities requiring the procurement of: (i) works, i.e. rehabilitation and
improvement of irrigation infrastructures, access roads, headworks, wadi protection, de-silting and
reshaping of canals and repairing gates; (ii) goods, including machinery, vehicles and motorcycles,
computers and office equipment; (iii) consultancy services and training including institutional
strengthening; and (iv) project management cost including salaries for PMU staff and O&M costs for
equipment, vehicles and machinery. Procurement under the Credit would be carried out in accordance with
IDA's Guidelines for "Procurement under IBRD Loans and Credits", January 1995, revised January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999; "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers", January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. IDA's Standard Bidding
Documents (SBD) would be used for all procurement under Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) and,
with modifications acceptable to IDA, in Arabic language, also for National Competitive Bidding (NCB).
Simplified documents would be prepared for use under the Credit and apply to relatively low-value works
contracts and low-value consulting contracts. National Shopping (NS) procedures would apply to the
procurement of small quantities of goods; International Shopping (IS) procedures would be used where
there are less than three capable national suppliers. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) would be
advertised in "United Nations Development Business" (UNDB) not less than eight weeks prior to the
publication of the first Specific Procurement Notice (SPN) and bidders who have expressed an interest
would be notified directly by the PMU.
Works: Taking into account the relative simplicity and small value of the works, several bid packages
would be prepared according to Annex 2. Bid packages with an estimated contract value above US $2.0
million equivalent would be procured using ICB procedures and documents and advertisement in UNDB
and in local newspapers (with the exception of those works requiring special construction expertise,
contracts of less than US $ 2.0 million are not expected to attract international bidders). Bid packages with
an estimated contract value below US$2.0 million equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of approximately
US$4.0 million equivalent, would be procured using NCB procedures and documents and advertisements in
at least two local newspapers. NCB contract would be open to eligible foreign bidders if they wish to
participate. Bid evaluations would be submitted on IDA's Standard Bid Evaluation Form: "Procurement of
Goods and Works" - April 1996. Contracts below an estimated value of US$100,000 equivalent, would be
procured using simplified NCB procedure. It would require: (i) advertisements in a local newspaper and
announcements posted in a public place; (ii) simplified bidding documents in Arabic and evaluation
procedures agreed with IDA; (iii) public bid openings; and (iv) contract awards to the lowest evaluated
bidder. Pre-qualification would be necessary for all contracts above US$0.3 million equivalent procured
under NCB procedures. For contracts below US$0.3 million equivalent procured under NCB,
post-qualification will be used. An open pre-qualification process and explicit qualification criteria would
be used. Subject to prior agreement with IDA in each case and practical considerations, works below an
estimated value of US$10,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million equivalent may occasionally
be implemented, instead, by using direct contracting with the nearest available source. Force account
construction through Yemeni Government personnel and equipment would not be acceptable under this
project.
Goods: To the extent possible, the procurement of goods would be carried out through bid packages
comprising several lots of similar items. Bid packages with an estimated contract value above US$200,000
- 70 -



equivalent would be procured using ICB procedures and documents, and advertisements in UNDB and in
local newspapers. Bidders would be subject to post-qualification in accordance with IDA's SBD for
"Procurement of Goods" January 1995. Bid evaluations would be submitted on IDA's "Procurement of
Goods and Works" - (January 1995 and revised March 2000). Bid packages with an estimated contract
value above US$50,000 and less than US$200,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate of approximately
US$1.5 million equivalent, would be procured using NCB procedures and documents and advertisements in
at least two local newspapers. The procurement of goods and supplies below an estimated value of
US$50,000 per contract or purchase order, up to an aggregate amount of approximately of $400,000
equivalent, would be procured using NS/IS procedures, with requests for quotations which would indicate
the description, quantity and required delivery time of the procured goods. At least three quotations would
be solicited from local suppliers, when these goods are readily available locally at competitive prices;
otherwise, quotations would be solicited from at least three intemational suppliers in two different
countries. The evaluation of quotations would follow procedures agreed with IDA. Goods and supplies
below a cost of US$5,000 per purchase, up to an aggregate amount of approximately US$100,000
equivalent would be purchased directly from the nearest available supplier. Under ICB procedures, bids
offering goods manufactured in the Republic of Yemen would be granted a margin of preference of 15%
when compared to goods manufactured elsewhere. In the comparison of bids to establish eligibility for
Domestic Preference, the provisions of Appendix 2 of IDA's Procurement Guidelines would be followed.
Services: For consultancies above an estimated contract value of US$100,000 equivalent, the selection
method would be Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS). For consultancies below an estimated
contract value of US$100,000 equivalent, the selection method would be Quality-Based Selection (QBS) or
Least-Cost Selection (LCS) or Selection under a Fixed Budget (SFB) or Quality and Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS). Consultants' Qualification-Based (CQ) and Single-Source Selection (SS) methods would be used
for all specialized, short-term or contracts with consultants with contract values below US$50,000.
Furthermore, for all consultancies with an estimated contract value above US$200,000, a request for
expressions of interest would be advertised in UNDB and in local newspapers.
Prior Review: The first three contracts packages in each category and each procurement method (works,
goods and services), irrespective of the estimated contract value, would be subject to IDA's prior review, in
accordance with the applicable guidelines. Thereafter, all procurement of goods and works, which is
subject to ICB procedures, would be subject to IDA's prior review. Also, any contract for works with an
estimated contract value above US$200,000 equivalent and any contract for goods with an estimated
contract value above US$50,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review. Contracts with
individual consultants in excess of US$50,000 equivalent and with consulting firms in excess of
US$100,000 equivalent, as well as all single-source contracts, and first three RFPs under any selection
method for services would be subject to prior review. The prior review process would cover about 80% of
total works, goods and services contracts, which would be reasonably achievable under the circumstances.
All other contracts would be subject to post-review on a random basis during supervision missions and
procurement audits.
Procurement Responsibilities: A Project Management Unit (PMU) will be established at the Ministry of
Agriculture and Irrigation in Sana'a The PMU will include a procurement officer as part of its team to be
recruited competitively. A Project implementation Unit (PIU) at Wadi Tuban and another unit at Wadi
Zabid would be established to supervise project implementation and report to the PMU. The PMU will be
responsible for: (i) all procurement activities; (ii) consistent application of procedures at the PIU offices
through the Operations Manual; (iii) preparation and updating of procurement plans; and (iv) incremental
operating expenses. The PMU will retain responsibility for advertising bids, issuing bidding documents,
opening and evaluating bids and awarding contracts. All requests for no objection from the Bank will be
- 71 -



directed through the PMU manager. Consulting firms or individuals will be contracted as needed to
prepare engineering design, specification, and bidding documents and also to provide construction
supervision, technical advice and contract management during the construction of the sub-projects. The
initial Procurement Plan is shown in Table [ B I]. It would be updated periodically by the PMU.
Procurement Training: The procurement assessment conducted for the Ministry of Agriculture and
Irrigation and the existing Project Preparation Unit (PPU) shows that the Ministry and the PPU have
previous experience with Bank-financed projects and procurement guidelines. Since there is no procurement
officer at the existing PPU, one would be recruited once the PMU is established. In order to overcome the
weakness of the Ministry, PMU and PIU's in the first year of project implementation, a procurement
specialist with relevant experience should be engaged for several months. He should provide on-the-job
training for the PMU and the Ministry procurement staff, tendering/awarding committees. The first
training course would mainly be for the PMU procurement officer to be held by December 2000, shortly
after selection of the PMU procurement officer. This training course will concentrate on preparation of
tender documents, RFP's and bids evaluation for works, goods and consulting services. Special attention
would be given to procurement of consulting services. Several seminars and workshops would be
conducted by the short term procurement specialist for the ministry procurement staff and PMU staff on
IDA procurement guidelines, procurement planning, preparation of bidding documents and evaluation of
bids. The PMU and PIU's and ministry staff would also be trained on contract management just before the
first package of the physical sub-projects is due. This training course would be part of the assignment of
the consulting firm that will be selected to supervise and contact manage the key construction work. A
question and answer session on procurement and contract management will be conducted during
procurement supervision missions.
Procurement Assessment: The country's general environment for procurement is not conducive for
transparent procedures and efficiency. This is supported by the preliminary findings of the Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) which is currently being drafted, following a fact finding mission
and discussions with Government and the private sector.
Based on the LACI Implementation Handbook, a Procurement Capacity Assessment of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Irrigation and the PPU was conducted in May 2000. The Ministry uses committees in most
of its procurement processes. The Ministry's Department of Contracts and Tendering serves as the
secretariat of the Tendering Committee. The Tendering Committee reviews all bid evaluations and
proposed contract awards above US$200,000 equivalent.
The existing PPU staff includes the unit manager, financial manager, an engineer and support staff. The
financial manager has participated in the Bank-sponsored capacity building seminar covering procurement,
financial management and disbursement. The other staff members also have previous experience in
Bank-financed projects. The engineer has a basic understanding of procurement and the preparation of
bidding documents. The PPU has been provided with IDA procurement guidelines and standard bidding
documents.
Recommended Actions (from Procurement Capacity Assessment):
(a) build on the existing PPU and establish a PMU. Recruit a qualified procurement officer at the
PMU by December 31, 2000;
(b) IDA should assist in training the procurement staff at the PMU and the ministry of Agriculture
and Irrigation on procurement guidelines, preparation of bidding document, bid evaluation and
- 72 -



contract management;
(c) IDA guidelines should be followed for all types of procurement, with some simplification of
procedures and documents for small sub-projects especially community involvement projects;
(d) a training workshop will be arranged by December 2001 in order to strengthen private sector in
construction management and bid preparation;
(e) the local consulting firms should be strengthened by encouraging them to participate with
intemational consulting firms in submitting proposals for the consulting assignments of the
project. Also, a workshop on preparation of proposals by consultants for local consulting firms
would be a good first step; and
(f) in order to over come the weakness of the PMU in the first year of project implementation (most
of the assignments are consulting services and studies), a short term procurement specialist with
relevant experience should be engaged for several months. He should provide on-the-job training
for the PMU and the ministry procurement staff.
- 73 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category            ICB             NCB           Other          N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                             6.00           4.00           0.70            0.00          10.70
(5.20)         (3.30)         (0.60)         (0.00)         (9. 1 0)
2. Goods                             1.50            1.30           0.30           0.00          3.10
(1.50)         (1.30)         (0.30)         (0.00)         (3.10)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00            5.00           0.00          5.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (5.00)         (0.00)         (5.00)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00            6.80           0.00          6.80
(0.00)         (0.00)         (4.10)         (0.00)         (4.10)
Total                             7.50           5.30           12.80           0.00         25.60
(6.70)         (4.60)         (10.00)        (0.00)        (21.30)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2v Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to: (i) managing the project; and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 74 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                Contract Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Rvlew
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)             Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                       >=2,000                   ICB                       All
<2,000                  NCB            First three packages and all
subsequent contracts larger
than US$0.40 m.
<100                    NCB                First three packages.
<=10               Direct Contracting             All
2. Goods                        >=200                    ICB                       All
>50-<200                  NCB             First three packages and all
subsequent contracts larger
than US$0.1 m.
<50                    NS/IS              First three packages.
<5                 Direct Purchase               All
3. Services                     >=100                   QCBS                       All
<100              QBS/LCS/FBS/CQ        First three RFP and then all
TOR and cost estimate.
<50                    CQ/SS                    All SS
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$14 m (IDA)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
- 75 -



Table Bi- Procurement Plan (First Year Initial Plan)
Description           Type,       No of     Estimated    Procurement    Prior/Post                Estimated Schedule (mont/year)
slices/items  cost        Metiod        Review
/sub      (US S)                               Request foe   IFB/RFP     Bid       Contract   Conbt
packages                                          Inteest                opening     Award    Completion
Goods
1. Vehicles for PMU (2           G           1         0.05         NCB           Prior                  7/00        8/00       10/00      2/01
4WD vehicles)                                                     simplified                                     .                    _
2. Office furniture for PMU      G           I         0.01          NS           Prior                  6/00        7/00       8/00       9/00
3. Equipment for PMU             G           3        0.008          NS           Prior                  6/00        7/00       8/00       9/00
4. Equipment for PIU             G           3        0.024         NCB           Prior                  12/00       1/01       2/01       4/01
simplified
5. Office furniture for PIU      G           2        0.011         NCB           Prior                  12/00       1/01       2/01       4/01
simplified
6. Purchase of 4 pickups         G           2         0.4           ICB          Prior                  9/00       11/00       1/01       5/01
and 5 (4 WD vehicles) for
Tuban & Zabid & PMU, 6 (4
WD vehicles) and 24 motor
bikes for PIM
Services
1. Recruitment of consulting
firm for:                       CS           1         1.75         QCBS          Prior      08/00       10/00      12/00      02/01       12/05
- PIM activities
- topography survey,
design, supervision and
Hydraulic modeling
-water management
aspects
2. Soil salinity/sodicity       CS           1         0.20         CQBS          Prior       1/01       3/01        5/01       7/01       12/01
mapping in Wadi Tuban
3. Upper watershed study        CS           1         0.25         CQBS          Prior       1/01       4/01        6/01       10/01      07/02
4. Inventory of Dams study      CS           1        0.075         CQBS          Prior                  9/01       11/01       1/02       6/02
5. Overall Irrigation sector    Cs           1         0.25         CQBS          Prior       1/01       4/01        6/01       9/01       3/02
assessment studv
6. Legal consultants            CS           2         0.10          CQ           Prior       1/01       12/01      1/02        3/02       12/02
7. Monitoring & awareness       CS           I         0.25         CQBS          Prior       1/01       5/01        7/01       9/01       3/02
on sustainable WRM                                           ._..                                                             _
I G: Goods, CS: Consulting services.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation' and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 76 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The project funds are expected to be disbursed over a period of about five and half years beginning January
1, 2001 and ending in April 30, 2006. The closing date for the Credit would be June 30, 2006. Allocation
of Credit Proceeds will be disbursed according to Table C below:
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$miilion          Financing Percentage
1. Goods                                    3.10               100% of foreign expenditures
100% ex-factory
80% local expenditures
2. Works                                    9.10                          85%
3. Consultants' Services and Traning        5.00                         100%
4. Project Mangement Cost                   2.00                          90%
5. Unallocated                              2.10
Total Project Costs                         21.30
Total                                      21.30
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement from the IDA credit will be initially made on the traditional system ( reimbursements with
full documentation and against statement of expenditures- SOEs and direct payment). It will be converted
to the new procedures (based on Project Management Reports - PMR- based disbursement report) after the
testing of the new computerized accounting and reporting system and the issuing of a certification ensuring
that the system is operating satisfactory. The target date for this testing of the PMR generation is
November 15, 2001. This will allow to issue the first PMR by November 15, 2001.
Disbursements for works below US$200,000, for goods below US$50,000, and for services below
US$100,000 for consulting firms and US$50,000 for individual consultants, would be made on the basis of
Statement of Expenditures. Documentation to support these expenditures would be maintained by the PMU
and made available for review by the Bank supervision missions and project auditors. Full documentation
for expenditures under contracts requiring the Bank's prior review will be submitted with the corresponding
application.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements, the Borrower will establish a Special Account (SA) in the Central Bank of
Yemen, to be operated by the PMU, under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The authorized
allocation would be limited to US$500,000 (equivalent to four months of estimated disbursements), and
disbursement from this SA will be made against the statement of expenses and full documentation until the
new procedures (based on the Project Management Report- PMR) is operational (November 15, 2001).
- 77 -



Financial Management Assessment
The financial management of the project will be undertaken by the Project Management Unit (PMU), which
is taking over from the Project Preparation Unit (PPU) established in June, 1999 for purposes of managing
the preparation of this project and to facilitate the transition toward the implementation of the proposed
project. The PPU is headed by a General Director who reports directly to the Minister of MAI. The
Financial Officer, a former, experienced financial manager of IDA-financed projects and a university
graduate in the field of accountancy and a professional accountant, supported by an assistant, with both
good computer skills, are responsible to handle all financial matters related to the project preparation.
The PPU main functions are budgeting, receipts and disbursement of the project funds, management of the
special account, management of all aspects of procurement and the accounting for the proper use of the
project funds. The PPU is also responsible for undertaking treasury functions. It uses a computerized
accounting system based on the Government's unified accounting system (Government budget-based
accounting system), on principals and procedures defined by the legal framework applicable to public
sector, which is not adequately equipped to provide financial data that is required for proper project
management. Payment orders and checks issued by the PPU in settlement of its expenditures are presently
signed and counter signed by the Project Director and by the Financial Officer. All payments are to be
processed according to the PMU Guidelines agreed upon in the recent CPPR. The internal control system,
however, suffers from some weaknesses, such as duties and responsibilities within the financial department
are not segregated, particularly those related to handling transactions, recording and preparing claims from
the special account. To strengthen the internal control system, the PPU will put in place clear and written
internal control procedures, including segregation of duties, for recording, posting and preparation of
payment documents. The project maintains vouchers and supporting documents for expenditures on all
activities. Reconciliation of the banks accounts is monthly and accurate. The PPU subrmits monthly and
quarterly reports to MAI, MOPD and MOF on its actual and budgeted expenditures for the period
concerned. The PPU accounts will be closed upon completion of the project preparation phase; the related
financial statements will be audited jointly with the financial statements of first FY 2001 of the present
project.
The PPU will become the PMU for the project; the financial officer and staff will constitute the nucleus
FM staff of the PMU, while the Financial Officer oversees, in direct collaboration with PPU's director, the
transition of the financial functions of the PPU into PMU. This includes the development of the FM
systems and the recruitment of the PMU's FM staff. Initial steps toward the setting up of the project's FM
arrangements are being undertaken; agreements on action plans for completing the systems will be finalized
during Negotiations.
Financial Management Arrangements for the Project
The PMU (in Sana'a) will be responsible for all financial management matters of the project including
procurement, the handling of financial transactions and treasury functions, accounting and periodic and
annual financial reporting. The two PIUs to be established at the regional level, in Zabid and Lahej, will
not be involved in any financial decision or transaction under the project. The PPU has decided to acquire
an accounting software that has been developed locally and is available to, and being used by,
implementing entities and PIUs in charge of IDA-financed projects. The computerized accounting system is
being adapted for the project, it is based on generally accepted accounting principals, with PMR-based
disbursement capabilities and adequate internal control mechanisms. In a next step, the PPU will acquire
the services of a qualified consultant who will complete the development of the financial management
- 78 -



systerns of the project and the project's Financial Management Procedures Manual, which documents the
procedures to be followed in project financial management. Terms of Reference (TOR) and plans for the
recruitment of the consultant have been agreed upon during Negotiations. This assignment will be funded
by the project preparation funds. The TORs incorporate main features of the FM arrangements which are
given below.
Staffing. The PMU will be headed by a full time project director with overall responsibilities of planning,
implementation and reporting. The key finance and accounting staff of the PMU will be the Financial
Officer and the Accountant. The PMU will recruit a Procurement Officer. Staff of the PMU will receive
special training in financial planning and management, operation of 'system-based' internal controls, and
financial policies.
Flow of Funds. GOY will pass on the IDA funds to the MAI, with the foreign risk born by GOY, through
a special account in the Central Bank of Yemen. GOY will provide counterpart funds for the project,
through deposits to the project counterpart Yemeni Rial special account in the commercial bank. Budgetary
allocations will be based on the annual plan, which outlines project activities. The PMU head will be the
authorized person for issuing payments, through checks, from the special account and the project
counterpart account, based on management and internal control procedures to be set out in the FM Manual
(below) .
Financial and Accounting Policies. Financial and accounting policies for the project will be developed and
incorporated in the FM Manual to ensure transparency and uniformity, provide clarity regarding financial
aspects to the various interest parties, and to enforce accountability. These policies inter-alia cover the
following aspects: (i) treatment of expenditures, including their classification;  (ii) eligibility of
expenditures to be reimbursed from IDA Credit; (iii) efficient management and development of funds; (iv)
project accounting policies; and (v) internal control mechanism. The above has to be in line with PMU
Guidelines as set out by the CPPR.
Proiect Accounting System. As indicated above, the PMU will use the customized accounting software
which is being adapted for the project; the system will maintain books of accounts for the project's sources
of funds and expenditures based on a project-specific chart of accounts. It develops and disseminate
financial statements and financial reports, and ensure timely audit of the financial statements. The books of
accounts for the project will be maintained on the basis of double entry book keeping principals. Project
records and accounts will reflect the project receipts and expenditures and clearly identify the goods and
services procured and works performed. Funds received from different resources, including beneficiaries
contribution during implementation, as labor, materials or as cash, which are expected to cover a certain
portion of the cost of the civil works, will be identified separately and reflected in the projects accounts and
financial statements. The trial balance will show all project related receipts, expenditures, and other
payments as well as project operation costs. Project financial statements and financial reports will be full
basedl on the project books of accounts and substantially generated from the financial accounting system.
Financial Management Procedures Manual (FMPM). The FMPM will be completed by Effectiveness.
The FMPM will cover: (i) flow of accounting documentation and information through the budget,
acquisition, and procurement cycles at the central and govemorates level; (ii) financial and accounting
policies and procedures; (iii) internal control system, including computer data entry and data base
management procedures, identification of key control points within information flowcharts, and other
measures necessary to ensure the confidentiality, quality and reliability of financial data; (iv) Chart of
accounts; (v) financial reporting including formats of PMR tables and reporting formnats required by GOY;
(vi) auditing arrangements; (vii) budgeting processes; (viii) procedures for the operation of the accounting
- 79 -



software and related internal control arrangement and levels of protection and security of the system; and
(ix) organization and staffing of the PMU at the headquarter and govemorates levels as well as the
relationship between both structures and other departments of MAI and other external parties such as,
Central Bank of Yemen (CBY).
Financial Management Reports. Quarterly PMR for the project would be generated from the computerized
accounting system. The first PMR is expected to cover the quarter ending on September 30, 2001. PMR
will include the following standard sections:
(a) Financial Statements that include:
- Summary of sources and uses of funds
- Uses of funds by project activity
- Project balance statement of affairs
- Cash withdrawal Cash forecast
- Special account statement
(b) Project progress statements that include:
- Output monitoring report using contract management information, or
- Output monitoring report using unit variance as monitoring indicator
(c) Procurement management report that includes:
- Contract expenditures report - Goods and works
- Contract expenditures report - Consultant
- Procurement management report - Goods and works
- Procurement management report - Consultant
In addition, PMR should cover any requirement set out in the PMU Guidelines. Physical information on
key performance indicators that can be readily linked to the financial costs would be maintained as part of
the financial management system. Initially this would be maintained for the high cost items, which count
for a significant portion of project cost, and for items for which data on physical activities can be easily
captured. These items will be identified and will be indicated in the manual. This list of items would be
gradually expanded during implementation.
Annually, Audited Project Financial Statements (PFS) would be submitted to IDA. PFS will include: (i) a
statement of sources and utilization of funds or balance sheet, indicating funds received from various
resources, project expenditures, and assets and liabilities of the project; (ii) schedules classifying project
expenditures by components, expenditures by categories and sector; (iii) a Special Account reconciliation
statement; and (iv) a Statement of Withdrawals made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs).
Audit Arrangements. Project financial statement will be audited annually by independent private auditors
acceptable to IDA on the basis of Terms of reference (TOR) and terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
The PMU will contract independent auditor selected by COCA, MOPD and MOF Special Committee for
the first year of the project on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, and the TOR will be part of the
FMPM. Annual audited PFS will be submitted within 6 months after the fiscal year. The audit will be
comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all sources and utilization of funds, and
expenditures incurred), and will be carried out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing
(ISA). Terms of reference (TOR) for this assignnent will cover audit of financial transaction, and an
assessment of the financial management system, include review of internal control mechanism. The auditor
will carry out a concurrent audit during the fiscal year, to bring to management's attention any issues,
- 80 -



which needed to be addressed, including comments and recommendations for improvements to the financial
and administrative systems and controls. The auditor may be asked to conduct a special review of one or
more of the following: (i) economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the use of resources; (ii) achievement of
the planned results of the project; (ii) specific systems (e.g., improvements in accounting and data
processing operations that may be under development) on which the auditors comments are necessary to
ensure accuracy, efficiency and proper controls; and any other activities on which an auditor may report.
Financial Management Action Plan. The following action plan has been discussed and agreed in principle
with the PPU. It is based on the FM assessment, the framework of the financial management arrangements
of the project and on planned Board date of September 12, 2000, and an Effectiveness date of January
2001. The PMU Director and the Financial Officer will be in charge of implementing the following main
actions in order to ensure that project FM systems are completed by Effectiveness:
(a) By Board Presentation:
-  The staff of the present competent Project Preparation Unit (PPU) staff, including the financial
officer, would be converted to the Project Management Unit (PMU).
(b) By Project Effectiveness:
-  Recruitment of core staff of central PMU and PIUs at govemorates level in accordance to
PMU Guidelines.
-  Setting up of the financial management system, including the establishment of a financial
policies and procedures manual.
-  Appointment of an independent auditor.
- 81 -



Action Plan:
Action                      Output            Responsibility      Effective date
1. Preparation for the PMU staff   Detailed job position  MAI              July, 2000
description and TOR.
to be recruited.
2. Conversion of PPU staff to   Contract acceptable to   MAI               August 15 2000
PMU.                        IDA.
3. Preparation of TOR's for the    TOR's and          PMU's Director       August 15, 2000
consultant: specialist in   documentation
accounting and financial    acceptable to IDA.
management.
4. Appointment of the           Contract for the      PMU's Director       September 15, 2000
consultant                      consultant.
and launching of the
assignment.
5. Developing of the FMPM.      Draft of the FMPM to   PMU's Director and   October 31, 2000
be submitted to SU    the consultant
and IDA.
6. Acquisition of the software  Reception and         PMU's Director       October 31, 2000
for                             installation of the
accounting and reporting.   package.
7. Implementation of the        Setting up of the     PMU's Director and   November 15, 2001
accounting and reporting     system and testing    the consultant
system.                      documents.
8. Transfer of the financial    Transfer of accounting   PMU's Director    December 31, 2000
management of the PPU       records and related
to the PMU.                 document from the
PPU.
9. Appointment of independent    Contract for         PMU's Director       December 31, 2000
auditors.                   accounting firm
acceptable to IDA.
10. Issuing of the 1 st PMR.   PMR to be submitted    PMU's Director       November 15, 2001
to IDA.
- 82 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Schedule                                    Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       6                             8
First Bank mission (identification)              02/11/99                      02/11/99
Appraisal mission departure                      06/03/2000                    06/05/2000
Negotiations                                     06/10/2000                    08/01/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    10/15/2000
Prepared by:
Usaid El-Hanbali
Peer Reviewers:
Robert Oblitas
Keith Olson
Shawki Barghouti
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Salah Darghouth                    Sector Manager, Water and Environment
Usaid El-Hanbali                   Irrigation Engineer
Chris Ward                         Operation Officer
Ashok Subramanian                  Water Institution Development Specialist
Moharned Ben Ali                  Agronomist
Nejdet Al- Salihi                  Irrigation Engineer
Naji Abu-Hatim                     Project Officer
Marie-Laure Lajaunie              Agriculture Economist (consultant)
Satoru Ueda                        Water Resources Engineer (consultant)
Tijan Sallah                      Economist
Samia Msadek                      Financial Management Specialist
Majed El Bayya                     Procurement Specialist
Afif Al Saqqaf                     Financial Specialist
Nadia Gouhier                      Procurement Assistant
Josephine Salang                   Program Assistant
- 83 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has been prepared by the Borrower. A copy is kept in the project
files.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
The PIP is well prepared and has sufficient details to assist project implementation.
C. Other
Identification
- Memorandum of Understanding of the Identification Mission, February, 1999
Preparation
- FAO/CP and Consultant Preparation Reports
Yemen Irrigation Improvement - Preparation Report:
Annex A                 Phase I Report
Annex B                 Water Resources
Annex C                 Rehabilitation & Improvement Works
Annex C Appendix A      Concepts & Designs Philosophy for SII Schemes
Annex C Appendix B      Wadi Zabid Survey & Outline Design Drawings
Annex C Appendix D      Wadi Tuban Survey & Outline Design Drawings
Annex C Appendix E      Wadi Tuban Quantities & Costs of Rehab. & Improvement Works
Annex C Appendix F      Operation & Maintenance Cost Estimates for Wadi Zabid & Wadi
Tuban
Annex C Appendix G      TOR for International Consultants
Annex D                 Agricultural Production
Annex E                 Institutional Development
Annex F                 Local Framework Development
Annex G                 Social Assessment
Annex G Appendix A      Land Tenure & Irrig. Management Situation in the Proposed Project
Annex H                 Environmental Impact Assessment
Review Mission
- Memorandum of Understan-ding of the Review Mission, January 2000
Preappraisal
- Memorandum of Understanding of the Preappraisal Mission, February/March 2000
- Social Aspects-Working Paper, May 2000
- Environmental Aspects-Working Paper, May 2000
- Flood Warning System, Consultant report, April, 2000
- 84 -



Appraisal
- Memorandum of Understanding of the Appraisal Mission, June 2000
Other Documents
- Irrigation Sector Strategy Note, Draft, January 1999
- Towards Water Sector Strategy, August 13, 1997
- Agriculture Sector Strategy, September 15, 1998
Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
- Draft PIP of June 2000
Policy Statement
- Policy Statement on Establishing Water Users in Yemen
Proiect Activity Room (PAR)
- An electronic version of all the above documents and other related documents are kept in the Project
Activity Room (PAR) (a Lotus Notes Database location)
*Including electronic files
- 85 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions            disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                      IBRD       IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Erm Rev'd
P005904        1993 Yemen, Republic           BASIC EDUCATION                                      0.00      19.70       0.00       3.95       3.71      2.17
P005911       1994 Yemen, Republic            EDUCATION SECTOR                                     0.00      33.00       0.00      19.33      16.78      5.56
P005910        1993 Yemen, Republic           FAMILY HEALTH                                        0.00      26.60       0.00      12.72      13.92     12.86
P048522        1997 Yemen, Republic           FLOOD EMERGENCY                                      0.00      30.00       0.00       6.45       8.44      0.00
P005836        1992 Yemen, Republic           LAND & WATER CONSERV                                 0.00      32.80       5.55       0.99       5.02      0.10
P050483       2000 Yemen, Republic            RY-CHILD DEVELOPMENT                                 0.00     28.90        0.00      28.00       0.00      0.00
P050706       2000 Yemen, Republic            RY-CIVIL SERVICE MODERN                              0.00      30.00       0.00      29.52       0.00      0.00
P057915        1999 Yemen, Republic            RY-LEGAL & JUDICIAL DEV                             0.00       2.50       0.00       2.13       0.26      0.00
P005806        1991 Yemen, Republic            RY-MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT                             0.00      35.80       0.00       5.09      -3.14      2.26
P049735       2000 Yemen, Republic             RY-PRIVATIZATION SUPP.                              0.00      10.90       0.00      10.89       2.00      0.00
P060132        1999 Yemen, Republic            RY-PUBLIC WORKS II                                  0.00      50.00       0.00      41.48      11.60      0.00
P050530        1999 Yemen, Republic            RY-SANAA EMERG. POWER                               0.00      54.00       0.00      34.58      16.79      0.00
P005907        1999 Yemen, Republic            RY-SANA'AWS/SANITATION                              0.00      25.00       0.00      15.23      -1.38      0.00
P088830       2000 Yemen, Republic            RY-Second Social Fund for Development                0.00      75.00       0.00      74.34       0.00      0.00
P041267       1996 Yemen. Republic            RY-TRANSPORT REHABILITATION                          0.00      37.00       0.00      18.22      20.53      9.58
P005902       1998 Yemen. Republic            S.GOVAGRI PRIVATIZA                                  0.00      24.70       0.00      21.22      11.18      0.00
P039171       1998 Yemen. Republic            SEEDS &AG. SERVICES                                  0.00      12.50       0.00       7.53       3.28      0.00
P041199        1997 Yemen, Republic           SOCIAL FUND DEVPT                                    0.00      30.00       0.00       3.75     -11.40      0.00
P005912        1996 Yemen, Republic           VOC. TRAINING                                        0.00      24.30       0.00      15.85      14.32      0.00
Total:        0.00      582.70        5.55      351.38    111.91      32.53
- 86 -



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval         Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1999                ACSM                           12.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     8.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998                Radfan                          3.80     0.00     0.00    0.00     3.80     0,00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         15.80    0.00     0.00     0.00    11.80    0.00     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan    Equity       Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
- 87 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
M. East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             & North      Low-
Yemen      Africa   Income       Development diamond'
1998
Popuiation, mid-year (millions)                         16.5       285      3,515                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                      300      2,050       520
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                         4.9       586      1,844
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%J                                           2.9       2.2        1,7
Labor force (%1                                          3.4       3.0        1.9      GNP   I        /                 Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avaIlable, 1992-98)                                 rapita                        enrollment
Povertv (% of population below national poverty line)    19
Urban population (% of total population)                 36         58        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         54         67        63
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)                96         49        69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               29         14         ..                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                   39         81         74
Illiteracy f% of population age 15+)                     58         38        32
Gross orimary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)     70         96       108             -     emen, Rep.
Male                                                  100        103       113                   Low-income group
Female                                                 40         89       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                .        .        5.7       5.4
Gross domestic investment/GOP                   ..                21.2       21,5                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                                 44.0       34.5
Gross domestic savings/GOP                                         12.8       2.4
Gross national savings/GOP                                        23.8       17.S
Current account balance/GDP                                .        2.4      -40      Domestic
Interest payments/GOP                                              0 5        0.9                                   Investment
Total debt/GOP                                                    67.3                Savings
Total debt service/exports                                         2.6
Present value of debt/GOP                                         52.5
Present value of debt/exports                   ..        ..      80.8
Indebtedness
1977-47  1938-98     1997       1998   1999403
(average annual growth)
GDP                                            3.8       5.4        3.8       5.1             -Yemen, Rep.
GNP Per capita                                 -1.0     -0.5       4.6        2.3                    Low-income group
Exports of qoods and services           .      6 9       7.1       -9.2       3.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment I%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            30
Aqriculture                                     ..        ..      16.2       16.2       T
Industrv                                                          44.9       44.9     20
Manufacturing                                                    10.5      10.5     10
Services                                                          38.9       38.9      0
Private consumption                                               68.5       75.7    -10      93   94   95 9I   97   98
General qovernment consumption                                     18.7      21.9               -GDI                .GDP
Imports of qoods and services                    .                52.4       53.6
197747  1988-98        1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     ..       4.3        2.2       0.7    60
Industry                                         .       6.4        3.4       3.8    40
Manufacturing                                   .      1.6        3.4       3.8
Services                                         .       1.7        9.6       6.1    20
Private consumption                              .       1.9       -3.0       6.0      o
General government consumption                   .       3.0      49.1       12.1     .          0                   .7
Gross domestic investment                        .       8.8        6.8      -2.7    20
Imports of goods and services                   ..       3.0       6.1       -0.7             -     Exports    .t Imports
Gross national Product                          ..       2.6        2.0       7.3
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-qroup average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 88 -



Yemen, Rep.
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1977      1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                             8060
Consumer prices                                   .                 6.3       8.5      60
Implicit GOP deflator                             ..      ..        7.0      -4.6      40
Govemment finance                                                                      20
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                                                       o
Current revenue                                  ..        ..      37.7      29.8    -20       93    94    95    96    97    98
Current budget balance                                     ..       6.0        1.4               -GDP deflator   'CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..        .        -1.8     -5.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1977      1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                               2,262     1,632     3,000
Crude oil (govemment share)                    ..        ..      1,004      599
Crude oil (companies' share)                   ..        ..       935       743      2.000
Manufactures                                    ..       ..       199       142
Total impo.rts (cif)                              .        .      2,601     2,553
Food                                            .        ..       916       881      1000
Fuel ancl energy                                                  185       133
Capital gloods                                  .         .        85        73         0 I '         -3
92   63   94   95   96  97   98
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..       ..        114        91
Import price index (1995=100)                     ..       ..        76        75               E] Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         .        ..       149       121
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1977      1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                                     2,522     1,874      20
Imports of goods and services                     ..       ..     3,005     2,915
Resource balance                                 ..        ..      -483    -1,041      10
Net income                                        .        ..      -636      -467       0
Net current transfers                            ..        ..     1,254     1,289                      94   95   96   97
Current account balance                                             135      -219
Financing items (net)                            ..        ..       162        56
Changes in net reserves                                            -297       163
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           ..        ..     1,227     1,094
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                           ..      129.3    135.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(US$ millkns)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            723    4,585      3,856
IBRD                                           0         0          0         0                      G: 1a8
IDA                                           59       473        934     1,075                                   B           1
Total debt service                               22      269         98                              f
IBRD                                           0         0          0         0          F 837
IDA                                            ..        6         16        18                  (U
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                       C :250
Official grants                              287       242                          |            _c
Official creditors                            80        94                          |
Private creditors                             13       174         ..        ..
Foreign direct investment                      0         1          ..       ..                                   D 456
Portfolic equity                               0         0          .         .              E: 1,191
World Bank program                                                                     A - BRD                        EBilateral
Commitments                                   16        66        149        60      B-IDA      D-Othermultilateral  F Private
Disbursements                                 21        41         89       121      C - IMF                       G Short-term
Principal repayments                           ..        2         10        11     I
Netflows                                      21        40         79       111
Interest payments                              ..        4          7         7
Net transfers                                 21        35         72       104
Development Economics                                                                                                     9/22/99
- 89 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Institutional Arrangements
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
POLICY STATEMENT
(See Attached)
- 90 -



FROJM   MINISTER OFFICE                PHONE NO.   009671289509          Jul- 117 2000 09:22PC
\m' ^                                                                       -O
Ms. Doris Koehn
Sector MAanager / Director
Rural Development. Water & Elnvironment Depatment
Middle East and North Africa Region (MNSRE)
International Development Authority (IDA)
Dear,
Subject: MAI PoliMy Stalement on Parti-ipatory Irrigation Management.
It pleases me to enclose herewith a copy of the Policy Statement on Participatory Irrigation
Management which was issued by me. This statement was reviewed and finalized by my senior
staff, PPU and IDA Appraisal Mission for the Spate Irrigation Improvement Proicct (See Annex
I of July 2000 MOU).
With-best regards.
Sincerely,
med Sate              Jball
ricz ttute   and
Cc Mr. Naji Abu-liatim / Senior operation officer WB/ Sana'a
- 91 -



FROM   MINISTER, OFFICE                PHONE NO.: 009671289509          Jul. 1?2O  09:22PM P
Republic of Yemen
Ministry of Agriculture & Irrigation
Policy Statement on Participatory Irrigation NManagement
bv Ministr= of Agriculture and Irrigation (MAU)
1I Irrigated agriculture accounts for over 90 per cent of Yemen's water use. In
the context of growing costs of additional water development, and competing
claim for water from urban and other uses. GOY rcviewed its strategies in
irrigation and agriculture and has concluded that efficient and sustainable use
of water in agriculture is an important objective. In achieving that objective,
COY through MAI seeks to adopt a strategy that combines promotion of
efficiency / conservation including measures with maximnum participation of
stakeholders. On Ehe other hand. modem  spate schemes have been
implemented in receat dccades during which GOY has taken a growing
responsibility for spate irrigation development and management which covers
about I 1% of total cultivated area in Yemen. However, years of deferred
maintenance due to shortfall of budget and damages from catastrophic floods
have reduced the operability of diversion and control structures and canal
systern. This has led to a reduction in water mobilization for spate irrigation
and has had the effect of reducing cropped areas and hence agricultural
production. From recent studies and workshops. a gireater awareness and
increasing interest in the concept of Participatory Irrigation Management
(PlivI) has been generated. In order to ensure sustainability of such spate
irrigation schemes and agricultural production GOY has agreed with IDA to
implement and finance a now project called 'Spate Irrigation improvement
Project (SUIP)" which includes PIM as one of its important components.
)  Against the above background, and within a framework of parlicipatory
N    irnation management, MAtA adopts the following guiding principles:
Fi ial - 12/07/00          - 92 -



FROMI  MINISTER OFFICE                    'PHONE NOl.: 00967128909             Jul. 17 2006 09'23r
(a) Meaningful participation in decisioxu-making anid implementation in
relation to spate irrigation scheme improvements and rnanagcment
should be enabled for all stakelholders, covering gradually all aspects
and levels of the irrigation system. For physical improvements, users
should identify priorities, government agencies should facilitate and
assist rathcr than direct the process, and a demand-driven element in
the approach to improvements should be adopted.
(b) The primary focus of institutional development efforts should be on all
of the water users in the different reaches of the system. In parallel,
however, currently  responsible  govermnent agencies should  be
supported through the corresponding transition and reforrn process.
(c) IrTigation management and systems O&M responsibilities and powers
should be progressively transferred from government agencies to self-
rcliant user organizations. At each stage, the transfer should comprise
both the maintenance and cost responsibilities and the coTrespondingT
operational and financial control and authority.
3. Specifically, MAI will:
(a) Promote and help create water user organizations at various levels of
the irrigation scheme, starting with the water UJser Groups at thc
tertiazy level, Watcr User Associations at the secondary / primary
level. and the Scheme Water IJser Federations at the scheme level.
Accordingly, MAI will register and recognize the water user
or<anizations created under the Spate IIP as representatives of users.
(b) Assist in creating autonomous, self-reliant and truly representative user
organizations reflecting the interest of different reaches of the
irrigation system and different types of farmers.
(c) Suppoxt and strengthen water user organizations through awareness
education, technical training and organizational capacity building.
Such efforts will include farmer and user organization training, field
visits and study tours, technical support for O&M, financial support for
major repairs and works, and other initiatives aimed at fostering
sustainable user organizations.
- 93 -
9tt     E     1   ~~~~~12/07/00



PROM :MI N ISTER OFFICE
PHONE NO.: 009671289509            Jul. 17 20   9:23P
(d) To the above end, utilize MAI staff NGOs, and privatc sector
companies and individuals to mobilize user participation and establish
user organizations.
(e) Transfer O&M functions to user organizations at local and later at
scheme level backed by recognition of authority of user organizations
commensurate with- their responsibility, appropriate training and
technical assistance.
(f) Setup measurement and monitoring devices and other mechanismis to
track quantity of water delivered and used at various levels ofthe spate
schemes.
(g) Implement cost-sharing programs for O&M arnd capital improvements
to ensure financial viability and physical sustainability of spate
schemes being improved. O&M  costs below the main canal will be
fully met by uscrs who will also meet a proportion of capital costs of
rehabilitation works. The cost-sharing arrangements should consider-
water users payment capacity for capital cost recovery and  O&M
costs.
(h) Establish and strengthen joint decision-making mechanisms level (e.,_.,
the reconstituted IC) that combine interests of MAI with that of user
organizations and their federations.
(i) Develop enabling legislation that will provide a legal framework for:
- Autonomous self-reliant organ i7ations of users and their federations
that can manage water distribution, infrastxucture management, and
related financial mana,gement activities;
- Gradual take over of O&M  responsibilities by user organizations
from MAT
Agencies.
4. In fulfillment of Para.3(i) the Minister of MAT will issue a Model Articles of
Association for W>UA's which will be cstablished'temporarily under the
Agricultural Cooperative Union Law No. 39 of 1998. This will be a shlort-term
,2y)       ;J   terim  solution until issuance of the irrigation law wereby WUA's will be
(     (  4 er its jurisdiction. Consequently. water users in spate irrigated areas could
Q\    .- ;nt formation of such associations which will be registered in MAd and
\\in~2~-~fististry of Social Affairs.
Final - 12107/00             - 94 -



FRO    MINISfTCy OFFICE           PHONE NO.: 009671289509              Jul. 17 2000 09:24PIn
S. GOY will pilot Spatc rIP incorporating the above principles and specific
actions. It will monitor results of the project and draw lessons from the pilot
for the rmational program of spate irrigation improvem-ent.
tnal-12107/00                -95-



FROM   MINISTER 0FFICE                  PHONE NO.: 009671289509            Jul. 17 Zd00 09:24PM P-;
.. .... iNni  .: S1 DJI
Ms. Doris Koehn
Sector Manager I Director
Rural Development, Water & Fnvironment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region (MNSRE)
International Development Authority (IDA)
Dear,
Subject: GOY Commitment letter to undertake O&M cost of all spate schemes
During appraisal mission of the Spate Irrigation Improvement Project (8-18 June, 2000), the
O&M costs has been estimated in details and the annual amounts needed for eacb Wadi scheme
under phase I were calculated. The estimates included GOY and WUJAs shares. Also the
minimum an nual O&M costs for other Wadis to be included under phase 11 were estimated. This
matter was presenLed Lo the Deputy Minister of Finance (MoF) who has agreed to allocate the
required amounts requested by MAI for FY 2001 has been already allocated by MoF.
We confirm government commitment to provide the specified declining share of O&M costs for
Zabid aiud Tuban schemes (Phase I) as indicated in Table 5 of Annex 2 (Engineering Aspects) of
MOIJ. In this regard an amount of US$ 21 1,000. Also the required amounts for O&M costs for
Phase II Wadis as shown on knnex 3 of the said MOU about US$ 550,000 per year has been
allocated.
With best regards.
of    A=,arL ~~~& Irrigation
Cc: Mr. Naji Abu-Hatim / Senior operation officer WB/ San
- 96 -



INSTITUTIONAL SETTING FOR IRRIGATION IN YEMEN
The Government of Yemen (GOY) has been active in promoting a set of policies related to water and
irrigated agriculture emphasizing efficient water allocation and use, participatory water management, and
sustainable management of the water resource and water sector.
A. Background: Government Policies
The GOY's water and irrigation sector policies are set out in the following key documents:
Towarcts a Water Sector Strategy (World Bank, 1997). Three main water resource problems and objectives
were identified: (i) to reduce groundwater extraction and promote sustainable use; (ii) to facilitate transfers
of water from rural to urban areas; and (iii) to increase the coverage of domestic water supply and
sewerage. The need to improve the efficiency and sustainability of spate irrigation by transferring
management to user groups was also recognized.
Irrigation Sector Note (World Bank, 1999). The sustainability of spate irrigation systems was found to be
one of four key challenges confronting the irrigation sub-sector. The financial capacity of the public sector
for sustained O&M of the spate schemes has been eroded by the crises in reduced public budget and
services. Most of the aging infrastructure was found to be deteriorating and in need of rehabilitation. User
participation and cost-sharing in design and construction was found to reduce investment costs and increase
sustainability. The stress would have to be on demand driven improvements of spate irrigation schemes
implemented on a cost-sharing basis.
Aden Agenda; Restructuring of MI (GOY 1999). The GOY's Aden Agenda involves the following basic
principles: (i) redefinition of public and private roles; (ii) the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (MAI)
should live within available resources; (iii) restructuring of MAI is essential; (iv) services should be driven
by demand and economic advantage; and (v) an action plan should be prepared and implemented. The
ultimate spate irrigation management objectives are for farners to contribute their share to optimally
financed O&M supported by properly equipped, staffed and motivated agencies.
Agricultural Strategy Note (World Bank 1999). Incentives and investments for improving water use
productivity, and the introduction of participatory management of spate irrigation schemes were identified
as two complementary solutions to improve the productivity and sustainability of irrigated agriculture.
B. Background: Institutional and Legal Aspects
The Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (MAI) is responsible for irrigation management in the
country through its General Directorate of Irrigation (GDI). The GDI is in theory responsible for a wide
range of irrigation sector activities, including planning, preparation and participation in feasibility studies
and designs, construction and rehabilitation of hydraulic structures, technical supervision of irrigation
management activities and land reclamation. However, in practice, its activities are largely confined to the
small dams program.
MAI's regional offices and autonomous development authorities are responsible for the management of
spate irrigation systems. These include the Tihama Development Authority (TDA) and the Lahej
Regional Agriculture Office (Lahej RAO) responsible for the management of the Zabid and Tuban
- 97 -



schemes, respectively. TDA is also involved in a range of other development and investment activities.
Irrigation management is carried out within the framework of overall water resources management. The
National Water Resources Authority (NWRA) was established in 1995 and became operational in 1996
with overall responsibility for water resources sector coordination and planning. This included the creation
and management of the water resources data base, regional and basin-wide water resources planning and
regulation, monitoring, undertaking studies and provision of public information.
In general, the legal system of Yemen stems from three sources, i.e.: (i) Islamic Law, or Sharia'ah; (ii)
legislation, or written law; and (iii) 'urf, or custom (unwritten law). As stated in Article 3 of the
Constitution of 1994, the Sharia'ah is at the basis of the country's legal system. Its principles may not be
contradicted by legislation. The legislation of Yemen consists of the Constitution, laws, resolutions (or
decisions) and regulations. The Civil Code (Law N. 19 of 29 March 1992) consists of a modem
formulation of the principles of the Sharia'ah and contains about 30 articles relevant to water resources.
The legal framework for spate irrigation management is mostly based on custom, discussed elsewhere in
this report. At present, there is no formal law specifically providing for water user associations. However,
a draft Irrigation Law was prepared by MAI and sent to the Cabinet in June 2000 and it included
provisions for user participation and management.
THE INSTITUTIONAL/SOCIAL BACKGROUND IN THE PROJECT AREA
Spate Irrigation Improvement Program is a national program for spate improvement and irrigation
management transfer. In the Phase I of five years, the proposal is to work in two wadis (Tuban in Lahej
and Zabid in Tihama) whose selection was based on government preferences, and technical and social
feasibility including farmer interest. The second phase would provide for scaling-up based on the
experience of Phase I.
A. Wadi Tuban
Current Institutions and Water Management Arrangements
The Lahej RAO is supported in the management of the Wadi Tuban spate irrigation scheme by an
Irrigation Council (IC) set up by a decree of the govemorate, comprising the District Commissioner acting
as Chairman, the Directors of Agriculture and Irrigation acting as Deputy Chairman and Secretary
respectively, and a further 14 representative farmer members. Appointments are permanent and members
are usually only replaced if they resign or die. Every member of the IC has an equal vote but
decision-making is by consensus and disputes are rare. The IC's main function is to approve irrigation
plans, approve use of floods, and provide general guidance on irrigation management and maintenance. The
statutes of the IC provide for sanctions against infringers that are enforced by the police who may impose
fines or imprisonment. Irrigation charges were set and levied, but were later withdrawn since the Ministry
of Finance declared that ICs were not legally mandated to collect revenues.
The Village Chief (Sheikh al Qaria) is usually elected and is often a member of an influential family. The
Deputy Chief (Aqil) is an educated person with good knowledge of traditional Sharia'a law who mediates
and settles disputes amongst villagers. The Public Notary (Al Ma'mun) is the registrar of contracts and tax
collector. Finally the irrigation Water Master (Sheikh al Obar) is responsible for water distribution and
organizing communal O&M at the village level below the jurisdiction of the RAO. The position of Water
Master (WM) is formally appointed by the RAO. Thus the position is not necessarily hereditary but
appointments are permanent and most WMs have strong ties of allegiance to the Village Chief and other
- 98 -



local elite. The WMs are assisted by Irrigation Extensionists (IE) who are permanent employees of the
RAO. IEs are generally less educated than the RAOs Agricultural Extensionists who are trained in the top
down Training and Visit system.
Actual distribution of spate water is carried out by the RAO. In the traditional areas some 30 Shaykh al
Obars (community water masters) are responsible for daily water operation and maintenance by farmers at
the secondary and tertiary levels. They are supported by an equivalent number of extension staff employed
by  WAI. The IC has established rules to ensure equity for downstream users, the concept being that spate
water will not be diverted into fields that have already received either base flow or earlier spates. Water
allocation is accordingly based on a fixed irrigation plan summarized as follows:
(a) when a spate flow is low (5-15m3/s), priority for distribution is given to schemes in the upper part
of the delta (namely Ras Al Wadi and Al-Arais);
(b) when spate flow is of medium size (I 5-25m3/s), priority is given also to schemes in the middle part
of the delta (including Beizag and Faleg systems);
(c) when spate floods are high (25-40 Mr/s) the flow is directed at the main wadi bifurcation point at
Ras al Wadi Weir either to Wadi Kabir or Wadi Saghir, depending on which one is due the next
turn; and
(d) when spate floods exceed 40m /s, the flow is divided evenly between the two wadis.
Land Tenure and Water Rights
There are three categories of land tenure for the 11,000 ha in Tuban: (i) private ownership represents 70%
of the total agricultural land; (ii) government ownership represents 20%; and (iii) Waqf Trust land
represents 10%. Waqf Trust and Government land usually are given in tenancy to farmers.
Private large ownership (more than 5 ha) represents 7% of agricultural land, medium ownership (1-5 ha)
14% and small ownership (<I ha) less than 50%. Large and medium farms are cultivated by farmers who
enter into a sharecropping contract with the owner. Small farms are farmed directly by the owner. Small
owners represent 70% of private land or 50% of all agricultural land. In most of the cases, the landholding
size is so small (less that 0.5 ha) that they must be at the sarne time sharecroppers or tenants in order to get
enough for their families. Hence, nearly 50% of small owners also have a sharecropping agreement with
big landlords or a tenancy agreement for Waqf land. It has been estimated that more than 25% of the
households are landless, do not have any land to cultivate, nor have any sharecropping contract. These
landless families have become seasonal agricultural workers in the land of other farmers.
In many cases, sharecroppers are also "beneficiaries". This means that the previous landowner allowed the
beneficiary to stay and work his land as a sharecropper. In general, a sharecropper farmer gives to the
owner of the land between 25% and 30% of the crop, after having paid any zakat (a religious tithe which is
not compulsory). He is free to decide which kind of crop to cultivate guided by market prices. The farmer
has to take care of all agricultural inputs, irrigation fees and canal maintenance. The farmer also incurs
costs of pumping water from wells with motor pumps. This type of irrigation is used when cultivating
vegetables, foll (indigenous jasmine), kadi (flower), citrus, guava, mango and other fruit trees and the
farmer pays between US$750 and US$1,560 (YR 120,000 and 250,000) per year per feddan, depending on
- 99 -



the quantity of water utilized.
About 10% of the households have a tenancy contract working Waqf or Government land. This type of
contract requires the farmer to pay an annual rent to the Ministry of Waqf or to the Government: on
average about 2,000-2,500 YR per ha to the Waqf; Government land is usually cheaper. All inputs, fees,
production costs and zakat are paid by the tenant.
In theory, water rights are clearly defined by Sharia'a law. In practice, however, these customary water
rights are open to interpretation. The principle of Ala'ala Fala'ala applies throughout the Wadi Tuban
Scheme, and gives precedence to upstream users, both between and within diversion structures and canal
systems. This means that upstream users have the right to a single full irrigation before their downstream
neighbors. The entitlement is traditionally defined as the height of a man's ankle. This appears to be
figurative rather than literal as a net application of between 300 and 400 mm is required to fill the crop root
zone. Thus, while the traditional precedence of irrigation turns is generally observed, the depth of
application appears open to interpretation. The Ras Al Wadi Weir is reported to split flows 50-50 between
wadis Saghier and Kabier. This disadvantages wadi Saghier as it serves more than 60% of the downstream
command area and farmers.
Spate irrigation involves entitlements to both perennial base-flows and ephemeral spate flood flows. The
low base-flow is diverted upstream according to the "upstream first" principle where it is often used to
irrigate high value perennial crops like bananas. This is not unreasonable as much of it would be "lost" to
infiltration and groundwater recharge if it were allowed to pass downstream.
B. Wadi Zabid
Institutions and Water Management
The Tihama Development Authority (TDA) is responsible for management of the Wadi Zabid scheme
through its southern regional office. In the past, TDA also convened an Irrigation Council for the wadi
Zabid scheme similar to that operating in wadi Tuban. It proved ineffective, however, and lasted little more
than a year. Zabid TDA staff attribute this failure to perceptions of non-representativeness of farmer
members of the IC. The village administration is similar to that of Lahej, described above, and consists of
the Village Chief, the Deputy Chief, the Public Notary, and the irrigation Water Master with similar
authority to those at wadi Tuban In practice, the position of Water Master is more likely to be hereditary;
there are fewer but more powerful large landowners and social stratification is more pronounced than at
wadi Tuban.
Land Tenure and Water Rights
There are two major categories of land tenure of the 15,000 ha: private ownership which is 54 % of the
agricultural land and Waqf trust land which is 46%.
Large private ownership (25 families who have on average 174 ha each) represents about half of the total
private land. This is good land, usually located in the upper area of the scheme where water (spate, base
flow and wells) is available and abundant all year long. These landlords, generally living in Zabid town,
have a sharecropping agreement with local farmers. Medium private ownership represents 13%, and it is
also cultivated usually by sharecroppers. Small ownership represents 33% of the total private land, and it
is distributed among 2,000 families with on average 1.4 ha per family.
- 100 -



More than 50% of the households do not have land at all. These are the agricultural workers who are
involved in cash crop production, such as banana and fruit production. In these cases, salaries are relatively
satisfactory but the work is subject to slack and peak periods, so that such workers may have long periods
without work.
While the same principle of Ala'ala Fala'ala applies below each diversion structure, the following spate
flow diversion calendar described above applies between diversion structures:
(a) Oct. 19 to Aug. 2 (288 days) diversion structures 1 and 2, serving 4,325 ha, receive a mean water
allocation of 79.93 Mm3 for a gross application of 1.85 m;
i(b) Aug. 3 to Sept. 13 (42 days) diversion structures 3 and 4, serving 9,165 ha, receive a mean water
allocation of 32.44 Mm3 for a gross application of only 0.35 m; and
( c) Sept. 4 to Oct. 18 (35 days); diversion structure 5, serving 1,725 ha, receives a mean water
allocation of 16.55 Mm3 for a gross application of 0.96 m.
This traditional water allocation is not as inequitable as it may first appear. The lower areas are allocated
the spate flows during the main flood season (mean daily flows during the three seasons are 0.28, 0.77 and
0.47 Mm3/day from upstream to downstream). Most of the lower flows during the longer first season
would be "lost" if they were allowed to pass downstream. Furthermore, the lower areas benefit from any
excess flows that can't be fully diverted upstream. During peak spate flows, these traditional rules are
combined with the al a'la fal a'la rules, which do work in spite of difficulties, and it is reported that 60% to
70% of farmers receive spate flow when it is their turn.
Sharecroppers/Tenants
The igeneral rules of sharecropping agreement are as follows:
(a) in the case of grains (i.e. sorghum, millet, sesame and maize) if the land is not irrigated from a well
with motor pump, the farmer keeps 1/3 and 2/3 is given to the owner. In addition, 5% from the
total crop is paid to the Shaykh al Sharej, the channel master in charge of irrigation. Zakat may
also be paid, if the farmers so decides; and
(b) in the case of irrigation by pumping from groundwater, once the irrigation fee (5%) for the Shaykh
al Sharej (and any zakat) have been paid, the owner of the motor pump takes 50% of the crop
while the landlord takes 25% of the crop, leaving the farmer with 25%. These rules are valid for
all crops irrigated by pumped irrigation including cotton, vegetables, fruit trees and bananas
production.
The actual relationship between the landlord and the sharecropper is far more involved and sophisticated
than is apparent. There are many types of old, family-based and reciprocal relationships that make it
difficult to define explicitly the inputs provided by, and returns to the owners and farmers cultivating the
land. Extensive discussions during project preparation pointed to several complex overlays of roles and
responsibilities as well as returns and to a fundamental equilibrium in which each party had the incentive to
adhere to the present system. During the social assessments, the consensus among farmers, officials and
experts was that the status quo represents an equilibrium achieved as a result of complex evolutionary
mechanisms over a long period, and that attempts to alter the relationship through external interventions
- 101 -



such as a project would be futile.
In the case of Waqf land, those responsible for Waqf land establish a yearly rent. The tenant is responsible
for all the expenditures and agricultural inputs and can cultivate whatever he wants. Usually the rent could
be convenient for the farmer (from 5 to 10 % of the crop), provided that he has a direct contract with those
responsible for this land. But there are a number of cases in which intermediaries take the land from the
Waqf and lease it to the farmer on a sub-contract. The farmer has to pay both the intermediary and the
waqf. It has been estimated that about 41% of households have a sharecropping agreements with
landlords; 35 % of the households also have a tenancy contract for waqf land. Only 14% of the households
are working the land they own, while 55% of the families are without any land.
FACTORS AFFECTING PARTICIPATORY IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT (PIM)
A. Opportunities for PIM
The major problem for spate management is lack of proper O&M that threatens sustainability. As a result
of several years of budget cuts, MAI allocations for annual operation and maintenance (O&M) have fallen
considerably short of requirements. This has created a need for substantial rehabilitation and improvement
works, mostly deferred maintenance works, for desilting canals to regain their original shapes, improve
headworks and canal structures, replace gates and improve desilting arrangements at diversion weirs.
Consequently, there is a significant opportunity to increase spate system efficiencies. At the same time,
there are encouraging opportunities for improving irrigation management in both schemes.
In both wadi Tuban and Zabid, there are existing informal farmer groups (WUGs) at the tertiary level from
which formal user associations could be formed at higher levels. Farmers have also shown great interest
and willingness to participate in rehabilitation and improvement of their schemes.
Discussions with farmer groups during project preparation confirmed that they would welcome building
upon current institutional strengths. While they welcomed the formation of user organizations, they
emphasized the following interests:
(a) there was a clear preference for involvement not only in O&M, but also in irrigation planning at
the scheme level. This is understandable given the nature of spate flows and the farmers' desire to
participate in allocation decisions;
(b) farmers wished to provide inputs into rehabilitation plans and not remain passive recipients of
government-planned infrastructure improvements. They referred to non-priority investments and
incorrect location of outlets in the past; and
(c) any user organization must represent users in all reaches of the irrigation scheme to avoid any
upstreamer bias.
Implications for the project are: (i) user participation must be fostered at all levels of the scheme, not just in
tertiary O&M; (ii) higher level user associations in particular must be representative; and (iii) rehabilitation
plans must be reviewed with farmer representatives to gain consensus.
- 102 -



B. Constraints to PIM
The major question for the success of PIM is related to the land tenure situation. In wadi Zabid
particularly, some 67% of the land is owned by big landlords or is under Waqf title. Small farmer
ownership in wadi Tuban on the other hand is approximately 50%, which provides better motivation for
PIM among a broad cross-section of farmers.
During project preparation, the above question was addressed directly with farmers. Several rounds of
consultations have confirmed the wide interest of farmers in both wadis in both the project and PIM. The
schemes have deteriorated to a stage that it would be too expensive to maintain them in the usual way. The
opportunity for rehabilitation is, therefore, widely welcomed with the proviso, already noted, that farmer
participation in decisions on the type of rehabilitation must be assured. They are also aware that collective
management of O&M, provided that the management arrangements are representative of various hydraulic
units in the scheme, would be beneficial. Also, payments for O&M must correspond to actual cropped area
and amount of water received -- in other words, based on some equitable principles. The views of landlords
in Zabid were specially canvassed, and they too agreed to user participation and management subject to the
conditions discussed above.
In both wadis, water users have worked in informal groupings and in some cases through formal structures
such as cooperatives. Nevertheless, organizing into formal water user associations and negotiating with the
irrigation agency would be a new experience. Formal responsibility for O&M would also a be new
experience.
C. Willingness and Capacity for Financial Participation
Willingness and capacity to pay for better O&M is demonstrated in the project area by current practices of
farmers who were found to have contributed their own labor and financial resources on a regular basis to
ensure water delivery. Farmers are well aware of the value of water in terms of the increased value of
output that results per unit of water applied. There is also good evidence of farmer willingness to take on
costs of repair works.
Special meetings were held in Tuban and Zabid regarding cost recovery. In Tuban, meetings with several
big landlords, in the presence of two members of the family of the most important sultan in the wadi,
confirmed the perception that project activities would eventually increase the value of the land. However,
they asserted that they would not necessarily be able to capture that increased value because of restrictions
on land ownership rights.
For these reasons, and because of perennial disputes on tenure among landlords, between family members
and within communities (related to the "beneficiary" problem in Tuban and to more common reasons such
as inheritance or boundary questions), landowners claim that they are not able to exercise their property
rights. Landlords felt that they should not contribute to capital cost when they could not reap the full
benefits associated with those costs. However, they agreed that they could participate in cost sharing if it
were a fair percentage of capital costs for owners to bear and if suitable modalities of payment are worked
out.
In Zabid, meetings on cost recovery were attended by the Qadi of Zabid Town, the local representative in
the national parliament, and other rich landlords well-known for their influence in the local political
administration. In these discussions, distinctions were made between capital costs, costs related to normal
O&M, and those related to special O&M due to exceptional floods. The final result of these meetings has
- 103 -



been a gradual understanding of the benefits flowing from the project and, as in Tuban, in Zabid a general
agreement was also reached on the fact that landlords will contribute to capital costs and will discuss
modalities and percentage of capital cost repayment.
Based on the above discussions and agreements, cost shares arrangements could be divided up as follows:
Percentage of the Assessed Contribution Payable by Different Participants
Expense      Owner               Sharecropper                      Tenant
Occupier
O&M          100%        Shared between landlord (or his   Tenant or landlord according to
representative) and sharecropper in    the contract
proportion to the crop share
Investment Cost 100%     Landlord (or his representative) 100%    Landlord (or his representative)
100%
Where the landlord or his representative is absent, the landlord's share may be contributed by the
sharecropper or tenant from the crop share or rent due to the landlord.
D. Legal Framework for WUAs
Options for registering WUAs as formal entities were reviewed during project preparation. Registration as
an NGO was a possibility, but had the disadvantage that the NGO framework was generally used for
charitable societies and voluntary associations providing service to others (and not to the members as in a
WUA). Moreover, the NGO framework is under review by the Government. The cooperative law (39 of
1998) was considered as unsuitable for WUAs and closer examination by legal experts showed that WUAs
could be registered as specialized cooperatives.
Use of the cooperative law is the preferred choice of the government. It was agreed that WUAs could be set
up under the cooperative law to begin with, but that the proposed Irrigation Law would have specific
provisions for registration of WUAs and their federations. Thus in the medium term, during the course of
the project, a clear, explicit and separate enabling legal provision for WUAs would be established. This
would have the advantage that lessons from early experience with WUAs may be built into the new
Irrigation Law.
The proposed Irrigation Law would also include a provision for a concession-type agreement for the
transfer of management responsibilities from the irrigation agency to water users. The concession, to be
modeled on similar agreements in other parts of the world, would specify roles and responsibilities of both
government and users, in terms of physical and financial obligations for O&M. The agreement would also
specify the period of the concession and monitoring mechanisms for performance assessment during the
period of the concession.
- 104-



THE PROJECT PROPOSAL
The IIP framework for PIM starts with a set of guiding principles as derived from the preparation process.
A. Guiding Principles
Following the social assessment, project preparation studies, and substantial discussions, establishment of
PIM has been adopted as a goal of the project's institutional development component. This has led to the
following guiding principles for the corresponding project activities:
(a) meaningful participation in decision-making and implementation in relation to spate irrigation
scheme improvements and management should be enabled for all stakeholders, covering all aspects
and levels of the irrigation system. For physical improvements, users should identify priorities,
government agencies should facilitate and assist rather than direct the process, and a
demand-driven element in the approach to improvements should be adopted;
(b) the primary focus of institutional development efforts should be on all of the water users in the
different reaches of the system. In parallel, however, currently responsible government agencies
should be supported through the corresponding transition and reform process; and
(c) irrigation management and systems O&M responsibilities and powers should be progressively
transferred from government agencies to self-reliant user organizations. At each stage, the transfer
should comprise both the maintenance and cost responsibilities and the corresponding operational
and financial control and authority.
B. Project Concept: Integration of PhysicaL Management and Institutional Improvements
The project concept calls for an integrated approach to rehabilitation that would combine physical works
with institutional reform. Without the former, efficiency improvements would not accrue. Without the
latter, sustainability would suffer in addition to continuing problems with accountability for services.
The proposed strategy for implementing the integrated approach would combine the following features:
(a) building on the traditions of local cooperation and self-reliance, which predate the modemization of
spate schemes and the involvement of government in irrigation management; this includes partial
user financing of improvement works;
(b) forming democratic associations of users, with equitable representation of all user groups and
individuals on the executive bodies responsible for scheme management;
(c) following a logical sequence from initial awareness campaigns through user mobilization and
physical system improvements, to final participatory management of schemes; and
(d) undertaking institutional capacity building through training and participatory management
activities.
This approach is in line with global "good practice" that emphasizes a broad socio-technical view of
irrigation improvements.
- 105 -



The lessons from good practice are also that we do not adopt a blueprint approach, but rather tailor the
design of the PIM program to suit local conditions and country policies. In this regard, spate irrigation
must be distinguished from normal gravity fed irrigation and special conditions in Tuban and Zabid must
be addressed.
A Statement of Policy in support of the above principles and Project Concept was submitted by MAI
to IDA prior to negotiations.
C. Implementing PIM in the Project
This section presents the proposed development activities for each scheme directed towards establishment
and support of user organizations that (eventually) will take over responsibilities and control of the two
selected wadi schemes.
Formation of WUAs: Levels and Functions
Spate irrigation water users number about 8,100 in the wadi Tuban scheme and 7,700 in the Wadi Zabid
scheme. Below the primary canal level, some 250 to 300 informal WUGs are already active in each
scheme, each comprising about 30 to 50 member households.
From this base, WUAs will be formally constituted at the primary canal level, ensuring representation of
the WUGs. WUAs would number about 18 in the Tuban and 11 in Zabid and represent an average of
about 450 and 700 households, respectively. Exact numbers of the WUAs would follow from the
mobilization work that could be initiated, depending on fund availability, even prior to the start of the
project. The WUAs would federate into a Scheme Water User Federation (SWUF), again taking care to
maintain due representation of the various reaches of the canal.
To ensure continued communication between water users and the irrigation agency, a reconstituted
Irrigation Council would be established, broadening its participation and ensuring due representation to all
farmers. The irrigation agency (Regional Agricultural Office in Lahej and the Tihama Development
Authority in Zabid) and SWUFs would each send delegates to the Irrigation Council so that joint decisions
could be made regarding irrigation plans and spate water allocation.
The WUAs would be responsible for O&M at the primary canal level, including water distribution and
management and collection of service charges, as well as the management of the funds collected. They
would also undertake normal minimum maintenance works on the respective canals. Through their SWUFs,
they would participate in scheme level decisions on water allocation as well as rehabilitation plans. A
central role would be liaison with extemal agencies such as the irrigation agency and other government
offices.
Process
Mobilization of users will commence with an awareness campaign directed at all stakeholders and aimed at
securing and confirming support for the proposed interventions. Formation of WUAs will then be
undertaken, through a series of identification, information, consultation, training and decision-making
activities and meetings. Situation analyses to assess current irrigation systems performance and
management improvement needs, as well as participatory baseline investigations and sample surveys for
future monitoring and evaluation (M&E) purposes, will be a part of this process. The period from project
initiation to formalization of WUAs, and signing of agreements for transfer to them of corresponding O&M
- 106 -



responsibilities and control, is envisaged as 2 to 4 years. In any case, physical works would not start until
the 'WUAs are established and are functioning.
In parallel with user mobilization during the first year of the project, participatory planning and design of
agreed improvement works will proceed, leading to agreed construction and supervision of works during
the second and third years of the project. Agreements will be reached on user contributions to cost, in cash
or via direct labor contracts, ensuring commitment and a sense of ownership, which will already have been
fostered by prior consultations with WUAs and agreements on the nature and scope of works.
Followving the start of management transfer to WUAs at primary canal levels during the middle years of the
project, and in parallel with the execution of system improvement works during the same period, the WUAs
will progress from participatory to full and exclusive management and execution of O&M  activities
relating to the primary systems. They will be supported in this by the project through technical assistance,
on-the-job and formal training, and capacity building.
During this time, the reconstituted ICs will be established and become operational. By the end of the fourth
year, it is expected that the transfer of O&M responsibilities to WUAs will have been completed, and the
SWUlFs will have been formed. At this time, talks will begin on management transfer at the scheme level to
be formally agreed upon and accomplished by the end of the project. Service fee setting and collection, on
an annually-increasing basis, together with financial accounting and management activities, will form part
of this exercise, as will handling of conflicts as needed.
The process tasks will be managed by the PMU in collaboration with the RAO and TDA. The execution
will be contracted to an NGO with significant experience in community mobilization, awareness creation
and training. Specific training inputs will be obtained through resource persons and institutions as
necessary. However, a comprehensive training schedule will be prepared before the start of the project and
agreed with IDA. Preliminary areas identified for operations and training are included in the attachment to
this Annex.
Project Inputs
Project inputs to achieve this institutional development program include technical assistance, transportation
facilities and training-related inputs.  The proposed technical assistance comprises inputs by three
international specialists to direct activities in the areas of institutional development, irrigation management
and training, respectively. Then, at each wadi scheme, a national WUA development expert and a national
irrigation management expert, supported by local facilitators and field staff, would coordinate and
undertake the mobilization and capacity building activities on a full-time day-to-day basis. Transportation
facilities commensurate with this effort would be provided for. Envisaged training and other capacity
building activities include a PIM study tour and in-country training activities, WUA formation catalyst
activities, training of facilitators and WUA leaders, and preparation of manuals for facilitators (program
implementation) and WUAs (irrigation management). Corresponding training equipment and materials are
also provided for.
D. Strengthening National Irrigation Institutions
The institutional development concepts to be implemented under the project, starting with spate irrigation
schemLes in wadis Tuban and Zabid, have some potentially profound implications for the entire irrigation
sector's institutional arrangements. This is all in keeping with the principles of institutional reform
establ.ished under the Aden Agenda. Consequently, it is considered essential that, in the first year of the
project, a full and systematic institutional assessment be undertaken to cover all irrigation sector
- 107 -



institutions from national through regional to district levels.
The assessment would, in a first phase, review all current institutional mandates and characteristics, define
and characterize future irrigation sector institutional needs and options within the framework of the Aden
Agenda and in the light of the project's institutional development concepts, and identify and quantify the
corresponding institutional reform implications.
Following presentation and discussion of first phase findings at high level workshops and meetings,
decisions and agreements would be reached on the institutional reforms to be adopted. Then, in a second
phase of the institutional assessment, the selected reform options would be developed in detail, reform and
support activities and schedules would be defined, and corresponding implementation costs would be
estimated.
A provision is made for this study to be funded and executed under the project. It is then expected that
subsequent implementation of the institutional reform program would commence and continue over the
remaining years of the project, under separate funding arrangements. However, a provision has been made
for some unspecified institutional strengthening measures to be taken under the project, should there be
some such measures identified as urgent or of high priority following completion of the institutional
assessment.
E. Specific Support to GDI
GDI's role would be defined as part of the above sector institutional assessment. In particular, as a
minimum, support will be extended under the project to enable GDI to play the role of an agency
responsible for an overall national program spate improvement. Through the project, GDI will be asked to
prepare guidelines and policies for irrigation improvement in Yemen in close collaboration with the PMU of
the spate project. GDI will also be strengthened in its capacity for dam design and development, including
environmental and sustainability concerns. The GDI small dams program is in great need of improvements,
and there are ongoing efforts to correct its deficiencies through the Southern Governorates' Project. In
addition, for IIP purposes, a reliable inventory and status assessment of dams in the upper wadi Tuban and
Zabid catchments is considered important for operational security and planning reasons, and would be
funded under the project.
- 108 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Environmental Aspects
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Impact Assessment Summary
for Wadi Tuban and Wadi Zabid
March 2000
Background
For centuries, agriculture in the two areas covered by the project, Zabid and Tuban has relied on
floodwaters of high intensity and low duration (spates). Many traditional irrigation schemes have been
replaced by modem diversion schemes which, however, are not performing efficiently, as they have
been insufficiently maintained. The main problems include poor water diversion and distribution and
high siltation. As a result, much less water is available to farmers than was originally envisaged.
The proposed Irrigation Improvement Project (IIP) aims at alleviating the above problems through
rehabilitation and improvement of present structures and the introduction of participatory irrigation
management (PIM) whereby farmers would gradually take more responsibility in operating and
maintaining the spate scheme.
IIP will include a program for 7 sub-projects to be implemented over a 10 year period in 2 phases
(2001-2005) (2005-2010) and will cover a total area of 90,000 hectares. The first phase will cover
about 26,000 ha with an estimated population of about 150,000 inhabitants. The project does not
change biological and/or ecological characteristics of the areas as it deals with rehabilitation works and
with hydrologically closed systems. It has therefore been rated as a B category project.
This is the executive summary of the site specific enviromnental impact assessment (EIA) which has
been prepared for each of the two wadis during project preparation. Both proposed ELAs identify the
potential environmental impacts with the proposed mitigation and monitoring programs to
alleviate/reduce the negative impacts and enhance the positive ones. The full EIA reports are available
in the project files. The ElAs aim at establishing the conditions required for sound environmental
management in the project area through: (i) promoting through participation and capacity building
local knowledge and awareness of the major issues threatening the well-being of wadi populations,
particularly in terms of sustained water availability; and (ii) encouraging participatory management of
natural resources by the institutions established by IIP. This will be obtained through systematic
monitoring of water characteristics, information campaigns, training and support to the fledgling water
management institutions. IIP will integrate all the components of the environmental mitigation and
monitoring program on soil and water management issues and establish linkages with national water
authorities, local government and other projects in the fields of water supply, sanitation and health.
Environmental Policy, Legal, and Administrative Framework
The proposed project will follow the World Bank guidelines OP 4.01 on environmental assessment and
will adhere to the requirements of the Government of Yemen (GOY) for such projects, as outlined in
- 109 -



the Environmental Protection Law No. 26 enacted by the Parliament in 1995, and the National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) prepared by the Environmental Protection Council (EPC) in 1996.
Description of Project Activities
IIP aims at improving water delivery efficiency and establishing Participatory Irrigation Management
(PIM) through introduction of Water User Associations (WUAs), System Management Units (SMUs)
and sustainable Operation and Maintenance (O&M). This project is Phase I of the APL program and
it would include spate irrigation schemes in Wadi Tuban and Wadi Zabid. For Wadi Tuban, it will
consist of 13 diversion structures with a net command area of about 11,000 ha. For Wadi Zabid, it
consists of five diversion structures with a net command area of 15,000 ha. In addition to the
rehabilitation of access and farm roads, the major engineering works include for both wadis: (i)
rehabilitation/improvement of diversion structures (divide walls, skimming weir, sluice weir, weir crest,
toe); (ii) rehabilitation of turnout structures, protection work in downstream portion of drop structures,
box culverts, silt ejectors and cross regulators; and (iii) bank protection works. For Tuban, there also
will be replacement of gates in primary and secondary canals, as well as improvement of canals to
increase their ability to carry larger spate flows.
Potential Environmental Impacts
Potential problems in the area include degradation of irrigation land due to salinization and alkalization
as well as waterlogging and use of agro-chemicals, upstream and localized erosion and sedimentation,
sand dune encroachment due to wind erosion, and health issues because of poor quality of drinking
water, low levels of hygiene and sanitation. Though addressing these issues is important to protect the
populations living in the wadis, guarantee the stability of their production systems and ensure the
sustainability of the proposed investments in spate irrigation, only some minor impacts on soil quality
could be expected from the proposed project.
There is also the problem in the Wadi Zabid groundwater mining (unrelated to the project). In order to
minimize groundwater depletion, it is necessary to put in place a groundwater management system
which can rely on data collected during the monitoring of water levels and quality in the project area.
Most of the problems can be mitigated through technically simple measures that can be implemented
through the involvement of the Water User Associations and their federation once they are aware of the
limits to the use of groundwater resources. Involvement of the water users and studies in monitoring
the impact during the first phase (5-year) are crucial elements for the success of the project.
The EMP also recognizes the need for coordination with other projects and NGOs operating in the
same area and which are involved in the sectors of infrastructure and health. In particular, the new
Water Supply and Sanitation Project and the Child Development Project (both financed by the World
Bank) are well equipped to take lead responsibility in these domains. By contrast, IIP should take
leadership in soil and water management issues which are the main focus of the project.
Recommendations of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
1. Environmental Monitoring of Groundwater:
Groundwater mining for irrigation and water supply is the most serious environmental issue in the
Wadi Zabid project area, as it has consequences on water availability for the population, on water
quality and human health, and on the sustainability of horticulture production, which is a major source
- 110 -



of income in the region. The EMP emphasizes the need for monitoring of water quality and availability,
for transferring water management responsibilities to the new wadi institutions, for training extension
workers and farmers on water management for irrigation and for informing stakeholders.
Systematic groundwater monitoring in the first phase (5 years) will be undertaken by TDA for water
quality for wells and that for household consumption. In year 5 of the project, available results will be
reviewed, and decisions reached as to the type and modalities of further monitoring.
NWRA is responsible to monitor nitrate levels in groundwater, whose concentration should be kept
under intemationally acceptable thresholds for potable water, i.e. less than 50 mg/l according to WHO
recommendations (1993). In rural areas, however, NWRA has no capacity to sample and analyze the
groundwater used for human consumption. Since TDA is presently sampling groundwater for water
quality studies on a monthly basis, they would continue to undertake this task with close collaboration
with NWRA
2. Sanitation and Potable Water:
This issue will be mainly addressed through two other World Bank projects which cover the same
areas: (i) the Water Supply and Sanitation Project dealing with infrastructure improvements to ensure
satisfactory water supply and used water treatment; and (ii) the Child Development Project.
3. Participation and Capacity Building:
Capacity Building Strengthening in Water Resource Management through constitution of organized
WVater users Associations. Special emphasis will be given on water management training which will
include demonstrations and collective discussions to reach a consensus within water user groups and
WVUAs. The program will also cover groundwater management, focusing on conveyance losses
reduction, water quality, leaching and crop specific water requirements. The project will also provide
extensive training on water management to TDA's extension workers.
Hluman Health: As there is very limited awareness in the project area, even among women, of the role
of water, hygiene and sanitation in the transmission of diseases systematic education campaigns will be
necessary. The Child Development Project is best suited to provide such education. It is therefore
envisaged that the PMU would link up with the management of the Water Supply and Sanitation
F'roject and the Child Development Project to coordinate an education program. For its part, IIP would
contribute by providing regular data on water quality from its monitoring program indicated above.
4. Studies:
(a) Soil Salinity/Sodicity Mapping Study to avoid soil sodicity occurrence and advise farmers on
irrigation practices will be undertaken for the Tuban area;
(b) Upper Watershed Management Study will be carried out to assess the status and trends of
erosion, review experience of watershed management so far and formulate a strategy and a
program to reduce erosion in the catchment areas of Wadi Tuban; and
(c) Sand Dune Fixation to arrest sand dune movement and protect agricultural field from further
encroachment in Tuban by improving irrigation systems used so far, if it is not implemented
through LWCP.
- 111 -



The attached tables present a summary of the proposed action plan and responsible agencies. Table I is for
the Wadi Tuban and Table 2 for the Wadi Zabid.
Table 1: Summary of Mitigation Measures and Responsible Agencies
For Wadi Tuban
Issues                     Mitigation Measures              Time              Responsible        Base          Implementation
Institute          Cost
USS
Land and Soil Resources
Salinity/sodicity Mapping  Rigid special soil survey.       2001             PIU, Lahej and Al   190,000       Short term TA (1.5mm)
Khod Research                    Soil laboratory at Al Khod
Station         _
Erosion and sedimentation    Upper Watershed Study will be  2001              PMU                US$250,000    Short term TA (20 mm)
carried out to:                                                       (d)
- assess status of erosion and trends,
- review experience in watershed
management .
-formulate strategy and program.
Sand Dune Encroachment    Mechanical and vegetative control    2001-2005     LWCP               p.m. (c)       PIU, include TA (Imm) for
(selected support).                                                                 improved irrigation
_________________                     ~~~~~~~~efficiency.
River Bank Protection      conservation measures (natural and   2001-2005     PMU                (b)           IIP PMU and PlUs, MAI
structural).                                 _                      _
Groundwater
Water quantity            Groundwater Monitoring            2001-2005        NWRA               6,000/yr       Al Khod chemistry
and                    Additional Monthly water sample                                                     laboratory, NWRA field
Water quality             analyses (SAR).                                                                      teams/equipment.
Groundwater monitoring for       2001-2005        NWRA                10,000/yr     NWSA water sampling
pathogens, F and N03                                                                team, laboratory facilities,
Monthly water sampling and analysis.                                                field equipment.
Capacity Building and
Participation              _
Health                    Awareness (training on hygiene,   2001-2005         Water supply and   to be financed  Not identified.
sanitation and water quality).                    sanitation Project,   under these
Child Development. projects
Project.
Water Resources           Transfer of water management to the  2004-2005      MAI                              PMU and PIUs.
Management                 new wadi institutions.
Water and soil management training. 2003-2005     Agricultural        191,000       Short term. TA (6.5 mm)
Awareness, training and                            University, AREA,                and national specialists from
demonstration to water user groups                DOA                               university and research
and WUAs.                                                                           institutes (Al Khod,
Demonstrations,                                                                     Dhamar).
TDAs extension workers training.
Groundwater resource control.    2002-2005        PMU with MAI and  p.m. (a)        WUG, WUAs and Irrigation
Decide and enforce rules on well                  local government.                 Council.
drilling and water abstraction.                                     _
Community unawareness      Training and Awareness campaign.   2001-2005.
(a) This activity would be part of the services provided by water user institutions, provided they accept to take on this responsibility.
(b) Cost has been included with rehabilitation work costs.
(c) Falls within the mandate of LWCP.
(d) For both wadis.
- 112-



Table 2: Summary of Mitigation Measures and Responsible Agencies
For Wadi Zabid
Issues                    Mitigation Measures               Time          Responsible       Base                Implementation
Institute         Cost
US$
Land and SoDil Resources
Erosion and sedimentation    Upper Watershed Study will be  2001          PMU               US$250,000 (c)      Short term TA (20 mm).
carried out to:
- assess status of erosion and trends;
- review experience in watershed
management;
-formulate strategy and program.
River Bank P'rotection    Conservation measures (natural and   2001-2005    PMU             (b)                 PMU, MAI
structural).                           __._.
Groundwater
Increased irrigation demand   Groundwater Monitoring        2001-2005    TDA                6,000/yr            TDA chemistry laboratory,
Quantity                  Additional Monthly water sample                                                       TDA field teams/equipment.
Reduced water quality     analyses (SAR)
Groundwater monitoring for       2001-2005    NWRA (National  10,000/yr              GWC water sampling team,
pathogens, F and N03.                          mandate)                              TDA laboratory facilities,
Monthly water sampling and analysis.                                                 field equipment.
Capacity
Building/Participation
Health                    Awareness (training on hygiene,   2001-2005    Water Supply and  To be financed under To be implemented under
sanitation and water quality).                 Sanitation project  these projects.   other project, lIP PMU will
and Child                            have a link with the other
Development                           projects and provide regular
Project and PMU                       data on water quality.
Water Resources           Transfer of water management to the  2004-2005    MAI                                 PMU and PlUs.
Management                new wadi institutions.
Water resources management training 2003-2005    Agricultural     178,000            short term. TA (6.5 mm) and
Awareness, training and                        University, AREA,                     national specialists from
demonstration to water user groups             TDA                                   university and research
and WUAs                                                                             institutes (Al Khod, Dhamar) .
Demonstrations,
TDAs extension workers training
Groundwater resource control      2002-2005    PMU with MAI    p.m. (a)              WUG, WUAs and Irrigation
Decide and enforce rules on well               and local                             Council.
drilling and water abstraction.                govemment.
Community unawareness     Training and Awareness campaign.   2001-2005
(a) This activity would be part of the services provided by water user institutions, provided they accept to take on this responsibility.
(b) Cost has been included with rehabilitation work costs.
(c) For both wadis.
-113 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
Social Assessment
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
This annex is a summary of the draft social assessment (SA) which has been carried out during project
preparation and which involved extensive consultation with all the project stakeholders. A copy of the SA
has been kept in the project files.
The SA analyzes the range of complex social issues involved in creating sustainable locally run irrigation
systems in Yemen, to be implemented under the 1 0-year Yemen Spate Irrigation Improvement Project, the
5-year pilot phase would be implemented under this project. The report is based on three separate SA
missions carried out in 1999-2000, focusing on different aspects of the relationship between farmers and
landlords, and on their respective concerns with regard to water rights, equitable water use, cost-sharing,
scheme operation and maintenance (O&M), and land ownership and tenure. The land issues are especially
important in the south, where land was redistributed twice in recent years, first to farrners and then, after
unification, back to the former large landowners. The missions also highlighted the issues of water users'
long-standing tradition of self-reliance and their current dependence on Government for maintenance of the
weirs and canals; and assessed their attitudes toward overcoming this dependence by forming autonomous
water users' associations (WUAs) with responsibility for scheme management and O&M. The project
proposes to facilitate the formation of WUAs with advice and technical support, and to provide assistance
in bringing about the necessary institutional and legal changes to give the WUAs the authority they need to
manage the water resource.
Project Concept and Strategy
The project's approach is in keeping with the global good practice of participatory irrigation management
(PIM), which has been shown to be the most effective way of ensuring efficient and sustainable irrigation
water use. It is also in keeping with the Govermnent's strategy for the irrigation sector, which aims to
address the problem of declining public financial resources - and the consequent inability of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Irrigation (MAI) to adequately maintain the spate schemes - through the creation of
autonomous scheme-level irrigation districts and cost-sharing with capable WUAs.
This strategy was by and large confirmed during the preappraisal mission of February/March 2000, when:
(a) the Government confirmed that the project would be based on the principle of users' participation
in management and operation and maintenance (O&M) of the spate irrigation schemes;
(b) the users confirmed their readiness to participate in designing, implementing, and managing the
schemes;
(c) the users and landowners expressed interest in organizing themselves into formal water users'
associations (WUAs) as a way of working cooperatively to overcome past problems, and to have
more leverage in negotiating with the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation over equitable water
distribution. Both groups requested assistance in this effort, and agreed on the principle of
cost-sharing; and
- 114 -



(d) the Government agreed that WUAs should be established before any physical works are
implemented, to ensure their agreement on scheme design and their commitment to managing the
schemes once construction is completed.
Conditions in the Project Areas
The Government views the crisis in the rural water as part of a countrywide crisis, related to inefficient and
unsustainable water usage and increasing competition for this resource among various rural and urban user
groups. However, the problems with the spate schemes are especially urgent, since the majority of Yemen's
population lives in rural areas and depends on agriculture for its livelihood. In the project areas, Wadi
Tuban in the south and Wadi Zabid in Tihama, the majority of the poor are either landless, rural laborers
(some lrom female-headed families), small-scale farmers, unskilled (many female) laborers, or subsistence
farmers, and all suffer from inadequate access to water and other productive resources. More than 28
percent of families live below the poverty line (US$203) in Tuban, and more than 35 percent in Zabid.
Many people visibly suffer from extremely poor hygiene, the absence of sanitation facilities, and
inappropriate knowledge of hygienic measures for food and water. Only 30 percent of the rural population
has access to safe drinking water, as opposed to 61 percent of urban residents. The rural population also
suffers from limited access to food, and malnutrition and anemia are widespread. The project hopes to
address, these problems by increasing agricultural productivity through its emphasis on efficiency and
accountability in water usage, first in Tuban and Zabid, which have 8,100 and 7,700 spate scheme users,
respectively, and then countrywide.
When the project was conceived, the spate systems in the two wadis were already severely deteriorated, and
characterized by heavily silted canals, damaged canal structures, and other problems that resulted in the
highly inefficient use of the scarce water resource.
Integrated Physical and Institutional Approach
The formation of WUAs, and transfer of responsibility for the spate schemes from MAI to the WUAs,
would institutionalize procedures and processes for designing and constructing new infrastructure;
allocating water; managing, operating, and maintaining canals; negotiating with the Irrigation Department
for equipment and other resources; and resolving conflicts among users.
Methodology for the SA
The work of all three missions was carried out using participatory methods, including surveys, interviews,
and focus groups with farmers, landlords, and community leaders. In addition, the project team held two
consultative workshops with Government officials to discuss the design of the proposed action plan. This
final SA report is based on the results of these consultations with users and officials, and on a number of
background papers produced as part of the project preparation work. Those papers are cited where the
reader might want more details on some of the issues discussed in this report.
Findings
The three SA missions yielded progressively more insight into the social and institutional issues
surrounding the spate water systems
-115 -



The first SA mission laid the groundwork for understanding the social and institutional aspects of spate
irrigation; the problems, needs, expectations, and priorities of beneficiaries; and their willingness to
establish WUAs and contribute to O&M costs. That report (see Working Paper 1, "Yemen Irrigation
Improvement Project (62714), Participatory Social Assessment, Final Mission Report," by M. Zghidi,
World Bank Consultant, July 1999) highlighted the following issues:
(a) the traditional spate systems used by most farmers consist of temporary weirs constructed by
farmers from wadi-bed material, through which water is diverted into the primary canal intake and
then to adjacent fields. These structures are regularly destroyed by floods, and construction and
repair of weirs, embankments, and canals are communal activities organized by channel masters;
(b) in Tuban, the spate scheme is a large developed command area of about 11,000 hectares, based on
a seasonal river with an extremely small flow. Prior to unification, O&M was carried out by
Government with some assistance from cooperatives, but after unification the system collapsed,
and there is now low participation of both Government and water users in maintenance operations.
As a result, it is difficult to remove silt and debris from the weirs and canals. Problems identified
by farmners in focus groups include: (i) the lower incomes of sharecroppers; (ii) the inequitable use
of spate water by larger landowners; (iii) the lack of equipment and funds for O&M; and (iv) the
absence of a system for defining responsibilities and for sharing O&M costs for the schemes;
(c) in Zabid, the command area is about 15,000. The Tihama Development Authority is responsible
for O&M up to the branch canal level, while farmers take care of the tertiary and field systems.
However, inadequate budgets have severely limited the scope of O&M carried out by TDA, and
users complain of unreliable service and lack of access to equipment and other inputs. Problems
identified by farmers in focus groups include: (i) large landowners' expansion of agricultural lands
upstream, with the result that downstream farmers may receive no water during periods of low
rainfall; and (ii) the reluctance of large landowners to participate in the cost of maintaining the
spate system;
(d) in both wadis, and particularly in Zabid, respondents did not feel that public management of water
distribution and infrastructure has improved the living conditions of small farners and downstream
users. Also, the perception was that farmers with enough resources have resorted to using
groundwater to minimize the risks inherent in the variable and irregular spate flows, and this
carries its own risks for the watershed; and
(e) farmers in both wadis expressed a willingness to establish WUAs and contribute to scheme O&M,
but were concerned that the WUAs might be dominated by powerful landlords.
The second SA mission (see Working Paper 2, "Spate Irrigation Improvement Project (SIIP), Project
Preparation Report - Phase 2, Social Assessment," December 1999) was concerned with understanding the
complex sociological contexts of the two wadis as a precondition for establishing viable WJUAs. The team
was particularly interested in finding ways to ensure that the weaker segments of the population would be
included in creating the WUAs from the beginning of the project, and that this would be done with the
support of the village leadership. This mission found that:
(a) both wadis have a positive and dynarnic sociopolitical environment with respect to farmers'
attitudes toward and capacity for spate irrigation management and O&M. In village-level meetings,
they had clear ideas of what kinds of organizations would be most appropriate, and stressed the
- 116 -



need for training to improve their performance in operating the systems and to better deal with
group organization and management. However, they expressed concem that the WUAs would be
dominated by elites. Indeed, the mission team observed in the meetings that landlords seemed to
have the attitude that farmers are under their protection and incapable of making appropriate
decisions by themselves. This attitude is likely to become more explicit when project funds become
available. One of the key issues for project success, therefore, is how to structure the WUAs to
ensure that poor farmers have a voice and mitigate the risk that the WUAs would be dominated by
elites; and
(b) in weighing options for establishing WUAs, farmers concluded that strengthening existing informal
water users' groups and giving them the support they need would be the best way to ensure the
participation of small farmers in decision making and O&M.
The third SA mission (See Working Paper 3, "Yemen: Spate Irrigation Improvement Project (SIIP),
Project Pre-Appraisal Mission, Social Assessment, February 26-March 6, 2000," by Paolo Palmeri, FAO
Consultant) had the objective of better understanding the attitudes of the local leadership and farmers with
respect to proposed project activities, and especially: (i) the willingness of large landlords to participate in
cost recovery under the project; (ii) the acceptability to landlords of cost-sharing arrangements; and (iii) the
acceptability to farmers of the proposed institutional arrangements (the WUAs). This mission found that:
(a) landlords in both wadis felt positively about the project and understood how it would benefit their
communities. However, they were sensitive to the idea of participating in cost recovery. In Tuban,
this was mainly because of unresolved land rights issues following unification and their consequent
uncertainty about being able to reap the full benefits associated with these costs. After extension
discussions, the landlords agreed in principle to participate in cost sharing if suitable payment
modalities could be worked out. In Zabid, landlords initially expressed the view that farmers
should be solely responsible for all costs related to spate irrigation, but once they understood the
project proposal they indicated that sharing of both capital and recurrent costs appeared
reasonable; and
(b) farmers in both wadis expressed the same two concerns: (i) they want to participate in the project if
it results in equity in water allocation and water in their fields; and (ii) institutional arrangements
should ensure that large landowners do not dominate the WUAs.
Action Plan
The social assessment and other project preparation studies (see, in particular, Working Paper 4, "Yemen
Spate Irrigation Improvement Project, Policy and Institutional Setting for Irrigation in Yemen," by Ashok
Subramanian, April 12, 2000; and Working Paper 5, "Spate Irrigation Improvement Project (SIIP), Project
Preparation Report - Phase 2, Annex E, Institutional Development," December 1999), as well as
consultative workshops with Government officials held as part of the institutional assessment, have
highlighted the importance of combining physical works with institutional reform to achieve both efficiency
and sustainability of the spate irrigation schemes. Thus, the action plan is largely institutionally oriented.
Before the project is implemented however, certain key social issues need to be addressed.
Requirements for Project Implementation
The first and most important question is how to organize the WUAs to ensure that poor farmers have a
voice and that the WUAs would not be captured and dominated by large landholding interests. The
- 117 -



challenge is to facilitate the cooperation of rich and poor members under what might, at times, be difficult
circumstances.  Project approach is to work through democratic and inclusive WUAs, with intensive
coaching and monitoring, as discussed in the Strategy below.
Second, action is required from Government to ensure that the appropriate institutional framework is in
place. This is discussed in the Institutional Annex and will require Government to:
(a) issue a policy statement committing itself to the principles of user participation and cost sharing, to
a program of scheme rehabilitation and upgrading linked to effective participation, and to
progressive irrigation management transfer and restructuring of public irrigation agencies (issued
in July 2000);
(b) issue a decree providing for the initial establishment of WUAs under existing cooperative
legislation, and commitment to develop an agreed specific statute for WUAs and SWUFs under the
forthcoming irrigation law (condition of Board Presentation); and
(c) commit itself under the project to the principle that financing of any rehabilitation works would be
conditional on the prior formation of the concerned WUAs (Disbursement condition, Development
Credit Agreement).
This approach is designed to permit WUAs to become viable organizations capable of discharging their
essential functions, including the powers to enter into contracts, establish specialized units, enforce
decisions and impose sanctions, collect fees, and establish rights of way. The initial reforms should provide
only the minimum legal framework necessary for WUA members, and particularly the small water users, to
participate effectively in elaborating the reform agenda. Although this agenda is still evolving, its broad
outlines, including restructuring of MAI and support for private and cooperative activities, are generally
supported by donors, Government policy makers, the regional irrigation departments, and farmers.
Strategy
The project would concentrate on the range of activities required to develop an appropriate process for
transferring management of the spate schemes from Government to user groups. These activities would be
concerned with:
(a) building on the traditions of local cooperation and self-reliance, including partial user financing of
improvement works;
(b) supporting the formation of democratic associations of users, with equitable representation of all
user groups;
(c) following a logical sequence from initial awareness campaigns through user mobilization and
physical system improvements, to final participatory management of schemes; and
(d) building institutional capacity in the WUAs through training in participatory management.
- 118 -



Activities
The specific project activities fall into three major categories:
(a) introduction and development of PIM in the project area, including formation and capacity
building of water users' associations. This would involve: (i) an awareness campaign (year 1); (ii)
mobilization of water users (year 1&2); (iii) infrastructure improvements (years 2 to 5); and (iv)
capacity building for PIM and management transfer of secondary canals (years 3 to 5);
(b) transfer of irrigation management to the WUAs, and continued capacity building of the WUAs as
they assume increasing responsibilities. This would involve the same activities and timeframe
described above, with a focus on issues such as transfer incentives, operation and maintenance
costs, capacity to pay, project risks, and the organization of WUAs at progressively higher levels.
This component would also include the establishment of process indicators and conditions for: (i)
the release of funds for construction of infrastructure improvements (end year 1); and (ii) the
purchase of O&M equipment, if necessary (end year 3). These indicators would measure the
quality of participation (i.e., who makes key decisions; how decisions are made), as well as its
quantitative progress (i.e., how many WUAs are established). In addition, conditions for the start
of Phase 2 would be established (at end of year 4); and
(c) restructuring of the regional irrigation agencies to re-focus MAI field office activities toward
providing farmers with both more efficient services and access to resources (proposal by end year
5).
- 119 -



Additional
Annex No.: 14
Implementation Schedules
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(See attached)
- 120 -



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Irrigation Improvement Project
Implementation Schedules
if j2nd HaNf    1 at Half  |2nd Hal f   1 st Halt  |2nd Haf   1st Halt  2nd Hal   1st Half  |2nd Half    1 st Half  |2nd Half
ID ITaskName                                             Duration  I  Start  I Finish  |tr2 t)tr                                                   4         tCir2 Ct3!iW4       i  lrYt21Q-'3irmt 4 Otr1 qtr2 Qtr3      -4
i  Project Processing                                    30.9 wki      6/5/00     1/5/01     ^ _           93%
2      Appraisal                                           2.2 wks     6/5/00    6/19/00
3      Negotatians                                         0.5 wks     8/1/00     8/3/0o
4       Board Presentafion                                   0 wks     97/700     917/00
5       Effecfiveness                                        1 day     1/4/01     1/5/01
6
7  Pr-project Activities                                  106 wks  i615i/00    8/26/02         8            I *   _%
8      Socio-economicbaseline survey                        10 wks    8/29/00    11/6/00              0%
9      TA for Irrigation Law                                4 wks    10/3/00   10/30/00               0%
10      TA for organizing WUAs                               6 wks    7/16/02    8/26/02                                                      0%
11      TA for communication in Tuban and Zabid              4 wks    8115/00    9/11/00           0
12      Topographic survey                                  14 wks    9/26/00     1/1/01        i
13
N)   14  Project Implementation                                288.8 wtks    6t 9/00   12/30Y05    i
1S      Irrigation and Environment Management            288.8 wks    6/19/00   12/30v05    _  i           -
16          Formation of PIM organization                   47 wks     2/2/01   12/28/01                                         0%
17              Formation of WUAs                           47 wks     2Q2/01   12/28/01
18                   Contracting tor organizing WUAs        47 wks     2/2/01   12/28/01
19                       Phase l                            20 wks     2/2/01     /22/01
20                       Phase 11                           15 wks   6/22i01    10/5/01
21                       Phase III                          12 wks    10/5/01   12/28/01
Crifical                                        Baseline Milestone          2                    Rolled Up Split
Crifical Spill                                  Milestone                                        Rolled Up Task Progress
Critical Progress                               Summary Progress           E      T              Rolled Up Baseline Milestone <2
Project:P\IUNITS\MNSRE\              Task                       '                     Summary                                          Rolled Up Milestone .
ELHANBAL\YEMEN\PIP\lmpIsched1 .n
Date: 07/11/2000                      Split                                           Rolled Up Critical                               External Tasks
Task Progress                                   Rolled Up Critical Split                         Project Summary
Baseline                                        Rolled Up Critical Progress
Baseline Split                                  Rolled Up Task
Page 1



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Irrigation Improvement Project
Implementation Schedules
ID  TaskName                                             Durabon  |Start        Finish   Qtr2 Qtr3JQtr4GCtrl .  r'2 2rl b  tr4|Qir1 Qtr2|  r3[ Qtr| Ctrl Q1r2 Q |r3        | Git4trlQtr2 Qtr3lQtr4GQtrl Otr2|Qtr3l tr4
22          Preparng Draft Irrigaton Law                   53.9 wks    6/19/00    6/30/01               . _          :                                                     I          I
23          Improvenent of Spdt lrrIgaton Managemen         80 wks    5/25/01    12/6W02
24              Participation irrgation Management (MIS)    40 wks   5/25/01      3/1/02
25              Flood warning system                        30 wks    6/29/01    1/25/02
26              Spate management model                      30 wks   5/10/02    12/6/02
27          Procurement of 0&M equipment                    45 wks    10/5/01    6/16/02
28          Environmesnt mntgatton and enghancemnmnt r    230 wks      8/3/01   12/3G/05        |.
29              Soil Solidity/Salinity mapping in Tuban     20 wks     6/3/01   12/21/01
30              Upper watershed study                       40 wks   10/12/01    7/19/02        I
31              Monitoring and Awareness Activities        160 wks    12/6/02   12/30vO5        |                   .                                                                  _      _i__
32
33      Agrlcultural lntenaMlcaton                         245 wks    3/16/01   11/25/05        f              U   - .
34          Implementafion otan intensive demonstration pi  240 wks    3/16/01   10/21/OS                      -                                                                                                     0%
35          Carry out extension services, on contractual ba-  230 wks    6/29/01   11/25/05
36          Provide local and intematlonal technical asaistal  240 wks    3/16/01   10/21/05
37
38      Inatitutlonal Support                              248 wks    3301    12/30106                   .
39          Institutional assessment of the irr. Sector     40 wks    3/30/01     1/4/02                                        0.
40          Assisting GDI in developing guidelines for the P  30 wks   5/25/01   12/21/01
41          Monitoring and evaluation (M&E)                225 wks     9/7/01   12/30/05        .        ..         .   .      .
42          Preparation Studies for Phase 11                70 wks    7/26/02   11/28/03        [ i                                                                       0%
Critical                                        Baseline Milestone                               Rolled Up Splt
Critical Split                                  Milestone                                        Rolled Up Task Progress
Cntical Progress                                Summary Progress             7 =                 Rolled Up Baseline Milestone ()
Project:P\IUNITS\MNSRE\              Task                                             Summary                                         Rolled Up Milestone
ELHANBAL\YEMEN\PIPlrmpischedl .n
Date: 07/1 1/2000                    Split                                            Rolled Up Critical                              External Tasks
Task Progress                                   Rolled Up Critical Split                         Project Summary
Baseline                                        Rolled Up Critical Progress
Baseline Split                                  Rolled Up Task
Page 2



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Irrigation Improvement Project
Implementation Schedules
I  lit   2ndl!  !..i lt HaN   ! 2nd HaH   ! lst H!   !na!              2nd H.-f  1 ist Half  |2nd Haf   l ist H,lal    2nd .a'
ID  TaskName                                             Duration  |  Start n   Finish   Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4H Qtr 1  tr2 Otr 3 Qtr4 |Qtr 1 1Qtr2 1Qtr3 |0tr4 OQtr 1  tr2 Qtr 3 Qtr4 O0tr 1 10tr2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 |Qtr I lQtr 2 |Qtr 3 1Itr 4
43
44      Implmentation of rehabilitation works              158 wks    8/31/01    9/11004        j%
46          Wadi Tubmn                                     142 wks    8/31/01    5121104                                                                                              0%
46              Preparation of final design                 25 wks    8/31/01    222/022
47              Preparation of bidding documents             8 wks   2/22/02    4119/02
48              Bidding                                     21 wks    5/17102   10/11/02                                                           0%
49                  Issueof bid                              Owks    5/17/02    5/17/02                                                     17
50                   Bid openning                            6 wks   5/17/02    6/28/02
51                   Bid evaluation                          8 wks   6/28/02    8/23/02
52                  IDA 'no objection'                       3 wks    6/23/02    9/13102
53                   Contract Award                          4wks    9/13/02   10/11/02
54              Construction                                80 wks    11/8/02    5/21/04        j I                                                       U _
|    55              Headworks                              30 wks   12/20/02    7/18/03        ./1
N) 58                   Primary irrigation system              50 wks    12/6/02   11121/03                                                                                   %
57                   Secondary irrgation system             60 wks   11/22/02    1/16/04                                                                                    0%
58                   Tertiary irrigation system             80 wks    11/8/02    5/21/04                                                                                 \           0%
59                   Rehabilitation of 47 km of roads       60 wks    2/2v03.  4/23/04                                                                                .0%
60                   Wadi protection works                  40 wks      5/9/03    2/13v04      0i/%
61              Procurement of water measurement device     25 wks      7/4/03   12/26/03       j                                                                          '0%
62
63          Wadi Zabid                                     158 wks    8Y31/01    9/10Y04        I                   ;_ %
Critical                                        Baseline Milestone                               Rolled Up Split
Critical Split                                  Milestone                                        Rolled Up Task Progress
Critical Progress                               Summary Progress                11 Rolled Up Baseine Milestone (>
Project:P\!UNITS\MNSRE\              Task                                      '      Summary                                          Rolled Up Milestone        <,>
ELHANBAL\YEMEN\PIP\lmplschedl.n 11_=_ n
Date: 07/11/2000                      Split                                           Rolled Up Critical                               External Tasks
Task Progress                                   Rolled Up Crntical Split                         Project Summary
Baseline                                        Rolled Up Critical Progress
Baseline Split                                  Rolled Up Task
Page 3



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Irrigation Improvement Project
Implementation Schedules
_________________________________________________________________________  If  2nd_Ha   I1st_Hall   2nd Hal  I1st Half   2nd Halt  1st Halt H           2nd Hal   1st Half   2nd Hal   1stHalf   2nd Half
ID  TaskName                                           Duration  I  Start  | Finish   Qtr2 Otr3 (3Q4! 051  tQtr2fr 3Q   0tr4 Irl |Qr2 IQtr31  4Qtr  1t IQr2 0r3 3 r4 Qtr 1IQtr2103 Qtr IQtri 'Q2 lQtr3 Qtr4
64              Preparation of final design                40 wks   8131/01     6/7/02                                                 0%
65              Preparation of bidding documents           10 wks    6/7/02    8/16/02                                                     o
66              Bidding                                    24 wks    8/16/02   1/31/03
67                  Issue of bid                            0 wks   8/16/02    8/16/02
68                  Bid openning                            6 wks   8/16/02    9/27/02
69                  Bid evaluation                          8 wks   9/27/02   11/22/02                                                           %
70                  IDA noobjection'                        4wks  11/22102   12/20/02
71                  Contract Award                          6 wks   12/20/02    1/31/03
72              Construction                              S0 wks    2128tO3    911004      .                                                                  i.     iI  ,0            %|
73                  Headworks                              50 wks    414/03    3/19/04      .0%
75                  Tertiary Irrigation system             80 wks   2/28/03    9/10/04            I                                                                                     0%
76                  Rehabilitation of 35 km of roads       60 wks    5/9/03     7/2/04                           .1/.
77                  Wadi protection works                  40 wks   7/18/03    4/23/04                                                                                       0%.
78              Procurement of water measurement device    30 wks  10/10/03     57/04                                                                                           0%
Crifical                                       Baseline Milestone          3                   Rolled Up Split
Critical Split                                 Milestone                                       Rolled Up Task Progress
CrtiGal Progress                               Summary Progress                                Rolled Up Baseline Milestone <
Project:P\!UNITS\IVINSRE\            Task                     '                     Summary                                         Rolled Up Milestone
ELHANBAL\YEMEN\PIP\lmplsched1 .n
Date: 07/11/2000                     Split                                          Rolled Up Critical                              External Tasks
Task Progress                                  Rolled Up Criical Split                         Project Summary
Baseline                                       Rolled Up Critical Progress
Baseline Spit                                  Rolled Up Task
Page 4



MAP SECTION






42                            44                             46-                             48                              50                              52                             54'
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PHASE I IRRIGATION PROJECTS                                                                                        SSAUDI   ARABIA
PHASE I IRRIGATION PROJECTS (PROPOSED)
o     TOWNS AND VILLAGES
20                              03    GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
      NATIONAL CAPITAL                                  0  25  50  75  100 KILOMETERS
PRIMARY ROADS                                     r
0     25    50      75    100 MILES
SECONDARY ROADS
WADIS                                                                                                              -            \
- - -      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                             _         a  S          /
_   Saddat ash Shuqqch    Ij   \O   
This mop was produced by the Mop Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                i                                                                                18
The boundories, colors, denominations and onyother information shown
on this map do not imply, on the port ofl The World Bank Group, any
judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
occeptnce of such boundaries .
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
To ZahronThm
(    Saadah
S ~    ~     ~~~ ~To
~~l Haz/mSi                                                   - AGhuo
ui ~~~i~~oyc~~~o *A  r   ~ ~ ~ ~~                       Hoy
N                            /        I y'~~~~~~~~--    So~~~fir  shalwoh
.Y\    4   Az  oh     Mahwt       Sana'a  M~7AMgoi                                                                      lhya               ,
Al Monsuriy  *DFtamar ~~                  ~A                 ar                  A Gh   o
oys  lbb*   ih n0
'5    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~uu
~~    42' /  DJIBOUTI \ii~~~~~~~Hri
cc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a






IBRD 30791
/t''' ' ..... , ,,' REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
""   \' ,--    IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
WADI TUBAN SPATE IRRIGATION SYSTEM
b\\\\ XNubat Dukim                      ~'==f-  WADI
X\\ \ \\ /                             -          PROJECT BOUNDARY
>\\ \7          ,..- /                                 *-,_,     SJB-PROJECT LOCATIONS
ot\\ \\\\ob    1/   ,                   ===-t  ~~~~~E)(ISTING WEIRS
\  \l    /                                  ~~~~~~~~~~ASPHALT ROADS
I i  \ \ \ | 1 9                                             0     TOWNS/VILLAGES
A1 .AL ARAIS WEIR       * _ \  X   2
*.-I'  Al.lROBARSHAKAH                    0             5             10
KILOMETERS
*   '\       *   /  B2.2 ATH THALAB SYSTEMC|
Ii~~~~Scb
N                  B1.31.1  ALWAHTvIR WEB2.4 L BUSTN WEIR
\                \'\\\a\  7 
\\\   \   t-..                          B2.5 BURT SALEM COMPLEX|
B| B.2 MUGAHED WEIR            '\     LaiB.6 AL  ANSIA  EI
.A                                \~~~~~~~~".  \N\\  \    *   --E :   B.7OBRRIYADH|
_                                  ~~~~~~\~\ \\ BSabr        .     'N N
\\\\   \4 \       AlI
B\ .3 A T WE                                 Al Imad             -
This map was produced by the                                          0 0Jaw la
Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries. colors, denominations
and anyother information shown on
this map do not imply, on the port of
The World Bank Group, any judgment
on the legal status of any territory,or                                                       Shek uthr
any endorsement or acceptance of
such boundaries.
40\'                                                                                    5)0'
9  a          ~~~~S A U D I             ..                     
_ Jiddah     SAUDI
-z    n                                 7t  ,  o' OMAN
ERITRE  . -      REP. OF
&.,   YEMEN                             Little Aden
/,    ~        \^>G           :         Gvyion" v (Al Ghadir)
ETHIOPIA -                                  l   .....-
0AddibsA        SOMALIA          AABIAN                                      ulf  of  Aden
'0e   ,7    <  SEA
MARCH 2000






40'id     S       A U D I  5 AE
-    J~ddnh  A RA BI A
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                                              z                                     OMAN
IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                                                                                     ,.
WADI ZABID SPATE IRRIGATION SYSTEM                                                                              ERITR
-a-=f WADI                       ===lJ- DIVERSION STRUCTURES                                              /                en               -
PROJECT BOUNDARY             *    TRADITIONAL OGMAs                              H                       ETHIOPIA
- - -  SUB-PROJECT BOUNDARIES              ACCESS/FARM ROADS                            ,TIOI
TURNOUTS                           HIGHWAY                                                          -10                   SOMAL          ARA&'AN
CANALS                             BUILT-UP AREAS                                                                              '7
To Al Hodeidoh                                   \I       l_ 
t/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  / S \-tar:
IShobitah   GROUP-2   su  \ )S              \                z  \ X X                              * G  I2SbI
]~~~~~~~~~~~~~ d%    ] C'                                           T    R    D     -IO    <   |     >/Q   Prt)Ryyasn-Bagr 4 ti 
/ SubProject-5  SAh     \         k          _       T1FlNAL-           X*           Wdit Zabid              DIVERSION    STRUCTUREo e                  ST RUCTUR
*y   560U  19 hal               CanY'i  *>  GRQP2    Anr  |1~'&        G~VRSOUp11CAAL----
*aGROUP- 111 CAALS  /                        \          /        \        |         . ,,/._GROUP
TRADITIOlu.Atf~  ith  T R ADT--ON---4
______~  BaitAT  is                                                                                 __
I~~~~~~N ipled-5n on the le  ttso n ertr,o n nosentarUCUR
G >'GROUP-3 495 ha   /         canal 'R-
SubProject-S  /~~~~~~rjet-                                 1
/  ~~~~~  GROUP-2 risao ha~~~~~~~~~GRU-2c                                                        h                          C-
**    /  SubPraject-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.P,jct3Fl-90h
This map was prod.ced by the Map D-sign Unit of The Wo,ld BRAn.
>                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The bnundnrloies, colors,dnnominotions and anyother information shown   M
m                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on thin cmop do not imply, an tke part of The World Rank Grasp, any 
judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
ro                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~acceptance of such boundaries.  1
C),~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Is



