Page  1
CONFORMED 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3412-YEM 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT 
AGREEMENT 
(Irrigation Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated October 23, 2000 
 
Page  2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3412-YEM 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 23, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in 
the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Association has received a letter dated July 12, 2000, from the Borrower 
describing the Borrower’s irrigation management program (the Program), setting out certain 
measures required to carry out the Program and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the 
execution of the Program; 
 
(C) 
the Borrower has requested the Association’s support in the execution of the 
Program through a series of development credits over a period of approximately ten (10) years to 
be utilized by the Borrower for, and assisting the appropriate entities in, implementing the 
Program; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements" 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
(a) 
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the 
existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs 
(13) through (15): 
 
“12. 
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 18, 1999; and ‘Participating 
Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.” 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(b) 
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.” 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Duly Established WUA” means, a WUA (as this term is hereinafter defined), 
duly established and registered in accordance with the provisions of the Law referred to under 
paragraph (q) of this Section, and any and all implementing regulations relating thereto, whose 
general assembly and executive council have been duly elected; 
 
(b) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) (a), (2) (b), (3) and(4) set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to the Special Account; 
 
(d) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Borrower’s plan, dated March 21, 
2000, as such plan may be updated from time to time by agreement of the Borrower and the 
Association, for implementation of the Project in accordance with certain institutional, mitigating 
and monitoring measures to offset or reduce adverse environmental impacts to acceptable levels; 
 
(e) 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing on January 
1and ending on December 31; 
 
(f) 
“Governorate” means an administrative division of the Republic of Yemen; 
 
(g) 
“IC” means Irrigation Council, an organization whose objective is to ensure 
participation by Project Area farmers in shaping decisions pertaining to water management and the 
setting of operation and maintenance costs for irrigation schemes in the Project Area; 
 
(h) 
“MAI” means the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation of the Borrower; 
 
(i) 
“PIUs” means Project Implementation Units, the multi-disciplinary units 
consisting of local experts whose role is to supervise the implementation of the Project; 
 
(j) 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit to be maintained in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
Page  5
-
3
-
(k) 
“Project Area” means the Wadi Zabid area in the Hodeida Governorate and the 
Wadi Tuban area in the Lahej Governorate; 
 
(l) 
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(m) 
“SWUF” means Scheme Water User Federation, a conglomerate of WUAs (as 
this term is hereinafter defined) responsible for the carrying out of operation and maintenance 
activities within a given irrigation scheme, but excluding the scheme’s headworks; 
 
(n) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(o) 
“Steering Committee” means the committee to be maintained in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(p) 
"Sub-Project" means a specific activity financed or to be financed under Part A 
of the Project whose objective is to rehabilitate and improve all or part of an irrigation scheme in 
the Project Area; and 
 
(q) 
“WUAs” means Water User Associations established under Law No. 39 of the 
Borrower, dated December 19, 1998, as the same may be amended from time to time; each, 
individually, called a “WUA”. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen 
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,200,000). 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days (60) after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
Page  6
-
4
-
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to 
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of 
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time 
be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semi-annually 
on April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and 
October 1 commencing October 1, 2010, and ending April 1, 2040.  Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on April 1, 2020, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have 
been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semi-annual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of 
principal. 
Page  7
-
5
-
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, 
engineering and environmental standards and practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and the provisions of the Environmental Management Plan. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Page  8
-
6
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial and Other Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statement and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure or Project Management Reports, the 
Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) 
of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all records and documents (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records and 
documents; and 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
(iv) 
ensure that such records, documents and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order to enable the 
Borrower, not later than November 15, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which 
shall: 
 
(i) 
(A) set forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report, and (B) show separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; 
 
(ii) 
(A) describe progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report, and (B) explain variances between 
actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and 
 
(iii) 
set forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar 
quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
 
Section 4.03. Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall ensure that, annually, and commencing Fiscal Year 2001 until completion of the 
Project, funds shall be provided on a declining basis to pay for the operation and maintenance 
costs of all of the irrigation schemes in the Project Area, with the balance of said costs to be 
annually provided by farmers, all in accordance with a schedule agreed upon between the 
Borrower and the Association. 
 
Section 4.04. Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall ensure that, annually, and commencing Fiscal Year 2001 until completion of the 
Project, funds, in sufficient amounts, shall be provided, in accordance with a schedule agreed 
upon between the Borrower and the Association, to pay for the operation and maintenance costs 
Page  10
-
8
-
of all of the irrigation schemes in the Wadi Mawr, Wadi Rima’a and Wadi Siham areas in the 
Hodeida Governorate, and the Wadi Bana and Wadi Hassan areas in the Abyan Governorate. 
 
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 2002, establish, and thereafter 
maintain, a suitable system, acceptable to the Association, to recover an appropriate portion of the 
capital costs associated with the irrigation schemes in the Project Area. 
 
Section 4.06. In order to achieve the objectives of Part D (i) of the Project, the Borrower 
shall ensure that a draft law providing for a suitable legal framework governing irrigation and 
water resource management, including the establishment of WUAs, and satisfactory in substance 
to the Association, shall be prepared and submitted, by June 30, 2001, to the Borrower's 
Parliament for enactment. 
 
Section 4.07. Unless otherwise agreed by the Borrower and the Association, no Sub-
project shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Parts A 
(i) and A (ii) of the Project unless the Borrower shall have: (a) created a Duly Established WUA 
for purposes of undertaking the responsibility of, inter
alia
,
operating and maintaining all or part 
of the irrigation scheme in connection with which the Sub-project shall be carried out; (b) 
prepared suitable engineering designs relative to the Sub-project which shall have been found 
satisfactory by the Association; and (c) submitted to the Association, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, guidelines for the allocation, among farmers and land owners in 
the Project Area, of the operation, maintenance and capital costs associated with the Sub-projects 
to be carried out therein. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the financial management system referred to under Section 4.01 (a) of 
this Agreement has been established. 
 
Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  11
-
9
-
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
P.O. Box 175 
 
Sana'a 
 
Republic of Yemen 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
   
 
CENPLAN 2266 
 Sana'a 
CENPLAN 
YE 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
 
248423 
(MCI); 
or  202.477.6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
 
By /s/ Abdulwahab Al-Hajjri 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Inder K. Sud 
 
 
Acting Regional Vice President 
 
Middle East and North Africa 
Page  13
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
 
(Expressed in 
 SDR Equivalent)
%
of 
 Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods 
 
2,400,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 
100% of local 
expenditures (ex- 
factory cost); and 
90% of local 
expenditures 
for other items 
procured locally 
 
(2) 
Civil works for Sub-
projects 
 
(a) 
under Part A (i) 
 
of the Project 
 
(b) 
under Part A (ii) 
 
of the Project 
 
3,100,000 
 
3,800,000 
 
85% 
 
85% 
 
(3) 
 
Consultants’ services 
and training 
 
3,800,000  
100% 
 
(4) Project 
Management 
Costs 
 
1,500,000  
90% 
(5) Unallocated 
 
1,600,000 
 
TOTAL 
 _________ 
 16,200,000
Page  14
-
12
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower 
or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Project Management Costs" means expenditures incurred by PMU and 
the PIUs on account of utility charges, rent for office space, maintenance of vehicles, fuel, office 
supplies, banking charges, communication services, audit costs, travel costs, salaries and labor costs 
and other consumables but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent; (b) works under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent; (c) 
services under contracts for consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (d) services 
under contracts for individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (e) training; and 
(f) Project Management Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a 
separate special deposit account in the Central Bank of Yemen, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special 
Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project Management Report 
referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
 
(b) 
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal 
on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
Page  15
-
13
-
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such 
time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within the period of 
time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports. 
 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Association 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified 
by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-
month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement. 
Page  16
-
14
-
Page  17
-
15
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories. 
 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Credit pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  18
-
16
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
 
1. 
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Credit from the Credit Account under one or 
more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
2. 
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report. 
 
3. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the 
amount which the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, 
that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management 
Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000. 
Page  19
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in ensuring sustainable and efficient 
water conveyance, distribution and use through the rehabilitation of spate irrigation schemes in 
the Project Area and the introduction of participatory irrigation management therein. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Rehabilitation, Improvement and Protection of Spate Irrigation Infrastructure
Carrying out of a program, consisting of the provision of goods and consultants’ services, 
and the execution of civil works, to rehabilitate and improve the irrigation facilities in: (i) the 
Wadi Zabid area; and (ii) the Wadi Tuban area through, inter
alia
,
the carrying out of: (a) 
rehabilitation and improvement works at the farm, primary, headwork and Wadi levels; (b) flood 
protection works; and (c) a topographical survey, together with detailed designs and supervision 
of construction activities for high priority works. 
 
Part B
:
Irrigation, Environmental Management and Participatory Irrigation Management 
Programs
Carrying out of an irrigation and environmental management program, consisting of the 
provision of goods, training and consultants’ services, to: (i) establish WUAs in the Project Area; 
(ii) put in place a suitable management information system to ensure proper irrigation and 
management of the irrigation systems in the Project Area, secure efficient and equitable water 
distribution, and facilitate the carrying out of maintenance works; (iii) put in place a suitable 
flood warning system to improve the operation of gates at diversion weirs; (iv) develop suitable 
spate flow management models; and (v) support environmental mitigation and enhancement 
measures aimed at ensuring a sustainable management of water resources. 
 
Part C
:
Intensive Agricultural Demonstration Program
Carrying out of an intensive on-farm demonstration program, consisting of the provision 
of goods and consultants’ services, to increase agricultural production in the Project Area. 
 
Part D
:
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
Support to the Borrower, through the provision of 
consultants’ services, goods and 
training,
 to: (i) put in place a suitable legal framework governing irrigation and water resource 
management; (ii) formulate a suitable institutional reform program for the irrigation sector; (iii) 
regularly perform Project monitoring and evaluation activities; and (iv) carry out studies to be 
used for the preparation of a follow-on project. 
Page  20
-
18
-
Part E
:
Project Management Support
S
upport to PMU and the PIUs, through the provision of consultants’ services, goods and 
training, to strengthen its Project management capabilities. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005. 
Page  21
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
1. 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, published by the 
Association in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, in September 1997 and in 
January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the 
Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
 
2. 
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member countries” 
and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to 
cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
(c) Notification 
and 
Advertising
The invitation to pre-qualify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under 
paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
Page  22
-
20
-
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $2,000,000 per contract, and goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $1,500,000, may, be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. 
International and National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract to be procured under the procedures described 
under paragraph 2 of Part C of this Schedule, the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct contracting 
or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  23
-
21
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers", published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of 
consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-Cost 
Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, exclusive of those 
referred to under paragraph 2 of this Part C, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services under Part D (i) of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  24
-
22
-
4. 
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may, with 
the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  25
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. 
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination
1. 
The Borrower shall vest responsibility for the implementation of the Project in MAI. 
 
2. 
For purposes of assisting MAI in the implementation of the Project and in order to ensure 
proper coordination of the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain PMU, within 
MAI, with professional staff in adequate numbers whose qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference shall be acceptable to the Association. PMU shall operate under the auspices of the 
Steering Committee to be maintained by the Borrower, with membership acceptable to the 
Association, whose main responsibility shall be to oversee the implementation of the Project.  
The functions of PMU shall include, inter
alia
,
responsibility for: (i) the procurement and 
disbursement processes under the Project and the supervision of the work of the PIUs; (ii) 
monitoring Project performance and implementation progress in accordance with the targets and 
indicators agreed upon with the Association; (iii) management of the technical assistance 
components of the Project; (iv) preparation, for submission to the Association, of annual work 
programs and updated procurement plans; and (v) preparation, for submission to the Association, 
of the reports referred to under paragraph B (b) (i) of this Schedule.  Key staff of PMU shall 
consist of a director, a Project engineer, a procurement officer, an institutional specialist, a 
financial management specialist, a communication specialist and a monitoring and evaluation 
officer. 
 
3. 
Each PIU shall be responsible for the supervision of the implementation of the Project in 
the Governorate in which the respective PIU shall operate. 
 
B. 
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on 
an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association: (i) on a quarterly basis, commencing April 30, 2001, a report on the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and 
(ii) on or about September 30, 2003, a report, to constitute the basis upon which the mid-term 
review shall take place, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section and consolidating the results of the reports 
referred to under sub-paragraph (b) (i) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
Page  26
-
24
-
(c) 
review with the Association, by December 31, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) (ii) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
C. Program 
Milestones
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than December 31, 2003, a report 
describing progress in the fulfillment of the actions referred to in the Program, including the 
attainment of the milestones referred to in the Annex to this Schedule and required to be met as a 
pre-requisite to prepare a follow-on project; and 
 
(b) 
review with the Association, not later than June 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures which the Association shall deem appropriate to prepare a follow-on 
project. 
Page  27
-
25
-
Annex 
to 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Program Milestones 
 
1. 
Duly Established WUAs relating to the main canal, all of the secondary canals and all of 
the tertiary canals in the Wadi Tuban area, and to the main canal down to the field turnout in the 
Wadi Zabid area, have been created and are fully operational. 
 
2. 
The transfer of the irrigation management responsibilities for all of the main, secondary 
and tertiary canals in the Wadi Tuban area has been completed. 
 
3. 
The process of transferring the irrigation management responsibilities for the main canal 
down to the field turnout in the Wadi Zabid area has commenced. 
 
4. 
Farmers have paid their share of operation and maintenance costs of irrigation schemes in 
the Project Area, in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.03 of this Agreement, for three 
(3) successive years. 
 
5. 
The Borrower has paid its share of operation and maintenance costs of irrigation schemes 
in the Project Area, in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.03 of this Agreement, for three 
(3) successive years. 
 
6. 
An IC in the Wadi Tuban area has been established and is fully operational. 
 
7. 
The process of establishing an IC in the Wadi Zabid area has commenced. 
 
8. 
Sixty percent (60%) of the rehabilitation works under Part A (i) of the Project has been 
completed and eighty percent (80%) of the rehabilitation works under Part A (ii) of the Project 
has been completed. 
 
9. 
The establishment of SWUFs at the irrigation scheme level in the Wadi Tuban area has 
been completed. 
 
10. 
The process of establishing SWUFs at the irrigation scheme level in the Wadi Zabid area 
has commenced. 
 
11. 
The draft law referred to under Section 4.06 of this Agreement has been enacted, 
promulgated and published in the Borrower’s official gazette. 
 
12. 
The preparation of activities to be carried out under a follow-on project has commenced. 
Page  28
-
26
-
Merlin Ponraj 
N:\YEMEN\Irrigation\Irrigdca.doc 
08/28/00 3:08 PM
 
