                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR00001125



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                     (IDA-34120)



                                        ON A

                                       CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF {SDR 16.2 MILLION
                           (US$ 21.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

                                       FOR AN

                        IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT



                                     June 25, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2008)
                     Currency Unit = YRial
                                   =       US$1
                       US$1.55663=         SDR 1
                               US$1 = 200 YRial

                               FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1     ­    December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADP     agriculture Demonstration Program
APL A     daptable Program Loan
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
DCA D     evelopment Credit Agreement
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
FAO     Food and Agriculture Organization
FM Fin      ancial Management
GDI     General Directorate of Irrigation
GOY     Government of Yemen
IC I     rrigation Council
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA I    nternational Development Association
IIP     Irrigation Improvement Project
IMT     Irrigation Management Transfer
LWCP    Land and Water Conservation Project
MAI     Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS     Management Information System
MOF M     inistry of Finance
MOPIC   Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
MWE     Ministry of Water and Environment
NWRA    National Water Resources Authority
O&M     Operation and Maintenance
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objectives
PIM     Participatory Irrigation Management
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PMU     Project Management Unit
PPU P    roject Preparation Unit
SA So      cial Assessment
SC Ste     ering Committee
TDA T    ihama Development Authority
WSSP    Water Sector Support Project
WUA     Water User Association
WUG     Water User Group

                             Vice President:     Daniela Gressani
                          Country Director:      Emmanuel Mbi
                            Sector Director:     Laszlo Lovei
                          Country Manager:       Benson Ateng
                            Sector Manager:      Vijay Jagannathan
                         Task Team Leader:       Ahmed Shawky

                                        REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                         IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                                  CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...............................................1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...............................................7
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ..........................................................................................15
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.........................................................24
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance......................................................25
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................27
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners...........31
 ANNEX 1: Project Costs and Financing......................................................................32
 ANNEX 2: Outputs by Component ..............................................................................34
 ANNEX 3: Economic and Financial Analysis.............................................................55
 ANNEX 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........62
 ANNEX 5: Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................64
 ANNEX 6: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ..............................................72
 ANNEX 7: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................74
 ANNEX 8:. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .................74
 No comments were received.........................................................................................74
 ANNEX 9: List of Supporting Documents...................................................................75

  MAP : IBRD 36937

A. Basic Information

                                                                       IRRIGATION
Country:                Yemen, Republic of      Project Name:          IMPROVEMENT
                                                                       PROJECT
Project ID:             P062714                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-34120
ICR Date:               06/25/2009              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                       YEMEN
Original Total
                        XDR 16.2M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 15.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process         Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/24/1999     Effectiveness:                            01/18/2001
Appraisal:             06/05/2000     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              09/07/2000     Mid-term Review:                          10/25/2004
                                      Closing:              06/30/2006          12/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory            Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                    Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                           Yes                                      None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                             2                  3
Flood protection                                              16                   9
General public administration sector                          17                  21
Irrigation and drainage                                       49                  57
Roads and highways                                            16                  10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                                13                13
Environmental policies and institutions                         25                25
Law reform                                                      13                13
Rural policies and institutions                                 24                24
Water resource management                                       25                25


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:            Daniela Gressani                Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:          Emmanuel Mbi                    Inder K. Sud
Sector Manager:            Narasimham Vijay Jagannathan    Doris Koehn
Project Team Leader:       Ahmed Shawky M. Abdel Ghany Usaid I. El-Hanbali
ICR Team Leader:           Ahmed Shawky M. Abdel Ghany
ICR Primary Author:        Ahmed Shawky M. Abdel Ghany




                                             ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project is the first phase of an adaptable program lending (APL). The main
objectives of the Phase I project would be to ensure: (i) sustainable water use in two spate
irrigation project area of Tuban and Zabid, covering 26,000 ha, through (a) rehabilitation
and modernization of infrastructure, and (b) participatory irrigation management (PIM);
and (ii) increase in agricultural productivity and rural incomes through implementation of
an intensive demonstration program.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target        Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from          Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval            Target        Completion or
                                             documents)            Values         Target Years
                Sustainable water use through: (a) rehabilitate off-farm rural infrastructure (%

Indicator 1 :   value of works); (b) improve PIM (% of target number of water-user
                organizations formed and empowered)

                                                               Water
                                                               management
                                                               improvement

                                          Water                targets met by
Value                                                          at least 80%
quantitative or 0.00                      management           per the         Target already met

Qualitative)                              improvement                          by at least 80%.
                                          targets 100% met.    (amended)
                                                               DCA
                                                               milestones to
                                                               move to
                                                               APL2.
Date achieved 01/08/2001                  12/31/2008           12/31/2008      12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Areas covered by the Agricultural Demonstration Program (hectares).
Value
quantitative or 0.00                      5,000 hecatres per                   4,005 hectares
Qualitative)                              the PAD

Date achieved 01/08/2001                  12/31/2008                           12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                               iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                               approval         Revised       Completion or
                                             documents)      Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Number of established/empowered WUAs and ICs

Value                                     Target 444 WUAs,

(quantitative  0.00                       32 WUAs and 2                     Target fully met.
or Qualitative)                           ICs are formed and
                                          empowered.
Date achieved 01/08/2001                  12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :  %Value of rehabilitation civil works completed (spate irrigation; flood
               protection; feeder roods; and urgent water supply).
                                                             80% to 100%
                                                             completion of

Value                                                        schemes; per

(quantitative  0.00                       Full completion of the (amended)  Target 100% met.
or Qualitative)                           spate schemes.     DCA
                                                             milestones to
                                                             move to APL
                                                             2.
Date achieved 01/08/2001                  12/31/2008         12/31/2008     12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                         IP                Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     12/27/2000           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     03/08/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     10/25/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.53
  4     03/12/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.67
  5     08/15/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.53
  6     10/11/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.74
  7     04/09/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      2.42
  8     10/02/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      2.72
  9     12/17/2003          Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                      2.72
  10    05/04/2004          Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                      2.99
  11    06/18/2004          Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                      3.09
  12    12/16/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      3.76



                                               iv

  13  04/27/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory            5.07
  14  10/31/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory            7.48
  15  12/22/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory            8.12
  16  06/13/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    11.06

  17  06/29/2006         Moderately            Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory           11.20

  18  12/28/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    14.24
  19  06/21/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    16.58
  20  12/05/2007        Satisfactory           Satisfactory           18.39
  21  06/17/2008        Satisfactory           Satisfactory           19.40
  22  12/19/2008        Satisfactory           Satisfactory           21.31



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

According to several archeological and historical evidences, Yemen is the first country in the
world where spate irrigation was practiced. This unique system witnessed its zenith during the
Shebean period in the first millennium BC. The intense development of trade after the Islamic
period may have promoted the spread of spate irrigation from Yemen to other arid and semi-arid
regions. By the late 1990s, use of Yemen's water resources was deemed to be unsustainable, due
not onl y to the overexploitation of the non-renewable groundwater resources but also to the
neglect of traditional irrigation systems fed by the (relatively renewable) spate waters. To help
address this issue, the Government of Yemen (GOY) through the Ministry of Agriculture and
Irrigation (MAI) undertook to prepare an Irrigation Improvement Project (IIP) and to implement
it with assistance from the International Development Association (IDA) under an Adaptable
Program Lending (APL) credit. The project was planned to be prepared and implemented in two
phases, namely (i) Phase I, covering schemes in two wadis (Zabid in Hodeidah governorate and
Tuban in Lahej governorate) with a total command area of about 26,000 ha, and (ii) Phase II,
covering schemes in five other main wadis (Bana, Hassan, Mawr, Rima'a and Siham) with a total
command area of about 64,000 ha, and/or smaller schemes in other wadis (Hijr, Ahwar, Meifa'a,
Surdud, Harad and Raysan) that would meet the selection criteria.

IIP Phase I preparation studies were themselves undertaken in two phases. Phase 1 comprised an
inventory s urvey, c haracterization a nd pr eliminary s tudy of s pate i rrigation s chemes i n f ive
wadis (Mawr, Zabid, Tuban, Bana and Hassan). Through a ranking analysis, two of these wadi
schemes (Tuban and Zabid) were selected for more detailed study in Phase II. The rationale was
that the two selected schemes would provide the best opportunity to serve as models or pilots for
developing a nd de monstrating t he pa rticipatory i rrigation m anagement ( PIM) approach t o
decentralization and transfer of irrigation scheme management responsibilities to appropriate
local i nstitutions. T o execute t he pr eparation s tudies f or t he s elected W adi Zabid a nd W adi
Tuban schemes, a Project Preparation Unit (PPU) was formed within the MAI. National and
international c onsultants w ere engaged b y t he PPU t o unde rtake t he studies i n Y emen. A
Japanese grant m anaged t hrough t he W orld Bank provided t he principal funding for project
preparation. GOY, the World Bank, IFAD and FAO/IC contributed additional funding and/or
resources.

Following on from project preparation, the IIP Phase I Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was
finalized and issued on August 9, 2000. Financing of the total project cost of US$25.60 million
was pl anned t o be pr ovided b y: ( i) a n IDA c redit of S DR 16.2 m illion ( US$21.3 m illion
equivalent, 83.2%); (ii) direct contributions from beneficiaries totaling US$1.2 million (4.7%),
and (iii) GOY contributions from its own resources amounting to US$3.10 million (12.1%). The
project implementation period was planned to be 5 years.

Government-level in stitutional a rrangements f or p roject imp lementation, a s e nvisaged a t
appraisal, included: (i) the MAI as the agency to assume overall authority and responsibility on
behalf of the GOY, (ii) a Steering Committee (SC) to oversee implementation, comprising the



                                                   1

Minister of the MAI as chairman and five further key persons including the project director; (iii)
a central Project Management Unit (PMU) in Sana'a for coordination and general supervision,
led by the project director and staffed by technical, procurement, financial, administrative and
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) personnel; and (iv) two Project Implementation Units (PIUs),
one in Zabid and one in Tuban, for supervising implementation activities at the project sites,
each staffed by a director, an en gineer, an ag riculturalist, an i nstitutional s pecialist an d an
accountant. The PIUs were to work closely with the relevant regional agencies, the Tihama
Development Authority (TDA) in W adi Z abid a nd t he L ahej R egional A gricultural O ffice
(RAO) in Wadi Tuban.

The p roject co mmencement d ate w as J anuary 1 , 2 001 an d t he cr edit ef fectiveness d ate w as
January 18, 2001. Earlier, in July 2000, the PMU in Sana'a was established with a director and
staff including specialists (civil servants or consultants) in the fields of irrigation, agronomy,
institutional development, publicity, pr ocurement, f inancial m anagement a nd M &E. P IUs i n
Zabid and Tuban were formed at the same time. The PMU and PIUs remained fully operational
during t he e xecution of t he pr oject. A lso, i n J uly 2000, t he S C w as established under the
chairmanship of the Minister of the MAI and included the Deputy Minister of the MAI, the
Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (MOPIC), the Deputy
Minister of the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Director General of the General Directorate of
Irrigation (GDI), the Director General of Planning & Monitoring MAI, and the PMU director
member/secretary. Project implementation was eventually carried out over a total period of 8
years with essentially no change in total project cost. The project closure date was December 31,
2008.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The P DOs o f t he A PL P hase I p roject w ere t o en sure: ( i) s ustainable an d efficient w ater
conveyance, distribution and use in the two spate irrigation schemes of wadis Tuban and Zabid,
through rehabilitation and PIM; and (ii) increase in agricultural productivity and rural incomes,
through i mplementation of a n i ntensive a griculture de monstration pr ogram ( ADP). T he ke y
indicators are as follows:

  Key Indicators                                                   PAD Targets
  Indicators for both PDOs (i) and (ii):
   Number of established and empowered water user                   443 WUGs (230 Tuban and 213
    organizations (attributed mainly to Component B (PIM), as        Zabid); 32 WUAs (16 Tuban
    explained below).                                                and 16 Zabid); 2 ICs (1 Tuban
                                                                     and 1 Zabid).
   Incremental rural areas benefiting from the spate                Improved irrigation and flood
    rehabilitation / modernization and flood protection works        control on 26,000 ha (11,000 ha
    (attributed mainly to Component A but also to Components         Tuban and 15,000 ha Zabid).
    B, C and D, as explained below in Section 3.2).
  Indicator for PDO (ii) only:
   Increased productivity per hectare and farmer income             Increased productivity and
    (attributed mainly to Component C (ADP) but also to              incomes from 5,000 ha of
    Components B and D, as explained below in Section 3.2).          demonstration farms.




                                                     2

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification.

There has been no considerable revision as to the key PDOs and respective indicators. However,
some of t he i ndicators were r ephrased or s implified pe r t he a pproved D evelopment C redit
Agreement (DCA) amendments that have taken place during the project lifetime. Sections 1.7
and 2.3 b elow elaborate on t hese DCA a mendments a nd on t he associated revision of t he
indicators, respectively.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The direct project beneficiaries identified in the PAD are the farmers, farm workers and families
whose livelihoods will have been improved by the project interventions. T hese beneficiaries
were estimated t o t otal 150,000 pe ople i n 27,000 hous eholds. O ther i dentified be neficiaries
include:

  a) The MAI including regional agencies;

  b) Water user organizations established and empowered by the project, including canal-level
      water u ser groups (WUGs) an d w ater u ser associations ( WUAs) and two w adi-level
      Irrigation Councils (ICs); and

  c) Non-irrigation ( domestic) w ater s upply us ers, m ostly i n t he s urrounding r ural a reas,
      benefiting from the reduced over-extraction of groundwater resulting from the project.

1.5 Original Components

The project's original components, all relating to interventions in the Wadi Tuban and Wadi
Zabid areas, were:

  a) Rehabilitation, Improvement and Protection of Spate Irrigation Infrastructure (Component
      A), including r ehabilitation a nd i mprovement w orks f or i rrigation s ystems, f lood
      protection works and roads, together with associated surveys, hydraulic modeling, detail
      design and construction supervision;

  b) Irrigation a nd E nvironment M anagement a nd P articipatory Irrigation M anagement
      (Component B), covering: (i) establishment of and support for P IM organizations, (ii)
      development o f s pate irrigation ma nagement systems in cluding w ater ma nagement
      information s ystems ( MIS), f lood w arning s ystems, s pate m anagement m odel a nd
      hydrological monitoring, (iii) provision of operation and maintenance (O&M) equipment,
      and (iv) environmental mitigation and enhancement measures, including groundwater and
      hydraulic m onitoring, u pper w atersheds s tudy, and W adi T uban s oil s alinity/sodicity
      study/mapping;




                                                  3

   c) Intensive A griculture Demonstration P rogram ( Component C ), covering l arge s cale
      demonstrations f or a griculture i mprovements a nd a ssociated extension s ervices
      development and support including technical assistance (TA); and

   d) Institutional S trengthening a nd C apacity Building ( Component D ), covering ir rigation
      sector i nstitutional a nd l egal f ramework de velopment s upport, P hase II pr oject
      preparation, and establishment of and support to the PMU and PIUs.

1.6 Revised Components

None, but there were changes within components as explained in Section 1.7 below.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

A number of amendments to the DCA) were made during the course of the project.
Firstly, in August 2003, the DCA w as amended t o allow for C omponent A i mprovements
covering:

   a) Rehabilitation (including asphalting) of existing service roads for improved canals and
      access roads connecting the project-served villages and market centers within the project
      area;

   b) Community participation works, through permitting civil works of less than US$10,000
      per contract and up to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$1,200,000 to be executed
      directly through the concerned WUAs; and

   c) Shopping for small works, through permitting works of less than US$30,000 per contract
      and up to an aggregate not exceeding US$500,000 to be procured under lump-sum fixed-
      price domestic contracts awarded on the basis of shopping for three quotations.

About t wo years l ater, in O ctober 2005 , the D CA w as am ended and t he cl osing d ate w as
extended f rom J une 30, 2006 t o June 30, 2007 . T hen, i n June 2007 , the D CA w as f urther
amended and the closing date was extended from June 30, 2007 t o December 31, 2008. T he
extensions were to allow for: (i) completion of civil works; and (ii) applying some project design
changes ai med at i mproving p roject i mpact, as ex plained b elow. T he ch anges w ere ef fected
through DCA amendments only (rather than through first-order project "restructuring" involving
changes to the PDOs or substantial project design changes). These DCA amendments were as
follows:

   a) October 2005 (as a result of the "Mid Term Review" undertaken in late 2004). To help
      expedite t he t hen-lagging c ivil w orks ( Component A ), t he a mendment a llowed f or
      increased f armer ow nership vi a a dministration/execution of c ommunity-level s pate
      irrigation works at the community level, through clarification of the 2003 amendment
      relating t o W UA c ontract w orks. T he c larification de fined t he a rrangements f or c ost
      sharing (in c ash and i n ki nd). Details a re p rovided i n Annex 2. T he amendment also
      simplified the disbursement condition included in the original DCA which specified that



                                                4

        civil works could start only after WUA establishment. Scheme headworks and main canals
        were deemed to be public infrastructure, and the disbursement condition was amended to
        be a pplicable onl y i n t he c ase o f t he ( quasi-private) s econdary and community-level
        tertiary canals. This allowed for headworks and main canal works to be started in advance
        of establishment of WUAs for the lower-order canals; and

   b) June 2007 ( to make use of project cost savings). It was decided that available unused
        project funding should be directed towards applying lessons learned and piloting fresh
        development ideas in a third wadi (Wadi Ahwar in Abyan Governorate). W adi Ahwar
        was shown to enjoy more favorable enabling conditions than either Wadi Zabid or Wadi
        Tuban. Activities introduced into the project included: (i) completion of feasibility study
        and designs for rehabilitation of the wadi's spate diversion system and flood protection
        works (including application of fresh ideas for developing the potential for "conjunctive
        use" involving also groundwater usage to help to improve the socio-economic viability of
        spate irrigation), all to be implemented under the recently-approved Water Sector Support
        Project (WSSP); and (ii) execution of small urgent works for protection of villages from
        flooding and for rural water supply. Details are provided in Annex 2.

Why/how were the funds allocated to Component B significantly decreased, and those
allocated to Component A significantly increased, without compromising the PDOs?

Per the ICR review meeting, the IDA task team was requested to elaborate on w hy/how the
IDA/GOY funds allocated to Component B were significantly decreased, while those allocated
to Component A were significantly increased, without affecting the PDOs. The sections below
provide elaborations. Throughout the project lifetime (FY2000 to FY09) there have been three
main causes which inevitably changed the funds allocated to Components A and B, as follows.

(1) Cost reductions under Component B and cost increases under Component A:

Project c ost s avings in IDA c ommitments w ere e stimated a t U S$3.5 millio n in F Y07/FY08
(comparing cost estimates between FY2000 and FY2007). These savings helped to reallocate
funds across project components, particularly from Component B to Component A. The origins
of the cost savings were:

   a) Savings in goods and equipment, due to GOY/MAI obtaining water gates from a parallel
        Japan-funded grant rather than from IIP. T his reduced the IDA allocation intended for
        funding the Goods/Equipment under Component A and also helped reduce corresponding
        IDA funds allocated to Component B(iii) ("provision of O&M equipment", which would
        have c ost U S$3.8 m illion pe r t he P AD). T o e ffect t hese s avings, IDA di sbursement
        Category 1 on Goods/Equipment was officially revised from SDR 2.4 million (per original
        DCA) to SDR 0.9 million; and

   b) Other technical savings (in consultancy services), particularly due to resorting selectively1
        to hi ring na tional r ather t han i nternational c onsultants a cross IIP c omponents. A t

1During implementation the Borrower and implementing agency have been reticent as to using "Borrowed funds"
to recruit international consultants.


                                                     5

      appraisal, in hindsight the appraisal teams envisaged a sizable number of international
      consultants ( man/days) particularly und er C omponent B . G radually, as t he pr oject
      progressed (and particularly after the Social Mobilization Teams achieved progress under
      Component B), the MAI and IDA teams reworked the consultancy plans by FY04, in
      order to make use of the on-the-job knowledge/skills accruing to the national consultants
      and to MAI/PMU/PIUs. For instance, GDI executed the "upper watersheds" study (under
      Component B(iv)), which would have otherwise cost US$0.3 million (per the PAD) if
      executed by international consultants. The same applies to the groundwater and hydraulic
      monitoring activities and the "soil salinity/sodicity" study in Tuban (which per the PAD
      would have cost US$0.6 million and US$0.2 million respectively), both under Component
      B(iv).

While the above are deemed positive (efficiency-caused) cost savings, on the negative side the
following issues have also resulted in reducing the cost of Component B while increasing the
cost of Component A (as explained further in Section 2.2 below):

   a) Subcomponent B(ii) on "improving spate water management" (US$0.9 million per the
      PDA) was not duly implemented (particularly in Wadi Tuban), due to the lack of capacity
      at NWRA and MAI/GDI needed for the two agencies to cooperate toward executing the
      activities, and

   b) Funds allocated to Category 2 on c ivil works (for Component A) were increased due to
      escalated p rice/physical co ntingencies, o ften associated w ith t he d elay i n co ntract
      execution (which attributes to lack of capacity of national contractors as noted below in
      Section 2.2).

(2) Community contribution to capital and O&M costs:

Also, starting FY05, the community contributions (which thanks to the 2003 a nd 2005 D CA
amendments w ere m ade "t argeted", t o s ustain the f eeder s ubsystem) helped t o r educe t he
respective IDA allocation to Components A and B (subcomponent B(iii) on "provision of O&M
equipment"). These contributions amounted to a total of US$0.3 million in FY09. Empowering
the c ommunities t hrough t hese t wo D CA a mendments a lso he lped a chieve
(procurement/efficiency related) cost savings across project components.

(3) Lately added GOY funds and utilization of the unallocated IDA category:

Corresponding t o t he aforementioned s avings from IDA, i n F Y07 t he G OY a dditionally
allocated US$0.30 million to support Component A (particularly for Wadi Ahwar). Also the
project utilized the unallocated category, by reducing it from SDR 1.6 million to SDR 200,000 in
FY08 in order to top up Category 2 on civil works (Component A).

The above cost savings/reductions considerably helped in funding the new activities in Wadi
Ahwar, per the 2007 DCA amendment as explained above.




                                                 6

The changes to the M&E indicators associated with the above design changes are presented
below in Section 2.3.

Justification for not undergoing a first-order project restructuring:

Had the above changes, reallocations and simplifications been made all at once at some point in
time, GOY and IDA teams might have considered a first-order project restructuring2. Since
much of these changes occurred sporadically throughout the project lifetime, the GOY and IDA
teams effected them by resorting to amending the DCA and the respective project documents
(including ISRs during FY04 to FY09), per the following.

The D CA a mendments a nd c ategory r eallocations ( August 2003 a nd O ctober 2005) w ere
effected in consistence with the following guidelines:

"Minor c hanges a re a pproved b y C ountry Directors (CDs). Such c hanges m ay i nclude
modifications limited to changes in executing units or denominations, implementation plans and
schedule c hanges, ne w a ction pl ans t o br ing t he pr oject ba ck on track, ne w r eporting
requirements ( or ot her a djustments t o i mprove i mplementation), l oan c losing da tes,
implementation dates that under the terms of the legal agreement may be put into effect by
notice, or a reallocation of l oan pr oceeds t hat do not a ffect t he pr oject's d esign, s cope, o r
expected outcome. Minor changes are proposed, approved and documented through the routine
ISR upda ting p rocess and c an be c ounted t owards p ro-activity f or pur poses o f pr oject
"upgrading" in the Region's judgment, but not for labeling as restructuring. These cases may
also require legal amendments".

However, the DCA amendment made in June FY07 was effected through the Regional Vice-
President's (RVP's) approval, which is consistent with the following recent guidelines (2006):

"Second-order restructurings ar e t hose w here t he p roject d esign o r i mplementation
arrangements are significantly modified (e.g., including reallocations of inputs and/or changes in
outputs) but t here i s no c hange i n P DOs or associated out come t argets. U nder t he n ew
procedures, second-order restructurings are approved by Regional vice presidents (RVPs)".

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

   a) Conformity w ith c ountry and s ector pol icies a nd s trategies. The pr oject f ormulation
        conformed well to the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), primarily through its
        strong p rovisions f or: (i) i mproved water m anagement a nd i rrigation i nfrastructure

2 First-order restructurings are those which involve modifications in project development objectives or associated
outcome targets (including a ny underlying related changes). Such restructurings require approval by E xecutive
Directors under the absence-of-objection procedures.




                                                       7

   sustainability; and (ii) enhanced agricultural productivity for poverty reduction. It also
   addressed w ell k ey government ir rigation s ector p riorities r elating t o s ustainability
   improvements for spate irrigation systems and corresponding institutional decentralization
   and user participation.

b) Relevance a nd a ppropriateness of pr oject obj ectives, c omponents a nd de sign. The
   project's two PDOs, presented at Section 1.2 above, reflect well and succinctly the priority
   development a reas i ndicated a bove. T he f our pr oject c omponents l ikewise e xplicitly
   address the priorities of physical and operational water management improvements and
   sustainability coupled with i ncreased agricultural pr oduction f or e nhanced r ural
   community incomes. With regard to the two wadi spate irrigation schemes selected for
   project i nterventions, t here w as a t t he t ime of project pr eparation a f ull a wareness of
   highly s ignificant a nd he avily e ntrenched s ocio-economic i nequities pr evailing i n t he
   Wadi Zabid area. It was also clear from the various interactions with system users and
   prospective beneficiaries at that time that the potential for achieving a successful project
   outcome f rom t he poi nt of vi ew of s ustainable a nd e quitable w ater m anagement
   arrangements in that wadi area could be considered rather limited. It might have been
   better to select a less problematic pilot scheme for the Phase I project. On the other hand,
   there was a strong desire to proceed with interventions in this otherwise high priority
   scheme and to thereby ameliorate to the extent possible the unfavorable situation of the
   disadvantaged downstream scheme users.

c) Soundness of institutional and implementation arrangements. The formulated institutional
   arrangements for project implementation, covering a central PMU and two wadi-based
   PIUs overseen by a SC chaired by the Minister of MAI, as described at Section 1.1 above,
   would seem to have been both simple and effective. Also, seemingly most appropriate
   were the principles formulated for establishment of water user organizations, particularly
   WUAs at secondary canal level, and of joint system management entities, namely the ICs
   at wadi level, all aimed at helping to secure the long-term sustainability of the improved
   schemes. T he r equirement t hat W UAs be e stablished pr ior t o di sbursements f or
   corresponding civil works, which was set as a credit condition, became an important issue
   during i mplementation. T he c ondition w as a imed a t e nsuring t hat t here w ould be
   participation, c onsensus a nd c ommitment on t he pa rt of t he us ers r elating t o pl anned
   scheme improvements and subsequent systems O&M before the making of heavy physical
   infrastructure i nvestments, a nd i t a rose l argely as a c onsequence of t he pe rceived
   problematic inequitable socio-economic situation in the Wadi Zabid area. An intensive
   user mobilization and WUA formation program was formulated and planned for execution
   during the first year of the project, in parallel with participatory planning and design of
   scheme improvements, and a substantial budget provision was made to cover this and
   subsequent P IM de velopments. In t he e vent i t a ppears t hat t he ove rall pr ogram a nd
   process was not given t he e xpected pr ioritization a nd i mportance, a nd t hat t he
   corresponding bud get pr ovision w as r eallocated l argely t o ph ysical w orks i tems. T his
   comment extends also to most of the various other formulated non-works interventions
   (e.g. f or w ater r esource m onitoring a nd m anagement i mprovements, O &M e quipment
   provisions, environment-oriented operations, and institutional strengthening). A notable
   exception seems to have been the ADP, which is reported to have been fully implemented



                                                 8

      and to have led to significant positive agricultural productivity impacts. It may be that the
      generally poorer-than-expected implementation performance on institutional development
      aspects, a nd t he de lays i n di sbursements f or c ivil w orks, r esulted l argely f rom
      implementation period constraints, as outlined in Section 2.2 be low. On the other hand,
      some may consider that, during project preparation, a greater degree of subtlety, flexibility
      and/or pragmatism in this area could perhaps have been applied, as it seemingly was later
      on, f ollowing t he m id-term r eview, w hen t he W UAs e stablishment c ondition f or
      disbursements f or c ivil works w as m odified t o a llow w orks f or he adworks a nd m ain
      canals to proceed in advance.

   d) Application of previous lessons learned. The comprehensive nature and relatively large
      scope of t he de signed PIM and i nstitutional de velopment c omponents of t he pr oject
      resulted from previous lessons learned about the need for beneficiary participation and
      joint management in the development and usage of irrigation systems in order to achieve
      sustainability over the long term. It remains to be seen whether the reduced importance
      given to this in terms of priority and scope of interventions during implementation will
      still lead to the desired long-term sustainability of the physical infrastructure investments
      and of the related enhanced agricultural productivity.

   e) Identification and mitigation of risks. Risks relating to potential farmer and government
      agency shortfalls in terms of capacities and contributions were identified and addressed as
      part of pr oject f ormulation. A t t he m ore fundamental l evel of und erlying government
      commitment t o i rrigation s ector i nstitutional r eform a nd s upport of c orresponding
      improvement measures, it was established that these were indeed generally in place. What
      was pe rhaps i nsufficiently addressed w as t he r isk t hat s uch commitment a nd s upport
      would not continue into implementation at the same high level and would not translate
      into timely and effective program implementation actions.

   f) Choice of lending instrument: After considering the water management "Log-Frame", the
      preparation/appraisal teams considered the APL as the most relevant instrument because
      IIP's phase 1 (APL1) needed to test fresh ideas which were not tested before in Yemen's
      coastal wades. These included concepts such as the PIM concept (Component B) and the
      "more-crop-per-water-drop" concept (Component C). P roven successful, APL2 would
      then replicate these ideas on other wades which use spate water.

2.2 Implementation

From its commencement in 2 000, p roject imp lementation w as constrained b y d esign-related
difficulties (particularly the pre-requisite condition of establishing the WUAs prior to design and
execution of the civil works) and/or by other major externalities. T hese either slowed down
implementation progress or made it d ifficult for the impacts of conventional irrigation system
improvements to "trickle down" to a large number of end use beneficiaries. These difficulties
and externalities included:

   a) Abnormal unpredictable droughts (particularly in Wadi Tuban, which was deemed to have
      suffered a 1-in-50 year drought several times in the last decade);



                                                   9

   b) Frequent social unrest in the south (Wadi Ahwar);

   c) Sluggish national contractors (particularly those who had other larger and more lucrative
       contracts with the GOY and hence lacked incentives to expedite their IIP contracts);

   d) Chronically i nequitable upland-lowland w ater rights i ssues i n t he w est ( Wadi Zabid,
       associated l argely w ith the r egressive s ocial a nd l and di stribution s ituation pr evailing
       there);

   e) The in herent d ifficulties o f s pate water ma nagement, s temming f rom t he in ability to
       readily s tore s pate water, due t o t he a brupt a nd e rratic n ature of flash f loods, a nd t o
       therefore pr event l arge losses of w ater t o t he s ea or t o de sert f ringes, l eading t o t he
       situation w hereby in cremental a gricultural b enefits c annot o ften o ffset th e la rge
       investments needed to improve the physical systems; and

   f) The insufficient capacity at NWRA (the water regulator) and MAI/GDI (the water user),
       particularly af fected t he i mplementation of S ubcomponent B (ii) on "Improving S pate
       Water Management". T his issue has been insurmountable in the medium term, but has
       been addressed per the design of the recently-approved WSSP (2009-2014).

In response to the challenges presented by these constraints, and to try to raise the return on
project investments, efforts to re-focus and diversify the IIP components began in 2003. A heavy
focus on t he irrigation subsector and on costly conventional rehabilitation of spate irrigation
infrastructure w as m odified t o de velop a nd f ollow a m ore c omprehensive c ross-sectoral
approach (mostly through the 3 DCA amendments explained at Section 1.7 above). Decisions
and actions taken on this covered:

   a) Rehabilitation and asphalting of key service roads for canals as well as farm-to-market
       roads, t o r aise t he r eturn on i nvestments a nd t o i mprove t he w ell-being o f t he r ural
       inhabitants;

   b) Improvement of community engagement through the indicated DCA amendments;

   c) Rehabilitation of flash flood and environment protection works;

   d) Revisiting the ADP component with a view to increasing crop yield per cubic meter of
       water (rather than only increasing yield per hectare);

   e) Empowering the ICs and WUAs to apply the GOY-enacted Water Law;

   f) Preparation ( through a n i nternational Q CBS bi d) of a m aster pl an f or s urface-
       /groundwater conjunctive use in a third "more promising" wadi (Wadi Ahwar), aiming at
       low-cost harvesting of the spate water and increasing the inter-seasonal subsurface storage
       volumes (useful for non-irrigation uses and for counteracting sea water intrusion). The
       master plan is to be executed under the recently-approved WSSP; and



                                                   10

   g) Addressing the capacity and inter-agency cooperation issues between NWRA and MAI as
       part of the design of the recently-approved WSSP.

Consequently, b y t he m id of F Y2008, IDA's Implementation S tatus a nd R esults ( ISR)
Implementation Performance (IP) and PDO ratings had been raised from "MS" to "S" because
there had been major progress in all of the aforementioned undertakings and components and in
meeting most of the target outcomes or DCA milestones. The only exception to the latter used to
correspond t o t he s pate i rrigation i nfrastructure c omponent ( Component A ). T he m ixed
performance on t his component (due to the above-listed difficulties and externalities including
tardiness o f n ational co ntractors) h ad b een t he main r eason f or "MU" and "M S" r atings o n
previous ISRs (from late FY06 to late FY07). H owever, even with this component there was
good progress gradually achieved during FY2007 and FY2008 because :(i) 70% of the lands
targeted i n t he P AD w ere i rrigated ( due l argely t o hi gh s pate f loods i n t he 2007 s eason,
especially in Wadi Zabid); (ii) most of the main civil works were complete, and (iii) ICs and
WUAs helped to address the water rights issue, particularly in Wadi Tuban. Further details are
given in Annex 2.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

In the first 5 years of IIP implementation, the PMU employed an M&E officer who assisted the
MAI and the IDA ISR teams with M&E. In the last 3 years however, the PIUs in Zabid and
Tuban became the main direct sources of M&E data flow to the PMU, while the PMU's M&E
officer gradually phased out due to health reasons.

The M&E activities were supposed to be supported by MIS and Geographic Information System
(GIS) applications. These, together with flood warning systems, spate management models and
hydrological mo nitoring s ystems, ma de u p th e s pate ir rigation ma nagement imp rovement
package pr ovided f or u nder t he pr oject's C omponent B , a nd w ere e stablished a nd t ested.
However, the project was unable to make these high-technology systems function as intended.
The needed h ydrological data could not be obtained, and the generated results could not be
applied, because of a lack of cooperation between the MAI/IIP and the Ministry of Water and
Environment ( MWE)'s National W ater R esources A uthority ( NWRA), particularly i n W adi
Tuban. The NWRA, as the water resources regulation agency, is mandated to monitor and assess
water r esources av ailability. M easures t o r esolve t his information f low an d i nteragency
cooperation issue have been formulated as part of the design of the recently-approved WSSP.

In Wadi Zabid, the IIP executed a civil-works contract for drilling four groundwater monitoring
wells. T he d ata f rom t hese w ells, t ogether w ith f urther n eeded w ater r esources i nformation
obtained b y t he W adi Zabid P IU w ith he lp f rom t he T DA, w ere us eful f or m onitoring of
groundwater drawdowns over the life of the project. The groundwater drawdown is an important
indicator for the project's Component B Environmental Management Plan (EMP), and when
reduced it would indirectly reflect IIP success in improving the management and use of surface
water. The good cooperation with t he TDA i n Wadi Zabid was i n contrast t o t hat with t he
NWRA branch in Aden which is mandated to address Wadi Tuban, and lacked the capacity and
the incentive to cooperate with the Wadi Tuban PIU in the provision and collection of water



                                                   11

information. It is noted that the rainwater and flood flow gauges in Wadi Tuban, for which
NWRA was responsible, were sabotaged several times during the project's lifetime.

Also under the project's Component B EMP, a water resources assessment was undertaken as
part of an upper watershed study executed by the GDI with TA from IDA and FAO/CP. T he
results of the assessment were helpful in the M&E exercises undertaken by the PMU and IDA,
particularly for Wadi Zabid.

To help secure sustainability of IIP interventions, the project provided assistance to the two ICs
to c losely m onitor t he pe rformance o f t he e stablished W UAs. T hree br oad pe rformance
indicators were established, namely (i) institutional, (ii) financial, and (iii) technical. Details of
the adopted community-based M&E approach are given in Annex 2.

Commensurate with the design changes presented above in Section 1.7, MAI and IDA teams
started by 2005 to revisit and simplify the M&E results framework as per the PAD. P er the
PAD Annex 1 (dating back to 2000):

   a) The APL and PDO indicators became no l onger consistent with the APL milestones per
       the (amended) legal DCA; and

   b) Some of the key indicators stated in Annex 1 (main-system spate schemes completed, cost
       sharing completed) became no l onger directly attributed with the indicators listed in the
       PAD main text (on page 4: increased water availability, adequate financing of O&M of
       spate schemes, decentralization of government service).

The following Table 1 presents the revised and simplified M&E indicators.

                           Table 1: Revisited/Simplified Indicators
                     (comparing the PAD with the ISRs of FY05 to FY09)

APL and PDO indicators per the PAD of 2000      Revisions and simplifications associated with
(Annex 1 Results Framework)                     the design changes, per the DCA
                                                amendments. Reflected in MAI progress
                                                reports and in IDA ISRs starting FY05.
APL purpose 1: Sustainable spate water
management:

APL purpose 1 indicators:                       PAD i ndicators no l onger pr ecise, as p er t he
· GOY budget contribution reduced to zero       DCA a mendment in 200 5 GOY would s till
· Farmer organizations manage the schemes       shoulder the O&M for the main system, while
                                                WUAs gradually t akeover t he su bsystem.
PDO leading to APL purpose 1:                   Hence, I SR PDO i ndicator w as s implified to
· Effective spate water control and conveyance  reflect the corresponding DCA milestones, thus:
   structures, and                              "Spate water management improvements by at
· Effective PIM                                 least 80%" (inferred by the PMU reports on the
                                                % increase in on-farm water availability across
                                                the wadi).



                                                12

Indicators reflecting the PDO:                    Indicators no longer precise, as the 2003 DCA
· Head-works and main canals of spate schemes amendment a dded the r ehabilitation o f r oads
   rehabilitated, and                             and community/subsystem works, and after the
· WUAs an d I Cs est ablished an d ag reed co st  2005 DCA amendment re cost sharing. H ence
   sharing paid                                   the I SR in termediate i ndicator w as s implified
                                                  accordingly. Targets were set at:
                                                  ·   A range 80% t o 100% completion of a ll
                                                      project-introduced i     nfrastructure      as
                                                      consistent with the DCA, and
                                                  ·   100% formation a nd empowerment of the
                                                      agreed number of W UAs a nd I Cs ( 32
                                                      WUAs and 2 ICs 2).




APL     purpose     2:    Improve     agricultural
productivity:

APL purpose 2 indicator:                          PAD i ndicators no t precise du e t o unclear
Increased crop yield and cropped area             cause-and-effect a      ttribution      (increased
                                                  productivity helps t o i ncrease r ural i ncomes).
PDO leading to APL purpose 2:                     Thus, the ISR PDO indicator was simplified to
Improved rural incomes                            reflect the number of hectares improved due to
                                                  ADP (for which yield has increased by at least
Indicator r eflecting the P DO: i ncreased 30%), as compared to the PAD target of 5,000
agricultural productivity of spate schemes        hectares.




2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard policies. The only safeguard policy triggered was Environmental Assessment (OP
4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01). The E nvironmental C ategory w as: B, Partial Environmental
Assessment and EMP Requirements. At appraisal there were no m ajor environmental issues
arising from the partial EA completed for the IIP. The project was to have beneficial impacts on
the e nvironment, s ince it w ould in crease th e reliability o f s pate ir rigation w ater a nd r educe
overdraft of groundwater aquifers. However, due to changes in the pattern of water distribution
as a result of rehabilitation of spate irrigation infrastructure, it w as thought that reduction of
recharge t o certain a reas c ould oc cur. O n t he other ha nd, i mproved water di stribution w as
expected to result in a reduction of groundwater use in those areas. These benefits were deemed
to outweigh any minor adverse environmental impacts (soil quality, waterlogging, water quality)
resulting from agricultural activities in the improved areas.

Results from implementation of the EMP: The project has been satisfactory in the area of EMP
execution. W ith r egard t o "hardware", al l o f t he v illage/wadi p rotection ( or s o called
"environmental protection") civil works have been completed. On the "software" side, progress
has been satisfactory on the main items addressed by the EMP: (i) groundwater monitoring; (ii)
environmental awareness and participatory management; and (iii) building the knowledge base


                                                  13

on soil salinity/sodicity in Wadi Tuban. However, the cooperation between NWRA-Aden and
Lahej RAO, the Wadi Tuban scheme operating agency, needs to be improved to allow for easy
and timely provision of and access to the NWRA-Aden spate data, especially from the wadi's
Dukaim station. The upper watershed management study activity progressed well and included a
remarkably good contribution from GDI. The study and mapping of soil salinity and sodicity in
Wadi Tuban, including formulation of mitigation alternatives, was finalized, and study results
were presented at a participatory workshop. The major finding of this study was that irrational
groundwater us e s hould be pha sed out a nd s hould be r eplaced b y s pate w ater us age a nd
conjunctive use, since otherwise the over-drafting of groundwater beyond the safe yield level
will result in further intrusion of seawater and hence further salinization of the wadi's fertile soil.
The T uban IC h as attempted t o r espond t o t his f inding t hrough p rioritizing s pate i rrigation
diversions to the saline land areas, in order to ensure the needed flushing of salts. Details on
environmental and social monitoring and related capacity building issues are given in Annex 2.

Procurement. Per the last two ISR missions and the ICR mission the procurement rating has
been "Satisfactory".

Procurement performance: The procurement performance has been rated satisfactory in the last
four years. The PMU has complied with the DCA. The post-review reports reflected the capacity
of the PMU/PIUs to undertake procurement per WB guidelines. Also, Yemen IPR (Independent
Procurement Review) reflected a satisfactory performance. The lessons learned are documented
in Section 6 below.


Financial management (FM) and disbursement. Per the last two ISR missions and the ICR
mission the FM rating has been "Moderately Satisfactory".

FM and disbursement performance: The FM performance was initially rated satisfactory until
December 2006, when the rating was downgraded to moderately unsatisfactory. Afterwards, the
PMU complied with the DCA, particularly the financial covenant related to submission of annual
audit reports and audited quarterly interim financial reports. The audit reports were unqualified.
The A udit R eport C ompliance S ystem reported no a ccountability i ssues f rom a ll t he a udit
reports. T he m anagement l etters i ncluded s ome r ecommendations t o e nhance t he F M a nd
accounting of inventory, asset register, advances, etc., which the PMU satisfactorily applied to its
practices. The lessons learned are documented in Section 6.

2.5 Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase

As mentioned above, interventions in a third wadi, Wadi Ahwar in Abyan Governorate (7,000
ha), w ere a dded t o t he IIP dur ing t he l ater pe riod of t he pr oject t o s erve a s a n advance
introduction to the recently-approved WSSP (2009-2014). The IIP closing date extension from
June 2007 to December 2008 was perceived by GOY and IDA to be a "bridging phase" between
IIP a nd W SSP, ra ther t han a fu lly-fledged A PLII. T he IIP's A PL P hase II will defacto be
incorporated into the WSSP. During the bridging phase, uncommitted IDA funds resulting from
Phase I cost savings were used to pilot fresh ideas relating to cross-sectoral conjunctive use of
surface- and groundwater in the Yemeni coastal plains. Based on an extensive comparative study



                                                  14

of 5 c andidate w adis3, Wadi A hwar w as s elected f or us e o f t hese funds f or ur gent flood
protection, c anal c leaning a nd vi llage w ater s upply works, a nd f or e xecution of a m ajor
feasibility study for wadi-wide interventions to be implemented under WSSP.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project development objectives continued to have a high relevance throughout the duration
of the project, and the urgency of meeting these objectives was confirmed by the episodes of
severe w ater s tress t hat w ere ex perienced i n t he p roject ar eas. D esign an d i mplementation
aspects were also kept highly relevant through modifications as needed in response to emerging
constraints to progress and to achievement of objectives (examples being the arrangements for
community-effected contracts and the shift in water management focus towards conjunctive use
of water resources).

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Despite t he p reviously mentioned di fficulties and e xternalities, a nd d ue t o t he i ntroduced
remedies and amendments discussed in Section 2.2 above, there started to be improved progress
towards meeting the PDOs from 2005. By the end of 2008, 70% to 100% of the intended outputs
of all four project components had been achieved (see Annex 2). This progress helped also
towards meeting the APL's milestones/outcomes specified in the DCA (see Section 3.4 below).
In addition, as per the 2007 DCA amendment, the feasibility study for Wadi Ahwar (including a
"conjunctive use" study) was completed, with results to be applied under the recently-approved
WSSP. H ence, b y t he closing da te, t he pr oject w as de emed s atisfactory. P DOs/outcomes
attributed to component outputs are summarized in Table 2 (2a and 2b) below.

Because Component B ha s unde rgone m ajor c ost s avings ( which helped t o i ncrease t he
allocation to Component A as explained above in Section 1.7), Table 2(b) separately provides
further details on the PDO-to-outputs attribution for Component B.




3The comparative study was undertaken under IIP to identify a priority wadi on the basis of the highest scores
achieved against the following criteria: (i) annual flood water availability; (ii) readiness of farmers to be organized
and to form WUAs; (iii) poverty and lack of development projects; and (iv) absence of chronic upland/lowland
water rights/allocation issues.


                                                         15

                               Table 2(a): Attributing the PDOs/Outcomes to Component Outputs
     PDO/outcome:                           Sustainable water resources management                     Improved rural income and
                                                                                                                livelihood
Main outputs
(by principal IIP
Components)
(a) PIM               ·Target number of WUGs, WUAs and ICs formed and empowered.                       · Administration of
(Component B)         ·An egalitarian electoral process instituted for WUA leaders and key members       community contracts
                       (and partially for the 2 ICs, since the IC chairman has been the regional         transferred to WUAs,
                       governor).                                                                        helping to improve
                      ·Major responsibilities/tasks devolved to WUAs/ICs as listed in Annex 2.           production and incomes.
(b) Spate irrigation, ·Flood protection works provided (expressed in cost per capita and/or area       · Runoff harvesting
flood protection       protected).                                                                       improved by spate
and farm-to-          ·Groundwater overexploitation in Zabid reduced.                                    infrastructure works
market road works     ·Soil sodicity/salinity study in Tuban completed and applied.                      (expressed in ERR
(Component A)         ·Hydro-meteorological monitoring and annual water balance carried out.             exceeding 10% or proxy
                      ·MIS/GIS established.                                                              C/O ratio less than 10).
                      ·Upper watershed plan prepared.                                                  · Service and access roads
                      ·Legal study on upland-lowland water rights (Al-Gabarty rules etc) and on          improved, helping to
                       irrigation sector reform executed                                                 increase farm revenues
                      ·O&M manual produced for IIP works and for handover to TDA (Zabid) and             (expressed in increased
                       Lahej RAO (Tuban).                                                                number of vehicles passing
                      ·Wadi Ahwar feasibility and conjunctive use studies completed.                     per month).
                      ·Wadi Ahwar urgent civil works (flood protection, potable water supply and
                       canal cleaning) carried out.
(c) Agricultural      ·Two soil moisture kits purchased and used.                                      · Yields improved and
demonstration;        ·Reduced water use per hectare, or at least increased yield per hectare without    incomes increased
more "crop per         increased water use per hectare.                                                  (validated by the ex-post
drop"; on-farm        ·Self adoption of successful ADP techniques has occurred in 20% to 30% of          Independent Assessment
water monitoring       non-ADP command areas (depending on the type of introduced ADP                    of ADP (2008) and the
(Component C)          technique). Self adoption of the improved maize variety has occurred in almost    end-user Rapid Appraisal
                       100% of the Zabid command area.                                                   Survey (2005)).




                                                                   16

    Table 2(b): Attributing the PDOs/Outcomes to Outputs from Component #B (Irrigation and environmental management and PIM):


Project Components           Outcome/Impact indicators                          Outcome achieved                                           Impact


Component B:        Establishment of WUGs and WUAs:               32 legally recognized community level water  About 23,00 are now using their WUAs to
                     A total of 230 WUGs were established in      organizations were established and became              make their voices heard ,
Participatory           Tuban                                     operational,                                        Water users were able to contribute to
Irrigation           A total of 213 WUGs were established in      About 23,000 framers are now members of WUAs,          participatory community works and O&M
Management (PIM)        Zabid                                     Water users participation in to the overall project    costs of the project,
                     A total of 16 WUAs were established and      planning and implementation work was attained,      Created sense of program ownership among
                        became operational in Tuban               Women participation in WUAs was achieved.              beneficiaries,
                     A total of 16 WUAs were established and                                                          Created sense of accountabilities and
                        became operational in Zabid                                                                      information sharing among water users.
                                                                                                                      Allowed 20% women to be member of
                                                                                                                         WUAs and are now able to participate in
                                                                                                                         decision making processes.
                    Establishment of IC for scheme level          The ICs have adopting the new Water Law,           ICs are now regulating and enforcing:
                    management:                                   Developed their Bylaws and adapting them to the  Water right,
                     Two Irrigation councils (ICs) composed of    local conditions,                                   Over irrigation,
                        WUAs members and local government have  Developed their respective Regional Executive  Waterways pollutions.
                        been established and became operational.  Legislations.

                    O&M cost shares paid:                         Of the total of 23 million YR of O&M costs the      WUAs were able to effectively maintain
                     Tuban WUAs shared 71% of the O&M             two wads WUAs have contributed about 19 million        irrigation infrastructures for the last five
                        costs                                     YR.                                                    year.
                     Zabid WUAs shared 82% of the O&M costs  Farmers had committed to make regular                    WUAs demonstrated some degree of self
                                                                  contributions towards routine O&M works.               reliance and the prospect for program
                                                                                                                         sustainability.
                    Community level participatory contacts:       A total of 151 community work contracts were        Poor farmers were able to benefit from the
                     In Turban 75 community work contracts        completed by Tuban and Zabid WUAs,                     participatory contracts by making in kind
                        were signed between WUAs and the          Tuban WUAs had fully completed all community           contribution in place of cash,
                        project,                                  work contracts while Zabid WUAs completed 75%       The nature of the contract provided for
                     In Zabid 96 community work contracts         of their contracts,                                    farmers opportunities to have hands on
                        were signed between WUAs and the          Each framer had contributed 30%, in cash or in         experience on some the irrigation work
                        project,                                  kind, toward the total cost of the participatory       thereby transferring skills and knowledge,
                                                                  contracts.                                          WUAs' gained more experience how to
                                                                                                                         engage their members into small community
                                                                                                                         work contracts.




                                                                        17

3.3 Efficiency

   a) P roject-level economic analysis. The e x-post ( ICR r eport) a nalysis f indings t ake i nto
      account only the incremental crop production benefits attributed to IIP, which was the
      case at t he ex -ante appraisal ( PAD). T he ex -post e conomic IRR from t he pr oject's
      incremental impact has been estimated at 16.6%, which compares favorably to the ex-ante
      estimate of 11.2%. The regional economic IRR for Tuban and Zabid are estimated at
      14.2% and 18.4 respectively, compared to the corresponding PAD estimates of 9.6% and
      12.9%. See Annex 3 for further details; and

   b) Farm-level f inancial an alysis. The ex -post ( ICR r eport) f arm-level f inancial an alysis
      indicates that, due to the IIP, farmer income has improved by 45% to 89% (depending on
      farm size and on upland-versus-lowland location). See Annex 3 for details.

The two main causes of the good economic and profitability results are:

   a) Improved crop production, firstly as a result of the ADP (Component C) and of the self-
      adoption of the ADP's most successful techniques on non-ADP areas, and secondly as a
      result of the spate system rehabilitation works (Component A); and

   b) Diversification by farmers of their cropping pattern to include more higher-value crops
      (particularly in Wadi Zabid), ascribed to the increased water delivery resulting from the
      spate system works and also to the advisory service provided through the ADP.

With the spate system works only (i.e. without the ADP), the IRR would drop from 16.6% to
13.3% (NPV would drop from YR 1,432 million to YR 647.5 million). With the on-farm ADP
only (i.e. without the off-farm spate system works), the IRR would drop only to 14.3% (NPV
would drop to YR 784 million). These results show the importance of the ADP relative to the
spate s ystem w orks, a nd t hat of f-farm s ystem w orks s hould b e c omplemented b y ot her
interventions to enhance socioeconomic viability. Further results of attribution of benefits to
interventions are shown in Table 3 below.

Additional (non-crop related) benefits have been considered as follows:

   a) After adding increased livestock production resulting from increased fodder production
      attributed to the IIP, the economic IRR increased from 16.6% to 20.7% (NPV becomes
      YR 2,302 million). The added present value of benefits due to livestock would be around
      US$4 million;

   b) The f lood p rotection w orks a dd b enefits of at l east U S$10 m illion ( avoided da mage,
      estimated at 2% of the value of household properties, assuming occurrence of at least two
      abnormally-high floods during 20 years);




                                                18

  c) The p resent v alue o f b enefits f rom r ehabilitating t he access r oads i s at l east US$2.4
      million (the present value of saved costs, estimated using a reduced cost of transportation
      of farm produce, assumed at US$3 for transport of 1 ton along 100 km of roads); and

  d) The present value of benefits from increasing groundwater recharge is US$5 million (the
      recharge increment due to increased spate diversions is estimated at a 3 million m3/year
      minimum and is valued at an inter-sectoral shadow price of water of at least US$0.3/m3).

A relationship of subproject costs to subproject benefits is given in Table 3 below.

                       Table 3: Attributing Benefits to Type of Intervention
 Cross-cutting            Separable              Cost of              Benefits (from cross-cutting
 components and           subcomponents          separable            plus separable activities)
 their costs                                     subcomponents
 PIM                      Spate systems          US$14 million        US$30 million (US$26 million
 (Component B)            rehabilitation                              from added crop production
 US$1.3 million                                                       plus US$4 million from added
                                                                      livestock)
 Institutional            Access roads (benefits US$2.3 million       US$2.4 million minimum
 Development              estimate here is the                        (reduced cost of transporting
 (Component D):           minimum benchmark,                          farm produce)
 US$0.3 million           excluding increased
                          production)
 PMU (Component           Flood protection       US$2.4 million       US$10 million minimum
 E): US$4.3 million                                                   (avoided property damage)
                          Groundwater recharge   0                    US$5 million
                          ADP                    US$1.0 million       US$5 million


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The basis of this rating is as follows:

  a) The aforementioned project-level ERRs as well as farm-level Financial Rate of Returns
      (Section 3.3 above and Annex 3);

  b) P roject unit r ates (US$2,000 t o U S$3,000/hectare) which c ompare favorably w ith
      MNA/IDA norms for irrigation rehabilitation and management projects; and

  c) T he "intermediate outcomes" (which lead to achievement of the two PDOs) as expressed
      by project's scores against the DCA-predefined milestones. The DCA milestones aimed
      at verifying that there h ad been satisfactory successes with implementation of the IIP
      Phase I APL, to serve as a trigger for moving ahead with a Phase II APL. The percentage
      achievement for each of these milestones is shown in Table 4 below. The achievements
      have come at the expense of extending the IIP's closing date twice, but the overall cost of
      the project was not increased (although the incremental operation costs for project staff



                                                19

       and IDA supervision were inevitably increased). F urthermore, there were cost savings
       (explained a bove a nd in A nnex 2) w hich e nabled t he a dding o f new i rrigation
       improvement activities (through a DCA amendment in 2007).

            Table 4: Scores on the IIP DCA Milestones (or Intermediate Outcomes)
 DCA milestone to be achieved towards the end of IIP Phase I                  Accomplishment
 WUAs corresponding to the main canal, all of the secondary          100%
 canals and all of the tertiary canals in the Wadi Tuban and Wadi
 Zabid scheme areas created and fully operational.
 Transfer of irrigation management responsibilities for all of the   Mixed (70% to 100%).
 secondary and tertiary canals in the Wadi Tuban command area
 completed.
 The process of transferring irrigation management                   100%
 responsibilities for all of the secondary and tertiary canals in the
 Wadi Zabid area commenced.
 Farmers commenced paying their share of O&M costs of                100%
 irrigation schemes in the Wadi Tuban and Wadi Zabid areas.
 The Borrower paid its share of O&M costs of irrigation schemes 100%. However, post-IIP
 in the project area.                                                sustainability of GOY financing of
                                                                     the recurrent costs is questionable
                                                                     due to GOY budget constraints.
                                                                     This warrants a follow up under the
                                                                     recently-approve WSSP.
 An IC in the Wadi Tuban area established and fully operational. 100%. But post-IIP sustainability is
                                                                     debatable.
 The process of establishing an IC in the Wadi Zabid area            100%
 commenced.
 60% of the rehabilitation works under Part A(i) of the project      100%
 (Zabid command area) completed and 80% of the rehabilitation
 works under Part A(ii) of the project (Tuban command area)
 completed.
 80% of the rehabilitation and improvement works under Part          100%
 A(iv) (Wadi Ahwar command area, added through a DCA
 amendment in 2007) completed.

However, given the challenges and shortcomings discussed above in Section 1.7, S ection 2,2,
and Section 2.3, the indicated outcomes rating of moderately satisfactory is deemed relevant.
This rating is fairly consistent with the PDO and Implementation Progress (IP) rating of the ISRs
of the last two years (presented below in Table 5).

              Table 5: ISR Ratings in the Last Two Years Before Project Closure
        ISR date                          PDO rating                  Implementation Progress rating
       12/28/2006                   Moderately Satisfactory                Moderately Satisfactory
       06/21/2007                   Moderately Satisfactory                Moderately Satisfactory
       12/05/2007                          Satisfactory                          Satisfactory
       06/17/2008                          Satisfactory                          Satisfactory
       12/19/2008                          Satisfactory                          Satisfactory




                                                      20

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Social assessment at appraisal. As indicated in the PAD (2000), the SA at appraisal found that
the following social conditions applied:

   i) P overty. More than 28% (Tuban) and 35% (Zabid) of families lived below the poverty
        line (US$203). Many people suffered visibly from extremely poor hygiene, the absence
        of sanitation facilities, and inappropriate knowledge of hygienic measures for handling
        and consuming food and water. The rural population also suffered from limited access to
        food, and malnutrition and anemia were widespread;

   ii) Farmer o rganizations a s th e k ey to s ustainability. Water us ers ha d a long-standing
        tradition of self-reliance, but current dependence on government for O&M was at the root
        of t he p resent poor p rospects f or s ustainability of t he s chemes. T here w ere pos itive
        farmer attitudes towards overcoming this dependence b y forming autonomous WUAs
        with responsibility for O&M, ultimately up to the level of ICs for scheme management;
        and

   iii) Reconciling different interests within user organizations. It would be necessary to ensure
        in developing the water user organizations that poor farmers had a voice and that they
        would not be captured and dominated by large landholding interests. The challenge was
        to facilitate the cooperation of rich and poor members under what might, at times, be
        difficult circumstances. Continued consultation with water users, and in particular with
        downstream farmers, at every stage of the scheme improvement process, was considered
        crucial.

Social development assessed for the ICR report. The project approach to PIM, including the
establishment and support of water user organizations and joint scheme management entities,
and the setting up and application of physical and financial arrangements for schemes O&M, as
detailed in Annex 2 in the section entitled "IIP as a "Process" Project", was an important agent
for social development, along with the physical infrastructure and agricultural demonstration
interventions. The ICR mission's social assessment results are summarized below and presented
in more detail in Annex 5.

   i) Poverty and income impact. The preliminary economic return analysis and discussions
        with farmers suggested that there had been a 50% to 80% increase in farm products
        which i n t urn ha s i ncreased farmer i ncomes a t t he l evels of bot h ow ners a nd
        sharecroppers. If distributed equitably, farmer income increases might lead to reduced
        poverty in th e project a rea. However it is important to note that net farm income is
        distributed a ccording t o t he s hareholding of e ach f armer. In pr inciple, i n T uban t he




                                                  21

         distribution is 2/3 to sharecroppers and 1/3 to landlord, while in Zabid it is 2/3 to landlord
         and 1/3 to sharecroppers4;

   ii) G ender Impact. The IIP used the PIM concept and component to incorporate the voice of
         women into project design and implementation processes, thus creating the opportunity
         for women to participate in project operation and benefits. The project accomplishments
         in a dvancing gender e quality i ncluded s ignificant pa rticipation b y w omen bot h a s
         beneficiaries a nd a s de velopment a nd m anagement a ctors bot h on- and of f-farm,
         primarily and more directly in Wadi Tuban and less directly in Wadi Zabid; and

   iii) Social development outcomes. The concepts of user participation and empowerment were
         the ke y ope rational pr inciples g uiding da y-to-day IIP i mplementation pr actices a nd
         fostering equity considerations. Water users and their representatives have revealed that
         the project beneficiaries feel a strong sense of program ownership and common purpose.
         The spate irrigation infrastructure improvements and agricultural demonstration programs
         have led to marked crop area, production and income increases. Road improvements have
         provided and enabled m uch easier and greater a ccess t o m arkets, t o gainful off-farm
         employment, and to basic public services including electricity, communications, health
         and education, and have also led to higher land values.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The IIP was able to create capacity at individual, community and institutional levels. The project
succeeded in stimulating a desire for institutional improvement, assisting with the realization of
the corresponding institutional changes, and providing means for helping to secure a long-term
sustainability for t hese changes. Accomplishments i n t his regard are s ummarized below and
described more fully in Annex 2.

    i) Initiation and development of institutional changes. Social surveys, awareness programs
         and i nstitutional a ssessments unde rtaken unde r t he pr oject s erved t o introduce a nd
         generate acceptance of the concepts of PIM, water users cooperation and organization,
         sustainable O&M, suitable legal frameworks for water management, water distribution
         equity, and gender equality. Institutionalization of these concepts was advanced through
         establishment of water user and joint system management entities (WUAs and ICs), and
         through i nstitutional s trengthening and c apacity building for t hese and hi gher l evel
         irrigation sector agencies (e.g. GDI); and

    ii) Provision of support for ensuring institutional sustainability. A capacity for perpetuating
         support to the WUAs was provided through the training of trainers for imparting of all of
         the skills needed for WUA functioning, including not only technical water management

4The cost distribution in both Wadis is 2/3 to landlord who shoulders the irrigation/farming costs (diesel, spare
parts, etc.) and 1/3 to farmer. This can be reversed if the farmer shoulders the irrigation/farming cost, thus sharing
the 2/3.




                                                           22

        and O &M but a lso pl anning, bud geting, f inancial m anagement, a dministrative,
        information management and communication capabilities. Also imparted to water users,
        through t he e stablishment a nd ope ration of F armer D esign C ommittees ( FMCs), w as
        knowledge and experience in: (a) identifying and prioritizing of community irrigation and
        infrastructure pr oblems; ( b) f ormulating of technical a nd financial m odes a nd
        arrangements for implementation of solutions; (c) interacting with the responsible GOY
        regional a gencies f or d esign and cost e stimate pr eparations; a nd (d) implementing
        projects t hrough contracts. W UA O &M m anuals a nd cost c ontribution l evels a nd
        procedures have been prepared and applied, and community-based M&E systems run by
        the ICs have been set up and made operational. Informational and financial discontinuity
        in th e ma nagement tr ansition f rom P MU/PIUs to M AI/regional a gencies a t p roject
        closure, whereby key staff involved in the transition may not be contributing adequately
        due to non-payment of salaries, has been identified as an important potential deficiency.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

On the agricultural production side, one important identified project benefit that was unforeseen
(or at least unquantified) at the time of appraisal is the increase in livestock production resulting
from increased fodder production. Other important non-crop benefits quantified at Section 3.3
above (avoided damages due to flood protection works, reduced costs of transportation due to
access roads rehabilitation, and incremental volume and value of stored water resulting from
increased groundwater recharge) were at appraisal either explicitly or implicitly recognized as
potential benefits but were not quantified separately. The increased focus on road improvements
certainly seems to have led to important and most welcome improved access to and availability
of public services for the project area communities. Finally, the initial interventions towards a
rational surface/groundwater conjunctive use policy and mode for water resources management
in spate irrigation areas are most significant, but it was unfortunate that this agenda could not be
advanced i n t he W adi Tuban and W adi Zabid areas, du e t o t he unf avorable s ocial or ot her
conditions in those areas.

Impact on surface/groundwater conjunctive use and relevance of climate change:

Per the ICR review meeting the task team was requested to make a statement as to IIP overall
impact on s urface/groundwater c onjunctive us e, a nd t he l essons l earned a s t o t he impact of
climate c hange o n je opardizing P DOs o f s imilar ir rigation p rojects. T he f ollowing p oints
respond to this, and build on the details given in respective sections above and in Annex 2.

   a) Groundwater in the IIP three command areas (as in most coastal areas) is renewable, as it
       is seasonally being replenished by the infiltrated spate water. Thus, it does not represent
       the di re r esource de pletion s ituation of t he highlands where groundwater i s non-
       renewable;

   b) Although IIP di d not i ntroduce g roundwater-recharge w orks, t he s pate-related
       interventions under components A and B have enhanced the recharge to groundwater (as
       the latter proved to be almost a constant fraction of the spate runoff diverted into the wadi




                                                 23

       through IIP, without which this runoff would have been lost to the sea, wadi fringes, or to
       evaporation);

   c) In the three command areas, IIP increased the usable recharge to groundwater by at least 3
       million m3/year, of which the benefits (from using this groundwater in the low/off spate
       season) is assessed at about US$5 million/year;

   d) For Wadi Ahwar, IIP studies indicated that it can be more socio-economically viable to
       further enhance the recharge to groundwater if small low-cost recharge/sub-surface dams
       are executed (under the recently-approved WSSP) upstream the spate diversion structures
       (where the sediments flushed from the upper watersheds is not as dense as those sediments
       accumulating in the downstream). H owever, the project-formed WUAs and IC should
       ensure that these structures introduced in the uplands will leave enough water for the
       lowland farmers;

   e) IIP ha s not dul y qua ntified t he e nhanced c onjunctive us e i n W adi T uban, due t o t he
       challenges discussed above in Section 2 ( particularly as to implementing subcomponent
       B(ii) on improving water monitoring). In Zabid, the PIU managed to establish a better IT-
       based M IS a nd m onitoring s ystem, a nd t he r esults i ndicated t hat I IP i mproved t he
       conjunctive use in Zabid (as verified by reducing the groundwater table drawdown during
       the spate season); and

   f) The impact of climate change on IIP command area in Tuban was significant, as the wadi
       has been encountering recurrent (1:50 year) drought spills. This signals the importance of
       "climate-proofing" the irrigation projects in Yemen at the outset (preparation/appraisal
       stages). It also s ignifies t he i mportance of t he current AAA work undertaken by the
       World Bank-MENA region on the cross-sectoral adaptation to climate change in Yemen.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The ICR mission undertook three independent beneficiary surveys, of which the objectives were
to: (i) help with the project-level economic analysis and the farm-level financial profitability
analysis; ( ii) l earn how f armers h ad s pent t he i ncreased i ncome a ttributed t o t he pr oject
interventions and how this had improved their well-being; and (iii) help determine the project's
impact on g ender. Findings and details of these surveys are presented in conjunction with the
discussions on economic and financial analyses (Section 3.3 above and Annex 3) and on social
assessments and developments (Section 3.5 above and Annex 5). Also summarized in Annex 5
are the other beneficiary surveys undertaken during the course of the project, the results of which
also helped in the preparation of this ICR report.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Significant




                                                 24

                Table 6: Assessment of Risks to Intended Development Outcomes
Risk deterring the          PDO 1 - Sustainable water resources management             PDO 2 -
(component) outputs                                                                   Increased
from reaching the                                                                   productivity and
two PDOs                                                                             rural income
Component A -            High risk, due to abnormal/unpredictable droughts in      None.
Rehabilitation and       southern Yemen (Tuban).
modernization of rural Mitigation. IIP undertook the diversification remedies
infrastructure (canals,  discussed under Section 2.2 above.
access roads, flood
protection works).
Components B and D - Medium risk, due to chronic inequitable upland-lowland        None.
Advancing the PIM        water/land distribution status in western Yemen (Zabid).
process and MAI          Mitigation. (i) The Tuban IC helped towards resolving this
agencies institutional   issue (as explained in Annex 2), and (ii) the recently-
development.             approved WSSP aims to tackle social and water/land
                         rights issues in key basins/wadis.
Component C - ADP        Medium risk, due to increased productivity per ha         None.
pilot farms.             (meeting PDO 2) resulting from increased water use per
                         ha (compromising achievement of PDO 1); see details in
                         Annex 2.
                         Mitigation. (i) Following advice from IDA/FAO teams,
                         IIP purchased and applied two soil moisture kits in
                         monitoring water use associated with the ADP; results
                         indicated that, with careful irrigation advisory service,
                         productivity can increase without increased water use, and
                         (ii) The recently-approved WSSP aims to address this
                         issue widely through an intensive "Irrigation Advisory"
                         subcomponent.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory (has been discussed at the ICR review meeting)

The Borrower teams h ave indicated satisfaction on t he whole with IDA performance during
project preparation and appraisal. For instance, in the Borrower's ICR report the implementing
agency cited full involvement and competence on the part of the appointed Task Team Leader
(TTL) at that time. However, per IDA's latest assessment, the ICR review comments at Section
2.1 above imply some reservations with respect to the selection of a project wadi (Wadi Zabid),
the practicality of the formulated civil works disbursement condition, and the identification and
mitigation of risks associated with continuing GOY commitment and support. Much of these
design-related i ssues do not relate exclusively t o Bank p erformance prior t o i mplementation
(particularly those caused by unforeseeable externalities, or those attributed to governance or
GOY capacity). Nevertheless, per the discussion at the ICR review meeting, and due to the three



                                                    25

DCA amendments effected during implementation (which could have been partly avoidable if
factored in at entry), the rating of Moderately Satisfactory is deemed relevant.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The IDA and Borrower t eams have also i ndicated hi gh s atisfaction on t he whole with IDA
performance during project implementation, citing TTL competencies and supervision teams'
effectiveness and constructiveness, and highlighting the DCA amendments, fund reallocations
and time e xtensions a s a ssisting g reatly with p roject imp lementation a nd c ompletion.
Reservations emerging from the ICR review could relate to issues of timeliness, firmness and
pressure with regard to early interactions with GOY in attempting to secure proper commitment
and attention to implementation of PIM and other non-works items, perhaps through engagement
of separate specialist consultants (as originally envisaged) and greater use of the corresponding
allocated funds. The rating of Satisfactory could again be considered conservative.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory (has been discussed at the ICR review meeting)

Combining the previous two performance ratings leads to the indicated rating of Moderately
Satisfactory for overall Bank performance.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory (has been discussed at the ICR review meeting)

In the Borrower's ICR report it is indicated that early critical PIM activities including WUAs
formation w ere de layed due t o a d ecision t o engage a s ingle l arge consulting f irm w ith
international leadership to undertake all major implementation activities. Preparations for this
and the subsequent procurement took 1½ years. Planned prior preparatory activities, including
topographical and social surveys, public awareness campaigns, initial social mobilization, and
formulation of c ost-sharing f rameworks ( particularly f or l andowner/sharecropper di visions),
were all pos tponed a lso, pe nding commencement of t he m ain c onsultancy contract. C auses
outside of project control are cited for all of this, the most direct one being non-release of the
needed local funds. It was understood that the release of local funds was made dependent on
parallel use of international credit funds, and it was supposed, as noted below, that during the
course of the project, the PMU was pressured by GOY to minimize the use of international credit
funds for PIM, EMP, institutional strengthening and other non-works items. As mentioned in




                                                 26

Section 2.1(d) above, i t remains t o be s een whether t his s hortfall i n GOY commitment and
support5 will impact on the long-term sustainability of the project interventions.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Within a framework of limitations set perhaps largely by external agencies and factors, the PMU
and t wo P IUs ha ve s uccessfully m anaged t he i mplementation of a s izeable i nternationally-
funded project within the MAI's irrigation department. Direct implementation through the MAI's
regional agencies was also seemingly successful (perhaps more so through the TDA than through
the Lahej RAO). It was noted in the Borrower's ICR report that the granted project extensions
essentially covered the initial implementation delay only; implementation proper could be said to
have been effected within both schedule and budget. The scope of the project infrastructure
works was expanded both within the original project area (additional road improvement works)
and to a new project wadi (covering urgent water supply network extensions, flood protection
works a nd c anal c learing). C onversely, a s mentioned a bove, P IM, E MP, i nstitutional
strengthening and other non-works items aimed at securing long-term sustainability would seem
to have been given reduced importance and lowered cost allocations, perhaps largely but not
necessarily exclusively due to external GOY pressures. Sustainability may still be achievable,
but pe rhaps not w ith t he s ame c ertainty or t imeliness t hat w ould ha ve be en d esired. T he
Borrower's report mentions the large number of various types of contract let and completed
satisfactorily and to requirements. It also credits the international consulting firm's effectiveness
in ensuring quality and in training local personnel, and highlights the active cooperation provided
during IDA and other technical and supervision missions. Certainly it seems that a good project
management capability has been created and institutionalized within the MAI, which bodes well
for future similar project initiatives and interventions.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory (has been discussed at the ICR review meeting)

In spite of the perceived satisfactory performance of the implementing agency, combining the
two pe rformance r atings a bove l eads t o t he i ndicated r ating o f M oderately S atisfactory for
overall Borrower performance.

6. Lessons Learned

The project provided a number of lessons that should prove relevant in the preparation and
implementation of future similar projects in Yemen, as follows:



5The Borrower did not provide adequate funds to the PMU between appraisal and effectiveness, as needed to enable
the PMU to prepare for the bidding process particularly for the TA consulting firm. This substantially contributed to
the delay in contracting the firm and hence the delay in implementation.



                                                          27

Lesson 1: Improvement of spate irrigation management needs not only hardware interventions
(rehabilitation a nd m odernization of i nfrastructure) but a lso i nstitutional de velopment a nd
information m anagement m easures. Also, due t o t he absence of i nter-seasonal s urface water
storage, spate diversion and conveyance improvement works cannot (at unit costs as high as
US$3,000 t o U S$4,000/hectare) be economic u nless t hey are complemented b y: (i) on- farm
agronomic a nd i rrigation e nhancement t echniques a nd a dvisory s ervices t o he lp r aise w ater
productivity, (ii) flood protections works, and (iii) conjunctive use works (low-cost sub-surface
dams or recharge dams at appropriately defined upstream and downstream wadi locations), to
help increase the availability of groundwater for rural non-irrigation uses and to counteract sea
water intrusion.

Lesson 2: Th e project's P IM and ADP components have resulted i n very t angible progress
towards achieving sustainable and efficient spate irrigation management (PDO 1) and increasing
agricultural productivity and rural incomes (PDO 2). To further develop and greatly extend these
successes, they should be enhanced and replicated in other promising wadis under the recently-
approved W SSP. S ome c onclusions de riving f rom t he pr oject's a nd t he c ountry's i rrigation
subsector P IM and c ost-sharing experiences t hat m ay he lp i n t he f ormulation of f urther
developments in this area are as follows:

   a) WUAs and ICs could play important roles in: (i) providing services that are responsive to
       farmers' ne eds, (ii) f acilitating e xpansion of i rrigation c overage, a nd ( iii) s cheduling
       water deliveries that are timelier and match crop water requirements better;

   b) Farmers pa rticipation a nd c ost s haring c reates a s ense of i ncreased ow nership of
       irrigation schemes, since through this farmers: (i) become more proactive in dealing with
       emerging problems, and in resolving long-standing social and technical problems that
       GOY agencies previously failed to resolve, and (ii) start to speak openly on controversial
       issues s uch a s w ater r ights t hat no l onger p rovide e quity be tween ups tream a nd
       downstream users;

   c) In t he absence of s ound w ater r ights, r ehabilitation a nd i mprovement of i rrigation
       infrastructure would not contribute substantially to improved equity of water distribution
       between upstream and downstream users. In addition, the relationships between landlords
       and sharecropper/tenant farmers should be better defined and standardized with regard to
       assignment of O&M responsibilities and distribution of costs and benefits, with a view to
       preventing exploitation of poor farmers;

   d) GOY can provide farmers with three key incentives to participate in cost sharing and to
       organize themselves into WUAs, namely: (i) complete and transparent notification in
       advance of t he expected c osts a nd be nefits t o f armers opt ing i nto t he P IM pr ocess;
       through publ ic a wareness a nd s ocial m obilization a ctivities pr ior t o any physical
       intervention; (ii) entrusting farmers with meaningful participation in the planning, design,
       implementation, supervision and O&M of secondary (distribution-level) as opposed to
       primary ( conveyance-level) ir rigation s ystems; a nd ( iii) s imilarly complete a nd
       transparent publ ic c ommunications on r esulting ne t pr oduction a nd r evenues after
       completion of the physical interventions; and



                                                 28

   e) Beneficiary contributions to capital and O&M costs can relieve pressure on government
        budget obligations and contingent liabilities.

Lesson 3: Basin committees established by MWE/NWRA cannot be deemed as equivalent to or
fungible w ith t he ICs established b y M AI/IIP. T he f ormer f unction as t op-down (mostly
appointed) "normative regulators" whereas the latter function as bottom-up (democratic) scheme
management overview entities largely comprising representatives of wadi WUAs. The MAI's
ICs have proved that they can develop needed water "bylaws" (subsequent to enactment of the
MWE/NWRA Water Law in 2003) by tailoring the Water Law to local needs. The ICs can also
assist NWRA in applying these bylaws in progressing towards better basin-level integrated water
resources management (IWRM).

Lesson 4: Resulting from lessons learned from the ADP, the IDA team cautioned MAI against
increasing crop yield per hectare at the expense of unfavorable increases in water use per hectare.
If the "more-crop-per-drop" goal cannot be achieved in conjunction with increased crop yield per
hectare, then the increase of land productivity and farmer income sought by the ADP should be
achieved at least with a "same-drop-per-crop" approach. Preliminary water quantity monitoring
results (from both groundwater-fed and spatewater-fed ADP farms) suggested that the ADP has
increased productivity and farmer income without increasing water usage per hectare. For ADP
activities planned for Wadi Ahwar in 2009 und er WSSP, IDA and MAI have agreed on t he
importance of adding an "Irrigation Advisory" ("less-drop-per-crop") subcomponent to the ADP
("more-crop-per-drop") component. T he IDA t eam a ssisted t he P MU i n pr eparing T erms of
Reference ( TOR) f or A DP act ivities i n W adi Ahwar, an d agreed w ith G OY/MAI t hat an
advanced follow-up version of the ADP that includes the "Irrigation Advisory" subcomponent
would be implemented in Wadi Ahwar under the WSSP.

Lesson 5:. For future comparable projects including the WSSP, IDA, other donors and GOY
should specifically assure the financial sustainability of, and the modalities needed for, adequate
O&M of provided works and procured equipment. Such projects should include a subcomponent
that w ould e nsure: ( i) s ufficient b udget f or r ecurrent c osts d uring p roject lif etime a nd after
project closure to sustain the headworks, primary system and related equipment, through a clear
and p recise a greement to b e r eached b etween MAI, M OF an d M OPIC; an d ( ii) s ufficient
revolving f unds " ring f enced" b y t he pe rtinent IC t o s ustain the s econdary and c ommunity
systems, raised through O&M fees collected from users with the help of the WUAs, and with
provisions for partially bailing out the poorer farmers (tenants/sharecroppers) as needed through
application of an increasing-block fee structure whereby richer farmers/landowners effectively
cross s ubsidize poor er ones. A rrangements f or t his s hould be doc umented i n t he pr oject's
Operational Manual and reflected in the legal DCA before project initiation. At project closure,
or at t he t ime of handover from P MU/PIUs t o t he l ine m inistry of t he provided works and
equipment, t he r elated O&M r esponsibilities a nd budg eting a rrangements s hould be c learly
documented i n a " Handover O perational M anual". T he m anual s hould di stinguish t he
responsibilities of the line ministry (MAI) for the headworks and primary system (and related
GOY recurrent costs budgeting) from the responsibilities of the operators and users (ICs and
WUAs) for the secondary and community systems (and the related O&M self financing). While
ownership of bot h t he pr imary a nd t he s econdary/community s ystem a ssets ( works and




                                                    29

equipment) may remain with MAI, the ICs and WUAs can be assigned the responsibility for
undertaking and self-financing O&M of the secondary/community system assets.

Lesson 6: Procurement-related lessons. Procurement performance of MAI could have been
further i mproved ha d IDA t ask t eam r ecommended a w ell-developed, c omprehensive
Operational and Procurement Manual, with all the details and requirements at the outset for
smooth project implementation. The Procurement Manual should have included more detailed
TORs and job descriptions for the Procurement Specialist, PMU and PIU staff and taken into
account role of GOY's High Tender Board. A lso, it should have included clear procurement
procedures. Considering the lack of experience of the PMU in implementing IDA projects, the
Procurement Manual should have provided step-by-step procurement procedures, preparation of
the bi dding doc uments, R FPs a nd e ssential doc ument f low, r eview, clearance a nd approval
process, procurement plans, and organizational structure for the PMU and PIUs. Furthermore,
the P MU s taff s hould have been provided extensive t raining and coaching on t he foregoing
needs. On the other hand, IDA should have strictly enforced the initial requirements/covenants
on staffing, Procurement Manual, staff training, prior to project effectiveness and disbursements.

Lesson 7: FM-related lessons:

  a) The FM performance could have been better rated had the IDA task team recommended a
       well-developed, c omprehensive ope rational a nd F M m anual, with a ll de tails a nd
       requirements a t t he out set f or s mooth i mplementation. T he F M M anual s hould ha ve
       included more detailed TORs and job descriptions for the Finance Manager, PMU and
       PIU staff and taken into account role of the MOF Representative to minimize any delays
       in implementation. It should have also included detailed procedures for accounting of
       contributions in kind;

  b) Considering the lack of experience of the PMU staff in implementing IDA projects, the
       FM M anual s hould ha ve pr ovided m ore de tails, s tep-by-step di sbursement pr ocess,
       preparation of f inancial c hart c overing e ssential doc ument f low, c ash f low, r eview,
       clearance and ap proval p rocess, w arehouse/store s ystem, as sets m ovement co ntrols,
       Disbursement and Procurement Plans, and organizational structure for the PMU and PIUs.
       Furthermore, the PMU staff should have been provided extensive training and coaching on
       the foregoing needs. On t he ot her h and, IDA s hould have s trictly enforced t he i nitial
       requirements/covenants on staffing, financial and accounting system, FM Manual, staff
       training, prior to project effectiveness and disbursements. This could have been effected
       also during/post the mid-term review; and

  c) During project implementation, IDA (FM) supervision team should have recognized the
       difficulties (inaccurate IFRs, inventory system, and clearing of advances) of the PMU and
       PIU financial staff and provided options, i.e., allocating funds for consultants to provide
       help for inventory system, PIU coordination and accounting procedures, advances, and
       other financial related challenges faced. The IDA FM team should have listened to any
       requests from the financial and accounting staff or probed into the cause of the issues,
       which c ould ha ve b een di scussed a nd resolved dur ing s upervision or at t he m id-term
       review. The task team should have reallocated funds for a consultant to assist the PMU in



                                                  30

       resolving t he c hallenges i t f aced. In a ddition, t here s hould ha ve been c lose FM
       monitoring to provide guidance to the PIU FM staff and accountants by the Country FMS
       and his staff.



7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

IDA received no comments from the Borrower or from the implementing agency on the draft
version of this ICR (dated May 20, 2009). H owever, the views which they shared with IDA
earlier during the ICR missions (January 2009 and April 2009) were reflected in the Borrower's
ICR report, and thereof, are covered by the discussions in previous sections above.

(b) Cofinanciers

None.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

The involvement of and collaboration between all stakeholders including end beneficiaries, the
line ministry, regional and local authorities, and professionals from a wide range of disciplines,
both male and female, has represented real partnership. It has helped to engage the entire civil
society i n pa rticipatory pl anning, de sign, e xecution a nd O &M of i mproved i nfrastructure
systems, i ncluding t hrough a s haring o f bot h i nvestment a nd r ecurrent c osts, a nd i n t he
realization of significant production and financial benefits to all parties.




                                                 31

                                                            ANNEX 1: Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USS Million equivalent, including IDA and GOY contributions up to March 2009).



                                                                                  Original DCA Cost       Mid-Term Cost
                                                                                                                             Final/Actual Cost (Dec08/April09)
                          Components/Subcomponents                                    Estimate               Estimate

                                                                                 (USD M)    (% of tot.) (USD M)  (% of tot.) (USD M)    (% of tot.) (% of org.)

A. Rehabilitation and Improvement of Spate Irrigation Infrastructures

1. Wadi Tuban                                                                       6.70          26      6.57         28       8.10          31         121

2. Wadi Zabid                                                                       5.60          22      7.61         33      10.10          38         180

3. Wadi Ahw ar                                                                      0.00           0      0.00          0       1.15            4

Subtotal Rehabilitation and Improvement of Spate Irrigation Infrastructures        12.30          48      14.18        61      19.35          75         157

B. Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM)

1. Formation of PIM Organizations (WUAs and SMUs)                                   3.00          12      2.71         12       0.20            1          7

2. Improvement in Spate Irrigation Management                                       0.90           4      0.86          4       0.10            0         11

3. Improved O&M on Irrigation Infrastructures                                       3.90          15      1.72          7       0.90            3         23

4. Environment Oriented Operations                                                  1.10           4      0.18          1       0.10            0          9

Subtotal Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM)                                  8.90          35      5.47         24       1.30            5         15

C. Institutional Strengthening

1. Improved Legal Framew ork                                                        0.30           1      0.05          0       0.10            0         33

2. Support to Government Irrigation Related Institutions (MAI, GDI, TDA ... )       0.50           2      0.19          1       0.10            0         20

3. Other Wadis Preparation Studies                                                  0.50           2      0.50          2       0.10            0         20

Subtotal Institutional Strengthening                                                1.30           5      0.74          3       0.30            1         23

D. Intensive Agricultural Demonstration Program                                     0.54           2      0.84          4       1.00            4        185

E. Project Management Unit (PMU)                                                    2.54          10      1.87          8       4.30          15         169

Total Project Cost                                                                 25.58        100       23.09      100       26.25         100         103


Notes
1. Component/subcomponent numbering and structure, and all cost values in USD M, are taken from the Borrower's ICR report.
2. Component/subcomponent numbering and structure, and original DCA cost estimate values, correspond closely to the PAD.




                                                                               32

(b) Financing
                                                                  Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of
                   Source of Funds             Type of Cofinancing
                                                                     (USD millions)     (USD millions)       Appraisal

Borrower                                                          3.10              4.00 per GOY estimate
                                                                                    March 09               %129

                                                                                    22.00 per GOY estimate
                                                                                    March 09
International Development Association (IDA)                       21.30                                    %114
                                                                                    24.79 per IDA-FM
                                                                                    ICR report of May 09
Local Farmer Organizations                                        1.20              0.30 GOY report        %25




                                                           33

                               ANNEX 2: Outputs by Component

Component A: Rehab of spate irrigation and flood protection infrastructure in wadi
Tuban and Zabid, including rehab of key farm-to-market roads; and urgent rehab of
village protection and rural water supply works in Wadi Ahwar. This component involved
civil works, goods/equipment (only for Wadi Tuban), and consultancy services (the latter
included a topographical survey, detailed designs and construction supervision).

Until 2005 t his c omponent w as r elatively l agging be hind s chedule due t o t he di sbursement
condition e ntailing t hat t he w orks c an onl y s tart a fter t he W UAs a nd t wo I Cs ha ve be en
established (under Component B) in Tuban and Zabid.

For the irrigation 2007 season (ending November 2008), the total incremental areas irrigated
through this component have been about 17,700 hectares due to the good rates of spate base
flow and flood flow experienced this year, and due to the project's interventions. Irrigated areas
amounted to 13,106 hectares (90% of command area) and 4,600 hectares (50% of command
area) in Zabid and Tuban respectively.

By the closing date (December 31, 2008), regarding the development impacts, for the 2008 flood
seasons, t he i ncremental a reas i rrigated t hrough t his c omponent a mounted t o 5,205 he ctares
(25% of c ommand area) a nd 1,075 he ctares (10% of command a rea) in Z abid a nd T uban
respectively. This is attributed to the project's interventions. The total base flow cum flood flow
has been 81 MCM/annum in Zabid, while this total has been quite low in Tuban (hence, the low
incremental area in Tuban). For the flood of 100 MCM/annum that occurred in Zabid in 2007,
the project's interventions helped irrigate an incremental area of about 10,000 hectares, and the
unit cost of the interventions amounted to US$2,000/hectare, which is well within the MNA
norms for comparable projects. By the closing date, the disbursement on civil works reached:

   a) 93% and 81% of the planned sums for Zabid and Tuban respectively. Much of this gap
       between di sbursed and planned s ums a scribes t o c ost s avings rather t han t o de lay i n
       physical progress. The physical progress is actually higher than 95% in the two wadis;

   b) 94% of the planned sums for the farm-to-market roads (also the gap is due to cost savings,
       as the physical progress is 100%);

   c) 84% for the WUA contracts; and

   d) 100% for the urgent civil works in Wadi Ahwar, including four contracts for water supply,
       flood protection, and cutting of "Masqeet" trees in the main canals.

Component B: Irrigation and Environmental Management and the PIM. This component
involved consultancy services, training and procurement of goods.

Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and Social Measures:




                                                  34

Safeguard policies triggered:
                                Policy                                            Triggered
    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                             Yes




Environmental Category: B, Partial Environmental Assessment and EMP requirements:

There are no major environmental issues per the partial EA completed for IIP. The project has
beneficial impacts on the environment as it increases the reliability of spate irrigation water, and
reduces overdraft of the groundwater aquifers. However, due to changes in the pattern of water
distribution as a result of rehabilitation of spate irrigation infrastructure, reduction of recharge to
certain areas was sought to occur. On the other hand, improved water distribution should result
in reduction of groundwater use in those areas. These benefits have been expected to outweigh
any minor adverse environmental impacts (soil quality, water logging, water quality) arising as a
result of the agricultural activities in the improved areas.

Provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies:
The proposed project followed the World Bank guidelines OP 4.01 on environmental assessment
and adhered to the requirements of the GOY for such projects, as outlined in the Environmental
Protection Law, N o. 26 e nacted b y t he P arliament i n 1995 a nd t he N ational E nvironmental
Action Plan (NEAP) prepared by the Environmental Protection Council (EPC) in 1996.

Environmental and Social Monitoring and the related Capacity Building:

The EMP aimed at establishing the conditions required for sound environmental management in
the project area. It incorporated three main components.

   a) Environmental Awareness and PIM. This covers: (i) promoting (through participation and
       capacity building) l ocal k nowledge an d aw areness o f t he m ajor i ssues t hreatening t he
       well-being of wadi populations, particularly in terms of sustained water availability; and
       (ii) e ncouraging p articipatory m anagement o f n atural r esources b y the in stitutions
       established under the project. The project included a major subcomponent on P IM, as
       explained below. This approach was meant to be supported by systematic monitoring of
       water characteristics, information campaigns, training and support to the fledgling water
       management institutions;

   b) Groundwater. In order to minimize groundwater depletion (which although barely to be
       linked to the project is nonetheless the most significant environmental problem in the
       Zabid area), the EMP supports a groundwater management system which would rely on
       data collected from the monitoring of water levels and quality in the project area. In order
       to monitor any changes to quality or quantity of groundwater in the Zabid area, where
       there is currently over-pumping, detailed analysis and modeling of water resources and
       water quality monitoring are to be carried out. An awareness campaign would also be
       included to inform the users about the impact of groundwater use, and measures to sustain
       that use. These actions have been included in project costs. Most of the problems can be
       mitigated th rough t echnically s imple m easures that c an b e imp lemented th rough th e


                                                  35

       involvement of t he W UAs a nd ICs onc e t hey are a ware of t he l imits t o t he us e of
       groundwater resources. Involvement of the water users and studies in monitoring the
       impact during the project would help improve water resources management in the project
       areas; and

   c) Building the Knowledge Base. The EMP incorporates three studies (of which numbers (i)
       and ( ii) a re a lready pr ogrammed unde r ot her c omponents of t he pr oject): ( i) s oil
       salinity/sodicity mapping study to avoid soil sodicity occurrence and advise farmers on
       irrigation pr actices w ill be unde rtaken for t he T uban area; ( ii) up per w atershed
       management study will be carried out to assess the status and trends of erosion, review
       experience of watershed management so far and formulate a s trategy and a p rogram to
       reduce erosion in the catchment areas of the wadis; and (iii) sand dune fixation study, if is
       not implemented through the Land and Water Conservation Project (LWCP), to assess the
       need for further action to arrest sand dune movement and protect project farming areas.

Results from implementation of the EMP:

Environmental Management Plan:

Thus f ar, t here ha s be en a s atisfactory pr ogress a s t o e xecuting t he E MP. I n t erms of
"hardware", all of t he village/wadi pr otection (or s o called: environmental pr otection) c ivil
works have been completed. In terms of "software", progress has been satisfactory as to the
main s ubcomponents of t he E MP: g roundwater m onitoring; e nvironmental a wareness a nd
participatory management; and building the knowledge base regarding the soil salinity/sodicity
in Tuban. However, NWRA-Aden and IIP-PIU-Lahj needed to improve their cooperation so that
IIP could easily/timely obtain the spate data from NWRA-Aden, especially regarding Dukaim
station in Tuban. The Upper Watershed Management study progressed well, with remarkably
good contribution from GDI. The study on t he Soil Sodicity/Salinity Mapping (including the
mitigation alternatives) in Wadi Tuban has been finalized. Its results have been presented at a
participatory workshop, and the IC in Tuban has applied its findings in the field.

Environmental and Social Monitoring and the related Capacity Building:

Environmental Awareness and Participatory Management

Systematic monitoring of water resources characteristics and training of pertinent institutions and
fledgling entities (e.g., WUAs and ICs) have been fairly progressing. This has been inferred by
the PMU quarterly and annual reports and by the field visits.

Surface-water and groundwater monitoring

The PMU has obtained the required metallic staff gauges from the water monitoring unit at GDI
by t he e x-LWCP a nd w ere s ent t o t he t wo P IUs for i nstallation. T hese a re t o be i nstalled
upstream and downstream of all wadi weirs and downstream of main off-takes and scour sluices
at weirs. In Wadi Tuban the staff gauges were installed in Al-Arais, Ras Al-wadi Beizag and
Faleg Iyadh diversion weirs. In Wadi Zabid eleven sites for installation of staff gauges were



                                                 36

specified by the PIU in coordination with the O&M specialist of the TA consultants (five sites at
the five diversion structures and six at canal bifurcation structures). Installation has started in
weirs # 3 and 4 and installation at the remaining sites awaits completion of the rehabilitation
works at diversion structures # 1 and 3.

Groundwater monitoring has been undertaken through TDA in Zabid and NWRA/GDI in Tuban.
Data for drawdown, Electric Conductivity (EC), and pH are available for Tuban; and data for
drawdown and EC are available for Zabid; both on a monthly/quarterly basis. However, for this
data to be functional there is a need to stream it into the MIS of the project.

Compared to previous years, there has been an obvious increase in groundwater recharge due to
completion of the spate works particularly in Zabid. H owever, due to cultivation of water-
intensive cash crops under the ADP component, it is reported that there has been a significant net
increase in groundwater discharge in some of the ADP areas. The Bank's task team requested the
ADP consultants to meter water usage for the ADP farms, toward increasing productivity per
unit of water (as opposed to merely increasing productivity per unit of land). This has recently
been done, and the results (particularly in Zabid) showed that crop productivity per hectare has
been increased without increasing water use per hectare.

This s ubcomponent B 1 a lso e stablished a nd t ested A G eographic Information S ystems a nd
Management Information System (GIS and MIS), flood warning and hydrological monitoring
system, a nd s pate m anagement m odels. H owever, due t o t he l ack of c ooperation be tween
MAI/IIP a nd N WRA ( being unde r M WA, a nd e ntrusted t o m onitor t he w ater r esources
availability), particularly in Tuban, the project could not obtain the hydrological data needed to
make these high-tech systems function as intended. Add to this the fact that, to act on the results
of these systems, the regulator (NWRA) and the water-user agency (MAI) needed to cooperate
much better. All these information and inter-ministerial issues have been dealt with as part of
the design of the recently-approved WSSP.




                                                  37

                         Figure 1: Groundwater Monitoring under IIP

Building the knowledge base: the soil salinity/sodicity study and the upper watershed
management study

The study on the Soil Sodicity/Salinity Mapping (including the mitigation alternatives) in wadi
Tuban has been finalized and its results have been presented at a participatory workshop. The
consultant carried out random field sampling and laboratory analysis of soil and water samples
taken from the study area. Based on the results, the consultant prepared a working paper in
Arabic and English which was presented and discussed at the workshop, with participation of the
beneficiaries and stakeholders of wadi Tuban (the study area).

The U pper W atershed M anagement S tudy h as a lso pr ogressed w ell, w ith a ve ry good
contribution from the GDI. T he study utilized the resources in GDI and the lessons from the
Land and Water Conservation Project (LWCP).

By f actoring i n t he e xisting l essons a nd t he r esults of t he s tudies obt ained f rom r elated
closed/ongoing pr ojects, t he S cope of W ork a nd ( accordingly) t he budg et of t he t wo
aforementioned studies have been rationalized (thus favorably saving time/resources).

Through holding a wadi-wide workshop, the Tuban Irrigation Council (IC) acted on effectuating
the r ecommendations of t he " Salinity a nd S odicity" s tudy pr epared un der IIP. T he s tudy's
results have been presented at a participatory workshop, and the IC in Tuban has attempted to
apply its findings in the field. The major finding is that irrational groundwater use should be
phased out and should be replaced by utilization of spate water and conjunctive use, otherwise
over-drafting the groundwater beyond the safe yield will result in further intrusion of seawater



                                                 38

and hence further salinization of the wadi's fertile soil. The Tuban IC attempted to respond to
this through prioritizing the irrigation diversions onto the saline lands, in order to safeguard the
needed flushing of salts.




                    Figure 2: Application of the Soil Sodicity/Salinity Study


Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM):

Implementation of the PIM component, including formation and empowerment of ICs and Water
WUAs has progressed as planned. The project met all target 443 WUGs (230 in Tuban and 213
in Zabid), 32 WUAs (16 in Tuban and 16 in Zabid) and two ICs in Wadi Zabid and Tuban.
The IC has been very active in Wadi Tuban.

For t he i nvestment/rehabilitation w orks, t he IIP-PIM i ntroduced (by 20 05) a n i n-kind c ost-
sharing approach via WUA-administered contracts. To enable low-income farmers to share the
capital costs of the project, the project divided civil works into two categories:

   a) P riority works to be fully financed by the project (government funds and loans). These
       works include feeder roads and flood/environmental protection works, which are deemed
       public goods outside the canal system and thus require no earmarked user fees; and

   b) P articipatory works, requiring 10 p ercent of farmers' c ontribution t o r ehabilitation/
       improvement capital costs. This percentage was agreed between the project government
       team an d f armer r epresentatives ( initially t he W UGs; ev entually t he WUAs). F armers
       were allowed to contribute this percentage in kind: labor and material. In this arrangement,
       each W UA would i mplement 1­2 s mall c ommunity c ontract(s) up t o US$10,000 pe r
       contract t o a n a ggregate U S$1.4 m illion pe r pr oject. T o p ersuade i rrigation e nd-
       beneficiaries to contribute 10 percent in kind, the project guaranteed that the unit rates of
       the contracts awarded to WUAs would be 30 percent cheaper than those implemented by



                                                  39

       the national/regional contractors. (These rates otherwise would have embodied significant
       profit m argins f or t he WUA-contractors.) T his pe rcentage t hereby r epresents t he t otal
       contribution from end-beneficiaries and, intrinsically, from the WUA-contractors.

This PIM subcomponent also provided O&M equipment and spare parts for O&M of the IIP
spate s chemes, w hich were l eased ( by t he P IUs) on a gr adually-phasing-out ba sis t o t he
implementing agencies (TDA in Zabid and MAI regional office in Tuban) during IIP's initial
periods, then were eventually leased to the WUAs.

The legal study for water rights in Zabid was finalized through active contributions from Zabid
IC and WUAs. In Zabid, the upstream-downstream water rights issue persisted and the IC could
not significantly contribute to resolving it. The IC has been more or less in a "dormant" stage
and IDA requested H. E. the Governor of Hodeidah (being the Chair of the IC) to make the IC
proactive by holding regular meetings and coming up w ith solutions that ensure fairness and
equity in water distribution between upstream and downstream users.

Comparably, the IC in Tuban has achieved a remarkable accomplishment by adopting the new
Water Law, developing its Bylaws for Wadi Tuban, and adapting them to the local conditions
(through developing the respective Regional Executive Legislations). The IC thereafter acted on
the Water Law by taking a number of enforcement and corrective measures in the field against:

   a) The violators of water rights (by closing down the upland diversions that blocked water
       from flowing downstream);

   b) Polluters of waterways, and

   c) O ver-irrigators.

Also, the IC in Tuban applied in 2008 the recommendations of the "Salinity and Sodicity" Study
(completed by the project), through prioritizing the irrigation diversions onto the saline lands, in
order to safeguard the needed flushing of salts.

The P IU in Wadi Ahwar was established in 2008 w ith essential staff, office equipment and
furniture as w ell as t ransport m eans. T he A hwar's P IU m ade an excellent ach ievement b y
completing the formation of the WUGs on Foad-Weir main canal in a record time (6 months).
This was faster than the process of forming the WUGs in Zabid and Tuban, thus confirming the
findings of the assessment study which ranked Wadi Ahwar the first amongst 7 wadis, in terms
of readiness of the communities to get together toward addressing their water issues. Also, the
PIU in A hwar h as s tarted f orming A hwar's IC a nd f ormal W UAs, yet th is w ill b e f ully
completed under the recently-approved WSSP phase.

Cost-sharing achievements under the PIM

   a) For capital investments, the WUAs have shared the cost of the participatory works and the
       WUAs contracts by 10% and 30% respectively, in cash or in kind; and




                                                40

   b) For the O&M, the WUAs shared the costs by an average 73% (70.78% in Tuban and
       76.40% in Zabid) of the cost of O&M of the works and equipments introduced by IIP.

However, challenges remained high as to increasing the membership of the WUAs and as to
enhancing the water rights system in Zabid, as explained below.

Challenges remaining as to the PIM

WUA formation vis a vis membership

Although the target number of WUAs has been formed, the membership percentage has been
relatively modest, but gradually increased particularly after completion of the participatory and
community civil works (as this encouraged the farmers to subscribe to the WUAs). Membership
in Tuban and Zabid has ranged from 10-49% a nd 10-63% respectively. The reason for t his
modest membership in Tuban is the lack of spate water and also the fact that most farmers are
civil servants where farming is not necessarily the mainstay of the households. The reason for the
modest membership in Zabid is that the current water rights system often avails mainly a few,
big landlords especially in the upstream.

However, even when the percentage of subscribing farmers (i.e., membership percentage)
is low, with all of the formed WUAs the minimum "quorum" has always been met, as the
subscribing always own more than 50% of the WUA's command area.
The WUA rulings do apply to the members as well as to the non-members, and the non-members
do not benefit from the rebates offered on the members on the O&M user fees.
Water rights in Wadi Zabid and the legal study

In mid-2006, violations in the upstream deprived 2400 hectares in the downstream from water,
only to the advantage of 540 hectares in the upstream, which are owned by a few families. It has
been agreed that the IC (in cooperation of the pertinent WUAs) should work on rectifying this
situation by revisiting the "Gabarty rule" (customary rights based on seasonal water rotations
between upstream and downstream agricultural areas). This system used to work in the past
because: (i) the water control structures used to be earth works (whereon water could breach or
overtop, t hus r eaching t he dow nstream) a s opp osed t o t he c urrent c oncrete w orks; a nd ( ii)
currently farmers have been shifting to water-intensive cash crops like Mangos and Bananas as
opposed to subsistence crops that used to be grown in the past. This upstream-downstream effect
is particularly problematic at times of small floods as opposed to big floods which can usually
meet the demands downstream.

A legal consultant w as hired t o h elp t he IC i n addressing t his i ssue, t hrough undertaking a
comprehensive s tudy o f t he G abarty s ystem vi s-a-vis t he ne eded a mendments. T he s tudy
(completed in end-2006) suggested various remedies to deter upstream users from overusing
water, including applying punitive ascending over-usage fees. T he study warranted follow up
and implementation by TDA (from the technical stance) and by the Zabid IC and the governor
(from the regulatory and enforcement stance). However, it is becoming clear that reversing the
past/present u pland-lowland w ater allocations may be to o d ifficult, as th is s imply me ans




                                                41

expropriating part of the land ownership for the upstream landowners. Nevertheless, the findings
of this legal study remained useful to help in arresting any further misuse of water rights.

Component C: Agricultural Demonstration Program (ADP): This component involved
consultancy services and procurement of goods.

The ADP has been satisfactory despite an inevitable 2-year delay at the start of IIP, as by mid-
2008 i t w as s uccessfully completed on 4,005 hectares (out of the PAD's target 5,000
hectares), and with a unit cost of about US$260/hectare. To assess the impact of introduced
technologies on pr oductivity, di ssemination, a daptation, a nd f armers' i ncome a nd f amily
livelihood, t he PMU e ngaged a t eam of Independent C onsultants t o c arry out a n e x-post
assessment, w hich h as been d ocumented b y t he p roject. In general, t he o utcomes ar e v ery
positive. For example, the average productivity of cotton has increased by about 50%, sorghum
by 49% for grain and 34% for fodder, sesame by 53%, tomatoes by 62%, and onion by 73%. The
outcomes of the study also revealed that the number of farm animals increased by 40% (largely
due to the increased productivity of sorghum fodder). These outcomes have directly or indirectly
improved farmers income and the well-being of their families.

Table 2.1: Yield and Farm Revenue Increases Due to Improved Farming Practices:

                     Planned Project Estimates vs. Actual Measurements (%)
                                                                   Measured yield

            Crop                Planned yield increase (%)         increase (end

                                                                   2005) (%)

                                                      13 Zabid
                Cotton                                                        45­100
                                                     15 Tuban

                Sorghum grain                                5               Up to 98

                Sorghum fodder               4 Zabid ­ 8 Tuban               Up to 44

                Sesame 1                                     0               Up to 55

                Maize                                 18 Zabid           62­97 Zabid

                Cucurbits                              3 Tuban              Up to 200

                Tomatoes 20                                                        87

                Onions 20                                                     12 to 25

                Eggplant 20                              Tuban                     44

                Red chilies                          20 Tuban                     NA

                Banana 10­1                                  5                    NA




                                                 42

                                                                    Measured yield

           Crop                    Planned yield increase (%)       increase (end

                                                                    2005) (%)

               Mango 10                                                            NA

               Okra 15                                                              25

               Water melon                                   NA               28 Zabid



Self adaptation of the successful ADP techniques in the non-ADP farms

The self adaptation of the ADP has occurred on an average of 20% to 30% of the non-ADP
command area (depending on the type of the introduced ADP technique). In Zabid, the self
adaptation of the improved Maize variety has occurred almost on 100% of the command area. A
high a daptation r ate i s a lso r eported f or t he A DP-introduced ne w va rieties of m angoes a nd
cotton.

Ensuring that ADP does not increase productivity at the expense of increasing water use

A fast-tracked follow-up study addressed the water consumption associated with the improved
techniques. The project procured and utilized two Soil Moisture Kits for monitoring the water
use associated with the ADP techniques in Tuban and Zabid. This responded to a request from
the IDA ISR m issions, which cautioned IIP a gainst i ncreasing c rop yield per he ctare at t he
expense o f i ncreasing w ater u se p er h ectare. If t he "more-crop-per-drop" g oal i nevitably
cannot go on pars with increasing crop yield per hectare, then, the increase of land productivity
and farmer income sought by the ADP should at least be achieved in line with a "same-drop-
per-crop" approach. The preliminary water monitoring results (both on ADP's groundwater-fed
and spate water-fed farms) suggested that ADP has increased productivity and farmer income
without increasing water usage per hectare.

For the ADP activities planned in Wadi Ahwar in CY2009 (under WSSP), IDA and MAI agreed
on the importance of adding an "Irrigation Advisory" (less drop per crop) subcomponent to ADP
(more crop per drop). The IDA Task Team assisted the PMU in preparing the related ToRs for
the ADP activities in Ahwar. IDA agreed with MAI that the ADP will be replicated in Wadi
Ahwar under the WSSP as follows:

  a) on at least 100 hectares during CY2009;

  b) targeting the spate season peaking in July 2009 (since March to September 2009 would
       mainly involve irrigation on spate water; September to March mostly on groundwater);

  c) including at least two or three farm plots irrigated by groundwater;




                                                     43

   d) by bui lding on ADP's doc umented e xperiences f rom Zabid a nd T uban, a nd b y
         introducing the Irrigation Advisory activities;

   e) for unit costs up to US$500/hectare (Irrigation Advisory will be added to ADP under the
         recently-approved WSSP); and

   f) by utilizing the two Soil Moisture Kits for monitoring water usage (rather than using the
         common/current auger hole method).

Component D:           Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building.                        This component
involved consultancy services, training and procurement of goods.

This component achieved the following outputs:

    a) Supported Y emen's Irrigation S ector: b y pr oviding a n i nstitutional a ssessment of t he
         irrigation institutions, including the GDI; and providing technical assistance to the GDI
         preparing guidelines for the PIM program in Yemen. This technical assistance included
         on-the-job training to GDI and to other pertinent agencies based on t he results of the
         sector assessment;

    b) An inventory and assessment of the dams and of the bulk water resources in the upper
         watershed of Tuban and Zabid, which affect the performance of the spate systems. This
         study was undertaken by GDI with TA from IDA and FAO/CP;

    c) A Legal F ramework D evelopment S upport: i ncluding T A t o G OY i n pr eparing t he
         irrigation l aw/bylaws, as ne eded t oward t he i ntended f ar-reaching s ector r eform,
         including scaling up the PIM all over the country. This work also comprised completing
         a legal study (which included conducting questionnaires to the wadi's inhabitants) on the
         chronic upland-lowland water rights issues in Wadi Zabid6;

    d) Staff of the TDA being the partner agency co-executing the project in Zabid with the help
         of Zabid's PIU) were trained on t he job on m aintaining the hydro-metrological MIS in
         Zabid;

    e) Preparing and implementing the O&M manual for IIP's spate irrigation works, including
         developing the related MIS and GIS for the two wadis;

    f) A comparative assessment of the socio-economic viability of spate interventions in seven
         candidate wadis (which resulted in electing Wadi Ahwar as explained above); and

6The Al-Jabarty system in western Yemen, including in Zabid, has been adopted by farmer groups as a defacto
rubric for m anaging t he upland-lowland spate-water r ights. V ery s urprisingly, a s p art o f t his l egal study, t he
Yemeni and IDA teams could not find any official documentation or any anecdotal evidence of the Al-Jabarty
rulings. However, to date, his rulings are still successfully practiced in western Yemen.




                                                           44

    g) Support to the PMU and the three PIUs in Wadi Zabid, Wadi Tuban and Wadi Ahwar.

Institutional Change/Strengthening

The IIP was able to create capacity at individual, community and institutional levels. The project
succeeded in stimulating a desire for institutional improvement. Accomplishments in this regard
are described below.

Major r esponsibilities/tasks d evolved to W UAs/ICs in clude: (i) c onsultations w ith f armers
(WUGs/WUAs) on prioritization and design of most project interventions; (ii) WUA-executed
community contracts of up t o US$10,000 in value; (iii) WUA cost sharing of the participatory
works (10%) and of the WUA works (30%) in cash or in kind; (iv) cost sharing by farmers
(through WUAs) of the O&M costs of the works and equipments introduced by IIP (around
74%); (v) efforts by Tuban IC in developing and enforcing the water bylaw (water rights etc.);
(vi) attempts by Zabid IC to advance implementation of all 4 c omponents; (vii) contributions
from t he W UAs and ICs t o M &E as out lined f urther be low; and ( viii) a dvances w ith
development of gender awareness and equity.

The project cultivated the ground for institutional transformation. While preparing the ground for
change, IIP:

           Conducted B asic S ocial S urvey. The survey h as pr ovided a s olid b ase f or
           introducing the concept of PIM among project beneficiary, government agencies,
           regional and local institutions.
           Conducted awareness programs and created water users organizations. A total of
           228 c omprehensive m ulti-stakeholders c ommunity a wareness c ampaigns w ere
           conducted in project areas in both wadis and this has:
               o   Created 443 Water Users Group (WUGs).
               o   Formed 32 Water Users Associations (WUAs).
               o   Created sense of awareness among women.
               o   Brought greater understanding among farmers about the importance of the
                   rehabilitation, maintenance and sustainability of their infrastructures.
           Supported capacity building programs to strengthen the Irrigation Sector. Under its
           institutional strengthening and capacity building support the project assisted in:
               o   assessing the capacity of irrigation institution including General Directorate of
                   Irrigation (GDI).
               o   enhancing GDI's capacity in developing, planning and preparing guide lines
                   for the PIM program.
               o   conducting the upper water shed study in two wadis.
               o   conducting the soil and salinity study for Zabid area.
               o   preparing the water law and its execution procedures.
               o   conducting the legal study for modification of water rights in Wadi Zabid.
               o   undertaking rapid assessment study of phase II wadi.
               o   providing consultancy work for the water resources assessment and for the
                   preparation of detailed design for major works of Wadi Ahwar.



                                                 45

           Irrigation Councils. ICs are the highest authority of water users' organizations and
           acts as the Executive and Administrative Authorities in each wadi (riverbed).

Strengthening water users' institutions and cultivating the enabling environment for change was
seen a s an i mportant i mperative t o W UAs s ustainability. A pproximately 20 pe rcent of t otal
project co sts w ere d irected t owards b uilding t he cap acities an d cap abilities o f W ater U sers
Organizations. This has led to:

           Capacity enhancement interventions t ailored t o W UAs ne eds. A total of 3200
           trainees were provided 8053 training days in technical, financial administrative skills
           such as:
               o finance, administration and O&M.
               o planning and budgeting for their operations.
               o building their own data-base.
               o communication.

           Farmers Design Committee. Farmers were given the opportunity to co-design and co-
           implement contracts. The FDC served to transfer skills and know-how to water users.
           The approach has contributed to:
               o Creating and operationalizing 32 farmers design committees.
               o Implementing 1 89 c ommunities' p rojects for t otal c ontracts a mounting to
                   US$1,366,320. This includes 10% of farmers' contribution to the projects'
                   total civil work cost.
               o Identifying irrigation problem and prioritizing those problems.
               o Designing, implementing mode and cost-sharing arrangements with the WUA
                   Board of Directors.
               o Collaborating with PIU in preparing detailed designs and cost estimates for
                   completion of total canals within the working area of the WUA.

           Operation & M aintenance w ork. Irrigation s takeholders i n t he t wo wadis ha ve
           participated in the IIP design, cost-sharing, and implementation stages. As a result:
                   o Wadi Zabid and Wadi Tuban WUAs have been working closely with the
                        project implantation units (PIUs).
                   o Zabid WUAs have contributed YR9,503,000 towards O&M total costs.
                        This amount represents 71% of the last five years O&M total costs.
                   o Tuban WUAs have contributed YR10, 358.891 towards O&M total costs.
                        This amount represents 76% of the last five years O&M total cost.
                   o The IIP prepared an O&M manual to assist the principal users in order to
                        operate the irrigation system effectively.
                   o The principal users have also benefited from extensive training on how to
                        use this manual and how to implement it.

           Community-Based Monitoring and Evaluation System. To maintain sustainability, the
           IIP ensured that ICs closely monitor the performance of the WUAs. The project has
           established three broad performance indicators: (i) institutional, (ii) financial, and (iii)
           technical.



                                                  46

Challenges:
         In absence of advance planning and adequate transitional arrangements upon project
         completion, pr oject s taffs, W UAs a nd ICs w ill pa y hu ge c osts s uch as: pr oject
         professional and support staffs working without salary for more than three months.
         This seems to have been the case upon IIP operation termination.
         Planning ahead on time on how to sustain the best of the project staff and institutional
         memory is c ritical a nd s hould n ot b e u ndermined a s it ma y r esult to lo ss o f
         experienced and passionate staff.
         The tendency of different organizations with potential to protect their turf and cause
         transitional difficulties must be discussed and prevented a head of time.

Lesson Learned:
         The advancement of the PIM concept into the IIP project process prompted the GOY
         to create enabling legal and institutional environments.
         If appropriate training is given and organizational capacity is built community level
         organizations can serve as reliable and natural development partners.
         Cost-sharing a rrangement i s i mportant f or i ncreasing be neficiary ow nership a nd
         accountability.
         PMU and PIU staffs with deep understanding of local needs and culture can cement
         trust and collaboration between project and project beneficiaries.


                       DCA Amendments and closing date extensions

In August 2003, the DCA was amended to permit the following improvements under
Component A:

  a) Rehabilitation of existing service and access roads connecting the project-served villages
     and market places within the project area;

  b) Community participation: Permitting civil works less than US$10,000 per contract, and up
     to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$1,200,000, to be executed directly through the
     respective WUAs; and

  c) Shopping of small works: Permitting works costing less than US$30,000 per contract, up
     to an aggregate not exceeding US$500,000, to be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price
     contracts a warded on t he ba sis of quot ations obt ained f rom t hree qu alified dom estic
     contractors in response to a written invitation.




                                               47

In November 2005, the DCA was amended and the closing date extended from June 30,
2006 to June 30, 2007.

Part of the DCA/PAD APL1 milestones were amended to tackle the delays encountered due to
previously-unforeseen externalities (e.g., abnormal droughts in Tuban), as follows:

    a) Permitting that civil works (under Component A) to be done on s econdary and tertiary
        canals (thus in addition to primary-canal and headwork levels per the original DCA);

    b) Clarifying the aforementioned community contracts (% expenditures to be financed is:
        60% by IDA, 30% by beneficiary farmers in cash or in kind, and 10% by the GOY); and

    c) The milestones for moving to APL II were amended to stipulate that the transfer of O&M
        (being a disbursement condition in the original DCA) is only needed at the secondary and
        tertiary canals rather than also at the main canals (per the original DCA: Section 4.07).
        The r eason i s t hat t he main can als ( as o pposed t o t ertiary and s econdary canals) a re
        deemed public infrastructure, hence warranting much less engagement or cost sharing by
        the end users.

These a mendments he lped i ncrease ow nership at t he c ommunity l evel a nd he lped expedite
completing the civil works in the spate component and the progress of ADP Component, by
allowing the WUAs established by the project to administer executing small contracts (less than
US$10,000, with an aggregate sum not exceeding US$1.2 million).

In June 2007, the DCA was re-amended and the closing date was re-extended from June
30, 2007 to December 2008 in order to:

   a) Ensure completing the civil works; and

   b) Utilize the uncommitted IDA funds (due to project cost savings) in piloting fresh ideas for
       cross-sectoral conjunctive use of surface and groundwater in Yemen coastal plains. Based
       on an extensive comparative study a third wadi, "Wadi Ahwar" in southern Yemen was
       elected for utilizing these funds in executing urgent flood-protection and water-supply
       works and in undertaking a major feasibility study for wadi-wide interventions.

In anticipation of i ntroducing t he r ecently-approved W SSP ( 2009-2014), t he a forementioned
second extension of IIP was perceived by GOY and IDA as a "b ridging phase", rather than a
full-fledged APL II. The IIP's full-fledged APL II phase will defacto be subsumed under the
recently-approved WSSP.

Identification of the origins of the cost savings as estimated by MAI at mid-2007:

As of t he IIP-APL1 e ffectiveness i n J anuary 2 001, t here ha s be en pr oject s avings i n IDA
commitments, which are estimated to reach about US$3.5 million by the current closing date
(end June FY07). The origins of the savings have been as follows:




                                                   48

    a) Savings in goods and equipments due to obtaining gates from a Japanese grant rather than
        from the IIP credit, and due to technical efficiency savings as well as savings obtained
        from local (as opposed to international) procurement. To effect these savings, Category 1
        of the credit proceeds has been revised from SDR 2.4 million (at original DCA) to SDR
        0.9 million;

    b) Savings i n P roject m anagement C osts7 (Category 4): f rom S DR 1 .5 m illion to S DR
        400,000; and

    c) Utilization of the unallocated category: reduced from SDR 1.6 million to SDR 200,000.

Corresponding to the aforementioned IDA savings, the GoY additionally contributed US$0.34
million (e.g., about 9% of the total).

Additions to project description per the DCA amendment 2007:

The IDA savings (plus GOY co-financing) have been utilized through a 18-month extension
phase, to jumpstart irrigation modernization and cross-sectoral conjunctive use facilities of water
resources management in Wadi Ahwar. This addition did not involve any changes to the PDOs
nor to the associated outcome targets. On basis of a comparative, multi-criteria feasibility study
(performed under Yemen IIP APL1), "Wadi Ahwar" has been elected for utilizing the funds
saved from the current APL1. According to the study, around US$3.5 million out of the APL1-
IDA saved funds, in addition to GOY co-financing of US$0.34 million (9% of total), were to be
utilized through the 18-month extension phase. An extension to the closing date from June 30,
2007 to December 31, 2008 deemed necessary to utilize the IDA savings and also to completed a
few of the pending civil work contracts.

             Table 2.2: Number of Contracts Executed by the IIP from 2001 to 2008

Type of Contract                    Prior-Review Contracts               Post-Review Contracts                Total
Goods (all Components A to
C)                                              6                                 18                           24

Consultancy Services
(all Components A to C)                        14                                 12                           26

Works (Component A)                            23                                  8                           31
Total                                          43                                 38                           81


                   IIP as a "Process" Project (the non-infrastructural outputs)

Formulation of Water-User Organizations toward Cost Sharing
The IIP w as ar ticulated ar ound t he P articipatory Irrigation M anagement ( PIM) co ncept. T he
project prompted the GOY to create enabling legal and institutional environments to establish



7 Expenditures incurred by PMU and the PIUs on account of utility charges, rent for office space, maintenance of
vehicles, fuel, office supplies, banking charges, communication services, audit costs, travel costs, salaries and labor
costs and other consumables but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower.


                                                         49

two main irrigation-user organizations: WUAs and ICs. Each WUA is in charge of implementing
PIM in its respective irrigation command area.

The W UA w ould: ( i) pr ovide r eliable a nd s ustainable i rrigation s ervices, ( ii) pe rform
maintenance a nd r ehabilitation; ( iii) c ollect f ees f rom b eneficiaries; and ( iv) d evelop th e
capability for self-reliant O&M. At later, more advanced stages, ICs were established in both
Wadi Zabid and Wadi Tuban with potent representation from the WUAs. The ICs act as the High
Executive and Administrative Authorities in each wadi (riverbed). The ICs are responsible for:
(i) applying th e IC's b y-laws a nd imp lementing its e xecutive p rocedures; ( ii) c oordinating
activities be tween government a uthorities t hat c ontinue t o be i n c harge o f O &M of he ad
works/primary canals and the WUAs in charge of O&M of the secondary and tertiary systems;
(iii) protecting water-user rights and resolving conflicts and pending issues; and (iv) monitoring
the s ocial, f inancial, a nd t echnical p erformance o f W UAs. T he ICs r epresent t he l ocal
government, W UAs, and t he M AI (through i ts R egional D evelopment A uthority/Agriculture
Office).

The project initiated the PIM approach through undertaking a comprehensive awareness program
to inculcate the concept of PIM in farmers' minds and to clarify the roles and responsibilities of
irrigation beneficiaries within their representative user groups. The program targeted all relevant
stakeholders, including farmers (owners, sharecroppers, and tenants), government officials, and
local councils. As a result of the program, informal WUGs were formulated at the onset, which
later metamorphosed into formal WUAs. ICs were formed at an advanced stage of IIP. The
project th en d eveloped v arious tr aining activities to b uild th e ma nagerial a nd te chnical
capabilities of the WUAs and ICs.

PIM called for farmers' participation in overall project activities starting from decision-making
to completion of the rehabilitation and improvement works, as well as farmers' contribution of
10 percent of investment costs in kind. Thereafter, farmers would take over responsibility and
financing for the O&M of secondary and tertiary canals.

IIP's Approach to Community Cost-Sharing of Off-Farm Investments

For the investment/rehabilitation works, as mentioned earlier, the IIP introduced an in-kind cost-
sharing approach through community-implemented contracts. To enable low-income farmers to
share the capital costs of the project, IIP divided civil works into two categories:

   a) Priority works to be fully financed by the project (government funds and loans). These
        works include feeder roads and flood/environmental protection works, which are deemed
        public goods outside the canal system and thus require no earmarked user fees; and

   b) Participatory works, r equiring 10 p ercent of farmers' c ontribution t o r ehabilitation/
        improvement capital costs. This percentage was agreed between the project government
        team an d f armer r epresentatives ( initially t he W UGs; ev entually t he WUAs). F armers
        were allowed to contribute this percentage in kind: labor and material. In this arrangement,
        each W UA would i mplement 1­2 s mall c ommunity c ontract(s) up t o US$10,000 pe r
        contract t o a n a ggregate U S$1.4 m illion pe r pr oject. T o p ersuade i rrigation e nd-
        beneficiaries to contribute 10 percent in kind, the project guaranteed that the unit rates of


                                                   50

       the contracts awarded to WUAs would be 30 percent cheaper than those implemented by
       the national/regional contractors. (These rates otherwise would have embodied significant
       profit m argins f or t he WUA-contractors.) T his pe rcentage t hereby r epresents t he t otal
       contribution from end-beneficiaries and, intrinsically, from the WUA-contractors.

Farmers' Response to Joining WUAs and Sharing Capital Costs

One major incentive for farmers to join WUAs was to vest the farmers with the authority to co-
design and c o-implement s pate s ubprojects. D ue t o pa st, pe rsistent c entralized s ubsidies of
irrigation in Yemen, farmers at first felt little incentive to buy in to the idea of forming WUAs
under the project, especially since spate irrigation depends on erratic floodwater that is becoming
ever more scarce and less predictable.

However, through IIP's public awareness program, many farmers have come forward and joined
the WUAs. The farmers pay subscription and annual fees and play an active role in selecting the
types of irrigation structures needed and contributing to subsequent implementation/supervision
of civil works contracts.

Farmers became more interested after they were vested with the right to participate in decision-
making and (as explained above) to directly implement small contracts in which they would cost-
share t he r ehabilitation and i mprovement works. The project's C redit Agreement i ncluded a
prerequisite that civil works could not start before establishing the respective WUAs.

Farmers also exhibited willingness to share costs of on-farm improvements after the project
evidenced i mproved yields a nd pr ofits. T he A DP de monstrated t he i mproved i rrigation a nd
agronomic practices at the on-farm level. The demonstrations were conducted with 360 farmers
and 590 f armers at W adis Zabid and Tuban, r espectively. An additional 1500 f armers were
involved in the associated awareness campaigns. As a result of the various on-farm interventions,
some crop yields increased up to 100 percent. In a "Rapid Appraisal Survey" conducted by IIP in
March 2005, farmers rated the overall outcome of ADP as highly satisfactory. They expressed
willingness to share 25 percent and 50 percent of the on-farm costs of improved technologies for
the spate and tube-well demonstrations, respectively.

Backstopping the WUAs and Tackling PIM Implementation Difficulties

The project provided the needed training and necessary administrative, financial, and technical
backstopping to WUAs. Primarily due to their weak legal and financial status at start-up, WUAs
experienced v arious obstacles in actualizing their roles. These difficulties called for cr eating
options to empower the WUAs in carrying out the community contracts. For instance, it proved
difficult f or th e W UAs to is sue b ank/commercial g uarantees f or th e community contracts.
Alternatively, they were permitted to issue guarantee letters endorsed by the governors.

Backstopping the WUAs included the following activities:

   a) A training program has been carried out for each WUA Board of Directors and for their
       Auditing a nd Inspection C ommittees t o e nable t hem t o unde rstand t he l egal s tatus,



                                                  51

       objectives, and administration/financial management of O&M activities. The emphasis has
       been sustainable O&M;

   b) Irrigation Management Transfer ( IMT) Agreements were prepared in Arabic and were
       endorsed by the governors;

   c) The project team has trained the WUAs' construction managers on contracting procedures
       as well as procedures covered in the Project Operations Manual;

   d) The W UA r epresentatives ha ve p articipated i n t hree w orkshops at t he r egional and
       national levels on institutional assessment of the irrigation sector; and

   e) The dr aft b ylaws f or e stablishing t he ICs ha ve be en a pproved b y t he project's i nter-
       ministerial Steering Committee, thus hastening the establishment of an IC for each of the
       two wadis.

Approximately 30 working papers and operational manuals have been prepared by the training
consultants for the project's PIM component.

The cost of training and WUA-backstopping in the IIP has been considerable, amounting to
approximately 20 percent of total project costs. The GOY could seek to scale up the PIM concept
after the completion of Bank-supported projects. If so, the GOY would need to secure financing
for such software-type investments from the sovereign resources allocated to rural extension and
research. From i nternational e xperience, t his i s de emed on e of t he examples f or "virtuous"
subsidies t hat a " lean-and-mean" g overnment ( as oppos ed t o t he p rivate s ector or e nd-
beneficiaries) could shoulder.


Status and O&M Roles of WUAs/ICs, and Expected Progress

Promising r esults ha ve be en obs erved t hus f ar a s i rrigation s takeholders i n t he t wo w adis
participated in the IIP design, cost-sharing, and implementation stages.

All WUAs in Wadi Zabid and Wadi Tuban have been established and become fully operational
with a ctive boa rds of di rectors, pr oper bookke eping, a nd ba nk accounts. T he W UAs ha ve
worked closely with the PMUs and the project consultants during the design and implementation
of t he r ehabilitation a nd i mprovement a ctivities. A s pa rt of t he W UAs, F armer D esign
Committees (FDCs) have been elected (with the facilitation of existing Farmers' Organizations,
or FOs) to determine priority ranking of rehabilitation needs and to participate in their design.

The W UAs ha ve e fficiently be en i mplementing t he pa rticipatory contracts ( section 2.2 ) a nd
signing IMT Agreements for all secondary and tertiary canals. More importantly, they started to
contribute to O&M costs of the secondary/tertiary system (as it has been agreed that the O&M
costs of the main system be shouldered by the GOY). The IIP has prepared an O&M manual
including a detailed inventory of required O&M items and a description of how WUAs could
prepare O &M p lans/budgets and co llect O &M f ees. T he W UAs h ave b een at tending an
extensive training program on how to use this manual and how to implement it. Thus far, WUAs



                                                 52

have been collecting user fees for heavy-equipment rentals to carry out immediate O&M of the
secondary/tertiary c anals. T he f ees c ollected are de posited i n W UAs'ba nk a ccounts a nd
disbursed out of these accounts. Thus far, O&M fees are collected ad hoc since O&M of the IIP-
introduced w orks ha ve not be en f ully h anded over t o t he t wo ICs a nd t o t he r egional l ine
agencies. H owever, i t i s r eported t hat f armers a re pa ying t heir c ontributions a nd t hat t he
collection process is transparent.

The ICs also have started to hold regular meetings and discuss issues related to water rights and
water di stribution. T he r ole of t he W UAs a nd t he ICs w ill be come m ore obvi ous a fter
completion of the rehabilitation/improvement works. One sign of WUAs' effectiveness in Wadi
Zabid was that they managed to persuade powerful farmers to restore canal cross-sections and
to remove the control works that they had unilaterally, subjectively placed in the canals to extend
their irrigated areas.

To summarize, thus far, IIP has been deemed a successful "process" project, in testing and
scaling up the PIM concept. The beneficiaries formed grassroots-level WUAs and wadi-level ICs
that have been successfully:

   a) Participating in decision-making and in selecting design options;

   b) Contributing to capital investment costs and to implementation of civil-work contracts;
       and

   c) Gradually t aking ove r responsibilities f or t he r ecurrent f inancing a nd O &M of t he
       secondary and tertiary systems.

The viability of this "process" project is to be assessed based on its far-reaching impacts. They
include f inancial s ustainability; na tural-resource-base s ustainability; r eduction of avoidable
transaction and overhead costs; and piloting, transferring, and scaling up best practices. Most of
the off-farm rehabilitation and improvement activities are in progress. Thus, it is too early to
draw conclusions on t he quality of irrigation services provided by ICs/WUAs, as opposed to
those previously provided by corresponding government entities.


Community-Based Monitoring and Evaluation System

To m aintain s ustainability, t he IIP e nsured t hat ICs c losely m onitor t he pe rformance of t he
WUAs. T he pr oject ha s e stablished t hree br oad pe rformance i ndicators: ( a) i nstitutional, ( b)
financial, and (c) technical.

   a) Institutional performance indicators include: ( i) r epresentation ( percentage o f f armers
       subscribing for membership of each WUA); (ii) transparency and accountability (whether
       the chair and members of the WUA executive body were properly elected; whether the
       executive body meets and produces minutes of meetings; whether WUAs members are
       being timely informed of the executive body decisions; whether WUAs adopted proper
       Internal Rules and Regulations and bookkeeping concerning managerial, financial, and




                                                  53

       technical as pects); an d (iii) au thority ( the d egree t o w hich W UAs h ave t he p ower t o
       execute their decisions);

   b) Financial performance indicators m onitor w hether W UAs a re w illing and a ble t o
       collect/receive adequate funds to cover O&M and whether WUAs maintain proper bank
       accounts and accounting records; and

   c) Technical performance indicators monitor whether WUA members master the O&M and
       supervision plans and are well informed of their foreseen costs.

However, WUAs and ICs needed to be further empowered to fully undertake the M&E, and ICs
may need to be bottom-up rather than top-down entities. This can be done under the recently-
approved WSSP.

The Water Law enacted in 2003 enunciated that WUAs and ICs need to be established and need
to contribute to the Wadi Integrated Water Management Plans, which are adopted by the GOY.
With t echnical ba ckstopping f rom t he r egional l ine a gencies and l ocal a uthorities/councils,
WUAs a nd ICs ne ed t o g radually t ake ove r t he r ole of ove rseeing s ervice pr ovision a nd
facilitating the application of water-related incentives and regulations. They also can be entrusted
with more monitoring/benchmarking roles in coordination with the regional line agencies, and
with more enforcement roles in coordination with local authorities.

Nonetheless, the best alternative for a monitoring/benchmarking/planning body would be the
technical secretariat of a basin committee. The basin committee would be based on hydrological
boundaries. Its bo ard would be composed of water-user groups/federations, local authorities,
local line agencies, and NGOs. This composition would reduce the immense forgone resource-
economic costs posed by the administrative boundaries; and would limit the transaction costs
posed by assigning monitoring/benchmarking roles to mono-user water groups.




                                                    54

                            ANNEX 3: Economic and Financial Analysis


                             Table 3.1: Summary of Benefits and Costs

Activities                            Financial Analysis              Economic Analysis
                                  (Million YR)   (Million US$)    (Million YR)   (Million US$)
PAD - Net Present Value *             n/a             n/a             234             1.2
PAD - Internal Rate of Return                 n/a                            11.2%
ICR - Net Present Value *             823             4.1           1,432             7.2
ICR - Internal Rate of Return                12.6%                           16.6%
* At 10% discount Rate.

A.       Background

The IIP was designed for ensuring sustainable water resource management in both Wadi Tuban
(in Lahej Governorate) and Wadi Zabid (in Hodeidah Governorate), contributing to increase
agricultural production, household incomes and food security in the project areas. Sustainable
and efficient water conveyance, distribution and use in the two irrigation schemes would be
achieved t hrough t he rehabilitation, i mprovement a nd pr otection of t he s pate i rrigation
infrastructure, covering an area of 26,000 ha, and institutional changes based on the concept of
participative ir rigation management (PIM). In p arallel, a n in tensive on-farm d emonstration
program w ould e nhance t he e conomic vi ability of t he p roposed w orks, i mproving t he
sustainability of agriculture by increasing the capacity of farmers to self-finance and manage the
O&M of the system. Beneficiaries were expected to be 27,000 mostly poor households (150,000
people) of farmers, farm workers and their families whose livelihood depend on the 26,000 ha of
net command areas in both wadis.

The PAD estimated the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of the IIP at 11.2% and the Net Present
Value (NPV) at US$ 1.17 million considering 10% as the discount rate. The analysis was carried
out for both Tuban and Zabid wadis showing ERRs of 9.6% and 12.9% respectively. Estimations
were based on flows calculated for both the "with" and "without" project scenarios. Conversion
Factors (CF) were used for correcting financial prices for the economic evaluation. Financial
impact on farmers was also analyzed based on crop budgets and farm models prepared for both
wadis. Farmers incomes would increase as a result of an intensification of agricultural production
(increase in both yields and cropping intensity) and the average incremental incomes per ha of
net command area was expected to reach about US$50 and US$56 in Tuban and Zabid areas,
respectively.

The impact of the project in some of its dimensions (environmental, social, and institutional) is
difficult to me asure p roperly at th is e arly s tage, when imp lementation is ju st c ompleted.
However, the adopted methodology for this ICR assessment, as in the PAD, was to conduct a
cost-benefit analysis based mainly on the direct increased agricultural production resulting from
the project investments, mainly from: (i) the expansion of the irrigated area as a result of the
rehabilitation of the spate irrigation structures to reach areas were water was not available, and
the s upporting i nfrastructure ( mainly r ehabilitation a nd pa vement of r oads) w hich he lped t o


                                                  55

create a n enhanced e nvironment f or de velopment; a nd ( ii) t he a doption of ne w p roduction
technologies through the IPP financed on-farm Agricultural Development Program (ADP). Non-
quantified expected benefits expected and mentioned in the PAD included: (i) production shifts
to higher value crops; (ii) increased value of land; (iii) increases of groundwater recharge; (iv)
improved equity in water distribution and hence, in income; (v) prevention of rural emigration
through creation of job opportunities for the landless; (vi) improved food security in poor areas
suffering from malnutrition; and (vii) savings in transportation costs (improved roads)

B.       The ICR new assessment

Sources of production data. In order to characterize and calibrate the productive situation in
both project areas, an assessment of the impact of the ADP was conducted in October 2007 by an
external consultant, in collaboration with the Agricultural Research Authority (ARA) and the
Public Corporation for Agricultural Services (PCAS)8. The findings of this study were updated
during the ICR mission with a rapid follow-up of a sub-sample of 28 farmers selected from the
177 originally cases sampled in the Zabid valley. The mission also conducted a two-day field
visit to the Zabid project area.

Prices. World Bank commodity price forecasts from March 2009 w ere used to estimate 2008
constant economic prices of traded inputs and outputs. Given that the Yemen Rial is determined
in the open market, and trade restrictions are not significant, it was assumed that domestic prices
in general tend to correspond to border economic values. The only case in which a significant
distortion was perceived in the market prices with respect to border prices was with sorghum
grain, for which a CF of 0.6 was applied for the economic analysis. Shadow prices for rural labor
were estimated at 70% of the prevailing market wage rate, while for skilled labor, the market rate
was assumed to reflect its opportunity cost. While the project would increase on-farm and off-
farm employment in the project areas, unemployment and under-employment are not expected to
vary significantly. Financial prices were equated to economic prices in the case of other tradable
and all non-tradable goods and a standard conversion factor of unity was applied toward the
project's economic costs and benefits.

Analysis Framework. The financial viability of the IIP investments was analyzed within the
framework of the most common production systems in the project areas and considering small
and medium size family households in the highlands, midlands and lowlands. Financial prices at
the farm gate were used in calculation of costs and revenues, as perceived in the survey and field
visits. Input and output prices were set at 2008 constant values, as was the real exchange rate,
throughout the 20 year time horizon used in the analysis (2001 ­ 2020). The financial discount
rate was assumed to be 10%.
Yields. The following Table 3.2 shows the average yields obtained in the main cultivated crops
in t he pr oject a reas, b oth b y A DP a nd c ontrol f armers, a s s een i n t he f ield s urveys a nd
observations. From the surveys it appeared that between 20 and 30% of the farmers had adopted
the m ost r elevant i nnovations di sseminated b y t he A DP. A lthough i t i s e xpected t hat t he


8Assessment Study of the Impact of Agricultural Demonstrations Program on Production and Income in Zabid and
Tuban Valleys (Final Report), Dr. Khaled Qasim Qaid, October 2007.



                                                     56

adoption rate will continue in the next years, for the sake of a conservative estimation of project
benefits, it was assumed that only about 30% of the farms would increase yields by adopting the
project promoted technologies.

              Table 3.2: Observed Crop Yields With and Without ADP (2007 ­ Survey)

                                                   Zabid                       Tuban
                   Crops                    Control      ADP farms     Control      ADP farms
                                             farms                       farms
      Cotton 1,                                160          1,750        1,265        1,860
      Sorghum Grain                           600           820           630          840
      Sorghum Fodder                         7,400          9,150        6,550        8,480
      Maize 800                                             1,350         770         1220
      Sesame 625                                            985           540          800
      Watermelon 10,                            000        15,500        8,120        11,320
      Okra 5,                                  800          8,500        6,260        10,220
      Tomato                                 11,200        18,800 11,      200 17,       450
      Onion                                  14,100        27,050 15,      780 24,       700
      Mango                                  12,700        22,300 14,      460 27,       170
      Banana 22,                                250        33,600          -            -



Crop Budgets. The financial impact on farmers'income was analyzed with the help of detailed
crop budgets and farm models illustrative of typical farming situations in both wadis. Models
and budge ts w ere de veloped us ing FARMOD software. C rop bud gets w ere bui lt w ith t he
information obtained in the original and updating surveys, and through field observations (Tables
1- 12 in project files). They detail the representative partial budgets involved in each major crop,
including: (i) crop yields and inputs used per ha, both in the pre-existing technology (without the
project) and when the new technologies and spate irrigation conditions were introduced (with the
project); and (ii) t he financial bud get resulting from t he ph ysical quantities of products and
inputs, and the market (financial) prices received by farmers for their production, or paid by
them for the required inputs and services.

Average crop budget for the two project wadis show the "with" and "without" project scenarios
based on t he results obt ained f rom t he 2007 and 2009 upda ting S urveys. Twenty four crop
models (12 for each wadi) and 3 farm models were constructed to estimate the financial impact
of t he pr oject a t t he b eneficiaries' l evel. T he f ollowing T able 3.3 s how t he m ain r esults
indicators derived from the Wadi Zabid crop models detailed in Tables 1 t o 12 i n the project
files.




                                                   57

             Table 3.3: Main Indicators for Crop Model Results in Wadi Zabid

Crop                     Gross Revenue          Input Costs          Labor Costs         Net Income
                         2003      2007       2003       2007       2003      2007      2003     2007
Cotton                   125.6     181.1      75.9 91.      2 30.      8      36.4      18.9      53.5
Sorghum Grain            156.0     220.4      38.6 49.      3 28.      7      30.8      88.7     140.3
Sorghum Fodder           131.4     163.8      28.5 49.      5 35.      1      39.2      67.8      75.1
Maize                    103.0     160.0      22.1 22.      2 29.      4      26.6      51.5     111.2
Sesame                   100.0     157.6      19.4 22.      8 23.      1      23.1      57.5     111.7
Tomato                   784.0    1,316.0     286.4 344.     8 116.     2     138.6    381.4     832.6
Watermelon 400.              0     620.0      160.3     194.3       28.0      35.7     211.7     390.0
Okra 348.                    0     510.0      170.3     163.7       93.9      90.3      83.8     256.0
Mango 762.                   0    1,098.0     563.4     736.3       93.5      108.1    105.1     253.7
Banana 667.                  5    1,008.0     492.4     688.0       67.2      176.4    107.9     143.6

Land use. Due to the long deferred maintenance of the flood control and spate irrigation systems
in Zabid and Tuban, most of the structures were not operating and water rarely reached the farms
outside the highlands. In 2003 l ess than 12,000 ha were irrigating with spate water (in Tuban
7,720 ha and in Zabid 4,234 ha). Land use intensity was only about 40% of the agricultural land
in the command areas. With the rehabilitation of the systems and the participatory irrigation
management (PIM) approach induced by the IIP, the spate irrigation system is now serving two
times the land irrigated before rehabilitation. The physical improvements, as well as the WUAs
induced management, are now resulting in more evenly distributed spate water, reducing the
concentration o f t he r esource i n w ell l ocated ar eas o f w ealthier f armers. N ow, w ater f lows
downstream were the poor are concentrated. Improvements are also preventing bursting of flood
water when the existing earthen ogmas were destroyed. As shown in the following Table 3.4, in
Zabid, besides an increase of irrigated area from 4,271 ha to 10,852 ha, there is a significant
increase in higher value crops (banana and mango) which mean that now, as water is secured,
there is more value produced per drop of water. In Tuban, the expansion of irrigated area went
almost entirely to a low value crop as sorghum fodder or grain.

           Table 3.4: Spate Irrigated Areas in the Project Areas in 2003 and 2007

                                              Wadi Zabid                    Wadi Tuban
                Crops                  Before IIP      After IIP     Before IIP     After IIP
                                         2003            2007           2003          2007
    Cotton 250                                            200            559           743
    Sorghum Grain                        1,300           3,100           250          1,000
    Sorghum Fodder                        500            2,006          6,564         10,806
    Maize 170                                             600              -            -
    Sesame 170                                            700            267           439
    Watermelon 174                                        100              -            6
    Okra 200                                              200              -           19
    Tomato 31                                              36             70           102
    Onion 6                                                10             50           60
    Mango 700                                            1,300            80           137
    Banana 770                                           2,600             -            -
    TOTAL 4,                               271          10,852          7,840         13,312




                                                  58

Aggregate Benefits. T he r esulting i ncremental a gricultural pr oduction c osts a nd be nefits
obtained at the wadi l evel were aggregated in both scenarios: "with" and "without" project,
according to the evolving importance of each production activity. It was conservatory assumed
that no f urther significant changes in yields, planted areas and/or cropping patterns will occur
until 2020. In addition, as was done in the original PAD's economic and financial analysis, other
non-agricultural evident benefits were not quantified, as those benefits mentioned in paragraph 3
above. The aggregation of the agricultural incremental production and related costs, provide a
very conservative ove rall e stimate of t he pr oject ne t be nefits t o be c ompared w ith t he IIP
investment costs.

Project cost9 has been about US$28.4 million, of which beneficiaries' contribution was US$0.3
million, the GOY contributing with US$4.2 million and the IDA credit financing about US$23,9
million. The costs (US$ 1.5 m illion) and benefits of the IIP investments in Wadi Ahwar ­ not
included in the original IIP design - were excluded from the ICR economic and financial analysis
because there was no time for: (i) the preliminary results to begin to show up as the works was
concluded at the end of the implementation period; and (ii) the ICR team to process the scarce
information available.

C.       Economic and Financial Results

Financial Results. At the farm level, benefits and costs were analyzed in both scenarios in order
to measure the financial impact of the project at the beneficiaries' level, based on the incremental
net family revenue of these household models. Table 3.5 s hows the main indicators for Wadi
Zabid and the details are presented in Tables 13 to 15 in the project files. Typical small and
medium size farms have increased their income in about 45 to 89% depending on the farm size
and l ocation ( lowlands, m idlands or hi ghlands). T he i ncreased i ncome r esulted f rom a
combination of vertical and horizontal expansion of the farm, due to spate water being made
available more frequently and to a 30 t o 40% adoption rate of the technological innovations
disseminated by the IIP ADP as verified by the impact assessment study.


              Table 3.5: IIP Impact over the Beneficiaries' Income in Wadi Zabid

   Farm Model                                             Household Benefits
                                         Without IIP            With IIP         Income Increase
   Small Farm in Lowlands                   243,000             459,000                 89%
   Small Farm in Midlands                   323,000             467,000                 45%
   Medium Farm in Highlands                 344,000             628,000                 83%




9
 Goods cost: US$1.1 million. Civil-work costs: US$7.12 million, US$5.45 million, US$1.6 million, and US$1.3
million for Zabid, Tuban, Ahwar, and WUA contracts respectively. Flood control costs: US$1.15 million, US$0.26
million and US$1.0 million for Zabid, Tuban and Ahwar, respectively. Roads rehab costs: US$1.5 million and
US$0.8 million for Zabid and Tuban, respectively.




                                                     59

From investment in rehabilitation of existing spate structures and works in the wadis, benefits
expected originally from a modest crop yield increase (2%) due to the rapid speed with which
spate flows would be able to move from one part of the scheme to the next after rehabilitation;
and from moderate expansion (10 percent in Zabid and 35 percent in Tuban) in irrigated areas
based on improved management of surface water. According to the PAD, beneficiaries' incomes
would be i ncreased b y onl y U S$50 t o U S$5 per ha i n T uban a nd Z abid c ommand a reas,
respectively. E stimations de rived f rom t he f arm m odels pr esented a bove s how t hat i ncome
increases per ha reached more than US$460 per ha in all models indicating that the impact has
exceeded several times what was originally expected.

Project Economic Analysis. As can be seen in Table 6 the overall economic rate of return of the
project was estimated by the ICR team at 16.6%. Using a discount rate of 10 percent, the project
NPV is YR 1,432 million (US$7.2 million). In calculating the ERR for the project about 5% of
project costs diverted to improvements in Wadi Ahwar were excluded as it is early to quantify
benefits. Economic benefits for 95% of the IIP investments were mainly obtained from: (i) the
significant expansion of the irrigated areas in both wadis that were increased from 12,000 ha to
24,000 ha (100% far more than expected at appraisal); (ii) the increased diversification towards
higher value fruit crops (mainly mango and banana) in the Wadi Zabid, from about 1,500 ha to
4,000 ha; and (iii) the significant increase in crop productivity coming from the adoption of new
production t echnologies i nduced b y t he pr oject A DP de monstration f ields. In s um, m ore
adequate and secure water delivery and improved technology.

Regional Economic Analysis. From the analysis of the separated valley analysis, the results
shown by both wadis are similar but not the same. They are both positive but in a different
degree: Zabid reaches an ERR of 18.4% while Tuban shows only 14.2%. What determines the
difference in the economic results is mainly the strong crop diversification process observed after
rehabilitation in Wadi Zabid towards higher value fruit crops (mango and banana area grew from
1,470 ha to 3,900 ha) which are more intensive crops in the use of capital and labor than the
traditional sorghum that still occupies about ninety percent of the Wadi Tuban command area.
.
Sustainability of project benefits is expected to be high, given that the increase in spade water
availability and use efficiencies, together with the PIM approach introduced by the project. The
strong dynamic attitude shown by WUAs assuming the O&M of the system infrastructure is
already having a significant effect on the spate water service delivery and as a consequence on
farmers' incomes. It is expected that with the formal transfer of O&M responsibilities to the
WUAs, t he m ore e fficient a nd r esponsive m anagement of t he s pate w ater di version a nd
distribution i nfrastructure w ould a lso a llow f or a m ore s ustainable us e a nd l ife of t he
groundwater resources in both valleys, since the IIP monitoring wells are beginning to show
significant recuperation of the water table.




                                                  60

                                       Table 3.6: Project Summary



ECONOMIC BUDGET (AGGREGATED)                              Without
(In YR Million)                                            Project
                                                           1 to 20    1     5    10    15   18 to 20


    Main Production
        Grains                                                  150   150   232   471   471      471
        Mango                                                   603   603   627   764 1,278    1,743
        Banana                                                  514   514   567 2,359 2,359    2,359
        Other                                                   107   107   118   139   139      139
        Vegetables                                              138   138   134   145   145      145
        Forage                                                  924   924 1,196 1,914 1,914    1,914
    Sub-total Main Production                                 2,435 2,435 2,874 5,793 6,306    6,771
    Production Cost
        Investment                                                -     -   24    152     -         -
        Operating                                             1,745 1,745 1,977 4,057 4,444    4,614
    Sub-Total Production Cost                                 1,745 1,745 2,002 4,209 4,444    4,614
    Other Costs
        Improvement of Spate Irrigation Infrastructure            2   90    985    6     6         6
        OUTFLOWS                                              1,747 1,835 2,986 4,215 4,450    4,620
    Cash Flow                                                   688   600 -112  1,577 1,856    2,151


IRR = 16.6%, NPV = 1,432.28

PRODUCTION AND INPUTS (Aggregated)
(In Units Million)
           Main Production (In 000 Tons)
                Grains                                            1     1     2    4     4         4
                Mango                                            10   10    10    13    21        29
                Banana                                           17   17    19    79    79        79
                Other                                            23   23    26    29    29        29
                Vegetables                                        3     3     3    3     3         3
                Forage                                           51   51    67    107   107      107
           Water Use
                Irrigation Pumping (In million m3)               32   32    35    66    70        70
                Spate Water (In million m3)                      34   34    44    88    88        88
           Labor (In million days)                            0.687 0.687 0.839 1.616 1.679    1.710


    Water Productivity (In YR/m3)                              10.3   9.0  -1.4 10.2  11.8      13.6




                                                      61

   ANNEX 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes



(a) Task Team Members
                                                                        Responsibility/
           Names                         Title                 Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending


Supervision/ICR
Ahmed Shawky M. Abdel
Ghany                     Senior Water Resources Specialist MNSSD

Jamal Abdulla Abdulaziz   Senior Procurement Specialist      AFTPC

Naji Abu-Hatim            Senior Rural Development
                          Specialist                         MNSSD

Nabila Ali Al-Mutawakel   Program Assistant                  MNCYE
Josephine Salang          Senior Program Assistant           MNSSD
Moad M. Alrubaidi         Financial Management Specialis     MNAFM
Ayman Ibrahim El-Guindy Procurement Specialist               MNAPR
Akram Abd El-Aziz Hussein Senior Financial Management
El-Shorbagi               Specialist                         MNAFM

Safa'a Abdulkareem Rawiah Program Assistant                  MNCYE
Trayambkeshwar P. N. Sinha Lead Operations Officer           MNSSD
Wendy E. Wakeman          Lead Social Development Specialist MNSSD
Seifu Mehari              Social Development Specialist      MNSSD ICR only
Juan Morreli              Economist (FAO/CP)                 MNSSD ICR only

Michael Sandoz            Irrigation and Drainage Specialist
                          (FAO/CP)                           MNSSD ICR only



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        US$ Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                                  107.40
  FY00 60                                                               376.97
  FY01 17                                                                49.25
  FY02 8                                                                 10.12
  FY03 1                                                                 12.78
  FY04                                                                    0.00
  FY05                                                                    0.00
  FY06                                                                    0.00
  FY07                                                                    0.00
  FY08                                                                    0.00
                          Total:             86                         556.52



                                         62

Supervision/ICR
 FY99                                 0.00
 FY00                                 0.11
 FY01 6                              35.70
 FY02 14                             73.49
 FY03 18                             61.92
 FY04 28                            109.64
 FY05 21                            101.14
 FY06 22                             66.25
 FY07 29                            133.98
 FY08 22                             96.39
 FY09 9                               0.00
                   Total:    169    678.62




                           63

                         ANNEX 5: Beneficiary Survey Results


The ICR mission has undertaken three independent beneficiary surveys as follows:

   a) A survey to help in working out the project-level economic analysis and the farm-
      level financial profitability analysis (i.e., Section 3.3 in the main text and Annex
      3);
   b) A survey to help figure out the project's impact on gender (Section 3.5(a) in the
      main text and Table A5.1 below); and
   c) A survey to learn how farmers spent the increased income attributed to the project
      and how this improved their wellbeing (Section 3.5(a) in the main text and Table
      A5.2 below).

The findings of these surveys are presented in the economic and social assessments under
Sections 3.3 and 3.5(a) respectively and in the below Tables 5.1 and 5.2.

The f ollowing p aragraphs a lso s ummarize t he ot her b eneficiary surveys unde rtaken
throughout the project, of which the results have helped in completing this ICR.

   Table 5.1: Independent Quantitative Assessment of the ICR Mission on Role of
                                         Gender

                         Degree to which women benefited from IIP
 No.  Farmers names                             Benefited degree
   1 Ali husin Alhendi                          Fair
   2 Fauz Abdu Haroon                           High
   3 Mohamed Saleh Qadib                        very high
   4 Solyman Yahya Mohamed                      High
   5 Saieed Alkonyni                            Fair
   6 Abduallah Mohamed bacheer                  very high
   7 Mahmod Alaidaroos                          High
   8 Mohamed Hamid Saiev                        High
   9 Ahmed Obid Agaach                          very high
 10 Mohamed Salem Mahraqi                       Fair
 11 Mohamed Farag Dawah                         Poor
 12 M ansor Mahraqi                             High
 13 Hasan Mohamed Mahraqi                       High
 14 Naser Galeb Mahrus                          High
 15 M ohamed Khayri                             Poor
 16 S olyman Agach                              High
 17 Hosyin Esa Qadib                            very high
 18 Ahmed Ali Sayaah                            Fair
 19 Eyach Saeid afifi                           Fair
 20 S alem Abdu Mogahed                         High



                                           64

Degree       No.    (%)
very high    4       20
 High 9              45
  Fair 5             25
  Poor 2             10
 Total 20           100




                    65

               Table 5.2: Independent quantitative assessment of the ICR mission on how the farmers
                                have spent the increased income attributed to IIP


                                                                                             Send
                                                             Buy a new
                                Buy/rent     Build/add                      Buy a new     daughters
                                                               house                                  Go for hajj
No       Farmer's Name         a new land    a new house                    pump/car      and sons to
                                                             equipment
                                                                                             school
                              2007 2008 2007 2008 2007               2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008
1 Ali Husin Alhendi            Yes     no    no      yes    no       yes    yes     no    yes     no  yes    no
2 Fauz Abdu Haroon             No      yes   yes     no     yes      yes    yes     no    yes    yes  yes    no
3 Mohamed Saleh Qadib          No      no    no      yes    yes      yes    no      no    no      no   no    no
4 Solyman yahya Mohamed        yes     yes   no      yes    no       no     yes     no    no      no  yes    yes
5 Saieed Alkonyni              no      no    no      yes    no       yes    no      no    no      no   no    yes
6 Abduallah Mohamed Bacheer    no      yes   yes     yes    no       yes    no      no    no      no   no    no
7 Mahmod Alaidaroos            no      no    yes     yes    yes      yes    yes    yes    no     yes   no    yes
8 Mohamed Hamid Saiev          yes     yes   yes     yes    yes      yes    no      no    no      no   no    yes
9 Ahmed Obid agaach            no      no    no      yes    no       yes    no      no    no      no   no    yes
10 Mohamed Salem Mahraqi       no      no    no      yes    no       yes    no      no    no      no   no    no
11 Mohamed Farag Dawah         no      no    no      no     no       no     no     yes    no      no   no    no
12 Mansor Mahraqi              no      no    no      yes    no       yes    no      no    no     yes   no    no
13 Hasan Mohamed Mahraqi       yes     no    no      no     no       yes    no      no    no      no  yes    no
14 Naser Galeb Mahrus          no      no    no      no     no       yes    no      no    no      no   no    yes
15 Mohamed Khayri              no      yes   no      yes    no       yes    yes    yes    no     yes   no    no
16 Solyman Agach               no      no    no      no     yes      yes    no      no    no      no   no    no
17 Hosyin Esa Qadib            no      no    no      yes    no       yes    no      no    no     yes   no    yes
18 Ahmed Ali Sayaah            no      no    no      yes    no       yes    no      no    no      no   no    no
19 Eyach Saeid Afifi           no      no    no      no     no       yes    no      no    no      no   no    no
20 Salem Abdu Mogahed          no      no    yes     no     yes      yes    no      no    no      no   no    no




                                                      66

Basic Social Survey at the beginning of IIP:

A Basic Social Survey was conducted after IPP commencement in order to prioritize farmers
problems and interests, understand the social aspects of spate irrigation, and identify local needs,
which have all informed the design of IIP components, especially the PIM.

Rapid Appraisal Survey conducted in March 2005

Farmers rated the overall outcome of ADP as highly satisfactory. They expressed willingness to
share 25 percent and 50 percent of the on-farm costs of improved technologies for the spate and
tube-well demonstrations, respectively.

Beneficiary Survey on the results of ADP at the end of the project:

To assess the impact of introduced technologies on productivity, dissemination, adaptation, and
farmers' income and family livelihood, the PMU engaged a team of independent consultants to
carry out this assessment, including a b eneficiary survey. T he study validated the incremental
outcomes achieved by the ADP, directly or indirectly, on farmer income and well-being.

Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

ICR mission social assessment results are as follows:

Poverty and income impact: The preliminary economic return analysis and discussions with
farmers suggested that there is 50% - 80% increase in farm products which in turn increases
farmers' income at all levels ­ owner and sharecroppers. If distributed equitably, the increase in
farmers' income might lead to reducing poverty in project area. However, it is important to note
that, farm net income is distributed according to the share holding of each farmer: In Zabid, 2/3
is given to the landlord, 1/3 to the sharecropper. In Tuban, 2/3 is given to sharecroppers and 1/3
to the landlord.

Agricultural Demonstration Program (ADP) component has caused 20,293 farmers to shift from
traditional farming methods to more sustainable and productive farming techniques. So far the
ADP component has:
            Enhanced farm productivity, increased farmers' income, expanded their asset bases,
            enabled each farmer to make new investments and provided surplus cash that allows
            saving for future use.
            Increased farm animal production by 40% resulting in increasing farm income to
            an average of 96,000 YR per annum.
            Increased net income from cotton by an average of 244% in Zabid and 35% in Tuban.
            Increased the maize net income by 189% in Zabid.
            Increased sorghum crop by substantial amount: an increase of 387% and 300% in
            grain in Zabid and Tuban respectively as well as an increase of 468% and 200% in
            fodder in Zabid and Tuban respectively.
            Increased sesame net income by 28% in Zabid and by 47% in Tuban.
            Increased watermelon net income 106% in Zabid.


                                              67

           Increased mango crop by 43% in Zabid and 312% in Tuban.
           Enabled farmers to invest in housing and building improvements as well as undertake
           farm upgrading activities.
           Enhanced farmers' ability to acquire new assets such as: a) motorcycles, televisions
           sets, furniture, radios, video players and cell phones.
           Enabled farmers to plan for investment opportunities, unforeseen emergency matters
           ­ such as family illness, unexpected farm infrastructure repair as well as maintenance
           of equipment and house improvements.
           Increased education expenditure for school going children as farmers are now able to
           buy more text books and other educational material for their children.
           Increased m edication s pending a s farmers no w c an a fford t o pur chase m odern
           medicines rather than the use of traditional cure approach.
           Improved v arieties and quality of f ood a vailable f or hous ehold consumption a nd
           thereby enhancing family nutritional intakes.

Gender Impact: The I IP ha s us ed t he P articipatory Irrigation M anagement c oncept t o
incorporate the voice of women in its project design and implementation processes. This has
opened t he oppor tunity for w omen t o pa rticipate i n t he p roject op eration a nd be nefits. T he
project accomplishment in advancing gender equality can be summarized as follows:

Women participation in IIP:
           A significant representation of gender amongst beneficiaries is observed particularly
           in W adi T uban ( e.g., pa rticipation a s s harecroppers, ha rvesters, a nd l abor w ho
           alleviate cropping over-density).
           In Tuban, 1,671 women are participating in farming activities and in elections process
           of WUAs leaders. Women beneficiaries represent 20% of the total farmers.
           Wadi-Tuban WUAs have hosted gender awareness programs for the general public
           particularly targeting women and children within their WUAs. This has significantly
           shaped women's role participation in farm activities.
           Women are now occupying management position in WUAs.
           Women are given the role of training specialists which mirrors the multifaceted roles
           of gender in the project.
           The project has also partnered with the Rural Women Development Department of
           MAI in Wadi Tuban and encouraged and fostered WUAs women engagement into
           various agricultural activities including: animal husbandry and wide range of micro-
           finance programs.
           Women f rom t he T uban pr oject's W UAs w ere honor ed at a t ribute on t he
           International Food Day for their distinguished participation in agricultural activities
           and for their active role in forming women groups.
           The Gender Unit in Tuban has been taking leading roles as to raising awareness of
           women and children especially within t he W UAs. The Unit coordinated with t he
           other donors the development of Small-Income projects, regarding: (i) preparation of
           action pl an on l ocal e ducation; ( ii) pr eparation of a n a ction pl an on developing
           livestock production (with cost sharing by 40%) in cooperation with the Agricultural
           and Fisheries Development Fund; (iii) obtaining finance from the French Embassy for
           supporting a nd s caling up t he hi gh-quality l ivestock pr oduction a nd di stribution



                                               68

            amongst greater number of women; and (iv) coordinating with the Groundwater and
            Soil Conservation Project to obtain a drip-irrigation network for small farms operated
            by women.

Extent of Benefits to women:
During the ICR mission, a quick sample survey was conducted in Zabid. The purpose was to
determine to what extent women have benefited from the increased agricultural income which
would make possible an increase in the household's ability to acquire new assets and make new
investments. (The quick sample survey was done in Wadi-Zabid areas covering framers who
have be nefited f rom t he IIP i ntervention) T he s urvey out come s uggested t hat 66 pe rcent of
women have reasonably benefited from the increased agriculture income, have acquired new
assets and made investments in their respective households (see Annex 5, Table 5.1 and Table
5.2).

Social Development Outcomes: The concepts of users' participation and empowerment were
the key operational principles of IIP's day-to-day practices. Discussions with water users and
their r epresentatives r evealed t hat t he p roject b eneficiaries f eel s trong s ense o f p rogram
ownership and common purpose. Furthermore they have benefited from greater access to basic
public s ervices a s a r esult of a r oad c onstructed unde r t he p roject's s ub c omponent. T he
following describes the key social development accomplishments of the project.

Community engagement and benefits:
            Secured t he active p articipation o f b eneficiaries i n t he p roject d esign an d
            implementation phases from its inception stage. This has led beneficiaries to view the
            project as a joint development effort between their community and IIP.
            Increased spate irrigated land due to IIP intervention in Zabid from 4,234 ha to 10,
            806 ha r epresenting a 72% i ncrease i n t he command a rea. T his w as a r esult of
            regular spate flow which increases farm output and income despite the share holding
            of sharecroppers is less in Zabid than Tuban.
            Provided the opportunity for water users to form their water users associations, elect
            their associations' leaders and hold those they have elected accountable.
            Used the PIM concept to engage water users in irrigation infrastructure operations &
            maintenance activities.
            Cultivated an d cr eated t he n eeded cap acity for ad vancing an d i mplementing
            Participatory Irrigation Management concept. This has cemented cordial relationships
            and openness among WUAs, PIU, PMU, ICs as well as farmers.
            Instilled a s ense of obl igation among b eneficiaries t o abide b y and enforce t hose
            WUAs rules which they were involved in crafting.
            Provided opportunity to 44% and 24% sharecroppers (low-income farmers) in Zabid
            and Tuban respectively to participate in the project. This has opened the opportunity
            for low-income farmers to participate in community work contracts by allowing them
            to m ake i n-kind c ontributions i n s ituations w here t hey a re un able t o make c ash
            contributions.
            Modified the role of women in project areas as many women are now involved in
            farm activities which allow men to undertake additional off-farm activities.




                                               69

Community Empowerment
Irrigation M anagement Transfer ( IMT) [ The i mportant agenda of t he GOY under P IM i s t o
promote t he de velopment of W ater U sers' Associations ( WUAs) a nd t o t ransfer t he
responsibility for operation and maintenance (O&M) of irrigation facilities to these (WUAs). To
facilitate this, the "Transfer and Support Agreement" were drawn with the WUAs. ] approach
was u sed t o em power water u sers b y t ransferring s econdary an d t ertiary i rrigation can als
management responsibilities to WUAs . This has led to:

            Thirty-two agreements signed and implemented successfully in the two wadis.
            Enhanced the association's ability in undertaking and sustaining O&M of irrigation
            infrastructures.
            Governors' endorsement of the IMTs that have been agreed and signed by WUAs.
            Creating an Operational Manual on how to handle O&M works.

Community Partnership
The project crafted innovative community cost sharing arrangements. A total of 151 off-farm
investments were carried-out through community-implemented contracts of which:
                 Wadi Tuban farmers have implemented 75 community projects contracted for the
                 total value of US$590,659.
                 Wadi Zabid farmers have implemented 76 community projects contracted for the
                 total value of US$678,663.

                 For those WUAs who are unable to cover 30% of their cash contribution toward
                 community contracts, a dditional w orks w ere a dded t o m ake up f or t he c ash
                 shortfall. This was done via self execution (in-kind contributions) and has led the
                 two wadis completed 18 works for the total amount of US$77,227.
                 Under the 30% cash contribution arrangements the two wadis WUAs were able to
                 contribute total US$19,771. This amount represents additional contributions in
                 situations where the project original contract estimation becomes inadequate to
                 cover the initial total cost.

Access to road, education, health, electricity and information:
            The Rehabilitation work of irrigation infrastructures along with Road Construction
            have provided IIP's direct and indirect beneficiaries with access to wide range of
            basic services.
            It has linked farmers to local and regional markets. This has led to less travel time and
            fuel c onsumption, l ower t ransportation c osts, q uicker d elivery of pe rishable f arm
            products to market; the products are still fresh and receive higher prices.
            It has opened greater access to educational opportunity, health services to girls and
            boys and the community as a whole.
            The r oad h as at tracted el ectricity connection into t he p roject ar ea a nd t hereby
            providing the community as whole to have access to electricity and communication.
            It h as c reated o ff-farm in come generating activities a s w ell as employment
            opportunities to about 27,000 households' who are living within the vicinity of the
            project in the two wadis.




                                                70

          Land price increased in areas where road was constructed and spate is made available
          while land price decreased where spate flow was diverted and road access was not
          improved.

Challenges:
          Water right remains problematic in Zabid. This may pose many challenges to Zabid's
          WUAs and IC.
          Expanding women role and responsibilities will continue to be a challenge.
          Operation and maintenance may prove a bit difficult in the future if the ICs are not
          given full control over equipment needed to execute WUAs requests.
          Sharecroppers share is very low in Zabid and there may be a need to revisit and
          reconsider the issue. In the absence of such an adjustment poor farmers may not be
          able to get the larger share of their benefits.

Lessons Learned:
          Beneficiary participation from the inception of the project is essential if the project is
          to bear fruit.
          Putting b eneficiaries in th e d river's s eat w hile d esigning and imp lementing th e
          project is essential to win community support and collaboration.
          While s upporting f armers w ith ne w f arming t echniques pr oved t o be paramount,
          equally important to consider are other complementary activities such as road as key
          input t o e nhancing a gricultural pr oject s uccess a nd i ts c ontribution to pove rty
          reduction efforts.
          In the case of Tuban where sharecroppers share is higher drought is affecting their
          agricultural yield. T herefore, f uture i ntervention s hould c onsider t he
          regularity/availability of s pate in all w adis. T his c riteria h as b een applied w hen
          qualifying Ahwar for project intervention and it would be useful to adapt similar
          practice in the future as it will lead to better investment and intervention.
          The role of women in agricultural activities and in the process of allocating income
          gains from farm product into asset, investment and saving is essential.




                                               71

                   ANNEX 6: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


Workshop on selecting a "promising" wadi to replicate the IIP's successful interventions in the
follow-up phase (under WSSP):

In mid-2007 a stakeholder workshop was organized by IIP to seek stakeholders' feedback for
finalizing the comparative study that was undertaken in the same year. The study aimed to elect
the promising wadi in which IIP (in its 2nd follow-up phase) can build on the successful lessons
from Zabid and Tuban. The study compared 5 candidate wadis, to prioritize the wadi that scores
highest at the following criteria: (i) availability of flood water/annum; (ii) readiness of farmers to
get organized and form WUAs, (iii) poverty and lack of donor projects; and (iv) no presence of
chronic lowland-upland water rights/allocation issues. At the workshop the stakeholders agreed
to the selection of Wadi Ahwar (see Table below).




.




                                                 72

               TABLEA6.1:PREVAILINGCONDITIONS IN SELECTED WADIS WITH REGARD TO DIFFERENT PARAMETERS FOR SELECTION OFPHASEII WADIS


PARAMETERS                                                          WADI BANA  WADI AHWAR      WADI MAWR       WADI RIMA     WADI SIHAM

I. Water Resources Related & Irrigation Engineering Aspects
- Command Area (km2)                                                 33600         7000           26000           14520          9980
- Averge Annual Surface Flow (Mm2)                                    120           55            191.35           75.8          70.05

Total Score (Out of 30 points)                                        15            25              25             15             25

II. Socio-Economic Aspects

- Average Household Living Condition Index (Housing, Drinking          4             2              2               3             1

Water & Sanitation, Electricity, Cooking Medium, Durable Assets)       4             2              2               3             1

- Access to Education & Health Services

Total Score(Out of 10 points)                                          8             4              4               6             2

III. Agriculture Aspects

- Cropping Intensity (%)                                               3             2              2               3             2

- Average Crop Inputs Use Index                                        2             1              2               2             1

- Average Crop Productivity Index                                      2             1              2               3             1

Total Score(Out of 10 points)                                          7             4              6               8             4

IV. Agro-Economic Aspects

- Crop Budgets                                                         4             5              3               5             3

Total Score(Out of 10 points)                                          4             5              3               5             3

V. Legal and Institutional Aspects

- Appropriateness of prevailing Water Rights (Max. 15 points)         12            10              5               5             5

- Soundness of Land Tenure Systems (Max. 20 points)                   17            18              8               8             10

- Prospects for Organizing WUAs and Promoting PIM(Max. 5 points)       4             3              1               2             4

Total Score(Out of 40 points)                                         33            31              14             15             19

Grand Total Score(Out of 100 points)                                  67            69              52             49             53

Overall Ranking of Wadis                                               2             1              4               5             3




                                                                     73

ANNEX 7: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                   No comments were received.

ANNEX 8:. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

                  No comments were received.




                             74

                  ANNEX 9: List of Supporting Documents



·ICR Detailed Economic Analysis.
·Staff Appraisal Report No. 20720-YEM
·Development Credit Agreement (Cr. 3412-YEM)




                                    75

76

