                                               Document of
                                          The World Bank


                                                                           Report No:ICR0000357




               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                            (WBTF-22498)

                                                 ON A

                                                GRANT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10.13 MILLION

                                                TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
                                        KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                                                 AND
                                    REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN

                                                 FOR A

            CENTRAL ASIA TRANSBOUNDARY BIODIVERSITY PROJECT




                                            MARCH 2, 2007




SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SECTOR DEPARTMENT
CENTRAL ASIA COUNTRY DEPARTMENT
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA REGION




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                       (Exchange Rates Effective February 2007)

                            Currency Units = KZT, KGS, UZS
                            Kazakhstan Tenge KZT125 = US$1
                           Kyrgyzstan Som SoKGS39.8 = US$1
                            Uzbekistan Sum UZS1,241 = US$1

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               [January 1 ­ December 31]

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CATBPCentral Asia Transboundary Biodiversity Project
EA    Environmental Assessment
EIA   Environmental Impact Assessment
GC    Group of Consultants
GEF   Global Environmental Facility
GEO   Global Environmental Objective
ICR   Implementation Completion report
ISR   Implementation Status and Results Report
IUCN International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources
KGS   Kyrgyzstan Som
KZT   Kazakhstan Tenge
ND    National Director
NGO   Non Governmental Organization
NPIU National Project Implementation Unit
NSC   National Steering Committee
PA    Protected Area
PAD   Project Appraisal Document
PIU   Project Implementation Unit
RPIU Regional Project Implementation Unit
SCEPF State Agency for Environment Protection and Forestry, Kyrgyz Republic
SCFH State Committee for Forest and Hunting, Republic of Kazakhstan
SCNP State Committee for Nature Protection, Republic of Uzbekistan
SGP   Small Grant Program
TACIS Technical Assistance Grants Funded by the European Union
TBR   TransBoundary Reserve (or Biosphere)
TSC   Transnational Steering Committee
UZS   Uzbekistan Sum
WTS  Western Tien Shan




                              Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu
                            Country Director:   Mehrnaz Teymourian
                             Sector Manager:    Juergen Voegele
                        Project Team Leader:    Maurizio Guadagni
                           ICR Team Leader:     Maurizio Guadagni

                                                Central Asia
                           Central Asia Biodiversity GEF Project




                                               CONTENTS


A. Basic Information........................................................................................................i
B. Key Dates ....................................................................................................................i
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................i
D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................ii
E. Bank Staff...................................................................................................................ii
F. Results Framework Analysis .....................................................................................iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs....................................................................vi
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................vi
I. Disbursement Profile .................................................................................................vi
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design....................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...............................................5
3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................7
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.........................................................13
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance......................................................13
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................15
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners...........16

Annexes
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing..........................................................................17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component..................................................................................18
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .................................................................28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ...........................................................................31
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results...................................................32
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .....................33

TABLES

MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Central Asia
Country:               Central Asia           Project Name:          Biodiversity GEF
                                                                     Project
Project ID:            P042573                L/C/TF Number(s):      WBTF-22498
ICR Date:              03/05/2007             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     GOVT. OF KAZAKS.,
Lending Instrument:    SIL                    Borrower:              UZBEKIS., AND
                                                                     KYRGYZ
Original Total
                       USD 10.2M              Disbursed Amount:      USD 10.1M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C                     Global Focal Area: B
Implementing Agencies:
State Agency on Environmental Protection and Forestry (Kyrgyz Republic)
Forestry and Hunting Committee, under the Ministry of Agriculture (Republic of Kazakhstan)
State Committee for Nature Protection (Republic of Uzbekistan)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process        Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/02/1996    Effectiveness:
Appraisal:             09/17/1998    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/22/1999     Mid-term Review:                         10/01/2003
                                      Closing:              06/30/2004         06/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome            Substantial
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                  Ratings               Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:            Satisfactory     Government:                 Not Applicable

Quality of Supervision:      Satisfactory     Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:            Not Applicable

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:                 Satisfactory     Performance:                  Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                            QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators          (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                 Quality at Entry
                                                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                        (QEA):
Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                          No                                      None
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             22               70
Forestry                                                      47               10
General education sector                                      12               10
Other industry                                                10               10
Other social services                                           9


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Biodiversity                                                 Primary         Primary
Environmental policies and institutions                      Primary         Primary
Law reform                                                  Secondary       Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                           Primary        Secondary
Rural non-farm income generation                             Primary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                    Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Mehrnaz Teymourian              Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Manager:           Juergen Voegele                 Kevin M. Cleaver
Project Team Leader:      Maurizio Guadagni               Piotr Krzyzanowski
ICR Team Leader:          Maurizio Guadagni
ICR Primary Author:       Bulat Utkelov




                                            ii

F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The primary objectives of the project were to support the protection of vulnerable and
unique biological communities within the Western Tien Shan and to assist the three
countries to strengthen and coordinate national policies, regulations, and institutional
arrangements for biodiversity protection. Associated objectives were to:

 (a) Strengthen and expand the zapovednik (strict nature reserves) network in the West
Tien Shan to conserve unique plant and animal communities, including wild relatives of
domesticated species;

 (b) Identify alternative and sustainable income-generating activities for local
communities and other stakeholders to reduce pressure on the zapovedniks and their
biological resources;

 (c) Strengthen local and national capacity through education and training;

 (d) Raise public awareness of biodiversity values and increase participation in
biodiversity conservation;

 (e) Conservation; and

 (f) Establish regional (Transnational) coordination and cooperation mechanisms for
biodiversity conservation activities to strengthen zapovednik management and wildlife
protection and prevent the fragmentation of habitat corridors.

 The global environmental objective is to ensure the conservation of the globally
important biodiversity within the West Tien Shan. Specific objectives were to:

 (a) Conserve biodiversity through the implementation of an ecosystem-based
management approach that involves the strengthening of zapovednik management
systems and the integration of a coordinated management concept across regional,
national and local programs;

 (b) Improve knowledge of the distribution and status of rare, endangered and endemic
species through targeted surveys to better focus conservation measures;

 (c) Enhance biodiversity conservation within mountain ecosystems by developing
cross-sector multi-use management systems to preserve critical ecosystems;

 (d) Promote the protection of ecosystems, natural habitats, landscapes and the in-situ
maintenance of viable populations of species by developing sustainable land-use which
integrates conservation management between zapovedniks and adjacent forest production
units (leshoz) and farming communities; and




                                             iii

  (e) Increase the awareness of biodiversity conservation and endangered species by the
development of training programs and dissemination of information.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications
Objectives and key indicators were not revised.

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
                                                 approval         Target        Completion or
                                               documents)         Values         Target Years
                 Reduced rate of decline of important species, habitats and communities within
Indicator 1 :    and outside protected areas. Increased and expanded conservation activities

                                                                              Recorded
                                                                              occurrences and

                 Recorded occurrences of                                      changes of the

                 some important species in                                    following species in

Value            project areas in 2000:                                       2004:

(quantitative or Roe: 135                  Reduced decline                    Roe: 196 (+45%)

Qualitative)     Ibex: 857                 (but still decline)                Ibex: 1,069 (+25%)

                 Wild boar: 128                                               Wild boar: 139

                 Stone marten: 141                                            (+9%)
                                                                              Stone marten: 188
                                                                              (+33%)

Date achieved 03/01/2000                   06/25/1999                         12/17/2004
Comments
(incl. %         Instead of reduced decline, the number of occurrences increased for some

achievement)     species. The target was exceeded



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                 approval         Revised       Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Expand the protected area network

Value                                                                         Five new protected

(quantitative or Four protected areas with No target                          areas reaching a

Qualitative)     a coverage of 2,067 Km2 established                          total of 5,852 Km2
                                                                              (+184%)
Date achieved 03/01/2000                   06/25/1999                         06/30/2006
Comments         The protected areas increased by 125% in number and 184% in area, increasing
(incl. %         the coverage of PA coverage of vulnerable flora and fauna in WTS from 25-30%
achievement)     to 40-45% (+55%)


                                                 iv

Indicator 2 :    Strengthen the nature reserves network in the West Tien Shan. (Measured though
                 the IUCN PA Management Effectiveness Score Card, see table 3 in Annex 2)
Value            60 in average for 4                                          76 in average for
(quantitative or                            No target set                     the same 4
Qualitative)     Protected Areas                                              protected areas
Date achieved 06/25/1999                    06/25/1999                        06/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %         PA management was significantly strengthened as recorded by a 27% increase of

achievement)     the IUCN scorecard

                 Use small grants to identify and disseminate alternative income generating
Indicator 3 :    activities which reduce anthropological pressure to national parks and protected
                 areas.
                                                                              593 small grants
Value                                                           500 small     implemented with
(quantitative or No small grant program     Target not          grants        9,292 ha reforested
Qualitative)                                specified           implemented and 1,064 ha of
                                                                              pasture improved
Date achieved 06/25/1999                    06/25/1999          12/10/2003    06/30/2006
Comments         Although small grants were instrumental in changing the attitude of the local
(incl. %         population toward the environment (see annex 5) to expect that they would
achievement)     identify alternative income generating activities was over-ambitious

Indicator 4 :    Increase quantity, relevance, and dissemination of research activities on
                 biodiversity
                                                                              Large number of
                                                                              publications in
Value            Limited new research                                         various languages,
(quantitative or activities and minimal (if Target not                        workshops and
Qualitative)     any) dissemination         specified                         training seminars,
                                                                              and awareness
                                                                              activities
Date achieved 06/25/1999                    06/25/1999                        06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %         Target achieved
achievement)
Indicator 5 :    Strengthen local and national capacity through education and training
                                                                              A total of 3,529
                                                                              people trained,

Value                                                                         more than half of

(quantitative or Limited number of          No target specified               which in

Qualitative)     academic events                                              Uzbekistan. More
                                                                              than 30 study tours
                                                                              were carried out
                                                                              during the project
Date achieved 06/25/1999                    06/25/1999                        06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %         Increased international exposure of scientists was key to counterweight the

achievement)     isolation created by the collapse of the Soviet Union

Indicator 6 :    Establish regional (Transnational) coordination and cooperation mechanisms for
                 biodiversity conservation activities to strengthen zapovednik management and


                                                 v

                wildlife protection and prevent the fragmentation of habitat corridors
                                                                               The legal
                                                                               framework was
                                                                               updated to allow a
                                                                               joint protected area.
                                              Establishment of a               The implementing
Value            Lack of a legal              tripartite                       agencies drafted the
(quantitative or framework to establish a agreement on the                     tripartite agreement,
Qualitative)    joint protected area          Western Tien Shan                but Ministries of
                                              Biosphere                        Foreign Affairs of
                                                                               the three countries
                                                                               have not yet agreed
                                                                               on a final text of the
                                                                               agreement
Date achieved 06/25/1999                      06/25/1999                       06/30/2006
Comments         The fact that the tri-partite agreement was not reached represent a shortcoming of
(incl. %         the project. This may have been caused but excessive expectations and
achievement)     underestimations of the difficult relationships among the three countries



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                GEO                           IP               Disbursements
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     07/01/1999             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     09/29/1999             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00
  3     04/24/2000             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00
  4     04/25/2000             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00
  5     07/19/2000             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.30
  6     12/06/2000             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.30
  7     06/14/2001             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.56
  8     08/27/2001             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.80
  9     02/20/2002             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       1.73
  10    05/30/2002             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       2.33
  11    11/25/2002             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       3.35
  12    04/14/2003             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       4.12
  13    12/22/2003             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       6.55
  14    06/29/2004             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       7.57
  15    12/16/2004             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       8.40
  16    06/29/2005             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       9.22
  17    01/04/2006             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       9.85
  18    06/30/2006             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      10.07



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


                                                   vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

The transition from Soviet planned economies to market economies created a significant stress to
the three countries in Central Asia. Many sectors have been severely underinvested, and the
environment suffered more than other sectors because of its challenging accountability and the
decline of social discipline. As a consequence investments in environmental sustainability and
biodiversity protection were drastically reduced during the transition.

The dismantling of the Soviet Union also created new borders across newly created countries in
the Tien Shan mountain region. This created new challenges to coordinate the management of
this area which was suddenly divided among Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, and Uzbekistan.

The Western Tien Shan is a "biodiversity hotspot" due to the high number of endemic species and
the level of threat to them. The concentration of different species in the Western Tien Shan is
much higher than in rest of Central Asia. The reason for such concentration of biodiversity is that
this mountain range represents an oasis surrounded by vast arid and semi-desert planes and
steppes, particularly toward the north. After flowing undisturbed for long distances over the
plains, the air is lifted by the mountains causing a temperature drop which produces condensation
and a consequent concentration of precipitation. The project region contains a full range of
habitats from sub-tropical to tundra, which support unique and globally significant communities,
and threatened species such as snow leopard, white-clawed bear, and Central Asian mountain
goat and argali. The region also contains wild relatives of commercialized horticultural and
agricultural plants (including apples, walnuts, apricots and tulips), medicinal plants, various
grasses, and many other endemic flower species. This high concentration of different natural
ecosystems, from glaciers to deserts, in a relatively small part of Central Asia requires special
attention to biodiversity conservation. These ecosystems are under threat from uncontrolled over-
use of natural resources, such as poaching, over-grazing, and illegal logging.



1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

Original objective. The primary objectives of the project were to support the protection of
vulnerable and unique biological communities within the Western Tien Shan and to assist the
three countries to strengthen and coordinate national policies, regulations, and institutional
arrangements for biodiversity protection. Associated objectives were to:

    1. Strengthen and expand the zapovednik (strict nature reserves) network in the West Tien
         Shan to conserve unique plant and animal communities, including wild relatives of
         domesticated species;
    2. Identify alternative and sustainable income-generating activities for local communities
         and other stakeholders to reduce pressure on the zapovedniks and their biological
         resources;
    3. Strengthen local and national capacity through education and training;
    4. Raise public awareness of biodiversity values and increase participation in biodiversity
         conservation; and


1

    5. Establish regional (Transnational) coordination and cooperation mechanisms for
        biodiversity conservation activities to strengthen zapovednik management and wildlife
        protection and prevent the fragmentation of habitat corridors.

The global environmental objective is to ensure the conservation of the globally important
biodiversity within the West Tien Shan. Specific objectives were to:

    1. Conserve biodiversity through the implementation of an ecosystem-based management
        approach that involves the strengthening of zapovednik management systems and the
        integration of a coordinated management concept across regional, national and local
        programs;
    2. Improve knowledge of the distribution and status of rare, endangered and endemic
        species through targeted surveys to better focus conservation measures;
    3. Enhance biodiversity conservation within mountain ecosystems by developing cross-
        sector multi-use management systems to preserve critical ecosystems;
    4. Promote the protection of ecosystems, natural habitats, landscapes and the in-situ
        maintenance of viable populations of species by developing sustainable land-use which
        integrates conservation management between zapovedniks and adjacent forest production
        units (leshoz) and farming communities; and
    5. Increase the awareness of biodiversity conservation and endangered species by the
        development of training programs and dissemination of information.

1.3 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Objectives and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the GEO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

Local communities living in and around the zapovedniks, staff of public protected area agencies,
associated academic institutions and scientists, farmers and other private sector representatives,
members of NGOs have benefited from the project through testing innovative management of the
PAs and their buffer zones, sustainable use of their resources, through the provision of
opportunities for skill development and income generation, through increased employment
opportunities, associated with the upgrading of ecotourism facilities, park staff, reforestation,
tourism, as well as from the project's Small Grant Program, trainings, information, and
opportunities of replication.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project supported an integrated set of biodiversity conservation activities at local, national
and transnational levels, from issues of legislation to alternative income-generating activities. The
project was organized in the following six components.

Component A: Legal and Financial Reform . This component had the objective to assist in
improving the policy and legal framework for biodiversity conservation in all three countries and



2

in developing and implementing a strategy for budgetary reform needed to enhance project
sustainability. The activities to be implemented are: (i) Establish mechanisms for the regional
coordination of biodiversity conservation activities and policies. Achieving the biodiversity
conservation objectives of the project requires coordination of initiatives and activities at the
regional (transboundary), national, and local levels. This was to be achieved by establishing
coordinating mechanisms at all three levels. (ii) Improve and harmonize legal frameworks.
National and international consultants were contracted to assist the project's executing agencies in
a review of legislation relating to natural resource ownership and use, and accompanying
regulations, as a first step to harmonizing legislation among the three countries. These reviews
focused on natural resource use rights, tourism, hunting, and cultural sites in the project sites.
Recommendations were to be made for new regulations and legislative changes, as appropriate, to
harmonize the legislative frameworks in the three countries; (iii) Financial and budgetary
mechanisms for sustainable funding of biodiversity conservation. The project financed technical
assistance to the executing agencies to undertake an analysis of the financial needs and recurrent
costs and budgetary allocations for biodiversity conservation and sustainable use, particularly for
the zapovedniks. A strategy for recurrent funding mechanisms for the conservation areas was
supposed to be developed. Examples of alternative funding mechanisms include regional
environmental funds and taxes, donors (including trust funds other than GEF), and resource use
fees.

Component B: Strengthening the Protected Area Network of the West Tien Shan . The
component had to finance the implementation of management plans for the following four
protected areas: Aksu Djabagly in Kazakhstan, Chatkal in Uzbekistan, Sary Chelek and the Besh
Aral in the Kyrgyz Republic. Implementation of management plans included provision of
technical assistance, training, communication and other equipment, and infrastructure. At each
site a rapid biological assessment to rationalize protected area boundaries, identify appropriate
land/resource use and zoning needs, and improve habitat management and species protection was
to be carried out.

These protected area management activities had to be supported by training programs to
strengthen capacity of protected area staff; public education and awareness programs to build a
local and national constituency in support of conservation; surveys, land use planning to identify
and protect wildlife corridors between the project protected areas, and monitoring and evaluation
activities. The project had also to finance the costs of regional coordination and collaboration
among the protected areas staff and other stakeholders, including joint training programs, anti-
poaching campaigns and joint monitoring of key indicator species.

Component C: Sustainable Use of Biodiversity. This component was to provide training
activities and small grants to promote the development of biodiversity-friendly activities that
were implemented in and around protected areas. The small grants program financed model
programs for sustainable use of biodiversity activities, to be developed and implemented by local
communities, NGOs and individuals living in villages around the project protected areas. These
were evaluated and selected by an evaluation committee according to conservation needs and
appropriate land use planning. Activities were to include the development of model or pilot
projects for sustainable grazing and forestry practices with direct incremental biodiversity
benefits, or the provision of seed funding for activities that have the potential to develop
alternative livelihoods which reduce pressure on the parks and their biological resources. The
small grants program was to finance demand-driven activities to develop rural tourism, such as
technical advice and training for providing accommodation in rural homes, guiding and site
interpretation; cottage industries for handicrafts, nursery development, traditional resource use



3

practices, renewable energy projects (photovoltaic systems) and appropriate animal husbandry
programs.

Component D: Strengthening of the local and national capacity . The component had to
provide professional development, education and training programs to build the necessary
capacity for: (a) protected areas management; (b) conservation field skills; (c) public awareness;
(d) project management skills; (e) business management; and (f) training of trainers and
maintaining a trainer network. The project provided opportunities for regional training, work-
study visits, and exchange of regional expertise. The training program was to support
implementation of other project components.

Component E: Public participation in biodiversity conservation. The component had to
finance the participation of local communities in habitat restoration and reforestation in areas
adjoining the protected areas. Priority had to be given to areas that function as wildlife corridors,
or are otherwise important for biodiversity conservation. In order to reduce pressure on local
forests for fuel wood, the component had to support a study on alternative energy sources and
potential financing for its implementation. This component was supposed to be complemented by
activities financed under the small grants program.

Component F: Project management. The component had to finance operating costs of a
Regional PIU (RPIU) and National PIUs (NPIUs), under the direction of the responsible line
Ministries. For each country, a National Director (ND) from the Ministries/State Committee is to
direct the implementation of national project activities. The ND is to be advised by a National
Supervisory Committee, and was responsible to appoint key staff of the NPIU. The PIU was
headed by the Project Manager (PM), who was responsible for the day-to-day management of the
PIU, including staff/consultant selection and performance, coordination of technical work, and
reporting and reviewing of work in progress. A Regional Project Implementation Unit (RPIU)
located in Bishkek had to manage implementation of the Kyrgyz national components of the
project and the regional components. The RPIU was advised by a Transnational Steering
Committee. The RPIU coordinated the activities of each NPIU and managed the Special Account.

The NPIUs and RPIU were responsible for contracting for the delivery of goods, works, and
consultant services to implement the project. Under the direction of the National Directors, the
PIUs contracted: (i) firms and individuals to carry out consulting and other technical assistance
services; (ii) individuals and firms for works/ infrastructural improvements to the zapovedniks;
and (iii) suppliers for the delivery of goods.

1.6 Revised Components

After the Mid Term review, Components C and E were merged (Public Participation in
Biodiversity and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity). Indeed it was planned from the beginning
that most activities under the two components would be implemented through the Small Grant
Program. However the total allocation for the Small Grant Program was lower than the total of
the two components because some funds were redirected to Component B to finance additional
infrastructure and equipment for protected areas.




4

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations

The project implementation period was extended by two years. This was mostly a consequence of
the difficulty to start a new operation in three new countries, with cumbersome and different
implementation procedures.

Also, counterpart funding was reduced from the initial $2.0 million to around $0.9 million. The
Kyrgyz Republic faced particularly strong financial difficulties which were not anticipated and
accounted for at project design. The other two countries reduced their contribution to maintain a
balance rather than stepping in to help.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Quality at entry was satisfactory and allowed the project to achieve globally relevant objectives.
However some project objectives and indicators may have been over-ambitious. This reflects the
overall very positive prospects for the region at the time of project preparation (1998-1999).
Expectations were later reduced due, inter alias, to significant financial and political difficulties in
the Kyrgyz Republic, to the pace of reforms in Uzbekistan, and the alternating relationships
among the three countries.

An important lesson from the Aral Sea Regional Project was key to allowing a successful project
implementation. Project implementation arrangements, even though somehow cumbersome,
allowed maintaining a sufficient level of commitment from all three countries. The experience of
the Aral Sea project had proven that adopting a fully integrated regional approach does erode
commitment at the national level (principle of subsidiarity). Instead the mixed implementation
arrangements adopted by this project allowed for agreeing on a common strategy at regional level
leaving its implementation at national level when possible. The project had a Transnational
Steering Committee (TSC) and three National Steering Committees (NSC), with strategic
functions, in parallel to a Regional Project Implementing Unit (RPIU) and three National
Implementing Units (NPIUs). The committees were not permanently staffed, but just met
regularly to provide a strategic guidance to the project. Only the four PIUs were permanently
staffed and the division of responsibility along national lines allowed national implementation
within a commonly agreed strategy. The coordination role of RPIU allowed reconciliation of
issues raised across NPIUs in relation to methodological aspects, nature reserve objects selection,
structure and content of the Bioregional Plan, and necessary activities in preparing research
activities, as well as preparing workshops and TSC meetings. The RPIU was often able to help
reaching an agreement among NPIUs.

A design weakness was the Environmental Category classification (OD 4.01). The Project was
designated as EA Category C, but in fact included elements which would seem more appropriate
for Category B, including civil works inside Protected Areas, expansion and creation of new
Protected Areas, and activities such as construction of small dams under the Small Grants
Program. Given the environmental nature of this project, this is somehow surprising.




5

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

Some factors outside the control of governments or implementing agencies affected project
performance. Particularly the relationships among the three recently independent countries did
not always develop in the harmonious way as anticipated at project appraisal. Tensions among the
three countries were caused by many factors, including a very different development pace and
tensions for the management of an important natural resource, water. This eroded the interest in
regional coordination and may have limited achievements in this area.

Approval of legislation is under parliamentary control. In theory the Governments do not have
control over this process. Although this may not be fully true in practice, it has been used as a
justification for the delays in the approval process of some laws. Also the level of administrative
requirements in Uzbekistan (such as contract registration, rigid limits in cash payments, etc.)
created serious difficulties to the implementation of project activities. Therefore implementation
in Uzbekistan was slower and more costly than initially planned.

A positive role in achieving the stipulated goals was played by international consultants and the
WB missions. Their recommendations, based on international experience, were complemented
with locally accrued experience, and allowed to make timely corrections in project activities.

The merging of component E (Public Participation in Biodiversity Conservation) with
Component B (Strengthening the Protected Area Network of the West Tien Shan) significantly
reduced the scope of Public Participation in Biodiversity Conservation, since the Small Grant
Program invested only around $0.6 million against the $2.8 million planned for component E.
Funds allocated for this component have been reallocated for other activities, particularly the
creation of new Protected Areas.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The design of the monitoring and evaluation system lacked specific targets and was somehow
overly complex, leading to limited utilization during project implementation. For instance, the
project document has 15 key indicators for the "main global objective' but without any numeric
target. This was also consequence of the limited attention provided to M&E at the period of
project approval, in 1999.

The use of the IUCN Protected Areas management effectiveness score cards allowed an
important quantification of project effects on the management of protected areas. The project
effects on the management of protected areas were assessed by independent international experts
who used IUCN protected areas management effectiveness score cards. See table 1 in chapter 3.1
(a) for improvements during project implementation.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

During the Mid Term Review, the Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01) of the project was rated
unsatisfactory. This because the Project was designated as EA Category C, but in fact includes
elements which would seem more appropriate for Category B, including civil works inside



6

Protected Areas, expansion and creation of new PAs, and activities such as construction of small
dams under the Small Grants Program. The Small Grant Program (SGP) Operations Manual
includes environmental screening, but it is not clear how effectively this has been done. For civil
works in the PAs, Executing Agencies have been following environmental screening
requirements according to the national laws, but these have not been submitting EAs to WB for
review, as called for in the Project Document. Similarly, social assessments have been carried out
prior to expansion and creation of PAs, in accordance with local procedures, but had not been
submitted to the WB for review. Steps to address these issues were taken, such as retroactive
review of the reports from the nationally mandated procedures.

Later on during 2004 a few sample retroactive Environmental Impact Assessments were carried
out and an agreement was reached regarding procedures for giving greater attention to
environmental screening for SGP small projects. On this basis, the project compliance EA rating
is restored to satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The Governments of the three countries expressed on various occasions their strong interest for a
follow-up operation. On one side, this is the result of the Governments' appreciation for the
results achieved during the first phase. On another side, this may also be a consequence of their
concerns regarding sustainability of the project activities. This greatly varies from country to
country: given the availability of public budget in Kazakhstan, the sustainability here is very
likely. The Kyrgyz Republic is at the opposite extreme, where the very limited availability of
financial resources does create an important obstacle to the sustainability of project achievements.
The follow-up phase intends to further develop approaches to provide a constant flow of funds for
project activities, such as nature-based tourism, and also develop new approaches, such
reforestation and consequent carbon sequestration and trade in the Kyrgyz Republic. The last
approach may allow a constant annual revenue of more than US$400,000 to the Kyrgyz Republic
alone.

The potential for a follow-up operation has been used to leverage more commitment on the
conclusion of the process to agree on the Regional Biosphere reserve. Nonetheless, this target has
not yet been achieved since the legal document is under procedure of agreeing it between the
three countries. However this should not be considered as a cause for disengagement from the
continued dialogue on such an issue. Achieving institutional change does often require a long
engagement period.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Project objectives were consistent with the Bank's strategies to assist the Governments of the
three countries, which targeted (i) poverty reduction through integrated rural natural resources
programs and (ii) development of environmentally sustainable policies to contribute to
sustainable development.




7

Project objectives were also consistent with the GEF Operational Strategy and with the
Operational Programs on Forest and Mountain Ecosystems.

Finally, project objectives were highly justified since the dismantling of the Soviet Union created
new borders among the three republics which required a special effort to develop new
mechanisms of transboundary cooperation. Also, during the hardship caused by the transition,
environmental issues received particularly low priority. As a consequence the protected areas
network decayed due to the lack of financing, and the ecosystem and biodiversity of the region
were threatened. The project played an important role in mitigating such acute problems.

3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

The project outcome is assessed as satisfactory since the most important project objectives have
been achieved

    (a)       Strengthen and expand the zapovednik (strict nature reserves) network in the West
              Tien Shan (WTS) to conserve unique plant and animal communities, including
              wild relatives of domesticated species

As the table below shows, the area under protection increased by 183%, while the management
effectiveness was increased by 28%. Four new strict nature reserves (zapovedniks) and one new
natural park were created under the project, while no other zapovednik was created in the three
countries in the same period. These new reserves were created according to a bio-regional plan.

                  Table 1 ­ Protected Areas Strengthened and Expanded
                                                    Before project     At project          Change
                                                                         closing
     Area under protection(Km2)                              2,067               5,852      +183%
     Number of PAs                                               4                    9     +125%
     IUCN Protected Area management                             60                  77        +28%
     effectiveness score card*
     PA coverage of vulnerable flora and                   25-30%             40-45%          +55%
     fauna in WTS
    *Before project rating was assessed in 2002 by Ron Petocz (before most project activities) and was
    assessed again in 2005 by Natalia Danilina (IUCN deputy chair for Eurasia region). See Annex 2 for
    a detailed description of the score-card ratings.

Significant investments in infrastructure allowed for very tangible benefits such as improved
facilities for PA staff, including offices, "cordon" houses (rangers' houses along the protected
areas borders), a small nature museum in each country, road rehabilitation, procurement of
vehicles, equipment and outfit for rangers, horses, communication equipment, and a micro
hydropower plant in Sary Chelek. All of this, combined with training and management plans, has
significantly improved the management of protected areas, as revealed by an increase of 25% in
terms of IUCN management effectiveness score card during the last 3 years of project
implementation.

This increased countries' capacity for conservation of unique ecosystems and diversity of species
in WTS (see detailed outputs of component 2 below).



8

    (b)      Identify alternative and sustainable income-generating activities for local
             communities and other stakeholders to reduce pressure on the zapovedniks and
             their biological resources

The Small Grants Program contributed to test environmentally friendly activities and alternative
income generative activities to reduce pressure on biological resources. Small grants were pivotal
to changing the attitude of local communities to biodiversity conservation: until this program,
those communities saw the reserves as only a limit to their regular activities. Small grants were
the first benefits that zapovedniks brought them. This contributed to behavioral change, as
detected by an independent evaluation. It also achieved improved natural resources management,
as in the case of improved pasture management. It is however less clear whether these small
grants contributed to reducing pressure on biological resources.

However the project may have excessively concentrated its effort inside the zapovedniks, and it
could have done more in areas among zapovedniks. In fact when funds were re-allocated from
Component E (Public participation in biodiversity conservation), the level of investment outside
protected areas has been reduced. The project could also have done more in terms of promoting
the region in terms of nature based tourism. Both shortcomings represent a missed opportunity.
However, from a different point of view, this concentration inside protected areas, reduced the
risk of dispersing limited resources in excessively large areas.

    (c)      Strengthen local and national capacity through education and training;

Nature reserves staff were trained in biodiversity monitoring techniques, management plan
development and implementation, legislative framework, laboratory equipment use, information
technology, Geographical Information Systems and map interpretation, video and photo
equipment, etc. The regional seminars maintained or developed professional relationships and
exchanges among the researchers and inspectors of the three countries. Relationships with
universities and educational centers were developed.

    (d)      Raise public awareness of biodiversity values and increase participation in
             biodiversity

The project published periodical informational bulletins in Russian and English. More than 100
different books, brochures, leaflets, posters, and calendars were developed and distributed at
workshops, conferences, universities. The project also produced informational and popular
scientific video films about biodiversity of the WTS. Moreover the Zapovedniks conducted
several public awareness activities with local communities such as the March of Parks, Tulips'
Day, and Birds' Day. These activities were carried out together with the representatives of local
authorities, NGOs, environmental and educational agencies, local communities and mass media.
Also, the small grants contributed significantly to increase public awareness about biodiversity in
those communities adjacent to the nature reserves. According to an independent evaluation
carried out in 2005, 66% of direct beneficiaries perceived a change in attitude toward the
environment, while 40% non direct beneficiaries perceived the same change. Also, 44% of
surveyed residents took part in meetings and seminars.




9

    (e)      Conservation

Monitoring occurrence of protected species in PAs and adjacent areas proves a clear growth of
biodiversity thanks to active project interventions from the year 2000 to 2004. The table below
demonstrates the restoration and growth data by showing the change of occurrences in the
territory of PAs for those species that inhabit more than one nature reserve. The average growth
has been between 9 and 45% while in some specific reserves growth has been up to 250 percent.


             Species            Nature             2000            2004
                               Reserve        Occurrences Occurrences            Change (%)

        Roe                 Sary-Chelek                    8                27             238
                            Besh-Aral                    34                 42               24
                            Chatkal                        2                 7             250
                            Aksu-
                            Djabagly                     91               120                32
                 sub-total                              135               196                45
        Ibex                Sary-Chelek                 205               209                  2
                            Besh-Aral                   300               460                53
                            Chatkal                     352               400                14
                 sub-total                              857              1069                25
        Wild boar           Sary-Chelek                  76                 79                 4
                            Chatkal                      50                 55               10
                            Aksu-
                            Djabagly                       2                 5             150
                 sub-total                              128               139                  9
        Stone marten        Sary-Chelek                  24                 35               46
                            Besh-Aral                   117               153                31
                 sub-total                              141               188                33

The frequency of occurrence was considered as a more suitable indicator than the estimated
number of animals because the latter would require a longer period of observation. If animals are
not disturbed or less disturbed inside a reserve, they are quiet and it is therefore possible to see
them at a short distance. This is a good indicator of the level of protection. From this point of
view, Aksu-Djabagly and Besh-Aral were considered as the safest. Ibexes and bears could be
approached at half the distance than before the project.

    (f)      Establish regional (Transnational) coordination and cooperation mechanisms for
             biodiversity conservation activities to strengthen zapovednik management and
             wildlife protection and prevent the fragmentation of habitat corridors

The project contributed to draft an Interstate Agreement for the establishment of the
transboundary 'Western Tien Shan Biosphere Reserve'. This activity was jointly carried out with a
TACIS project. The three project implementing agencies expressed their strong willingness to
establish the Reserve. However, the agreement to be officially approved needs to pass certain
administrative steps necessary in such interstate cases and the draft agreement is still under
revision of the three Governments. Kazakhstan recently made some modifications in the
agreement text which are under revision of Uzbekistan and the Kyrgyz Republic.

Global environmental objectives:


10

    (a)     Conserve biodiversity through the implementation of an ecosystem-based
            management approach that involves the strengthening of zapovednik management
            systems and the integration of a coordinated management concept across regional,
            national and local programs

See point (e) above

    (b)     Improve knowledge of the distribution and status of rare, endangered and endemic
            species through targeted surveys to better focus conservation measures

The project contributed a significant amount of research about status of biodiversity including a
common methodology for identification of natural area value, ecosystem definition, and regular
monitoring of the status of ecosystems and biodiversity within and outside of the protected areas.
This information was the basis of many regional maps used to develop the bioregional plan.

    (c)     Enhance biodiversity conservation within mountain ecosystems by developing
            cross-sector multi-use management systems to preserve critical ecosystem

The project contributed to the development of a bioregional plan which covered also areas
between nature reserves where cross-sector activities were implemented, mostly through the
small grant program. These contributed to establishment of micro-reserves, feeding grounds for
predatory birds (with possibility for tourists to watch them), juniper nurseries, pheasant farms,
arrangements for pasture rotation, environmental education, etc.

    (d)     Promote the protection of ecosystems, natural habitats, landscapes and the in-situ
            maintenance of viable populations of species by developing sustainable land-use
            which integrates conservation management between zapovedniks and adjacent
            forest production units (leshoz) and farming communities

Under the small grant program, new forested area covering a total of 1,064 hectares and pasture
management improvement of 9,292 hectares were piloted.

    (e)     Increase the awareness of biodiversity conservation and endangered species by the
            development of training programs and dissemination of information.

Awareness of biological conservation was achieved through training and dissemination activities
and through the small grant program. An independent survey carried out in 2005 revealed that
48% of respondents could notice positive changes in the attitude of the population surrounding
the project protected areas to the forests and other nature resources. Interesting to note that 66%
of direct beneficiaries perceived a change in attitude toward the environment, while 40% non
direct beneficiaries perceived the same change. According to an independent evaluation, 44% of
surveyed residents of took part in meetings and seminars.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

No specific efficiency assessment was carried out. However a comparison across the three
countries showed higher unit costs in Uzbekistan. A detailed procurement and financial


11

management review concluded that this was mostly the consequence of higher transaction costs
in Uzbekistan.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of GEOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

The satisfactory assessment is based on the fact that the main project development objectives
have been achieved. Particularly positive is the fact that the area under protection increased by
183%, while the management effectiveness increased by 28% (see Table 1 above). As a
consequence, the population of several animal and plant species either increased or was restored
to target levels. The increased occurrence of protected species from the year 2000 to 2004 is a
reliable evidence of this important achievement, going well beyond the more modest target of
"reducing the rate of decline of globally important species" (see Result Framework Analysis).
The project helped the countries to agree the joint current and prospective activities to protect the
regional biodiversity based on the Bioregional Plan reflecting ecosystem approach.

Although the main objective of the project was achieved, there were also some shortcomings:
(i) institutional development: the three countries have not yet been able to finalize the
administrative works and establish the regional protected area (the "Western Tian Shan Biosphere
Reserve"); (ii) the level of effort to improve conservation in areas adjacent to protected areas was
inferior to plans; (iii) attention to promoting the Western Tien Shan territory as an international
tourist destination was below plan; and (iv) starting implementation was more demanding than
initially planned and therefore an extension of two years was required.

However, the team considers that clear project achievements notably outweigh its shortcomings
and therefore assessed the overall project outcome as satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The Small Grant Program (SGP) of the Project contributed to reduce poverty in communities
situated in the buffer zones of protected areas in Western Tien Shan. About 75% of beneficiaries
of the alternative source of income projects perceive that their financial position improved during
the last 3 years thanks also to the SGP. These are small communities which felt penalized by their
proximity to the protected areas, because they are not allowed to use the abundant available
natural resources (good pastures, wildlife, fruits, medicinal plants, and other). The SGP
contributed to reduce their resistance to protection activities, while stressing some benefits that
local people may get thanks to their proximity to protected areas (such as increased presence of
tourists). This did contribute to reduce local resistance to the conservation efforts.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The project provided significant legal and management strengthening, as described under
outcomes.




12

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

See annex 5.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

The risks that project achievements will not be sustained are substantial. A balanced assessment
of risks is challenging because of the important differences in the three participating countries.
While Kazakhstan and to a lesser extent Uzbekistan have sufficient financial resources to
dedicate to long term objectives such as environmental protection, this is not the case in the
Kyrgyz Republic. Due to the important financial difficulties that the Kyrgyz Republic is facing,
any long term development activity faces significant challenges. As a consequence the team is
proposing a follow-up operation to increase the potentials for financial sustainability of protected
areas and involvement of surrounding local communities into nature protection through
sustainable use of natural resources including reforestation and community based nature tourism.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance during project preparation was satisfactory. The preparation team was
competent and balanced, and covered the necessary skills in biodiversity, national policies,
legislative framework and institutional arrangements for biodiversity protection, economics,
engineering, environment, and social sciences. The extensive experience of the team in preparing
and implementing environmental, biodiversity protection and national institutional capacity
development projects worldwide was an important factor in the success of the project. The team
worked closely with the governments, scientific institutions, NGOs, and contributed to present
best practices in prioritizing activities, preparing feasibility studies, designs, EIAs, and
institutional arrangements for implementation and procurement. The team prepared excellent
terms of reference for the project preparation consultants. Thanks to thorough and detailed
preparation of several scientific field expeditions before Grant approval and the design of
institutional arrangements for implementation, project implementation proceeded without major
hurdles. The project preparation led to additional investment by the TACIS project for improving
and harmonizing legislation among the three countries (see cofinancing).

The main shortcomings of project preparation were: (i) lack of specific targets in the monitoring
system, probably due to the fact that at the time of project preparation, in 1997, were not yet
required ; and (ii) Environmental Assessment classification as "C" (no EA required) while project
activities would have required a "B" (partial EA).



13

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

Project supervision was satisfactory. The supervision was based on the standard practice of two
supervision missions per year. The missions were staffed with appropriate skills, depending on
the project implementation stage and expected issues. Most supervision missions consisted of
expertise in natural resources protection, engineering, financial management, procurement, social
and environmental, and operational issues. The project's mid-term review conducted with
participation of the GEF representatives assessed positively project activities. The Bank
responded to the requirements of the Governments quickly in order to resolve issues that may
have otherwise created major problems in project implementation, e.g. the need for reallocating
funds; currency change (from SDR to USD); and extension of the loan closing date by two years.

During implementation the Bank participated in several Steering Committee meetings and
provided useful guidance and technical advice. The Mid-Term Review also introduced some
important changes, such as merging Components C and E (Public Participation in Biodiversity
and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity). The World Bank also recommended to carry out an
independent international assessment of Protected Areas management performance before and
during the project according to the IUCN scorecards method. This provided a reliable monitoring
indicator. The Bank organized trainings on financial management and procurement issues for the
PIUs which facilitated project implementation. It also helped organize tours for to the national
parks and reserves in other countries (USA, Russia), and participation and presenting the project's
results by the PIUs representatives including scientific consultants at various international
conferences.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory, with good project design backed by sound
supervision and follow up.

5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Not Applicable

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Not Applicable

Implementing Agency                                                                     Performance
State Agency on Environmental Protection and Forestry (Kyrgyz Republic)
Forestry and Hunting Committee, under the Ministry of Agriculture (Republic of
Kazakhstan)
State Committee for Nature Protection (Republic of Uzbekistan)




14

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Recipients' participation in project preparation was satisfactory. (Governments and
implementing agencies are jointly assessed, thus the separate ratings above are not applicable.)
The project was initiated by Kyrgyzstan scientist Professor Shukurov, who sent an application to
the GEF on behalf of the environmental NGO "Aleine" in 1994. During 1995-1997 discussions
between the WB, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan specialists, as well as the British
environmental organization FFI (which provided a grant for project preparation) led to signing
the project's Grant Agreement between the three countries and the WB in 1999. The project was
prepared using the GEF PDF-B grant by specialists on forestry, paleontology, botany, zoology,
land tenure, soils, protected areas, sociology, communities' participation, climate, hydrology,
legal, cartography, economy, alternative sources of energy, and geo-information systems. In 1997
the three countries have joined the Convention on Biodiversity which was a GEF mandatory
condition for the project. In 1998 the three countries and Tajikistan have signed an Agreement on
Western Tien Shan Biodiversity Protection Cooperation. Each of the three countries has
established National Steering Committees consisting of scientists, NGOs and local governing
bodies' representatives, and Environmental Ministries to manage the project. The Transnational
Steering Committee was established to coordinate the national project activities. Since 2001 the
project cooperated with TACIS project on legal and information-educational issues.

Main shortcomings were: (i) slow decision making in the initial stages of the project, which
caused delays in disbursement; (ii) initially the project suffered from delayed availability of
counterpart funds mostly by the Kyrgyz Republic and Uzbekistan; and (iii) it was difficult to
reach agreement with other Governmental agencies, such as Ministries of Economy, Finance,
External Affairs, and Agriculture, and to get them to respond to implementation problems. Most
of these shortcomings were addressed later on during project implementation. However initial
delays required an extension of two years of project implementation.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Regional projects are usually challenging in terms of overall management to sustain ownership
and commitment from the individual countries. This requires more time to achieve a consensus
when this is essential, as in the case of the tripartite agreement to establish the Transboundary
Biosphere. The bulk of these problems were avoided by the implementation arrangements of the
project, which allowed for regional strategic coordination but left implementation at national
level as much as possible. The National and Transboundary Steering Committees provided the
strategic guidance and coordination, while the national PIUs implemented national activities at
national level. Only the regional PIU implemented the activities which could have not been
implemented at national level, such as coordination meetings, many training activities,
communication campaigns, and others.

This was possible also thanks to the common language and common heritage from the Former
Soviet Union. Considering other countries, such as China, which also share part of the Tien Shan,
may have been an excessive challenge and may not have allowed successful implementation.

The success of regional activities often depends on the adequate contribution of the national
structures. Frequently delay of one of the sides delayed execution of all activities. To avoid such
problems it is necessary to strengthen the role of Transboundary Steering Committee.



15

The experience gained during implementation of the project demonstrated that biodiversity
protection presents lower risk for conflicts between countries in comparison with regional
coordination on water resources management.

Although PAs financing in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan increased, weaknesses of protected areas
are still evident. Natural reserves need qualified specialists and a possibility to find such qualified
specialists is to develop cooperation between PAs with scientific and educational institutions, to
attract students for practice in protected areas and to develop voluntary activities. Much more
effort to disseminate scientific work in a form that is understandable for the public at large is still
required.

Finally, this project proved the difficulty to contribute significant counterpart funds by financially
weak countries. The lesson for future operations is that in such cases co-financing may be from
donors allocations (e.g., IDA) or though revenue generation mechanisms (e.g., carbon trading).

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

All the three implementing agency provided written comments to a draft version of this ICR,
which was distributed in Russian during December 2006. All agencies are satisfied with project
results, and indeed are asking for a follow-up phase. Even the Ministry of Economy and/or
Finance of the three countries did provide official comments, fundamentally agreeing with the
substance of this report.

In the opinion of the assessing team, an important reason which generates satisfaction among
various agencies of the three countries is the balance between hardware and software aspects of
the project: investments in tangible infrastructure (see Table 5 in Annex 2) were matched with
investments in technical assistance and training in a way to produce tangible results. This was an
important element for project success.

(b) Cofinanciers

The European Commission Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of Independent States
(TACIS), then Euro-Aid, financed two phases of the Western Tien Shan Biodiversity
Preservation project. This was more of a parallel financing rather than co-financing. The TACIS
project complemented the GEF funded project in many ways, particularly by focusing on eco-
tourism and providing assistance to the creation of the Transboundary Bio-Sphere Reserve.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




16

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

           (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)



                                            Appraisal
               Components                 Estimate (USD   Actual/Latest  Percentage of

                                               M)       Estimate (USD M)  Appraisal

LEGAL AND FINANCIAL REFORM                          0.55             0.11        20.00
STRENGTHEN THE ZAPOVEDNIK
NETWORK                                             5.70             6.65       116.67

SUSTAINABLE USES OF
BIODIVERSITY                                        1.00             0.86        86.00

STRENGTHENING LOCAL AND
NATIONAL CAPACITY THROUGH                           1.50             0.81        54.00
EDUCATION AND TRAINING
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION IN
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION                           2.80             0.00          .00

PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                  2.10             2.16       102.86
                      Total Baseline Cost          13.65            10.59
Physical Contingencies                              0.00
Price Contingencies                                 0.00
                       Total Project Costs         13.65
Front-end fee PPF                                   0.00             0.00         0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                  0.00             0.00         0.00
                Total Financing Required           13.65            10.59




           (b) Financing
                                              Appraisal    Actual/Latest
      Source of Funds           Type of                                  Percentage of
                             Cofinancing      Estimate    Estimate (USD
                                              (USD M)          M)         Appraisal

Borrower                     Governments             2.00            0.90        45.00
European Commission:         TACIS
TECH ASSISTANCE FOR         Parallel                 1.50            1.50       100.00
the CIS - TACIS             Financing
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY                     GEF Grant              10.15           10.13        99.80




17

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The component helped each of the three countries to adopt a new or modify an existing national
Law on Protected Areas (PA). Specifically, the national laws harmonized (i) the PA categories in
accordance with IUCN recommendations, (ii) introduced, among others, the definitions of
"Transboundary Biosphere Reserve" "ecological network", "PA management plan and
certificate". This contributed to build a legal basis for the establishment of transboundary nature
protected areas.

Bylaws adopted unified the methodology for biodiversity monitoring which is based on the
ecosystem approach and use of a unified regional list of indicator species. Transboundary
monitoring routes were agreed. The project also contributed to draft other laws and bylaws, some
of which are still under discussion by the Parliaments of the three countries. It is expected that
some may get approved even after project completion. The component developed the scientific
and legal prerequisites for an interstate agreement to protect biodiversity in the Western Tien
Shan. The Bioregional Plan provided the scientific justification for establishing the
transboundary biosphere as an overall ecosystem of the West Tien Shan. On the basis of this
scientific work, the component drafted a tri-state agreement on the Western Tien Shan
Transboundary Biosphere Reserve. The objective of the tripartite agreement is the conservation
of 80-85% of plant and animal species in the transboundary area. The tri-partite agreement was
drafted in collaboration with the TACIS parallel project. The tri-partite agreement has been under
revision of the three Governments since 2005. Recently the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of
Kazakhstan introduced some modifications which are under consideration by Kyrgyzstan and
Uzbekistan. The fact that the tri-partite agreement has not yet been approved is an important
shortcoming of the component. The justification used by the counterparts that the project was
directly responsible only for drafting the agreement, while its approval is responsibility of
Government agencies and ultimately the legislative power is not sufficient to justify this
shortcoming.

In total the component achieved the following legal reforms:
Kazakhstan: the national law on PA harmonized, 8 bylaws adopted, and 2 draft laws submitted to
the government for consideration.
Uzbekistan: a new national law on PA adopted, 5 bylaws adopted, and one draft law submitted to
the government for consideration;
Kyrgyzstan: the national law on PA harmonized, 15 bylaws adopted, 9 draft laws submitted to the
government for consideration, and 15 more are being drafted.

The financial reform part of this component was supposed to provide technical assistance for the
development if financial and budgetary mechanisms for sustainable funding of biodiversity
conservation. This was achieved only in Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, where availability of public
funding allowed a significant increase of budget resources. However funding of protected areas
remains insufficient in the Kyrgyz Republic, as shown in the table below. Also it was not possible
to implement and strategy to guarantee financial sustainability of regional activities. This is a
clearly a second shortcoming of the component, which is however partly justified on the basis of
over-ambition of the planned objective.




18

                           Table 2 - Public Investments in Protected Areas
                                       Protected                   Annual State Budget
                                     Area (Km2)                  US$                  US$/Km2
    Kazakhstan                                33,391                 11,959,700                358
    Uzbekistan                                 8,141                  1,748,200                215
    Kyrgyz Republic                            6,416                    283,000                 44
    TOTAL/AVERAGE                             47,948                 13,990,900                291

Component B. Strengthening the Protected Area Network of the West Tien Shan

This was the largest component at appraisal, representing 52% of total planned project costs.
Actual expenditures were even higher than planned, leading to the component being responsible
for 60% of project costs. Activities under this component contributed to (i) strengthening existing
PAs, (ii) scientific justification for and active promotion of establishment of fours new nature
reserves and one new natural park), and (iii) creation of a network of in transboundary areas of
PAs based on a bioregional plan. The component strengthened four existing protected areas in
accordance with IUCN guidelines by (i) developing PA management plans, (ii) providing
equipment and communication means, (iii) repairing and/or construction of offices, scientific
facilities, field stations and cordons, (iv) establishment of visitor-centers, (v) provision of
training.

This allowed a substantial improvement in Protected Areas management effectiveness as revealed
by the score rating carried out for the period of 2003-2005 according to the IUCN methodology
(see table 3 below). In 2005 by Mrs. Natalia Danilina (deputy chief of IUCN in Eurasia region)
was invited as an international consultant by the Central Asia Transboundary Biodiversity Project
to assess management effectiveness of four protected areas using the IUCN method of rapid
assessment of PA management.

The international consultant compared findings with the results of the assessment undertaken in
2003, which were made by the international consultant Ron Petocz using the scoring system. In
order to get comparable data, the assessments for 2005 were converted into scores meeting
criteria which had been applied in 2003, and were incorporated in the same comparative tables
(see below). Despite some simplification, this approach enables to identify tendencies in change
of management effectiveness of the assessed reserves.

                Table 3 - IUCN PA Management Effectiveness Score Card Rating
                                                 2003       2005       Change
                         Aksu-Djabagly                64          84       31%
                         (KAZ)
                         Besh-Aral (KR)               55          76       39%
                         Chatkal (UZ)                 51          62       33%
                         Sary-Chelek (KR)             71          81       13%
                            AVERAGE                60         76        26%

As the scorecards highlight, there is an evident improvement of the situation in the reserves, and
increase of operation effectiveness and increase of their rating.




19

1. IUCN PA Management Effectiveness Score Card Detailed Ratings for Aksu-Djabagly
Protected Area (Kyrgyz Republic)
    Main Issues                   Criteria                Efficiency    Efficiency
                                                         (%) in 2003   (%) in 2005
Status of Protected    1. Legislation                       66,6          66,6
Area                   2. Law enforcement                   66,6           100
        Subtotal:                                           66,6          83,3
Availability of        3. Planning                           100           100
information and        4. Inventory of resources            66,6          66,6
effectiveness of
planning
        Subtotal:                                           83,3          83,3
Sustainability of      5. Available resources               66,6          66,6
financial and human    (financial and human)
resources              6. Maintenance                       33,3           100
        Subtotal:                                             50          83,3
Partnership            7. Neighboring areas                  100           100
                       9. Contacts                          66,6          66,6
        Subtotal:                                           83,3          83,3
Nature resources       10. Management system                133,3         133,3
management system      11. Access control / utilization     66,6           100
and vulnerability      of protected area
control                13. Visit potential                  66,6          66,6
                       14. Visitors                         33,3          33,3
                       16. Management intervention          33,3          33,3
                       May
        Subtotal:                                           66,6          73,3
Linkage with local     8. Economic benefits of the          33,3          33,3
communities            protected area to the local
                       communities
                       12. Resident communities             33,3          33,3
                       and/or traditional landowners
        Subtotal:                                           0,33          0,33
TOTAL:                                                      64,4          84,4



2. IUCN PA Management Effectiveness Score Card Detailed Ratings for Besh-Aral Protected
Area (Kyrgyz Republic)
    Key aspects             Criteria              Efficiency    Efficiency
                                                 (%) in 2003   (%) in 2005
Status of Protected 1. Legislation                   66,6          66,6
Area                2. Application of law            66,6          66,6
Subtotal:                                            66,6          66,6
Availability of     3. Planning                      100           100
information and     4. Inventory of resources        66,6          100
effectiveness of
planning
Subtotal:                                            83,3          100
Sustainability of  5. Available resources            66,6          66,6


20

financial and        (financial and human)
human resources      6. Maintenance                  33,3         66,6
Subtotal:                                             50          66,6
Natural resources    10. Management system           100          100
management           11. Access control /            66,6         66,6
system and           utilization of protected
vulnerability        area
control
Subtotal:                                            66,6         83,5
Partnership          7. Neighboring areas            33,3         100
                     9. Contacts                     66.6         66,3
Subtotal:                                            66,6         83,3
Linkage with local 8. Economic benefits of           100          100
communities          local community
Subtotal:                                            66,3         100
Total:                                               54,5         75,7


3. IUCN PA Management Effectiveness Score Card Detailed Ratings for Chatkal Protected Area
(Uzbekistan)
    Main Issues                    Criteria              Efficiency    Efficiency
                                                        (%) in 2003   (%) in 2005
Status of the PA      1. Legislation                         33          66,6
                      2. Law enforcement                     33           100
Subtotal:                                                    33          83,3
Information           3. Baseline information                33          66,6
availability and      4. Planning system                     83            83
Planning efficiency
Subtotal:                                                    66          77,77
Financial and         5. Resources (financial and            33          33,.3
human resources       human) availability
sustainability        6. Maintenance of the                  67           100
                      equipment
                      7. Financial and human               58.3          66,6
                      resources management systems
                      8. Resource sustainability             33            33
Subtotal:                                                    43            60
Natural resources     9. Sustainability of the               33            33
management            production around the Reserve
systems and           10. Management intervention            33          66,6
vulnerability control 11. Control of activities within       67          66,6
                      and around Chatkal reserve
                      12. Control efficiency over            33            33
                      access/use of the protected area
                      13. Opportunities for                  33            33
                      ecotourism
Subtotal:                                                    40          46,6
Partnership           14. Communication with                 67            67
                      stakeholders



21

                      15. Collaboration with                  60               60
                      neighbors
Subtotal:                                                     62.5            62,5
Relationship with     16. Economic benefits of the            67              66,6
local communities     protected area to the local
                      communities
                      17. Local resource users                50               50
                      participation in the process of
                      the management of the Reserve
Subtotal:                                                     57.1            57,1
TOTAL:                                                        51              61,7

4. IUCN PA Management Effectiveness Score Card Detailed Ratings for Sary-Chelek Protected
Area (Kyrgyz Republic)
    Key aspects               Criteria             Efficiency      Efficiency
                                                  (%) in 2003     (%) in 2005
                                                      66,6            66,6
                     2. Application of law            66,6            66,6
Subtotal:                                             66,6            66,6
Availability of      3. Planning                       100            100
information and      4. Inventory of resources        66,6            66,6
effectiveness of
planning
Subtotal:                                             83,3            100
Sustainability of    5. Available resources           66,6            66,6
financial and        (financial and human)
human resources      6. Maintenance                   33,3            66,6
Subtotal:                                              50             66,6
Natural resources    10. Management system             100            100
management           11. Access control /             66,6            66,6
system and           utilization of protected
vulnerability        area
control              13. Visit potential              66,6            66,6
                     14. Visitors                     33,3            66,6
Subtotal:                                             66.6             75
Partnership          7. Neighboring areas              100            100
                     9. Contacts                      66,6            66,3
Subtotal:                                             83,3            83,3
Linkage with local 8. Economic benefits of            66,6            66,3
communities          local community
                                                      33,3            100
Subtotal:                                             83,3            83,3
Total:                                                71,4             81

The component provided scientific justification for establishment of 11 new PAs and extension of
3 existing PAs. Relevant decisions were made by the governments and 4 nature reserves and 1
natural park were established with the assistance of the project. During the project period the area




22

    under protection increased by 0.38 million ha which in total represent the area of 0.58 million ha
    increased by 183% during last 4 years:

                                                            Before      After
                           PA Name             Country      project    project       Change

                                                             (ha)        (ha)          (ha)

           1          Sary Chelek              KYR           23,900      23,900               0
           2          Besh Aral                KYR           61,478     110,296          48,818
           3          Aksu-Djabagly            KAZ           85,700     132,582          46,882
           4          Chatkal                  UZ            35,686      35,686               0
           5          Padysha-Ata              KYR                 0     15,846          15,846
           6          Kulun-Ata                KYR                 0     24,510          24,510
           7          Kara-Bura                KYR                 0     59,067          59,067
           8          Karatau                  KAZ                 0     34,300          34,300
           9          Sairam-Ugam              KAZ                 0    149,053         149,053
                      TOTAL                                 206,764     585,240         378,476

    The protected area represents now the core sites of the future Transboundary Biosphere Reserve
    "Western Tien Shan". The expanded area of Besh Aral nature reserve along with Kara Bura
    nature reserve in Kyrgyz Republic is contiguous with Aksu-Djabagly nature reserve and Sairam-
    Ugam natural park in Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan protected areas (Chatkal nature reserve/Ugam-
    Chatkal natural park) creating thus a core transboundary protected area.

              Table 4 - Description of the Protected Areas Established under the Project
                                     Kyrgyz Republic
Protected Area                            Padysha-Ata       Kulun-Ata          Kara-Bura        Total
Area (ha)                                 15,846            24,510             59,067           99,423
Year of establishment                     2003              2004               2005
Total flora                               1000              1000               1000
including WTS endemics                    120               90                 120
including listed in Red Book              10                3                  4                10
Birds                                     Over 100          over 100           over 100
including listed in Red Book              12                9                  11               12
Fauna (vertebrates)                       27                30                 30
including listed in Red Book              4                 6                  5                6
Number of species not founded in          10                28                 24               28
previously existed zapovedniks
Coverage of WTS flora and fauna before establishing new zapovedniks - 30%
Coverage of WTS flora and fauna including new established zapovedniks - 45 %

                                     Kazakhstan
    Protected Area                                    Karatau                  Sairam-Ugamski
    Area                                              34,300                   149,053
    Year of establishment                             2004                     2006
    Total flora                                       673                      619
    including WTS endemics                            39                       76
    including listed in Red data book                 77                       23


    23

Birds                                               80                       131
including listed in Red data book                   7                        10
Fauna (vertebrates)                                 20                       59
including listed in Red data book                   3                        10
Coverage of WTS flora and fauna before establishing new PAs ­ 25%
Coverage of WTS flora and fauna including new established PAs ­ 45%

The component constructed and/or rehabilitated a large set of facilities, including almost 2,000
square meters of buildings consisting of cordons, offices, horse stables, guest-houses, visitor
centers, etc (see table 5 below). In addition the component rehabilitated 23.4 Km of roads, 4
bridges, procured scientific equipment, vehicles and horses. As result, the share of funds allocated
for works was 24% versus an initial plan of 9%. This important re-allocation may be a weakness
for outsiders, but it was actually a very important element for the positive assessment of project
achievements at the local level. In countries with high level of corruption, the possibility to have
physical "visible" outcomes is in fact highly valued. This may contribute to increase the challenge
in terms of sustainability, and may be inconsistent with more streamlines and effective
management approaches. However it is consequence of the project environment, and it did
contribute to increase external support to the project.


                  Table 5 ­ New rehabilitated Constructions under the Project
                                      Kazakhstan                                 m2
             Aksu-Djabagly - 11 cordons                                      930
             Aksu-Djabagly - reconstruction office buildings                 1,680
             Aksu-Djabagly - visit center                                    900
             Karatau - administrative building                               574
             Karatau - 4 cordons                                             280
             Sub-total Kazakhstan                                            4,364
             Kyrgyz Republic
             Sary-Chelek - Labs                                              480
             Sary-Chelek - Administrative buildings                          480
             Sary-chelek - 6 new cordons + repair of 4 existing ones         620
             Sary-chelek - meteo station                                     16
             Sary-chelek -- 2 check-points                                   32
             Sary-chelek - 2 guest houses rehabilitated                      280
             Sary-Chelek - Visitor-center + conference room                  400
             Micro-hydro power station                                       20
             Besh-Aral-Visitor-center + guest house                          800
             2 stables                                                       1,000
             Sub-total Kyrgyz republic                                       4,128
             Uzbekistan (Chatkal)
             Reconstruction & repair of buildings in Chatkal reserve         150
             Reconstruction of nature museum                                 350
             Reconstruction of administrative building                       400
             Reconstruction of cordons                                       300
             Repair of facilities (incl. stables)                            200
             Sub-total Uzbekistan                                            1,400
             TOTAL                                                           9,892




24

The component developed a comprehensive Bioregional Plan to schedule long-term activities to
protect biodiversity in all key ecosystems of the large Ecosystem of the WTS, and conservation of
80-85% of plant and animal species growing and inhabiting the area to ensure sustainable socio-
economical development of the region and adjacent areas as a result of joint efforts of all the
countries geographically related to the WTS. The subject of planning included main biodiversity
components, conservation objects, socio-economical situation, legal framework, institutions,
stakeholders, existing infrastructure of wildlife protection and use, methodology for bio-
geographical analysis, and geographical information system (GIS) to be applied in the
Bioregional Plan. The methodology was based on the ecosystem approach. Indicator species
monitoring was used as a method for assessment of the natural ecosystem status. The method was
developed under the project. It was for the first time that all natural ecosystems of the region were
assessed using evaluation of the level of anthropogenic disturbance. The whole area was divided
into different ecological and economical zones depending on a mode of use. The cartographical
and bio-geographical analyses have provided a basis for proposals on ecological network
establishment in the West Tien Shan. A major part of the network had to be a Transboundary
Biosphere Reserve (TBR), located in the center of region. The TBR had to incorporate the most
important parts and the main conservation targets in the West Tien Shan.

Component C. Sustainable Uses of Biodiversity

This component had the objective of changing the behavior toward environmental protection and
biodiversity of the people living in the regional. Small Grant Program (SGP) and training were
provided to local communities and non-governmental organizations. SGP supported small-scale
initiatives contributing to alternative socio-economical development and biodiversity
conservation contributed to increase standards of living and change the perception of local
communities toward environmental protection. In total, 582 small grants were implemented
benefiting 6,700 households with a total cost of around $600,000.

                                 Table 6 ­ Small Grant Program
Country                     Applications               Approvals              Average size of grant
                                                                              (US$ per grant)
Kyrgyz Republic             2,654                      412                    500
Kazakhstan                  285                        89                     2,500
Uzbekistan                  239                        92                     3,000
TOTAL                       3,178                      593                    1,000

Grants recipients have planted trees, herbs and mushrooms, improved pastures, created feeding
grounds for birds and animals. Projects devoted to development of bee-keeping, creating
processing of medicinal plants, developing small workshops on the production of flour and
forages, on sewing and developing carpet weaving, on the traditional handicrafts have promoted
rebirth of national traditions. Some of the priority projects were ecotourism and assistance for
tourists with dwelling and tour guides; handicraft and economic activity related to traditional
resources, etc. These activities provided alternative income for the rural population. Many of the
SGP projects were devoted to planting of fruit, endemic species trees and bushes, rapidly growing
poplar trees in the buffer zones. As a whole 425,000 trees were planted: in Kazakhstan 162,397,
in Uzbekistan 78,000, and in Kyrgyzstan 185,000. The SGP helped to create 1,139 new jobs: for
home made crafts, hand made carpets, national clothing workshops, small fruit processing
manufactories; 162 of them were created in Kazakhstan, 540 in Kyrgyzstan and 437 in
Uzbekistan. Most of the projects were initiated by and supported women.



25

An assessment of the Small Grant Program (SGP) was completed in August 2005 by an
independent consulting firm (www.ekspert.kg). The assessment was based on a survey of 1,040
respondents among a local population of around 50,000 in Aksu-Djabagly (Kaz), Sary-Chelek,
Besh-Aral (KR) and Ugam-Chatkal (Uz) nature reserves and their buffer zones. Both
beneficiaries and non beneficiaries were surveyed (30% and 70% respectively). According to the
survey, the SGP positively changed the attitude toward environment of grant beneficiaries and
also of those who did not benefit from the grants, although the change in the second group is
lower (66% and 40% respectively). In addition, 90% of the employees of PA perceive that during
last 3 years, the attitude of local population to the environment improved. In addition, grants for
alternative sources of income provided indirect benefits not only to the direct participants, but
also to those who did not participate in grant implementation, but got an information encouraging
to entrepreneur.

Component D. Strengthening Local and National Capacity

Public awareness activities were carried out on the regional, national and PAs levels and were
directed to attract public attention to the problem of the Central Asia biodiversity reduction; to
reduce level of the anthropogenic pressure on biodiversity from the local communities by
increasing public environmental awareness. The population of the buffer zones received
important training, as the table below shows.

                           Table 7 - Participation to Training Seminars
                                     Country            Participants
                                Kyrgyz Republic                    985
                                Kazakhstan                         735
                                Uzbekistan                       1,800
                                TOTAL                            3,520

In addition, more than 50 informative activities were carried out, which included conferences,
briefings, informational seminars, publication and distribution of the project informational
materials, actions like the March of Parks, the day of the Earth, the day of the birds and so on.
More than 5 thousand people took part in the project informational activities. PA scientists took
part in 8 international forums, where they distributed 93 sets of the informational materials:
bulletins, booklets, calendars, CDs with the documentary movies about the project and
biodiversity of the nature reserves. Some of the printed project informational materials were
issued on a regular base: wall, table and pocket calendars, documentary movies about biodiversity
and nature reserves of the West Tien-Shan, educational and methodological materials in the
framework of the Bioregional plan implementation. An estimated total number of around 60,000
people received material on the Western Tien Shan developed under the project. The International
jury of the Fourth Central-Asia Ecological Journalistic Festival­2004 (Tashkent) has awarded the
second place to the documentary movie "Aksu-Jabagly ­ life repository of the West Tien-Shan"
among the documentary movies in the nomination "Television", and has given special prize for
being the best ecological-educational movie. The January issue of Uzbekistan Airways In-flight
Magazine featured a cover article on "Tien Shan ­ The Homeland of Tulips", to increase
awareness about tulip paleontology and building the "Tien Shan" brand. The main purpose of the
carried training activities was to increase the level of knowledge and skills of the different target
groups involved in project implementation. The target groups included employees of nature
reserves, civil servants of the Executing Agencies and other authorities, related to biodiversity
conservation, as well as NGOs and local people. About 30 study tours, training seminars,
workshops and other activities, directed on sharing experience among the employees of the nature



26

reserves were carried out. In total 6,279 man/days were dedicated to training: 19% at regional
level, 33% in the Kyrgyz Republic, 20% in Kazakhstan, and 28% in Uzbekistan. The employees
of nature reserves increased their knowledge and skills in equipment which was procured under
the project such as radio, computers, video-photo end laboratory equipment. As a result of these
activities the image of the PAs as scientific and ecological centers has improved among the state
and public institutions, local population and educational establishments.

Component E. Public participation in biodiversity conservation.

The component activities were conducted under the Small Grant Program of component C.

Component F. Project management

Throughout the implementation period, the relevant RPIU/NPIUs staff was provided with training
on preparation of bidding documents, financial reports, with which they were not familiar before.
They also received on-the-job training by working with local and international consultants. These
institutional changes have further strengthened the institutional capacity of the national nature
protection sectors, since Forestry and Nature Protection Committees' and other relevant agencies
staff also have got training in project monitoring and evaluation, on procurement and financial
management and used to work with involved people of wide range including researchers, local
communities, authorities, NGOs, private enterprises, tourists, simple people in the project
activities connected with forests, biodiversity and other nature resources protection, especially
during the SGP. This allowed to address biodiversity issues in an integrated manner and enhanced
the governments' interaction with the final nature resources users through the PIUs and better
functioning oblast and rayon level branches of the Forestry and Nature Protection Committees
and other relevant agencies, as well as through the existed and emerged NGOs and actively
involved scientists.

The project's institution building support has actually extended beyond the State Forestry or
Nature Protection Committees of the three countries to many government and private institutions
involved in the sector: scientific institutes, rural construction and tourism industries. The capacity
of several scientific institutes and contractors that were involved in the project implementation
has been enhanced substantially through on the job experience at the zapovedniks and their buffer
zones. About fifteen scientific institutes have worked with international consultants in preparing
bioregional plan and management plans for each of the existed zapovedniks, as well as for the
newly established PAs. As the result of their participation in the project, these institutes, as well
as the Forestry and Nature Protection Agencies staff were exposed to, and have acquired new
techniques, computer systems including GIS, as well as skills for carrying out surveys,
investigations, biodiversity protection measures planning, preparation of environmental
assessments, business plans, modern reports. Similarly, the local PIU staff and consultants gained
experience in competitive bidding and working with local communities, management standards,
and quality control. More over, zapovedniks and their nature museums are getting to be the
centers of distribution of biodiversity knowledge for researchers, PA employees, tourists and
tourist guides, pupils. E.g. Aksu Djabagly is now a firmly established training centre for other
zapovedniks and national parks staff.




27

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

No economic or financial analysis was carried out




28

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

        Names                Title                Unit       Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR

Maurizio Guadagni    Senior Rural
                     Development Specialist  ECSSD           TTL starting in 2005

Dilshod Khidirov     Operations Officer      ECSSD           Operations Officer - Uz
Agnes I. Kiss        Lead Ecologist          ECSSD           TTL 2004-2005
Talaibek Torokulovich
Koshmatov            Operations Officer      ECSSD           Operations Officer - KR

Ainura Kupueva       Operations Officer      ECSSD           Operations Officer - KR
Nurbek Kurmanaliev   Procurement Officer     ECSPS           Procurement

John Otieno Ogallo   Sr Financial
                     Management Specialist   ECSPS           Financial Management

Talimjan Urazov      Operations Officer      ECSSD           Operations Officer -
                                                             KAZ
Bulat Utkelov        Operations Officer      ECSSD           Deputy Team Leader
Nurlan Yeskendirov   Consultant              ECSSD           Consultant

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
No.    Date ISR Archived    IP       GEO          Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1    07/01/1999                  Satisfactory                                     0.00
2    09/29/1999                  Satisfactory                                     0.00
3    04/24/2000                  Satisfactory                                     0.00
4    04/25/2000                  Satisfactory                                     0.00
5    07/19/2000                  Satisfactory                                     0.30
6    12/06/2000                  Satisfactory                                     0.30
7    06/14/2001                  Satisfactory                                     0.56
8    08/27/2001                  Satisfactory                                     0.80
9    02/20/2002                  Satisfactory                                     1.73
10   05/30/2002                  Satisfactory                                     2.33
11   11/25/2002                  Satisfactory                                     3.35
12   04/14/2003                  Satisfactory                                     4.12
13   12/22/2003                  Satisfactory                                     6.55
14   06/29/2004                  Satisfactory                                     7.57
15   12/16/2004                  Satisfactory                                     8.40
16   06/29/2005                  Satisfactory                                     9.22
17   01/04/2006                  Satisfactory                                     9.85
18   06/30/2006                  Satisfactory                                   10.07




29

(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

           Stage of Project Cycle                                USD Thousands
                                          No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                 consultant costs)
Lending
                   FY96                                                       118.77
                   FY97                                                         80.29
                   FY98                                                         66.63
                   FY99                                                       140.19
                   FY00                                                         10.58
                   FY01                                                          0.00
                   FY02                                                          0.00
                   FY03                                                          0.00
                   FY04                                                          0.00
                   FY05                                                          0.00
                   FY06                                                          0.00
                   FY07                                                          0.00
                                   Total:                                     416.46
Supervision/ICR
                   FY96                                                          0.00
                   FY97                                                          0.00
                   FY98                                                          0.00
                   FY99                                                          0.00
                   FY00                                                         78.90
                   FY01                                                       171.37
                   FY02                                                       153.78
                   FY03                                                       178.85
                   FY04                                                       146.58
                   FY05                                                         84.96
                   FY06                                                       115.97
                   FY07                                                         20.53
                                   Total:                                     950.94




30

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

An assessment of the Small Grant Program (SGP) was completed in August 2005 by an
independent consulting firm (www.ekspert.kg). The assessment was based on a survey of 1,040
respondents among a local population of around 50,000 in Aksu-Jabagly (Kaz), Sary-Chelek,
Besh-Aral (KR) and Ugam-Chatkal (Uz) nature reserves and their buffer zones. Both
beneficiaries and non beneficiaries were surveyed (30% and 70% respectively). According to the
survey, the SGP positively changed the attitude toward environment of grant beneficiaries and
also of those who did not benefit from the grants, although the change in the second group is
lower (66% and 40% respectively). In addition, 90% of the employees of PA perceive that during
last 3 years, the attitude of local population to the environment improved. In addition, grants for
alternative sources of income provided indirect benefits not only to the direct participants, but
also to those who did not participate in grant implementation, but got an information encouraging
to entrepreneur.




31

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)




32

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


                                    Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan
                                                          Forestry and Hunting Committee

                                                                           January 3, 2007
                                                                           No.25-11-23/02
World Bank
Country Office in Kazakhstan

The Forestry and Hunting Committee under the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic
of Kazakhstan have considered the Implementation Completion Report on Central Asia
Transboundary Biodiversity Project and informs you on the following.

The ICR basically fully covers all activities under the Project. The major Project goals
were mainly reached and the majority of the planned activities were implemented what is
reflected in the ICR.

In a view of the above Forestry and Hunting Committee under the Ministry of
Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan approves the ICR on the above Project.

First Deputy Chairman                                                I.Koval



                                       Comments
             of the State Agency for Environment Protection and Forestry
                     under the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic
                 on the Implementation Completion and Results Report
      for the Central Asia Transboundary Biodiversity Project (WBTF: 22498)
                    Grant in amount of USD 10.15 million provided
  to the Republic of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic and the Republic of Uzbekistan

        The Implementing Agency for the Central Asia Transboundary West Tien Shan
Biodiversity Project (hereinafter referred to as the Implementing Agency), the State
Agency for Environment Protection and Forestry under the Government of the Kyrgyz
Republic highly evaluates performance of the World Bank to render assistance in
identification, preparation and implementation of the project.

        The Central Asia Transboundary West Tien Shan Biodiversity Project is
consistent with the governmental strategy of the Kyrgyz Republic , as well as with the
World Bank's strategy and priorities in the area of poverty reduction through integrated
environmental resource management programs for rural communities and elaboration of
the fundamentals of the environmental policy integrated with sustainable development.




33

        The project is also in compliance with the GEF operational strategy for
biodiversity, and especially with the operational program for forest and mountain
ecosystems. The project is consistent with Article 8 (in-situ maintenance) of the
Convention on Biodiversity, since it is aimed at improvement of protection activities
related to management and expansion of protected areas in a biodiversity-rich region, as
well as at improved protection of natural habitats and species within protected areas and
beyond.

        At the preparation stage, the World Bank elaborated the Project Appraisal
Document, which is the core financial and technical document of the project.

        The project was implemented in accordance with the procedures of the World
Bank, with involvement of international and national consultants and experts. The
Transnational and National Steering Committees coordinated the project with assistance
of the Task Team Leader of the World Bank.

        The project supervision by the World Bank was based on the standard practice of
two supervision missions per year to evaluate procurement of goods and services,
institutional development, protected area capacity building, and implementation of
Management Plans prepared for each protected area with assistance of the International
Expert for natural reserves.

        At the project implementation stage, the World Bank organized a mid-term review
with participation of representatives of the Global Environmental Facility, who noted
good project implementation progress.

        During project implementation review, the Bank followed the policy of hiring
independent expertise. For instance, the IUCN deputy chair for Northern Eurasia Region
was invited to assess the rating of protected areas covered by this project.

        The State Agency for Environment Protection and Forestry of the Kyrgyz
Republic believes that the rating of protected areas is correct and reflects the true situation.

        Independent international auditors also assessed appropriateness of disbursements
made under this project.

        International   experience    of   the   World    Bank    allowed     for   avoiding
misunderstanding among three countries participating in implementation of the
Transboundary Project.

        The Government of the Kyrgyz Republic has fully met its commitments under the
Central Asia Transboundary West Tien Shan Biodiversity Project, which are specified in
the Grant Agreement. It must be mentioned that the Kyrgyz Government and the Ministry
of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic have for the most part contributed required amounts
of counterpart funds on term.




34

        The Project Implementing Agency assisted the Project Implementation Unit and
managed the project at the implementation stage. No violation of the World Bank's
procedures for procurement of goods and services was observed.

        The Government of the Kyrgyz Republic supported protected area network
expansion activities initiated by the Implementing Agency and the Project, which resulted
in establishment of three new protected areas (Padysha-Ata, Kulun-Ata and Kara-Bura),
as well as considerable expansion of the existing Besh-Aral protected area.

        The grant provided by the Global Environmental Fund was sufficient for
accomplishment of the project goals and objectives.

        All of the threats and challenges were given proper consideration as far as
possible in the course of preparation and implementation of the project.

        The financial package and sufficiency of its amount were consistent with the
project budget.

        The Central Asia Transboundary West Tien Shan Biodiversity Project has made
following significant accomplishments in the three participating countries (Kazakhstan,
Kyrgyz Republic and Uzbekistan):
    · Environmental legislation frameworks of the participating countries (Kazakhstan,
        Kyrgyz Republic and Uzbekistan) have been harmonized;
    · The zapovednik (strict nature reserves) network has expanded, and the capacity of
        protected areas in the West Tien Shan region has improved;
    · The anthropogenic pressure on biodiversity has reduced as a result of poverty
        reduction through development of alternative income-generating activities for
        local communities;
    · The project identified coordination and cooperation mechanisms for biodiversity
        conservation activities to strengthen zapovednik management and wildlife
        protection and prevent the fragmentation of habitat corridors.

       The project contributed to considerable improvement of management efficiency
and strengthened technical and institutional capacity of protected areas in the West Tien
Shan region, as well as introduced elements to ensure sustainability of the project results
through development of alternative and environment-friendly income-generating
activities in protected areas.

        Promotion of partnership between protected areas and local communities, and
environmental awareness-raising efforts are an important promising area of activity for
the above-mentioned zapovedniks, as well as the prerequisite for prevention of threats
and reduction of anthropogenic pressure on protected areas.

        In view of above, the State Agency for Environment Protection and Forestry of
the Kyrgyz Republic would like to emphasize the need for the follow-up operation in the
future and further enhancement of the project scope to cover the entire Tien Shan region,



35

which would allow considerable improvement of technical (infrastructure, quality of
tourist services, scientific and methodology framework, and legislative framework),
financial (through improvement of income from ecotourism development and financial
management improvement) and administrative (management plans, level of cooperation
with local communities and local authorities) capacity of protected areas, as well as
significant reduction of adverse anthropogenic impact on mountain ecosystems (through
improved sustainability of pasture management and land use as a whole). The follow-up
operation will establish and support environmental network of protected areas
throughout the entire Tien Shan region, including 23 protected areas in the participating
three countries, along with promotion of alternative environment-friendly activities in
the territories between protected areas with a view to mitigate the anthropogenic pressure.
Local communities will have an opportunity of participating in sustainable economic
activities of protected areas, including project and activities aimed at sustainable land use,
pasture    management,     community-based       forestry  management,      promotion    and
development of alternative types of economic activities.


State Committee for Nature Protection of the Republic of Uzbekistan

January 15, 2007

To the World Bank Office in Uzbekistan

Regarding: Central Asian Transborder Biodiversity Project (TF 22498) ­ Project
Completion Report

Having reviewed the draft preliminary Report of the aforesaid Project the State Nature
Committee of the Republic of Uzbekistan advises that, on the whole, it supports and
approves of the draft preliminary Report.




36

