Page  1
February
10, 1997
Minister Nikolai Baev
Ministry of Ecology and Bioresources
106
Panfilov St.
Almaty
480091
Republic of Kazakstan
Minister Kulubek J. Bokonbayev
Ministry of Ecology
131
Isanov St.
Bishkek
720033
Kyrgyz Republic
Mr. Askhad Habibullaev
Chairman State Committee for Nature Protection
5a, A. Kadyri St.
Tashkent
700128
Republic of Uzbekistan
Re:
Global Environment Facility (GEF): Project Preparation Grant
Central Asia Transboundary Biodiversity Project
-
TF
028359
Dear Sirs:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development acting as an Implementing Agency of the GEF
(the Bank) to indicate the 
Bank
’s agreement to make a Grant in an amount not exceeding three hundred forty five
thousand US Dollars
($345,000), jointly, to the Republic of Kazakstan, Kyrgyz 
Republic, and Republic of Uzbekistan
(the Recipients).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipients’ requests for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex
to this Letter Agreement.
The Recipients hereby confirm their  request that the Bank
carry out the activities described in paragraph
1
of the Annex to this Letter
Agreement, and represent that they are authorized to contract the Grant for the said
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
The provision of the Grant does not constitute or imply any commitment on the
part of the Bank as a GEF Implementing Agency, or in its own capacity, or the
International Development Association to assist in the financing of the aforementioned
project.
We are transmitting to you
four execution copies of this Letter of Agreement.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of each of the Recipient,
by signing, dating, and forwarding all four execution copies of the Letter of
Agreement to the next Recipient.
The last party to sign the Letter of Agreement
should return to the Bank all four executed copies of the Letter of Agreement.
Upon
receipt by the Bank of all four copies of this Letter of Agreement, countersigned by
the authorized representatives of the Recipients, this Letter of Agreement will become
effective as of the date of the last countersignature.
The Bank will return to each
Recipient one execution copy of the Letter of Agreement and will notify the Recipients
of the effectiveness of the Letter of Agreement.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency
of the Global Environment Facility
By
/s/
Yukon Huang
Director
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region
Page  2
AGREED:
Republic of Kazakstan
By s/ B. Elemanov
Chairman, Committee for External Loans
Date: February 28, 1997
AGREED:
Kyrgyz Republic
By
/s/
A.
Sarygoulov
Chairman of the State Property Fund
Date: February 17, 1997 
AGREED:
Republic of Uzbekistan
By
/s/
A.
Habibullaev
Chairman, State Committee for Nature protection
Date: February 24, 1997
Annex
Purpose, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to prepare the Central Asian Biodiversity 
Transboundary Project
(Project) for Global Environment Facility (GEF) grant financing. 
The primary objectives of the Project would be to support the protection of vulnerable
and unique biological communities within the West Tien Shan Range of Central Asia and
to assist the Recipients to strengthen and coordinate national polices, regulations
and institutional arrangements for biodiversity protection.
2.
The activities to be financed by the Grant (the Activities) are as follows:
(a)
Protected Area Management: Selection of at least four areas in the 
western Tien Shan Range, including, but not necessarily restricted to, the existing
zapovedniks. At these sites costed operational management plans would be prepared for 
implementation under the Project.
These plans will draw on the results of the social
assessment, the design of the public education and awareness program, institutional,
legal program set out below.
All these components will include an assessment of
training and equipment and facilities investment requirements.
(b)
Social Assessment: Identification of the impact of local stakeholders on 
the zapovedniks and vice versa and options for changing behavior, where necessary. 
Recommendations will be included in the preparation of the operational plans for each
site. At the end, a workshop in each country would be held to discuss the Project, 
indicate the timing of components, and outline the procedures for public involvement.
(c)
Public Awareness and Education Program: A public awareness program will 
design targeted public information, awareness and education programs at national,
local and regional levels. These would also stress the inter-relationships and 
interdependence of the transboundary protected areas and the long-term need for 
preserving the area
’s biodiversity.
It would identify products that could be useful
in all three countries and formulate a plan for their preparation. 
(d)
Institutional and Legal Assessment:
The institutional and legal
assessment will be undertaken.
It will involve an analysis of current  institutional
responsibilities for biodiversity conservation at the national and local levels, with
recommendations for the most cost-effective project implementation; recommendations 
for communication and information exchange at the national  and transboundary levels;
Page  3
and assessment of existing legislation on protected area and wildlife management in
the three countries in order to ensure consistency in project implementation and
enforcement.
(e)
Coordination Workshop.
The Activities will end with a workshop, to be
held in one of the capitals of the Recipients, which will explain Bank procedures for
project implementation, procurement and disbursement for the implementation of the
main project.
3.
The Bank shall utilize the Grant to finance the following expenditures in 
connection with the services of individual consultants or any consulting firm engaged
to assist in carrying out the Activities
(the Consultants):
(a)
remuneration, per diem and other allowances;
(b)
travel expenses; 
(c)
out-of-pocket expenses, including communications and reports, incurred by the 
Consultants; and
(d)
goods and equipment;
4.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipients.
The
Recipients shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to
carry out the Activities promptly and effectively and to evaluate the results of the
Activities.
The Recipients shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities
incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of
its staff or external consultants.
5.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by April 1, 1998. After 
that date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
6.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the
Bank and shall be done according to the Bank
’s applicable procedures.
7.
The Republic of Kazakstan, Kyrgyz Republic and Republic of Uzbekistan shall be 
responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
respectively, Republic of Kazakstan, Kyrgyz Republic and Republic of Uzbekistan, on
the Consultants or any of the  consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or 
permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
8.
The Recipients may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Activities.
Whether or not the Recipients have made such a request, the Bank may at
any time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipients, terminate the right of
the Recipients to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following
events has occurred and is continuing:  (a) The Recipients have failed to perform any 
of their obligations under this letter agreement: or (b) the right of the Recipients 
to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit
agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.
9.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipients and shall not have any 
fiduciary relationship with the Recipients.
The Recipients shall have no right to any
portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
10.
The Recipients shall make available, free of charge, counterpart personnel in 
order to facilitate the preparation of the Project.
(a) 
The counterpart personnel from the Republic of Kazakstan shall include 
Saparbek Kunanbayev
(Chief, Division of Agrarian Sector Reforms, Government of the
Republic of Kazakstan), Nikolay Bayev (Minister, Ministry of Ecology and 
Bioresources), Professor Kanat Baishev
(First Deputy Minister, Project Director), 
Vladimir Gulyayev
(Deputy Minister), Alexander Amanbayev (Chairman, Forestry 
Committee, Ministry of Agriculture), Madina Zharbusynova (Head of the Main Department 
of International  Organizations and International Economic Relations, Ministry of
Foreign Affairs), and Mursalnabi Tuyakbayev (Second Secretary, Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs).
(b)
The counterpart personnel from the Kyrgyz Republic shall include Temir 
Kulumbaev
(Deputy Minister for Environment Protection
(MEP), Project Director), Bajan 
Kadyrov
(Chief, Forest Protection Department, State Forest Agency), and Akylbek 
Page  4
Imankulov
(
Division Chief, Hunting Department
)
.
(c)
The counterpart personnel from the Republic of Uzbekistan shall include 
A. Sh. Habibullaev (Project Director),  A.K. Atadjanov (Project Coordinator), T. M. 
Lim
(State Biological Control), and B.A. Tashmuhamedov (Academician, Coordinator of 
Public Opinion and Education Programs).
11.
The Recipients shall make available to the Consultants, free of charge, such 
counterpart personnel to be selected by the Recipients, with the advice of the Bank
and the Consultants as are set forth below.
If any member of the counterpart
personnel fails to perform adequately any work assigned to him/her by the Consultants
that is consistent with the position occupied by such member, the Consultants may
request the replacement of such member, and the Recipients shall not unreasonably
refuse to act upon such request.
(a)
The counterpart personnel from the Republic of Kazakstan shall be as 
follows:
Mayra Zhunusova
(Head, Department of Main Ecological Expertise), Bekbulat 
Eleushev
(Deputy Head, Department of Protection and Rational Utilization of 
Bioresources), personnel from the Division of International Projects, Ministry of
Ecology and Bioresources, personnel from the Unit of Protected Areas, Ministry of
Ecology and Bioresources, personnel from South Kazakstani Oblast Department of Ecology
and Bioresources, personnel from Zhambyl Oblast Department of Ecology and
Bioresources, personnel from the Director
’s Office, Aksu-Zhabagly Zapovednik, 
personnel from South Kazakstani Oblast Forest Management Production Association,
personnel from Zhambyl Oblast Forest Management Production Association, personnel from
the Institute of Strategic Studies under the President of the Republic of Kazakstan,
personnel from the Institute of Geography, Ministry of Science-Academy of Sciences,
personnel from Kazak State National University.
(b)
The counterpart personnel from the Kyrgyz Republic shall be as follows: 
Almaz Achikaev
(Senior Specialist Environment Division, MEP), Faria Balbakova 
(Biodiversity Division, MEP), Asel Djolosheva (Biodiversity Division, MEP), Kykychbek 
Djundubaev
(Chief of the Biodiversity Division, Ecological Inspection Department, 
MEP), Llas Djusuballev (Chief, Environment Department Osh-Djalal-Abad regions), 
Director of Sary-Chelek state reserve, Ashirkul Kullev (Director, Besh Aral state 
reserve), Tatiana Koblitskaya
(Principal, Forest Economy Department), Nikolay 
Sidorenko
(Senior Specialist, Kyrgyz Hunting Society), personnel from the Institute of 
Biology, National Academy of Science, personnel from the National University.
(c)
The counterpart personnel from the Republic of Uzbekistan shall be as 
follows:
A.K. Filatov (Protected Areas), V.P. Pushkarenko (Protected Nature Zones), 
G.F. Goncharov (Hunting), A.A. Grigoryants (Legal Issues), T.D. Dekhkanov, Dj. 
Dustov, and E.N.
Lanovenko
(Staff of Chatkalski Reserve).
12.
For the purposes of carrying out the Activities financed by the Grant, the 
Recipients shall make available to the Consultants, free of charge, the data,
services, facilities and equipment set out below.
(a)
Republic of Kazakstan: office space, and communication within the 
Republic of Kazakstan and neighboring states.
(b)
Kyrgyz Republic: access to data bases, services, and access to office 
space and office equipment.
(c)
Republic of Uzbekistan: officially published data and information 
necessary for the project, computers and office equipment available at Goskompiroda,
and transportation.
13.
The Recipients and the Bank shall, from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the Activities, any reports prepared by the Consultants and
the implementation of any recommendations or conclusions of those reports.
The Bank
may use any such reports for any purpose the Bank considers appropriate but such
reports shall not be made public except by agreement between the Recipients and the
Bank.
Page  5
