Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF022498
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Central Asia Transboundary Biodiversity Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN, KYRGYZ REPUBLIC AND
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated November 30, 1999
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF022498
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 30, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN, KYRGYZ 
REPUBLIC AND REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN (individually "the Recipient" and jointly "the 
Recipients") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the "Bank") 
acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (the "GEF") in 
respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank 
as participants of the GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2);
(C)
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the basis 
set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2);(D) the Recipients, having satisfied themselves as to the 
feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the 
Project), have requested assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for 
funding the Project, and said request having been approved in accordance with the 
Page  2
provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global 
Environment Facility approved under Resolution 94-2, and to be funded from 
contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds 
carried over from the first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 
94-2; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Currency Pool Loans of the Bank, dated January 1, 
1985 (as amended through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (2), (3), (4), (6), (7) (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(16), (17), (19) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) and 
(p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added at the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows:  "21.
‘Special Drawing Rights’ and the symbol ‘SDR’ 
mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Bank" shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
Page  3
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; and
(vii)
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (o) in Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions, to read as follows: "(p) an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any further 
disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the 
resources available for disbursement from the GEF" and 
subparagraph (p) of Section 6.02 is re-lettered as sub-paragraph 
(q).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"General Consultant" means an internationally selected consultant who is  
responsible for assisting the National Directors and Project Managers in the 
management and supervision of the Project;
(b)
"Kazakhstan Forestry Committee" means the Forestry, Hunting and Fishery 
Committee of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan, or any 
successor thereto;
(c)
"Kazakhstan Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection" 
means the Ministry of  Natural Resources and Environmental Protection of the Republic 
of Kazakhstan, or any successor thereto;
(d)
"KPIU" means the national project implementation unit to be established 
in the Kazakhstan Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection, and 
responsible for day-to-day implementation of Parts A.2 (a), B.2 (a), C.2 (a), D.2 (a), 
E.2 (a), and F of the Project, or any successor thereto;
(e)
"KzPIU" means the national project implementation unit to be established 
in the Ministry of Environmental Protection of the Kyrgyz Republic, and responsible 
for day-to-day implementation of Parts A.2 (b), B.2 (b), C.2 (b), D.2 (b), E.2 (b), 
and F of the Project,  or any successor thereto;
(f)
"Ministry of Environmental Protection of the Kyrgyz Republic" means the 
Ministry of Environmental Protection of the Kyrgyz Republic, or any successor thereto;
(g)
"National Director" means an official of the Forestry, Hunting and 
Fishery Committee of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 
Ministry of Environmental Protection of the Kyrgyz Republic, and Uzbekistan State 
Committee for Nature Protection, responsible for the Project implementation on behalf 
of each of the Recipient;
(h)
"National Steering Committee" means the cross-sectoral committee of each 
Recipient, which includes representatives of the environmental and forestry agencies, 
Ministry of Finance of each Recipient regional authorities, scientific community, and 
non-governmental organizations;
(i) 
"RPIU" means the regional project implementation unit, established in the 
Ministry of Environmental Protection of the Kyrgyz Republic and responsible for 
day-to-day implementation of Parts A.1, B.1, C.1, D.1, E.1 and F of the Project, or 
any successor thereto;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(k)
"State Agency on Forestry of the Kyrgyz Republic" means the State Agency 
on Forestry under the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic, or any successor thereto;
(l)
"Trans-national Steering Committee" means the committee composed of 
members of the National Steering Committees, including their chair persons, 
representatives of regional administration, scientific community, and representatives 
of non-government organizations, responsible for overall Project coordination and 
Page  4
trans-national coordination;
(m)
"UPIU" means the national project implementation unit to be established 
in the Uzbekistan State Committee for Nature Protection, and responsible for 
day-to-day implementation of Parts A.2 (c), B.2 (c), C.2 (c), D.2 (c), E.2 (c), and F 
of the Project, or any successor thereto;
(n)
"Uzbekistan State Committee of Forestry" means the State Committee on 
Forestry of  the Republic of Uzbekistan, or any successor thereto; and
(o)
"Uzbekistan State Committee for Nature Protection" means the State 
Committee for Nature Protection of the Republic of Uzbekistan, or any successor 
thereto.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipients, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million seven hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works, services, grants, training and 
incremental operating costs required for carrying out the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
(b)
The Recipients may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipients of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipients declare their commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
environmental, administrative, financial, and technical practices, and with due regard 
to the Operational Strategy of the Global Environmental Facility (dated February, 
1996), and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipients and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipients shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03 The Recipients shall during the term of the Project maintain the 
RPIU, KPIU, KzPIU and UPIU with staff and resources required under the Project and 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  5
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipients shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipients on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipients shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Recipients responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipients shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipients 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness, Termination
Page  6
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Recipients have established the RPIU, KPIU, KzPIU and UPIU, 
respectively, and engaged consultants and provided resources to these units necessary 
for their effective operation, and satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
the Recipients have established financial management and accounting 
systems adequate to reflect Project-related activities and financial transactions, and 
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)
the Recipients have appointed independent auditors referred to in Section 
4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement, with experience and qualifications, and under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all 
their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Recipients; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection of 
the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Minister of Environmental Protection of the Kyrgyz 
Republic and the Chairman of the Uzbekistan State Committee for Nature Protection are 
jointly designated as representatives of the Recipients for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipients:
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection
   of the Republic of Kazakhstan
81 Karl Marx St.
Kokchetau 475000
Republic of Kazakhstan
Ministry of Environmental Protection of the Kyrgyz Republic
131 Isanov Street
720033 Bishkek
Kyrgyz Republic
State Committee for Nature Protection of the Republic of Uzbekistan
5-A Kadiry Street
Tashkent 700128
Republic of Uzbekistan
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, by representatives of Republic of 
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 
and in the city of Tashkent by the representative of Republic of Uzbekistan, as of the 
day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
By /s/ Bolat Nurgaliyev
Authorized Representative
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
By /s/ Baktybek Abdrisaev
Authorized Representative
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
By /s/ Bahtior Hamidov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
  as an implementing agency of the Global Environment
  Facility
By /s/ Johannes Linn
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
  GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated       % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Categpru
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works:
70%
(a) for Part B.2 (a)
   160,000
            of the Project
(b) for Part B.2 (b)
   460,000
     of the Project
(c) for Part B.2 (c)
    70,000
     of the Project
(2)
Goods:
100% of foreign
expenditures
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory cost
and 85% of
Page  8
local expenditures
(a)
for Parts A.1,     1,270,000
B.1 the Project
(b)
for Parts A.2 (a), 
B.2 (a),
   140,000
D.2 (a), and E.2 
(a) of the Project 
(c)
for Parts A.2 (b),
B.2 (b), D.2 (b)     190,000
and E.2 (b)
of the Project
(d)
for Parts A.2 (c), 
B.2 (c), D.2 (c)     270,000
and E.2 (c) 
      of the Project
(3)
Consultants’ services:
100%
(a)
for Parts A.1, B.1, 
D.1, and E.1
 1,320,000
of the Project
(b)
for Parts A.2 (b), 
B.2 (b), D.2 (b),
   230,000
and E.2 (b) of
      the Project
(c)
for Parts A.2 (c), 
B.2 (c), D.2 (c)
    10,000
and E.2 (c) of
      the Project
(d)
for Part F.2 of 
the Project
    70,000
(4)
Subgrants under Part C     380,000
100%
of the Project
(5)
Training for Part D      1,140,000
100%
of the Project
(6)
Incremental Operating 
Costs
                   1,700,000
90% until 
for Part F.1 of the Project
Dec. 30, 2000,
80% until
December 31, 2002,
and 60% thereafter 
(7)
Unallocated
   290,000
TOTAL
 7,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipients for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipients; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipients or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipients; 
(c)
the term "Subgrants" means  regional, national and local subgrants to be 
provided under Part C of the Project; and
(d)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring incurred under Part F.1 
Page  9
of the Project, including office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision 
costs, and RPIU, KPIU, KzPIU and UPIU consultants’ costs, as applicable, but excluding 
salaries of government officials of the Recipients.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for: (a) expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) expenditures in respect of Category (4) of this Schedule, unless 
the Trans-national Steering Committee has adopted the operating manual referred to in 
paragraph 3 of Section B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under 
contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent, works under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent, consulting services under contracts with firms costing less 
than $100,000, consulting services under contracts with individuals costing less than 
$50,000, training under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent, subgrants 
costing less than $10,000 each, and incremental operating costs, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The primary objectives of the Project are to support the protection of 
vulnerable and unique biological communities located within the West Tien Shan area, 
and to assist the Recipients to strengthen and coordinate their national policies, 
laws, regulations, and institutional arrangements in the area of biodiversity 
protection. Additional and related objectives of the Project are to help the 
Recipients to: (a) strengthen and  expand the network of protected areas in the West 
Tien Shan area; (b) identify alternative and sustainable income-generating activities 
for local communities and other stakeholders in the West Tien Shan area, to reduce 
pressures on the biological resources of the protected areas in the West Tien Shan 
area; (c) strengthen local and national capacity in the area of biodiversity 
conservation; (d) raise public awareness of biodiversity value and participation in 
biodiversity conservation; and (e) establish trans-national (regional) coordination 
and cooperation mechanisms for biodiversity conservation activities to strengthen 
protected areas management and wildlife protection, and prevent the fragmentation of 
habitat corridors.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.
Part A:
Legal and Financial Reform
1.
Regional Component
(a)
Improvement and harmonization of national legal and regulatory frameworks 
in the area of environmental protection, and in particular, biodiversity conservation, 
and assessment of legal, technical, and financial aspects of establishing a trust fund 
that could finance long-term biodiversity conservation activities in the West Tien 
Shan area, through  the provision of services and goods.
(b)  
Improved regional coordination among governmental agencies of the 
Recipients through the establishment and support of a regional trans-national 
supervisory committee, through the provision of goods and services.
2.
National Components
(a)
Strengthening national and local environmental legislation and 
Page  10
regulations of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in particular, those related to protected 
areas, through the provisions of services and goods.
(b)
Strengthening national and local environmental legislation and 
regulations of the Kyrgyz Republic, in particular, those related to protected areas, 
through the provision of services and goods.
(c)
Strengthening national and local environmental legislation and 
regulations of the Republic of Uzbekistan, in particular, those related to protected 
areas, through the provision of services and goods.
Part B:
Strengthening the Protected Area Network
1.
Regional Component
Strengthening and expanding the West Tien Shan protected area network to improve 
management techniques, design and implement an integrated electronic communication 
system and undertake environmental surveys and studies, through the provision of goods 
and services.
2.
National Components
(a)
Strengthening the management and operation of the Aksu-Djabagly protected 
area in the Republic of Kazakhstan, through the provision of works, goods, and 
services.
(b)
Strengthening the management and operation of the Besh-Aral and Sary 
Chelek protected areas in the Kyrgyz Republic, through the provision of works, goods, 
and services.
(c)
Strengthening the management and operation of the Chatkal/Ugam  protected 
area in the Republic of Uzbekistan, through the provision of works, goods, and 
services.
Part C:
Sustainable Uses of Biodiversity
Development of regional model programs, based on national studies and 
assessments, designed to maintain biodiversity resources in the West Tien Shan areas, 
and, in particular, the provision of small regional grants to local communities, 
non-governmental organizations and individuals to support small scale regional 
initiatives related to  biodiversity conservation which will improve local livelihoods 
and enhance socio-economic development.
Part D:
Strengthening Local and National Capacity Through Education and Training
1.
Regional Component
Co-ordination and implementation of the regional parts of the education and 
training plan to develop knowledge, skills and systems related to protected area 
management  (planning, survey techniques, social participation, monitoring systems, 
operational management and business planning), through the provision of training, 
goods and services.
2.
National Components
(a)
Co-ordination and implementation of the Republic of Kazakhstan components 
of the education and training plan to develop knowledge, skills and systems related to 
protected area management  (planning, survey techniques, social participation, 
monitoring systems, operational management and business planning), through the 
provision of training, goods and services.
(b)
Co-ordination and implementation of the Kyrgyz Republic components of the 
education and training plan to develop knowledge, skills and systems related to 
Page  11
protected area management (planning, survey techniques, social participation, 
monitoring systems, operational management and business planning), through the 
provision of training, goods and services.
(c)
Co-ordination and implementation of the Republic of Uzbekistan components 
of the education and training plan to develop knowledge, skills and systems related to 
protected area management  (planning, survey techniques, social participation, 
monitoring systems, operational management and business planning), through the 
provision of training, goods and services.
Part E:
Public Participation in Biodiversity Conservation
1.
Regional Component
Co-ordination of public participation activities in the protected areas of the 
West Tien Shan area, which address significant biodiversity issues, particularly where 
natural resource use by local communities is threatening the integrity of the 
protected areas, through the provision of goods, services, consultative forums and 
workshops.
2.
National Components
(a)
Implementation of public participation activities in the protected area  
of the West Tien Shan are located in the Republic of Kazakhstan, which address 
significant biodiversity issues, particularly where natural resource use by local 
communities is threatening the integrity of the protected areas, through the provision 
of goods, services,  consultative forums and workshops.
(b)
Implementation of public participation activities in the protected area  
of the West Tien Shan are located in the Kyrgyz Republic, which address significant 
biodiversity issues, particularly where natural resource use by local communities is 
threatening the integrity of the protected areas, through the provision of goods, 
services,  consultative forums and workshops.
(c)
Implementation of public participation activities in the protected area  
of the West Tien Shan are located in the Republic of Uzbekistan, which address 
significant biodiversity issues, particularly where natural resource use by local 
communities is threatening the integrity of the protected areas, through the provision 
of goods, services,  consultative forums and workshops.
Part F:
Project Management
1.
Strengthening the Recipients’ Project implementation and management capability,  
through the financing of incremental operating expenses of the RPIU, KPIU, KzPIU and 
UPIU.
2.
Preparation of the accounts and financial statements referred to in Article IV 
of this Agreement and audit of such accounts and financial statements, through the 
financing of accounting and auditing services.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Page  12
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipients.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $680,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,320,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $30,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement Under the Small Grants Program
Goods and works required under the small grants program under Part C of this 
Project shall be procured in accordance with the procedures acceptable to the Bank.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $220,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Page  13
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works procured in accordance 
with the international competitive bidding procedures, each contract procured under 
national competitive bidding procedures, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods procured under the international 
shopping or national shopping procedures, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of the first contract under international 
shopping procedures, first contract under national shopping 
procedures, and first contract under small works procedures, the 
Recipient shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received; and
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997, revised in 
September 1997, (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II 
of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for training and study tours estimated to cost less than $150,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for financial management, accounting, and auditing estimated to cost 
less then $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  14
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the 
third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Overall Project Implementation
1.
The following agencies of the Recipients shall be principally responsible for 
the overall Project implementation: in the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of 
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection; in the Kyrgyz Republic, the Ministry 
of Environmental Protection of the Kyrgyz Republic; and in the Republic of Uzbekistan, 
the Uzbekistan State Committee for Nature Protection.
2.
The Recipients shall establish and maintain during the time of the Project a 
Trans-national Steering Committee which shall provide overall Project guidance to the 
agencies and ministries referred to in paragraph 1 above and to the National Steering 
Committees and the RPIU, KPIU, KzPIU, and UPIU.
3.
The Recipients shall: (a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it 
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators 
acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; (b) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, on or about June 1, 2001, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Page  15
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and (c) review with the Bank, by August 
1, 2001, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on 
the matter.
B.
Implementation of Trans-national Project Parts
1.
The Trans-national Steering Committee which shall also be responsible for: (a) 
providing overall direction and supervising the implementation of Parts A.1, B.1, C, 
D.1 and E.1 of the Project; and (b) approving the terms of reference and selection of  
contractors in connection with Parts A.1, B.1, C, D.1 and E.1 of the Project.
2.
Parts A.1, B.1, C, D.1 and E.1 of the Project shall be implemented on day-to-day 
basis by the RPIU.  The RPIU shall be assisted in its duties by the General Consultant 
and other consultants and advisers. 
3.
The Trans-national Steering Committee shall ensure that small grants under Part 
C of this Project are selected and implemented in accordance with procedures, 
selection criteria, and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and 
described in an operating manual to be prepared by the RPIU and adopted by the 
Trans-national Steering Committee.
C.
Implementation of National and Local Project Parts
1.
Each Recipient shall establish a National Steering Committee which shall be 
responsible for the selection of consultants and overall implementation of the 
national components of the Project.
2.
Each Recipient shall appoint a National Director who shall be responsible for 
the oversight of the project implementation unit in the respective country and for 
ensuring that the decisions and recommendations of the National Steering Committee are 
implemented by such a unit.
3.
The KPIU shall be responsible for the day-to-day implementation of Parts A.2 
(a), B.2 (a), D.2 (a), E.2 (a) and F of the Project.
4.
The KzPIU shall be responsible for the day-to-day implementation of Parts A.2 
(b), B.2 (b), D.2 (b), E.2 (b) and F of the Project.
5.
The UPIU shall be responsible for the day-to-day implementation of Parts A.2 
(c), B.2 (c), D.2 (c), E.2 (c) and F of the Project.
6.
The RPIU shall be responsible for the day-to-day implementation of Parts A.1, 
B.1, C, D.1, E.1 and F of the Project
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (2), (3) (4), (5), 
and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, services, subgrants, training, and incremental 
operating costs required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $700,000 
to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF 
Page  16
Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipients shall 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipients, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipients shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Recipients shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into 
the respective Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipients shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipients, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipients 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the  Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipients out of the Special Account, the 
Recipients shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively 
for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipients directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipients shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipients of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
Page  17
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipients. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the respective Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
respective Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Recipients have provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipients shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipients may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
