Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25178
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-39010; SCL-3901A; SCPM-3901S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$57.6 MILLION
TO THE KINGDOM OF
MOROCCO
FOR A
SECONDARY. TERTIARY AND RURAL ROADS PROJECT
December 11, 2002



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective As of October 25, 2002)
Currency Unit = Dirham (Dh)
US$ 1 = Dh 10.75
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                         Country Assistance Strategy
CNER                        National Center for Road Study and Research
CNPAC                       National Center for the Prevention of Road Accidents
CERET                       Regional Center of Technical Studies
DPE                         Privincial Directorate of Equipment
DRCR                        Directorate of Road and Road Traffic
ERR                         Economic Rate of Return
GOM                         Government of Morocco
HDM                         Highway Design Model
ICB                         International Competitive Bidding
ICR                         Implementation Completion Report
IRI                         International (Road) Roughness Indicator
JBIC                        Japan Bank for International Cooperation
MOE                         Ministry of Equipment (Public Works)
MTR                         Mid-Term Review
NCB                         National Competitive Bidding
NRRP                        National Rural Roads Program
OED                         Operations Evaluation Department
ONT                         National Transport Office
QAG                         World Bank's Quality Assurance Group
PIU                         Project Implementing Unit
PSR                         Project Status Report
RD                          Regional Directorate
SAR                         Staff Appraisal Report
SPEE                        Regional Planning and Economic Studies Service
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:  Theodore Ahlers
Sector Manager/Director:  Hedi Larbi
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Mohammed Feghoul/Heman Levy



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECONDARY, TERTIARY AND RURAL ROADS PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               9
6. Sustainability                                                                  I 1
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 13
9. Partner Comments                                                                15
10. Additional Information                                                         15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matnx                                16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              25
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                26
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                              35
Annex 10. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                             38






Project ID: P005489                                       Project Name: MA-SECONDARY ROADS
Team Leader: Mohammed D. E. Feghoul                       TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR           Report Date December 12, 2002
1. Project Data
Name* MA-SECONDARY ROADS                             LIC/TFNumber: CPL-39010;
SCL-3901 A;
SCPM-3901 S
Country/Department: MOROCCO                                              Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: Roads & highways (87%); Central government
administration (13%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:    10/28/1992                            Effective.                    10/03/1995
Appraisal:  06/24/1993                                MTR                        11/16/1998
Approval:  06/08/1995                              Closing  06/30/2000          06/30/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency: KINGDOM OF MOROCCO/MPW-DRCR
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                         Caio Koch-Weser
Country Manager:     Theodore Ahlers                           Daniel Ritchie
Sector Manager:       Hedi Larbi                                Amir Al-Khafagi
Team Leader at ICR:  Mohammed Feghoul                          Jaffar Bentchikou
ICR Primary Author    Heman Levy
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry.                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time Yes
The Bank's supervision performance was assessed by the Quality Assurance Group in October 2000. QA G rated
supervision satisfactory.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives were to:
(i)    address core needs of the rural poor by improving access to social services and to markets;
(ii)   accelerate private sector development by reducing regulatory constraints in road transport and by
increased resort to road works and supervision by contract;
(iii)  develop road management expertise in the new regional directorates; and
(iv)  improve road safety.
Project objectives were clearly relevant for Morocco's development. Poverty in Morocco is mostly rural.
Rural living is made especially difficult by isolation, a result of poor roads, difficult topography and rains
and flood that often interrupt traffic. A study by the Operations Evaluation Department in 1996 (Morocco:
Impact Evaluation Report-Socioeconomic Influence of Rural Roads) that assessed the impact of rural roads
improved in Morocco under a preceding highway project, confirmed the importance of improving rural
access. The study found major impacts on: improved accessibility to, and quality of, services in health and
education; major gains in girl's enrollment in primary education; farmers benefiting from lower cost to
markets, reduced cost of inputs such as fertilizers and pesticides and reduced risk of roads closures, leading
to more efficient production and higher-value composition of output. Therefore, improving rural roads
should significantly help improve conditions of the rural poor.
The project would help private sector development, both through a better functioning market for the
provision of road transport services and through increasing outsourcing of road maintenance works to
private contractors. This should lead to reduced costs and improved efficiency of road works and transport
operations.
Developing  expertise  in  the  new  regional  directorates  was  in  line  with  govermnent
decentralization/deconcentration policy at the time of appraisal, a policy that remains a key government
priority. Regional directorates have a coordinating and assistance role in technical aspects, planning and
programming. This function effectively reduces the role of the center, while allowing for closer links and
easier interaction between the executing bodies (the provincial directorates) and the advisory entity (the
regional directorates).
Morocco has a high rate of road accidents and fatalities compared to other countries with similar level of
development, and the project's focus on improving safety through both physical investments (eliminating
'black spots' sections, where a disproportionate percentage or accidents occurred) and institutional
development was important.
Project components, as described below, supported well the objectives. One component, the improvement
of branch roads, was not well articulated in the definition of objectives. However, as noted in the SAR,
branch road were secondary and tertiary roads, and as such were essential parts of the road network and
contributed to road access. Similarly, a project requirement that road maintenance funding be provided at a
satisfactory level was essential to ensure the preservation of the network.
3.2 Revised Objective:
While project objectives were not revised during implementation, specific targets for works were modified
at the Mid-Term Review as described in section 3.4.
- 2 -



3.3 Original Components:
(a)    rural roads (cost: $35.4 million): improving 1,133 kilometers of priority unpaved roads to all
weather gravel standard, constructing 96 km of paved roads, and finalizing the road
reclassification;
(b)    classifiedpaved roads ($108.8 million. These roads were labeled as 'branch roads' at appraisal, a
terrninology that DRCR has discontinued): improving 2,219 kilometers of roads in the secondary
and tertiary road networks by carrying out maintenance backlog resealing, structural overlays
and/or widening;
(c)    network management ($10.3 million): improvements through technical support, planning and
programming, training, and renewal of essential road maintenance equipment; and
(d)    road safety ($11.1 million): streamlining of organization and supporting priority actions.
Although not specifically defined as a project component, the project, in support of objective (ii) included a
government commitment to submit to Parliament the laws and regulations liberalizing the trucking market.
3.4 Revised Components:
At the Mid-Term Review targets were modified. The loan agreement was amended accordingly (Bank letter
of September 27, 1999). The new targets were:
(a)    rural roads: improvement of 1,000 kilometers instead of 1,133 kilometers; construction 235
kilometers of paved roads instead of 96 kilometers;
(b)    classified paved roads: improvement of 2,660 kilometers (of which 825 km to be financed by the
Bank, the remainder by the Japan Bank for International Cooperation), instead of 2,219 kilometers;
(c)    equipment: amount reduced and limited to equipment needed for snow removal and emergency
works only.
The changes agreed on road works targets under (a) and (b) reflected road subprojects meeting project
selection criteria and for which documentation available allowed a faster processing under the project. The
increase in paved roads was due to more cases where paving was the right investment, because of traffic
levels, topography and other conditions, than expected at appraisal. Changes under (c) meant fewer
equipment purchases. This was in line with government policy to reduce the role of the highway agency as
an operating body, while continuing to expand the outsourcing of works to private enterprises. Project
objectives remained unchanged.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The ICR rates quality at entry satisfactory. The project predated QAG and there was no formal quality at
entry (QE) assessment at the time of Board approval. The project was consistent with Bank strategy
supporting rural development, confirmed in the 1997 CAS. Project design and preparation was exhaustive,
and benefited from Bank experience with Morocco's road sector gained during supervision of the preceding
highway project (Highway Sector Project, Loan 3168-MOR). Project complexity was essentially limited to
the institutional objectives and components, where the project went substantially beyond its predecessors;
physical objectives were not especially demanding on the implementing agency, since DRCR was well
experienced with Bank projects. The SAR had identified underfunding of road maintenance as the main
project risk, and proposed to mitigate this risk by monitoring road budgets. Several studies carried out
under the preceding project had pre-identified some 15,000 km of rural roads for which various strategies
of improvements were technically and economically justified. The SAR had well defined criteria for the
selection of investments under the project. The project was ready for implementation, first-tranche
investments had been identified and DRCR was prepared to launch the works. However, Borrower
ownership, a major determinant of quality at entry and project success, was mixed. During initial project
preparation and until appraisal, the project was strongly supported by the responsible sectoral ministry, the
- 3 -



Ministry of Equipment (MOE). However, some issues arose after appraisal. The key issues were the extent
of government commitment to road classification, passing of transport law to liberalize the trucking market
and securing funding for road maintenance at a satisfactory level. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance
opposed providing counterpart funds from within the budget. Finally, an agreement was reached to use
funds from the Road Fund to finance the governments counterpart contribution. Agreements were also
reached on the other issues. These discussions substantially delayed negotiations that ended up taking place
about one year after the appraisal mission.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
Related outcome indicators were satisfactory and better than expected (annex 1). Institutional development
objectives were only partially achieved. There was, however, a two-year delay in project implementation.
This happened because the government gave preference to carrying out work under an emergency drought
relief program partly financed by the Bank (Emergency Drought Recovery Project - Loan No. 39350).
Road subprojects that were ready for implementation under the road project were taken over by the
emergency program. At the same time, since the overall budget for DRCR's road program did not change,
DRCR did not have the resources to launch in parallel the road and the emergency projects. The project's
closing date was extended until June 30, 2002. The Mid-Term review adjusted the targets of the physical
components according to the readiness of economically viable subprojects, while remaining within the
objectives.
Achievement of physical targets contributed significantly to the objective of improving access to social
services and markets and thus benefiting the rural poor. The project focus on improving accessibility of the
rural poor included definition of performance monitoring indicators that have proven useful in the setting of
benchmarks under current rural road programs. A key indicator is the reduction in road closures caused by
rain and floods. Road closures in the rural roads improved under the project fell from over 50,000
kilometer-day before improvement, to about 3,000 kilometer-day by the end of the project, which is better
than the appraisal target. Reduction in road closures is significant because it diminishes isolation and
improves accessibility. According to estimates made by the DRCR and the provincial highway
departments, about I million people live in the direct zone of influence of the roads improved under the
project, or near roads that connect to the project roads, and therefore are direct beneficiaries of the
reduction in road closures. The Beneficiary Survey and Workshop (Annexes 8 and 9) confirmed the
importance of improving access. The survey found decrease in time to reach health centers, schools and
administrative centers, and improvement in transport services to be the highest rated benefits stemming
from improved roads.
Road closures (thousand kilometer-days)*
60000     _ _ _ _ -   -   _ _ _     _ _ _
50000                          _ __
40000                          _ __
20000          ___
1995  1996  1997  1990  1999  2000  2001
Target values are based on the first-tranche roads identified in the SAR. Actual values are based on all roads actually constructed or unproved under the project
-4 -



Another key indicator of outcome is road condition. The condition of the paved road network during the
project period, as measured by the IRI (International Roughness Indicator), improved. The IRI by end 2001
had attained 3,367 millimeters/kilometer, or about 6.5 percent better than the target of 3,600, and was
better than before the project (3,724 in 1994). At the same time, the proportion of the paved road network
in good and acceptable condition increased from 63.1 percent in 1996 to 66 percent in 2000. A key factor
in this achievement was DRCR's compliance with the maintenance expense levels stipulated at appraisal
(Annex 1). In view of improvements (widening) and expansion of roads, and increased traffic, funding
levels are likely to require substantial adjustments, and the MOE is preparing to launch a detailed study on
this matter.
Another significant outcome was a marked reduction in the unit cost of the works. They turned out to be
lower than the appraisal and engineering estimates. The actual unit costs were, as percentage of the SAR
estimates (details in Annex 1):
(i) for rural roads: 87 percent for improvement and 60 percent for construction/pavement;
(ii) for classified paved roads: a range of 56 percent for widening with overlay, to 98 percent for overlay
and surfacing with no widening.
This outcome is probably the result of a combination of factors: the project's continuing emphasis on
competition for road works, increased role of the private sector, and cost-effective engineering, especially
designs and use of local materials.
The objective related to private sector development was largely met. A law to liberalize the transport
market was passed, exceeding the project covenant that a draft law be submitted to Parliament. Major
policy reforms such as reforming the transport market are extremely difficult to achieve. This reform was
also supported under the Policy Reform Support Loan (Loan 4483, approved June 1, 1999). The approval
of the transport law was a significant step in support of the project's objective to accelerate private sector
development in the road transport industry.
There was also progress in other areas relating to development of the private sector. The Ministry of
Equipment launched three pilots to test multiyear contracts for routine road maintenance. The first pilot
was a two-year contract covering two provinces (Meknes and Tetouan). The contract was output-based
(quantity of work done). This pilot was considered unsatisfactory because of lack of performance targets
and because unit prices were substantially higher than by force account. The second pilot was a three-year
contract covering a national road. Contract penalties were based on several performance parameters. Prices
were slightly higher than force account. This pilot was considered a qualified success. The third pilot, also
a three-year contract, also focused on a national road. This contract, also performance-based, used several
indicators integrated into one single indicator of performance, on which penalties were based. This pilot
was considered successful: the quality of work was good, and unit prices were comparable to those by force
account.
There was also progress in developing road management in the regional directorates: (i) DRCR expanded
the number of Regional Directorates; (ii) DRCR delegated some technical functions to the regional
directorates, and (iii) regional directorate's staff received training in engineering and economic subjects. In
addition, a review of DRCR procedures was launched under the project, which will be useful for the further
transfer of responsibilities. However, much of the progress happened in the last stages of the project and
the impact will not be felt until after project closing. For example, two important training programs took
place in early 2002, and by project closing the DRCR was in the process of testing the capacity of the
regional directorates to put in place activities stemming from these training programs.
- 5-



The expected improvement in road safety was the more difficult objective to achieve. Elimination of
"black-spots" (road sections with a high proportion of accidents) proceeded initially at a slow pace due to
delays in preparation and approval of engineering studies, although substantial catching-up happened in the
last two years of the project. The outcome of these investments should be positive since black spots were
selected after careful analysis of 5-year accident data. Actual outcome, however, can only be assessed when
a 5-year cycle after the improvements is completed. Progress was even more difficult in the task of
strengthening the institutional set-up for road safety. It was intended to establish a safety-coordinating
agency at a high political level that would coordinate all the actors involved in road safety (police,
transport, roads, health, and insurance). While a document creating such interministerial committee to be
placed in the Prime Minister's office was drafted by technical staff of the Ministry of Transport and
conveyed to the Prime Minister, this committee is yet to be created.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) Improvement and construction of rural roads
-      232 km of paved rural roads were constructed, or 99 percent of the revised objective, and
-      714 km of unpaved roads were rehabilitated or 71 percent of the revised objective (including 24 km
with exclusively local finance)
Project-financed rural road works were distributed among all regions, with the South (42.3%) and the
Oriental (34.3%) regions receiving the highest share (in kilometers) of paved rural roads, and the Center
(36.3%) and the Center-South (14.9%) receiving the highest share of improved rural roads.
(b) Rehabilitation ofpaved classified roads.
2,736 km of road rehabilitation works were done (933 km under Bank financing). Thus, 103 percent of the
target was achieved. As in the case of rural roads, these works were spread out practically throughout all
regions. The South (24.9%) and the Center (23.3%) received the highest shares.
Some 48 percent of the rehabilitated roads were widened. Most of the widening was for roads that received
overlays: 50 percent of overlays also received widening, while only 40 percent of the roads surfaced were
also widened. Overall, the mix of overlay and surfacing with or without widening is a rational combination
of options, selected with assistance from the Highway Design Model (DM). This allowed Morocco to
utilize its resources for the highway network efficiently.
(c) Network management. Under this component, a number of activities were undertaken. However, this
component launched after a long delay, and by the end of the project only the initial consultant missions
and some training had been completed.
- A study of shadow tolls (road concession contracts with payment to the concessionaire based on traffic
levels rather than toll collection) was completed for Phase I. This Phase conducted a simulation to assess
the potential of the shadow toll approach for: (i) high traffic roads, and (ii) roads in poor condition. In
addition, a feasibility study was carried out for a sample of seven roads. The study concluded that four of
the roads would yield a financial return for the concessionaire of 10 percent or above. The consultant
continues to work with DRCR with a view to defining the parameters of possible concessions and selecting
routes for piloting the shadow toll approach. Shadow toll concessions could be a practical way in high
traffic roads requiring investment in increased capacity or rehabilitation to further involve the private sector
in the finance and management of the road network.
- Technical Assistance to the DRCR. The original concept to make a pool of experts available to the
regional directorates under an open consultancy contract was not considered feasible. Assistance therefore
was restructured under four well defined topics:
i.  Highway capacity of high-traffic roads, and possible adaptation of the US Highway Capacity
- 6-



Manual. The DRCR has identified the road sections with traffic levels close to saturation and
carried out detailed traffic analysis in selected experimental sections.
ii. Procedures for carrying out road studies (preparation, review, approvals, role of different
stakeholders).
iii. Upgrading of the National Center for Road Study and Research (CNER).
iv. Training: two courses were carried out with assistance from project-financed consultants, covering
highway maintenance planning, economic analysis, management and inspection of bridges and
drainage structures.
(d) Road safety: This component consisted of the following:
(i) Improvement of road sections with high accident density (black spots). DRCR identified 86 critical
black spot sections. These sections were identified on the basis of accident records. By project closing, 43
black spots had been improved or eliminated, 15 were being executed, and 13 were in the bidding process.
(ii) Institutional improvements. The government had undertaken to reform the mandate of Morocco's
National Center for the Prevention of Road Accidents (CNPAC), and to create an interministerial
committee under the office of the Prime Minister. While CNPAC prepared the documentation for the
change, the relevant Ministry (Transport) did not succeed to convince the higher political authorities on the
need to establish such a committee.
(iii) Purchase of equipment: The Ministry of Transport from its own budget acquired 25 radars, 6
weighbridges and other equipment for road safety awareness campaigns.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
At appraisal, it was stipulated that road works to be financed under the project would need to show a
minirnum economic rate of return of 12 percent. On completion of the project, the DRCR camed out an
economic re-evaluation for individual subprojects. This analysis was based on the Bank's Highway Design
Model III (HDM-III), the same that was used at appraisal for a sample of roads. As at appraisal, the
re-evaluation quantified as benefits only the savings in vehicle operating costs. The re-evaluation showed
high economic rates of return (ERR) for the road works. No single investment was below the 12 percent
threshold. A number of individual investments had ERR close to or exceeding 100 percent. Overall, it can
be estimated that the ERR for the whole project was in the 30-50 percent range. This is consistent with the
ERR estimated by the DRCR at appraisal for the first-tranche program.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
- Strengthening of road network management. The project initially intended to strengthen road network
management by providing a pool of experts that would be available for assisting the Ministry of Equipment
Regional Directorates (RD) as and when requested. The RD's function of assistance to the Provincial
Public Works Departments by concentrating technical and managerial competence (particularly regarding
planning and economic studies) and to 'decongest' the central MOE was conceptually well conceived.
Further, this concept was consistent with the government decentralization policies. In practice, however, the
system of open consultancy envisaged under the project, with 'on-call' experts at the demand of the
Regional Directorates, was found difficult to put in practice. The government's controller's office objected
on the basis that the on-call approach conflicted with established procurement procedures. At the same
time, overall government regionalization policy proceeded at a much slower pace than originally
anticipated. In fact, the MOE Regional Directorates, even as they stood in 1995, were ahead of other
sectors with regard to transferring central responsibilities to regional offices.
- 7 -



Because of the problems with the consultancy approach, the MOE took the view, and the Bank team
agreed, that the objective of improving road network management would be well served by developing
procedures, preparing tools and guidelines that would help govern the transfer of responsibilities to the RDs
and by carrying out training for both the central and the regional offices. As a result, this component was
refocused into technical assistance/studies activities listed under paragraph 4.2c judged by DRCR to be
priority needs, but also included training for the RDs.
Despite the problems, the MOE did expand the number of RD from the four pilots in place at the time of
project appraisal to all 16 Regions. At the same time, the DRCR has already delegated several technical
review functions to the regional directorates. The nine most important regional directorates are equipped
with a Regional Center of Technical Studies (CERET), while all 16 have a Planning and Economic Studies
Service (SPEE), in addition to administrative support. These two services are key parts of the delegation
process. Such delegation is continuing. In January-February 2002, DRCR carried out two important
training courses that representatives from all regional directorates attended: (i) a course on road
maintenance planning and economic analysis (the HDM4 model), and (ii) an engineering course on
inspection of bridges and drainage structures. These two courses will be instrumental in the further
delegation of functions by DRCR to the MOE's regional directorates. The DRCR is currently piloting
increased delegation in several Regional Directorates.
DRCR carried out other activities that will also help improve network management. Notably, DRCR: (a)
launched and is carrying out environmental assessments for rural roads projects and rehabilitation of main
roads, (b) launched and is carrying out safety audits for several main roads to improve their safety, (c) is
conducting periodic surveys to assess the impact of rural roads investments, (d) carried out pilots to test
routine maintenance by multi-year contract.
In parallel with the project, another activity was carried out that will help the MOE prepare for further
delegation of its functions, whether to the Regional or to the Provincial Directorates. Under a grant from its
Institutional Development Fund, the Bank provided support to the MOE to develop an integrated financial
management system to improve budget preparation, as well as investment planning and programming. The
new system groups MOE expenses by programs and projects rather than by inputs, as it was traditionally
done. The system, currently under implementation, will be an essential tool for shifting MOE's budget from
a centralized, expense-based system to a more decentralized, performance-based system that will allow the
Provincial or Regional Directorates to enter their programs and projects into the MOE's budget system.
-Liberalization of transport market. The transport law was approved in March 2000. The law includes a
clause added during the debate in the Parliament providing a 3-year transition to effectiveness and
grandfathering current holders of trucking licenses for six years to meet professional qualification
standards. The 3-year period expires in March 2003, when all provisions of the law except the
grandfathering will enter into force. There are already signs that the transport market is being liberalized
and is becoming more competitive and efficient. For example, small trucks that were traditionally limited to
'own-account' transport increasingly are providing 'for-hire' services without the government attempting to
enforce current regulations regarding small trucks. Also, some large trucking companies are being allowed
to do transport without obtaining prior approval by the National Transport Office (ONT), which is only
requiring post notification.
- Increased role of the private sector in road management. As noted in Section 4.1, useful pilots were
done regarding outsourcing routine maintenance. The successful third pilot should provide a good basis for
an extension of this approach to a larger number of roads. As expected, 100 percent of road rehabilitation
and periodic maintenance is carried out by contractors, as is about 50 percent of routine maintenance.
- 8-



Consistent with experience elsewhere, some routine maintenance activities, especially in remote areas, are
difficult to outsource since the small size of the works of routine maintenance and the high cost of access
makes them little attractive for contractors. The performance-based multiyear contracts may be a way to
further expand outsourcing of routine maintenance in the future.
- Road safety. As noted, despite much effort by the Ministry of Transport technical staff, no change was
effected in the government's road safety organization. Therefore, no real impact has been achieved to date.
On the other hand, it is possible that the promotional work done under the project, especially the
documentation for setting up an inter-ministerial agency/committee under the Prime Minister could see
fruition at any time. This could well happen once the government is finally persuaded that the only way to
reverse Morocco's poor road safety record is to coordinate the many stakeholders in road safety under the
umbrella of the Prime Minister's office.
4.6    Beneficiary Survey and Workshop
The Intensive Learning ICR requires that during its preparation, a beneficiary survey and workshop be
carried out. A survey assessing the impact of the project was carried out during April-May 2002 in 19
provinces (out of the 36 provinces covered by the project). The survey consisted of four sub-surveys, one
for each type of road works financed under the project. The survey interviewed a wide variety of
stakeholders, including direct beneficiaries such as villagers living near the improved roads and providers
of transport services (both passenger and freight), and indirect beneficiaries such as rural school teachers
and health care personnel that benefit from improved accessibility and improvement in transport services. A
total of 2,320 persons were interviewed, divided into 1,437 villagers, 326 providers of social services and
557 providers of transport services. The survey report was prepared by CID (Conseil Ingenierie et
Developpement), a consulting firm with substantial experience in social surveys. The survey found
significant project impact in facilitating access to social services, helping increase enrollment in primary
education, improving provision of transport services, and effecting reductions in travel time, vehicle
operating costs and truck rates.
A workshop carried out on October 14, 2002 reviewed the project's achievements and discussed the
findings of the survey. The workshop was organized by the DRCR and attended by about 50 participants,
including representatives from various ministries (Economy and Finances, General Affairs, Transport,
Equipment), DRCR (Rabat), provincial and regional highway personnel, CNPAC, mayors and other
representatives from local communities, and the World Bank. The key conclusions of the workshop were:
(a) the project met its objectives; (b) impact on the population was significant, notably as reflected by the
survey; (c) the efforts to improve highway safety need to be pursued; (d) the contribution of local finance
through partnership arrangements (Partenariat) was successful and greatly increased ownership of the
road improvements; and (e) the workshop itself was useful.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
None
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The mixed ownership of the project at various levels of government that was felt during project preparation
and appraisal remained in the following stages of the project, affecting its implementation. In particular,
there was government resistance to the technical assistance component designed to support the
strengthening of the Regional Directorates. There was little commitment at the political level to implement
recommendations prepared by CNPAC and the Ministry of Transport staff to create a high-level
interministerial commission on road safety. On the positive side, government action was instrumental in
-9-



getting the Transport Law approved by Parliament.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The DRCR was the implementing agency for most of the project; CNPAC was responsible for the
safety-related aspects. The DRCR, under the Ministry of Equipment, is responsible for design, construction
and maintenance of the national, regional and provincial networks. The DRCR is a well established
organization, experienced in Bank projects, and therefore there was no need for establishing a separate
implementation unit.
Almost concurrently with Board approval of the project, the Ministry of Equipment (MOE) launched a
massive, countrywide rural roads development program. This program, financed from the national budget,
dwarfed in size the Bank project, and required close attention by MOE officials. The problem was
compounded by the need to reallocate the budget within the MOE towards an emergency program  (
Programme Secheresse) to mitigate the effects of the drought. The result was practically no disbursements
during the early years of the project. This situation improved radically after the mid-term review.
Delays in project implementation also happened because DRCR had limited identification of branch road
subprojects mainly to a few Southern and Eastern provinces. While the limitation was not formally written
in the project documents, the list of road subprojects for the First Year Program did in fact reflect this
limitation. During the MTR, the DRCR and the Bank agreed to open selection of subprojects to practically
any province, provided the required technical and economic studies were ready.
The DRCR was not enthusiastic about the project component on network management, which it considered
to be too big and difficult to procure. It proceeded slowly on this component. It was only in the last two
years of the project that DRCR launched training programs and other activities aimed at strengthening
network management and the capacity of the MOE's Regional Directorates.
Morocco's continued support to competition for public works led to a number of major international
contractors bidding for contracts. This was especially important with the launching of the national,
toll-based motorway in the late 1980s. Equally important was the launching of the national program of
rural roads that has guaranteed a stable level of road works. The combination of these factors resulted in
the strengthening and expansion of local contractors, more competition, and a reduction in the cost of road
works. While competition happened mostly for the larger civil works contracts (such as construction and
paving of national roads), it had a trickle-down effect, bringing prices down in smaller works as well.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project was co-financed with the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC), under parallel
financing arrangements. Japan's financing was approved and made effective about one year earlier than the
Bank project and is expected to close about year later than the Bank project.
At Borrower's request, after disbursing about $2.3 million from the $57.6 million loan, the remainder was
converted to a single-cufrency loan denominated in French Francs on June 9, 1998, and then converted to
Euro on January 1, 2002.
The SAR anticipated that local govemments would make a small contribution to project finance, estimated
at $0.4 million. In practice, they contributed $3.2 million. This amount was contributed by just two
Southem provinces, and more than half the amount contributed was for paved roads, while originally it was
anticipated that it would be for non-paved rural roads only.
-10-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated likely. The project-financed investments are likely to be sustainable, because: (i)
funding allocated to road maintenance has been kept at the level agreed at appraisal; (ii) unit costs of road
works have been declining, and should help to get more work done for a given budget; (iii) the condition of
the road network has improved, albeit slightly; (iv) the expected further privatization of maintenance
activities through multi-year contracts tested during the project period should lead to lower costs and higher
quality of the works. An element of uncertainty is the increase in road maintenance requirements resulting
from upgrading and expansion of the road network during the 1990s and continued expansion under the
NRRP. The DRCR is launching a review of the needs. At the same time, the government needs to address
the long-delayed decision to reclassify the road network that should lead to transferring some roads
currently being maintained by the MOE to the communes.
On the institutional side, (i) it is unlikely that the transport law, that was passed after much debate and
preparation, could be overturned, and, at the same time, changes in the transport market, making it more
competitive, have taken place even ahead of the effectiveness date of the transport law, and (ii) the policy to
further deconcentrate management of the road network through strengthening and expanding the functions
of the Regional Directorates is well established.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All the roads improved under the project are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Equipment and their
maintenance and operation are covered by the MOE's regular budget. According to the MOE's
organization, actual responsibility for the upkeep of the roads rests with the MOE's Provincial Directorates.
The Directorates have assumed the responsibility for the maintenance of the improved roads as the works
have been completed under the project. Transfer of some roads to the provincial and communal
governments may happen if the road reclassification is carried out.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance was satisfactory. The project objectives were sound and relevant, and the project team
designed a number of performance indicators to monitor achievement of project objectives, implementation
of components and government compliance with loan conditions. Substantial effort was devoted to ensure
availability of counterpart project funds as well as funds for financing road maintenance at an adequate
level. The project aim to reform the transport market was valuable. For many years, the Bank had drawn
attention to the need to deregulate and liberalize the transport market. A question is whether the Bank
could have found a way to be more effective in promoting reforms in trucking. For example, the project
could have comprised technical assistance to help the government adapt its institutions to a deregulated
market.
7.2 Supervision -
Bank performance was satisfactory, especially at and after the Mid-Term Review, as it made major efforts
to speed up implementation. This was confirmed by a QAG' assessment of supervision (October 27, 2000
memo). The QAG assessment found supervision during FY00 "satisfactory overall in the four main
supervision categories, except for 'adequacy of supervision inputs and processes' that are rated highly
satisfactory". The latter rating was due to the supervisions' accurately recording and reporting on key
- 1 1 -



indicators. During the MTR, the Bank went to great lengths to get the project moving, after three years
with practically no disbursements (cumulative disbursements had reached less than 5 percent, compared to
about 30 percent foreseen at appraisal). The Bank' decision at the MTR to finance road rehabilitation
subprojects funded by the DRCR since effectiveness and that met the eligibility criteria allowed speeding
up disbursements, thus benefiting Morocco by reducing the amount of commitment fee on undisbursed
funds.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Bank performance overall is rated satisfactory. There are two aspects that, in hindsight, the Bank could
have done differently. The first is the Bank's missed opportunity to help the government adapt to new roles,
functions and organization once the transport market deregulated upon the passage of the Transport Law.
The second relates to the objective to strengthen the regional directorates. These directorates were at the
pilot stage during appraisal, but by the Mid-Term review it should have been apparent that while the
objective was a valuable one, the component supporting this objective was too heavy in technical
assistance, and its open-ended nature was not supported by the implementing agency and its financial
comptroller. Another aspect, more debatable, is whether the Bank should have tried to include the
Transport Law requirement under the railway restructuring project (Loan No. 41280) that was being
prepared almost concurrently with the road project. Because the railway is under the Ministry of Transport,
the dialogue with the Bank mission would have been easier. On the other hand, seizing the opportunity of
the road project may have been safest, since there were no assurances that the railway project would be
approved soon after the road project.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Governnent performance was satisfactory until project appraisal. Thereafter, up to and including
negotiations, it was unsatisfactory. As noted in Section 3.5, the government raised a number of issues after
agreement had been reached at appraisal, and negotiations were substantially delayed. At the same time, the
launching of the National Rural Roads Program in parallel with the preparation of the Bank project
certainly affected the final preparation stages of the project, and its initial implementation. In hindsight, the
government should have tried to integrate the then proposed Bank project into the government's NRRP
instead of treating it as a separate investment program, which it did in late 1997 with the Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Project (Loan No. 42540), to support its program to improve access to water in the
rural areas.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government generally provided funding for highway maintenance at the levels (or slightly above)
agreed at appraisal. The approval of the Transport Law was a major achievement.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementation performance until the Mid-Term review was poor. For three years after project approval,
there were practically no disbursements. During that period, DRCR financed from their budget a
substantial number of rural roads under the NRRP. This situation led to a government request and Bank's
exceptional agreement to finance roads works launched under the NRRP after the Loan effectiveness. The
implementing agency also was slow to set in motion the project's technical assistance and institutional
components. On the positive side, the implementation agency was diligent in monitoring performance
indicators, carrying out economic analysis and environmental assessment of sub-projects, preparing a
detailed contribution for the preparation of the ICR and organizing and carrying out the beneficiary survey
and workshop.
- 12 -



7.7 Overall Borrower performance*
Borrower performance is rated satisfactory, although marginally. Performance was satisfactory in the early
and the later parts of the project cycle. It was unsatisfactory from appraisal and early implementation. Yet,
overall, it managed to get a satisfactory outcome.
8. Lessons Learned
Implementation
Implementation Arrangements. The decision to carry out implementation through line agencies, instead of
a project implementation unit (PM  proved to be correct. PIUs often facilitate the tasks of Bank
supervision missions, notably because they have as sole responsibility the execution of the project. Yet,
PIUs, by their very nature, disrupt the existing organization. Working with the line agencies avoids this
problem, while allowing the dialogue during project supervision to serve as an effective instrument of
knowledge exchange, notably on institutional issues and on technical tools. An example was the setting up
and operation by the DRCR of the HDM, which the DRCR now routinely uses for the selection and
evaluation of investments.
Need to Centralize the Monitoring Function. The project contained a number of performance indicators,
originating in different units or agencies. Collection and processing of raw data by supervision missions
was time consuming. In view of the increasing importance of performance indicators and monitoring, it is
recommended that a single unit or individual within the Borrower be assigned the responsibility for
producing updated perfonnance indicators covering the whole project.
Risks and Benefits of Having a "Champion ". During project preparation, the project was "championed"
by the higher authorities of the MOE, which viewed the project as a key instrument to achieve ambitious
objectives. Yet, just after appraisal, the authorities changed and new ones, less supportive of the project,
took over. The result was protracted negotiations and less ownership. The lesson probably is that objectives
should not be overly ambitious, and that much discussion is needed with new authorities to gain ownership
or modify the project if necessary.
Road Management
Deconcentration versus Decentralization. A key question road agencies have to respond to is: what
responsibilities and at what pace should the center delegate for the process to be useful and effective?
Central government agencies promoting decentralization often also promote decentralization of road
management functions to local governments. Yet, experience worldwide has shown many costly failures,
followed by recentralization. Failures often are due to lack of sufficient technical personnel in the local
governments, sometimes compounded by the non-transfer of budgetary resources. Morocco's approach
aiming for gradual deconcentration appears to be right. While the DRCR is endowed with highly qualified
technical personnel, resources overall are limited and spreading them too thin would be wasteful. At the
same time, most of the MOE's provincial directorates are well established as executing bodies. Thus,
DRCR approach to gradually develop Regional Directorates (that are only a fraction the number of
Provincial Directorates) after a pilot trial, prudently expanding their advice, planning and review functions,
and supported by training, appears as an appropriate way to delegate central functions while avoiding
atomization of resources.
Cost of Road Works: role of competition and stable funding. A significant achievement by the DRCR was
- 13 -



the reduction in unit costs, in large as well as in small works. This achievement stemmed mainly from
increasing competition for civil works. Large international contractors, often employing domestic
contractors as subcontractors, coupled with a steady level of public works funding under the NRRP,
contributed to the further development of local contractors, increasing their efficiency and reducing costs.
While these results are normally to be expected, sometimes inefficient market conditions prevent achieving
the hoped-for results. The experience in Morocco confirms that under the right conditions competition will
bring about real gains and reduce costs.
Road Maintenance Budgets, Accounting and Targets. The lack of standard accounting for the road
maintenance budgets reduces transparency, and compounded by frequent changes in budget lines, makes it
difficult to set and monitor road maintenance budgets and funding. Specifically, the SAR included a target
for road maintenance funding that included routine maintenance plus periodic maintenance and
rehabilitation. But, in the original local accounting terminology, rehabilitation also covered strengthening,
road widening and realignment. Considerable efforts had to be spent during project supervision to achieve
consistency and satisfactory standards in the budget to allow monitoring of funding targets.
Participation of Local Communities. Project design anticipated local communities' contribution to
financing of the project. This happened, and to a larger extent than foreseen. Where it happened, there is a
heightened sense of ownership and the need to preserve the roads. However, in considering the financing
approach in future projects, the following should be taken into account: (i) the contribution expected at
appraisal from local governments was a token 0.25 percent of total project costs; (ii) local community
funding happened mainly in the southern provinces, where communities (benefiting from remittances and
strong solidarity among the population) have a well established tradition of helping finance roads. The
contribution of other provinces was minor; (iii) the contribution was mostly for paved roads, and suggests
that local communities have their own priorities. Financing of the NPRR provides a broader confirmation
of the difficulty in getting local communities to help fund road programs: the communities have contributed
barely a quarter of the amount they had been expected to contribute (10 percent of NPRR costs) and again
such contribution was essentially limited to the same southern provinces.
Defining accessibility objectives. A major focus of the project was to improve accessibility to benefit the
rural poor. To this end, the project funded improvement of rural roads and included performance indicators
to monitor impact. Two key targets were reduction of road closures and number of people benefiting from
improved accessibility. Their measurement was based on crude data available at the time. While these
indicators were a useful start, there is a need for better understanding of the accessibility problem, and a
more precise definition of targets. Morocco has developed a detailed rural road inventory by province that
will help substantially improve the knowledge of current levels of accessibility, and to better measure the
accessibility impact of future rural road investments.
Policy Reforms
Policy reforms, adapting institutions, and Bank's role. Under the project, the government committed to
liberalize the trucking market. Such liberalization was long overdue and had been pursued by the Bank for
many years through a variety of instruments. The government did fulfill its commitment under the project
and got a law approved. The new market conditions that will evolve will require the government to adapt its
functions, and train its staff accordingly. To do this, the relevant agencies will need to reflect on their new
mandate, to develop new procedures and to reorganize. A liberalized transport market without properly
functioning regulatory institutions can be chaotic. Preparing and establishing such institutions is not cheap
and requires learning from international experience. The Bank should consider it essential that policy
reforms it endorses are adequately supported by technical assistance and other resources.
- 14 -



The political economy ofpolicy reforms and government organization. Policy reforms and organizational
changes often fail because 'losers' have more clout than 'winners'. How this dilemma is managed is critical
for the success of the reforms. Two examples stem from the project:
(i)    Trucking deregulation. The law that deregulates trucking in Morocco contains two clauses that aim
to mitigate the shock of deregulation. One clause involves grandfathering current holders of trucking
licenses six years to meet professional qualification standards. The other clause provides a period of three
years until the new deregulated market becomes effective. These clauses allow operators to prepare for new
market conditions. It is evident that these clauses will result, at least initially, in not gaining all that is
possible from a liberalized market. On the other hand, such clauses, by giving protection to the potential
'losers', may well lead to a more orderly transition from current conditions to the new market conditions
thereby minimizing social tensions that could ensue from fast and radical market changes.
(ii)   Road Safety Organization. Given Morocco's very high rate of traffic accidents and fatalities,
establishing a more effective way to promote safety is essential. International experience has proven that
the only way to seriously address highway safety is to launch a government effort at the highest political
level, requiring the creation of a multi-sectoral commission under the Prime Minister's office (or
equivalent), and including all key stakeholders (police, public works, health, insurance). In Morocco, a
draft proposal to set such high level office was never implemented. It may well be the case that losers, real
or perceived, under the proposed organization managed to block the reorganization.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
DRCR, the implementing agency, provided the following comments. (The DRCR summary report is in
Annex 10).
*      The ICR presents a clear description of the project objectives, components, and implementation
phase.
*      Differences between the Borrower and the Bank after project appraisal regarding road maintenance
stemmed from priority given by the government to the maintenance of classified roads, with
funding allocated in accordance with existing norms, while the Bank demanded a more specific
quantification of maintenance funding needs.
*      The initial implementation delays were due to the limited geographic area to be covered by Bank
funding, namely the Oriental and Southern regions, since the Bank had understood that road works
in other regions would be financed by Japan.
Other comments made by the DRCR have been incorporated in the current version of the ICR.
(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments were received from the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC).
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Not Applicable.
- 15 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
A. Outcome/Impact Indicators
Table A1.1 Key Indicators - Summary
Indicator                                               SAR        SAR        Actual/Latest
Baseline    Target        Estimate
Traffic Interruption, Rural Roads (days-km)a/          50,000      n.a.          3,000
Rural Population Given All-Weather Access               n.a.        n.a         1,000,000
Road Condition, IRI network average(mm/km)             3,724      3,600          3,367
Road Maintenance by Contract(periodic/routine)          n.a.      100/25         100/47
Road Safety (see below)                                  ...
Road Maintenance Expenses (see below)                    ...        ...            ...
Unit Cost of Works (see below)                           ...        ...           ...
a/The SAR baselme calculated by extrapolation of the project's first tranche identified m the SAR
Actual values are based on the roads actually constructed or improved under the project
Table A1.2 Road Safety
Indicator                                                      1994    1996    2000    2001
Fatalities                        target     3605     3572    3521    3521
actual     3605     2807    3627      -
Fatalities/Million Population        target      131     124     113      103
actual     138 a/   105     128       -
Fatalities/000 Vehicles            target      4,1      3,7     3,0     2,5
actual    2,78b/    2,00   2,164
a/ Based on a population of 26 07 million (1994 census) and 2 06 percent annual growth rate thereafter
b/ Based on automobile fleet of 907,300 in 1994.
Table A1.3 Road Maintenance Expenses a/
1995    96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00     2001     2002
Maintenance expenditures (Million  845.7    934.9    949.0    945.2    939.3    996.0     1,051
Dh)
Target Budget (per SAR)            745.0    790.4    822.2    869.8    922.8    1000.     1050.0
0
Expenditures/TargetBudget(%)       113.5    118.3    115.4    108.7    101.8    99.6      100.0
a/ In 1995, and again starting m 2001, accountng is on calendar year basis. 2001 and 2002 are budget figures
Table A1.4 Unit Costs - Rural Roads (Dh or Dollar/kilometer)
Appraisal           Engineering        Actual         Actual/ Appraisal (%)
(dollar basis)
Improvement         198,000 (1994 Dh)        209,000         198,000 Dh               83
$23,000                               $19,000
Construction        826,000(1994 Dh)         633,000         619,000 Dh               61
$96,000                               $59,000
- 16-



Table A1.5 Unit Costs-Paved Classified Roads ( Dh or Dollar/kldometer
Overlay                               Surfacing
Appraisal      Actual      Actual /    Appraisal      Actual      Actual?
Appraisal                              Appraisal
Widening       Dh 693,000    Dh 473,000       56      Dh 468,000    Dh 386,000       67
($81,000)     ($45,000)                ($54,000)     ($36,000)
No Widening      Dh 416,000    Dh 497,000       98     Dh 279,000     Dh 211,000      63
($48,000)     ($47,000)                ($32,000)     ($32,000)
B. Output Indicators
Table A1.6 Physical Outputs: Road Works (kilometers)
Indicator                               SAR Target a/    Actual/Latest Estimate
Rural Roads -Construction Paved                   235                     232
Rural Roads - Rehabilitation                    1,000                     714
Paved Classified Roads - Rehabilitation        2,660b/                  2,736
WB&Gov't                                                              (1,148)
JApan                                                                 (1,588)
a/As revised at the Mid Tenn Review
b/ Bank-financed only. Most of this component was financed by Japan The Japan-financed operation is still underway
Table A1.7 Rehabilitation of Paved Roads (kilometers) a/
Overlay    Surfacing    Total
Widening         323         163        486
No Widening      322         120        442
Total            645         283        928
a/Excluding Japn financung, incomplete data
Table A1.8 Institutional Outputs
Indicator               SAR Target                Actual/Latest Estimate
Transport Law           Law     submitted    to   Law submitted and approved
Parliament
Road Safety Comnmittee  Restructure CNPAC         CNPAC was restructured. However, formnation
of a hlgh level Intermnnisterial Committee was
discussed, draft prepared, but not approved.
Regional Directorates   The 4 pilot RDs were      16 RD are in place, of which 9 are fully
expected to be expanded.  organized, including a CERET and a SPEE.
No specific target was
set.
-17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost US$ million
Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of Appraisal
(Overall Project)   (Overall Project)
Rural Roads                35.436               27.648                 78.0%
Paved Branch Roads            108.778              109.713                100.9%
Network Management              10.271               2.460                 24.0%
Road Safety                11.126               9.686                  87.1%
Total Base Cost              165.611             149.508                 90.3%
Physical Contingencies          16.990
Price Contingencies            11.480
Total Project Cost            194.081             149.508                 77.0%
Financing US$ million (Ap raisal)
At appraisal        GOM        Municipal  Total GOM +  Grant   IBRD     JBIC    Total
Governments  Municipalitles
Rural Roads         13.604       0.425       14.029             26.676          40.705
Paved Branch Roads      48.547                   48.547            17.968  61.617   128.132
Network Management       4.797                    4.797             5.993    1.238   12.028
Road Safety          4.080                    4.080     2.192   6.953           13.225
Total Disbursements     71.028       0.425       71.453     2.192   57.590  62.855  194.090
Financing US$ million (Actual)
Actual            GOM        Municipal   Total GOM +  Grant  IBRD     JBIC     Total
Governments  Municipalities
Rural Roads                                   7.825             19.823          27.648
Paved Branch Roads                               35.428            28.576  45.709   109.713
Network Management                                                  2.073    0.387   2.460
Road Safety                 _       _2.569                      7.117            9.686
Total Disbursements     45.621       3.200       45.821     0.000   57.590  46.096  149.508
Average exchange rate 1 USS = 10.48 DH
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) US$ Equivalent a/
Expenditure Category      ICB         NCB        Other       N.B.F      Total Cost
-Works                             22.417      45.503                 98.400        166.320
(16.140     (30.195)                              (46.335)
2 Goods                             7.178                              3.688         10.866
(4.207'                                           (4.207)
3 Services                          4.045       9.428     0.10(        3.325         16.905
= _______________________       (1.599'     (5.364     (0.086                     (7.049)
33.64(      54.931      0.10      105.413        194.090
= _________________________    (21.946'    (35.558_    (0.086                    (57.591)
a/ in parenthesis, amount financed by the World Bank
- 18 -



_ Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/latest Estimate) US$ Equivalent a/
___   Expenditure Category     ICB         NCB        Other      N.B.F      Total Cost
I Works                         16.577      57.059               70.912        144.548
(11.935)    (41.082                             (53.017)
_   Goods                          1.455                                            1 .455
________________________      (1.455)                                          (1.455)
3 Services                      0.61         2.499                 0.387         3.505
______________________       (0.618       (2.499                              (3.118)
______________________        18.65(      59.558      0.00      71.300        149.508
________________________   b/(14.008     (43.582      0.00       0.000       (57.590)
a/ in parenthesis, amount financed by the World Bank
b/ amount of ICB less than expected because more sub-projects than foreseen in SAR were of small size and of no
interest to intemational contractors.
-19-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The DRCR, applying the same methodology used at project appraisal, recalculated the economic return of
the project-financed investments based on the actual values of costs and benefits. All type of road
investments financed under the project were evaluated, except the 'black spots', short sections with a high
density of traffic accidents, which have been recently completed and for which there is not enough data.
Overall, about 2,200 kilometers of road works (or about 56 % of project-financed roads, and 100 percent
of Bank-financed roads) have been subject to economic re-evaluation.
The methodology for this re-evaluation is based on the Bank-developed Highway Design Model (HDM).
Version HI, the same used at appraisal. The key parameters considered in the re-evaluation are: the roads'
geometric characteristics (influencing vehicle operating costs) before and after the project, the economic
costs of the road investments, the base traffic and its development, the operating costs of the vehicles using
the roads, and the expected maintenance costs.
Traffic assessment were based on visual counts carried out by the regional and provincial highway
departments. Traffic growth was estimated at 5% per year. This is slightly higher than the 4.5% growth
rate estimated at appraisal, and is based on the actual increase in traffic over Morocco's road network.
For the rural road improvements, for the purposes of the economic re-evaluation it was assumed that the
improvement would be followed ten years later by paving, and that the paved road would give rise to a
'generated' traffic equal to the road's normal traffic. These hypotheses were the same as those adopted
ex-ante. Because of the mostly very high rates of return of the road improvements, which depend mainly on
the construction cost and initial traffic levels, the economic return would not vary significantly if these
hypotheses did not hold true, for example, if generated traffic upon paving were to be significantly lower
than the normal traffic, or if the road paving were to be delayed. The HDM-III model was also used to
assess the most suitable type of investment for each road, relative to altemative investments that would
result in different types of road improvement.
At appraisal, a rate of return of 12 percent was considered as a minimum to include a road subproject
under the project-financed road program. As shown in the table below, the returns for all categories of
investments were very high. This includes low traffic roads, for which appropriate low-cost improvements
were carried out. As a result, the size of the sample selected for the re-evaluation is satisfactory.
Economic Rates of Return (ERR) - Summary by Program
Paved Classified   Rural Roads      Rural Roads
Roads         Improvements      Construction
Program Cost                          109.7             13.3             13.4
($US Million equivalent)
ERR-minimum (%)                       12.5              15.9             15.8
ERR-maximum (%)                      Over 100         Over 100          Over 100
The economic analysis re-evaluation carried out by the DRCR using the HDM-III model is shown in table
form below.
E: Elargissement (widening); RT: Revetement (Surfacing); R: Renforcement (strengthening)
- 20 -



Long         6tat'Finat. L,n-                                                  __at Final
Codo ID~  DREIDPE,    Nat'ure Route' '(kin)  coot         -        Code IliD  DREIDPE;  Niture Roure a  n   coot,
Tre vaux         ,   (kdh) .TMJA,-    TRI             ______T,evaui              _     (kiih) TMJA   TRI
M007     B MELLAL     Es-Rt  3201   12 20   3860     469    80 10  M39B    NADOR        E.R    610    27 10  17 308  615   37 90
MOO8     B.MVELLAL    E+Rt   3208   13 90   3437     372    58 40  M035    NADOR        R      6203    7.00   3686  124 7  27 30
M009     B MELLAL     R      317     500    1483     114    15 10  M002    I OUTANANE   R      1001   27 00  13962   225   39 00
M106     B MELLAL     Es-RI  1 1    13 00   3029    6048 TR>100    M003    I OUTANANE   RT     1001   17 00   5025   225   19 60
moil    ICASA         E+R    3008    600, 3873      3500 TR>100    M061    OUJDA     -  B-sR   607     630. 6501     738   19 30,
M021     KENITRA      E+R    409    11 90   90011    600    42 10  M062    OUJDA        E+RT   607     4 30   6501 1738    24 20
M022     KENJITRA     E+R   4214    22 00  12101     200    37 50  M075   ITAOUNATE     RT     5309    2 50    4241 511    31 10
M023     KHEMISSET    R     14301   18 00   6410    1250    82 30  M077    TAOUNATE     R __5309      11 00   66941 511    27 80
M024     KHEMISSET    RI     401    15 00   1428     747    34 20  M099    TAOUNATE     R ___5309      7 50   2697   511   37 40
M025     KHEMISSET    R      401     7 00   5075     747    22 40  M079    TATA         R     1__12 _  31 20  9128   432   13 20
M026     KHENIFRA     R ___7308     `12 00  3570     230    27.30  M092    TATA         E ___12        3 60    981   432   36 30
M027     KHENIFRA     R ___3214     20 00   7 01 3   200    14 40  COOB    KENITRA      C __   4228   12 00   597 7  450 TR>100
M028    IKHOURIBGA    R __312        900    2102    1185,TR>100    C012    KHEMISSET    C __4300       6.75   5335   684 TR>100
M029     KHOURIBGA    Es-RI  311    12 00   5335     925    73 00  C013    KHOURIBGA    C __3512      11 58   6647   114,  41 70
M030     LARACHE      R ___1         3 00   2377    7626 TR>100    COOI   ICHTOUKA I    C__ 1900      18 00   5738   400 TR>100
M30B     LARACHE      R ___1        10 50   8319    3044 TR>100    C027    CHTOUKA I    C __1011     11400    4463   440 TR>100
M031     MKNES        E-sR  1714     9 00   4 375    747    73 30  C022    TIZNIT       C __   1903    8 00   2868   140   85 20
M032     MKNES        Rt__ 6         6 00   3039    7271 TR>100    C023    TIZNIT       C      1 920  18 00   6454    35   19 80
M033     MKNES        Es-RI  402    12 00   5770     822    67 601 C024    TIZNIT       C __   N C    13 50   4887   14    76 50
M006     ASSA ZAG     Es-RI  103    22 20   4503     336    74 10  C025    TIZNIT       C ___1921     26 40  24818   150   40 30
MObo     BOULEMANE R ___5109         4 601   625     285    49 10  COO6    FIGUIG       C __   604    40 00 297 32 __45    iS 80
MOOS     CHTOUKA I    R ___1011     15 00   8502 1   113    23 50  C017    OUJDA        C__ N C       14 001 8143 __42     16 70,
M012     CHTOUKA I    R      1       450    6393    2013    52 50  C018   [OUJDA        C     INC      800    7112   152   36 30
M014     CHTOUKA I    E.R    1016    5 00   2996     838    85 s0  COOS    CHEFCHAOUEC        14102   24 07 24249    519   90- 10
M018     EL JADIDA    Es-R   201    13 00   7434    1107 TR>100    C016-   OUJDA        C      6038    950    4292 __45    23 40
M019     EL JADiDA    RI__   318      1 60   508    1412    43 40  C019    OUJDA        C      6022    800    410O2   7 2  31 40
Miol     EL JADIDA    RI     3431    2 90    306     117    19 601 A009    EL JADI DA   A __   N C     905    1892   302 TR>100
M102     EL JADIDA    Rt     3431    14 20  1767     411    50 10  A010    EL JADIDA    A ___3455     13 40   1 277  300 TR>100
M103    IEL JADIDA    RI    .303    16 80   2354    1947 TR>100    A01 1   EL JADI DA   A      3439    810    1583   300,TR>l100
M020     GUELMIM      E+R    103  137 80    7801 1   336    86 30  A013    ESSAOUIRA    A      2240  119 50   35101   27   16 50
MOOl     I OUTANANE R        1000   13 70   3411      84    12 50  A017   IKENITRA      A      4262_   4 95   1270   300   85 50
M004     I OUTANANE Es-R     105    1 300   8727    1 388 TR>100   A051    KENITRA      A      4229    5 20   1 335  300   862 20
M31B     MKNES        Es-R   714     4 20   28634    747    5 3 30  A019   KHEMISSET    A      4321    7 00    829   565 TR>100
M036     NADOR        ErR    61 2   12 00   7451     470,   41 80  A020    KHEMISSET    A      4315   15 00   1854  1100 TR>100
M037     NADOR        R ___6202     13 00   7274    1750    72 50  A050    KHEMISSET    A      4322    9 00   4074   532   47 20
M045     NADOR        RI__   15     27 00   6171    1659    76 50  A027    RABAT        A      4006    7 00   1173   153.  73 70
M039     NADOR        E-sR  1610     8 50   3578     750    43 30  A028    RABAT        A     14043   12 00   2011    56   32 301
M040     NADOR        R ___16        9 00   3789    1750    91 90  A043    SAFI        -A      2319   15 00   1808    45   33 90
M042     NADOR        R ___6203      9 27   3615     790    68 30  A044   ISAFI         A      2306   20 20   4516    46   20 10
M044     NADOR        E+R    616     7 60   5609    5765 TR>100    A029    SETTAT       A      3626   14 60   3487   257   70 10
M045     NADOR        RI__   15     25 00    661    1659 TR>100    A030    SETTAT       A      3633   13 00   2470   21 3  79 60
M047     OUARZAZATE EsR      10     37 001 15029     5101   28 50  A031    SETTAT       A      3626   15 50   1990   246 TR>100
M048     OUARZAZATE E+R      10      15 00  6798     428    37.70  A032    SETTAT       A      2115   iS 00   21591 566 TR>100
M050    JOUARZAZATE RI__     10      1 100  3281     432    16 30  A033    SETTAT       A      3604   10 36   1690   150   76 00
M052     OUJDA        Rt__   16     20 00   7050    1143    47 60  A034    SETTAT       A     13628-  12 50  2263     88   44 401
M054     OUJDA        ErR    6000    10 20  5342    2560 TR>100    A036    SETTAT       A      361 3  14 21   2318   180   81 10
MO55     OUJDA        E-sR   612     6 70   3509    1180    98 30  A007   IB MELLAL     A      3204   14 00   3064   200   64 50
M056     OUJDA        ErR    6008    18 00  11790   5311 TR>100    A055    B MELLAL     A      3219    500 __440     148 TR>100
M058     OUJDA        ErR    607    25 00  10297     170    32 50  A021    MARRAKECH A         2034   38 00   6941   250 TR>100
M059     OUJDA        ErR   IN C     4 001 3109      488,   37 20  A047    MEKNES       A      N C     6 00    736   600 TR>100
M060     OUJDA        ErR    N C     400    3109     770    41 40l A015    IFRANE       A      N C     3 40,   619   100,  56 50
M063     OUJDA        ErR    6011   15 50  10159    3745 TR>100    A016   IFRANE        A      7231    3 50    495   400 TR>100
M105     OUJDA        ErR    N C     8 00   6218     656    33 60  A048    IFRANE       A     .7204    4 67    615   100   51.30,
M064     RABAT        RrRT   322    14 00   5981    5952 TR>100    A040    TAROUDANT A         1 735  42 00   6799    43   27 801
M065     RABAT        R      'I_     4 00   6499   15155 TR>100    A039    TANGER       A      4613_ 12 00    3167  1087 TR>100
M066     SETTAT       ErRT   305    24.00  10641    1052    71 50  A002    AZILAL       A      3104   34 00   3358    80 TR>100
M070     SETTAT       R ___3618     34 30  1 5093    727    64.50  A003    AZILAL       A      302    26.00   3234   120 TR>100
M071     SETTAT       ErRT 13602    17.501 7430     1OSS1TR>100- A004      AZILAL       A      3100   35 00   7700    50   iS 90
M072     SETTAT       RT     308    17 80   2890    1274 TR>100    A005    AZILAL       A      3107   20 001 5500     50   2 3 20
M073     SIDI KACEM   R ___408      41 00  20400    1620    56 70  A012    ERRACHIDIA   A      703    40 00   7501    50   27 10
M074     TAOUNATE     ErR    8      19 50   7 040   2430 TR>IOO    A049    ERRACHIDIA   A     17109   1 500   4757    60   19 80
M076     TAOUNATE     RT     5314   12 00   4518     495    16 80  A025    OUARZAZATE A        1519   24 00   3500 1130    66 901
M078     TAROUDANT E+R       109    23 00  10999     474    44 40  A026   IOUARZAZATE A        1502   26 00   2670   171 TR>100
M098     TATA         ErRT   109    10 00   4778     356    25.10  A054    GUELMIM      A      1315   14 70   2643    70   39 50
M094     TAZA         R      5407 115.00    5564     434    34.10  A041    TAZA         A      5406   19 30   9710   1`16  21 80
M095     TIZNIT       R ___104       9 40   3697    1723    88 30  A042    TAZA         A      4941   72 00  11968 _ 34    24 90
M069    ITIZNIT       E      104    50 00  11233    1984 TR>100    A046    TAOUNATE     A      5301   14 201 5598     70   23 10
M013     CHTOUKA.1    RT     1016    6 00   2996 _   665    34 10  A053    FIGUIG    _  A      604    38 00   4679    30   24 80
MOls     CHTOUKA I    RT    lOS      4 20    993    1 368   71 10  A045    OUJDA        A__5424       10 00   2402    46   20 20
M016     CHTOUKA.I    ErR    1014   10 30   3740     731    71 80  A023    NADOR        A__6209       15 80   4329    50   21 10
M043     NADOR        ErR    810    27 50  11486     600    71 30  A024    NADOR        A__6202       10 00   1600   300 TR>100
M034     NADOR        E.R    610     4 00   9254   1400TR >100I A08       !KEN IT RA    A      4203    6 00   1878   930 TR>100
-21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
February 1992                2   Economist, Highway Engineer
June 1992                    1   Highway Engineer
November 1992                1   Highway Engineer
February 1993                3   Highway Engineer, Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
July 1993                    3    Engineers (2), Economist
November 1993                3    Engineers (2), Economist
April 1994                   3    Engineers (2), Economist
April 1995                   5   Engineers (2), Economist,
Lawyer, Financial Analyist
Supervision
October 1995                 2    Engineer, Proc. Spec.             HS            HS
April 1996                   3   Engineers (2), Economist           S             HS
December 1996                1    Engineer                          U              S
June 1997                    2   Engineer, Economist                U              S
October 1997                 1   Engineer                           U              S
June 1998                    3   Engineer (2), Project Assist.      U              S
November 1998                4   Engineer, Economist, Sector Dr.,    S             S
Portfolio Mgr
July 1999                    1   Engineer                            S            S
November 1999                4   Engineer, Economist (2), Public     S             S
Sector Specialist
June 2000                    2   Engineer, PS Specialist             S             S
June 2001                    1   Engineer                            S             S
October 2001                 2   Engineer, Economist                 S             S
ICR
April 2002                   2    Engineer, Economist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual7Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               57.7                         173
Appraisal/Negotiation                    82.8                         265
Supervision                             113.3                         442
ICR
Total                                   253.8                         880
- 22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Neghgible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OI Macro policies                      O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                      O H   *SUOM      O N  O NA
O Physical                             OH *SUOM ON ONA
0 Financial                            OH    OSUOM      ON   *NA
F Institutional Development            0 H   O SUO M    0 N  0 NA
Environmental                         OH    OSUOM      ON   *NA
Social
E Poverty Reduction              O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
Fii Gender                       O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)         O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
F Private sector development           0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
O Public sector management             0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
OI Other (Please specify)              O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
- 23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
? Lending                                           OHS OS       OU     OHU
0 Supervision                                       OHS OS       OtU    OHU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
3 Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU     O HU
2 Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0  U   0 HU
3 Implementation agencyperformance                  O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
F Overall                                           OHS OS       0  U   O HU
-24-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The following documents on this project are available:
* Memorandum of the President
* Loan Agreement
* Project Agreement
* Back-to-Office Reports
* Project Supervision Reports
* Responses to Beneficiaries' Questionnaire
* Survey of Beneficiaries
- 25 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS
The main findings of the survey are:
*      decrease in the time to reach health centers, schools and administrative centers of villages and rural
communities. This improvement is attributed to the improvements of the roads as well as to the
construction of new facilities, the construction of which has been made possible or facilitated by
the road improvements
*      improvement in transport services, especially share-ride taxis, bus or informal transport
*      improved access to foodstuffs and other basic products, often with a drop in the prices of such
products
*      decrease in the operating cost of vehicles, often leading to a reduction in transport rates for
passengers and freight compared to the non-improved routes.
I. INTRODUCTION
The Intensive Learning ICR requires that a Beneficiary Survey be carried out as part of its preparation. In
compliance with this requirement, a survey was carried out.
Survey design: the survey was designed by the Bank project team, and was reviewed and adapted by the
DRCR, taking into account field conditions, especially the profiles of the interviewees.
Coverage: all four types of investments financed under the project, namely:
*      Rural Roads - Improvement
*      Rural Roads - Construction
*      Paved Roads - Improvement
*      Black spots (road safety) improvements.
Beneficiaries: three categories of beneficiaries were considered:
*      villagers living along the improved roads
*      providers of social services (education, health, community services)
*      providers of transport services.
Organization and Execution: the DRCR was responsible for the overall organization and conduct of the
survey. Field work was done by personnel from the provincial highway departments (DPEs), with
personnel experienced in surveys. DPE personnel attended training sessions in Rabat prior to launching the
survey. The training put special emphasis in the approach of interviewees, a large percentage of which was
expected to be illiterate. The consultant company CID assisted with the surveyors' training and preparation
of the survey report
Survey Period: The survey was carried out during April-May 2002.
- 26 -



II. SAMPLE SIZE AND CHARACTERISTICS
The sample size was 2,320. This comprised:
a) By type of beneficiary
*      1,437 villagers
*      326 providers of social services
*      557 providers of transport services
b) By type of project-financed works:
*      655 for rural road improvements
*      391 for rural road construction
*      1034 for paved road improvements
*      240 for black spots
c) By gender
*      2,185 males
*      135 females
d) By education level
*      1,003 were illiterate
*      456 had primary education
*      517 had secondary education
*      99 had higher education
e) By geographical coverage. The survey covered 19 provinces, or 53 percent of the 36 provinces where
the project carried out works.
III. QUESTIONS
1.     Did the road have a positive or negative effect?
2.     Is the road now better than before?
3.     Has the road improved your economic opportunities?
4.     4a What were the positive effects of the road improvement?
4b. What are the negative effects of the road improvements?
5.     Have you improve services as a result of better roads (for transport services providers only)?
6.     Did the safety improvements make it safer for you and your family (for villagers/black spots only)?
7.     Are road safety improvements a priority for you ( for providers transport services/black spots
only)?
- 27 -



IV. SURVEYRESULTS
4.1     Rural Roads: Improvement
a) Profile of interviewees.
Number: 655
Male/Female: 580/75
Prevailing age bracket: 31-40
Percentage illiterate: 43 percent
3ampie   Gender    _     =     Age                      Education Level  =
#   Male Female <=20 21 a 30 31 a 40 41 a 50 >50 Illiterate Primar Secondarv Higher
RR     Vilaqers     379   342   37    18    63     96     95   107   231   106     37      5
Improvement Sal Services 190  152   38    0     74     92     17    7    4      9      146     31
ranport Serv.  86  86    0    0     14     44     14    14   46     14     25       1
Total                    655  580    75   18 151       232    126   128  281    129    208   1 37
b) Responses
Question 1: Did the road have a positive or ne ative effect?
Positive (%)       Negative (%)      No effect (%)
Villager                         93                 3                  4
Transport Services              100                 0                  0
Total                            94                 3                  3
Question 2 : Is the road now better than before
Better (%/.)     No change (%)
Villager                          95                  5
Social Services                   98                  2
Transport Services                99                  1
Total                             96                  4
Question 3: Did the improvement improve your economic oportunity
Yes (%/6)       No change (%)
Villager                  96                 4
Total                     96                 4
- 28 -



Question 4a. What were the positive effects of the road improvement?
Impact                                                     Villager  Provider    Provider
Social   Transport
Services    Services
1. Improvement of transport services (buses, taxis, jeeps)   40                    34
2. Creation of new transport services                        10         -          24
3. Better access to health services                          15        33          -
4. Better access to schools                                  5         26     _
5. Increase in Primary School enrollment                     6          8          -
6. Increase in Girls' Primary School enrollment              3         11          -
7. Reduced absenteeism of teachers thaks to better roads     2         10          -
8. Improved health services (for example, longer work hours,  2         1          -
more personnel..)
9. Improved access to community services                     15        11          6
10.Improved supply of foodstuffs and other basic necessities  31       10         21
1 1. Improved access for visits with family and friends      14         0          13
12. Obtain better prices for my products                     8          0         na
13. Operating and maintenance costs of vehicles are lower    3         11         24
14. Less dirt on the roads                                   0          0          0
15. Lower cost of basic products                             16         14         14
Question 4b. What were the negative effects?
Impact                              Overall      Villager     Provider     Provider
Social      Transport
Services      Services
No negative effects                    53          62            34           53
Higher pedestrian risks due to         2            1            3             7
higher traffic                                I
Increase in dirt due to higher         19          21            18           13
traffic                          I_I
Question 5: . Have you improve services as a result of better roads (for trans port services providers only).
Yes           |     No
Providers Transport Services                98                  2
- 29 -



4.2     Rural Roads - Construction
a) Profile of interviewees.
Number: 391
'Male/Female: 364/27
Prevailing age bracket: 31-40
Percentage illiterate: 47 percent
Gender                    Age                          Education Level     l
Sample                                                   illiterate     Secondar
Size   Male  Female  <=20   21 - 30 31 - 40 41 - 50  >50  Primary Pnmary  Y   Higher
Villagers    190    189     1      3      36     43     32      76     138    36      13     3
RR Const Social Services  136   110    26      0      31     57     33     14      6      11     74     45
Transport Sev  65      65     0      0      10     28      19     8      38     18      9     0
Total                    391    364     27     3      77     128     84     98     182    65     96      48
b) Responses
Question 1: 1. Did the road have a positive or negative effect?
Positive (%)        Negative (%)       No change (%)
Villager                                   99                   0                   1
Transport Services                         100                  0                   0
Total                                      100                  0                   0
Question 2 : Is the road now better than before
Better (%)        No change (%)
Villager                               100                  0
Social Services                        100                  0
Transport Services                      100                 0
Total                                  100                  0
Question 3: Didthe iprovement im       ve your economic opportunity
Yes (%)          No change (%)
Villager                    97                   3
Total                       97                   3
-30 -



Question 4a. What were the positive effects of the road improvement?
impact                                                 Villager    Provider     Provider
Social      Transport
Services     Services
1. Improvement of transport services (buses, taxis, jeeps)  36                    43
2. Creation of new transport services                     4           -            6
3. Better access to health services                       25         24           17
4. Better access to schools                               33         29            5
5. Increase in Primary School enrollment                  3          25            -
6. Increase in Girls' Primary School enrollment           1           5            -
7. Reduced absenteeism of teachers thanks to better roads  1          9            -
8. Improved health services (for example, longer work     2          22            -
hours, more personnel..)
9. Improved access to community services                  6          24            9
1 O.Improved supply of foodstuffs and other basic necessities  24    21           11
11. Improved access for visits with family and friends    12          -           11
12. Obtain better prices for my products                  I           -            -
13. Operating and maintenance costs of vehicles are lower  3         3            49
14. Less dirt on the roads                                4           1           14
15. Lower cost of basic products                          16          9            8
Question 4b. What were the negative effects?
Impact                 Overall      Villager     Provider     Provider
Social      Transport
Services      Services
No negative effects                    46          49           49            34
Higher pedestrian risks due to         3            4            3             0
higher traffic
Increase in dirt due to higher         1            0            0             3
traffic
Question 5: Have you improved services as a result of better roads (for transport services providers only).
Yes              No
Providers Transport Services               98                2
- 31 -



4.3    Paved Roads - Improvement
a) Profile of interviewees.
Number: 1,034
Male/Female: 1,001/33
Prevailing age bracket: 31-40
Percentage illiterate: 41 percent
Gender               Age                       Education Level
Sample                                        Illiteratel  -  _
Paved illa         #    Male Female <=20 21 - 30 31 - 40 41 - 50 >50 Pnmarv Primary Secondary  Higher
Paved Villagers   728   695    33   17    67   185    206  253   313 |173     125       1 3
Roads Fransport Sen  306  306  0     2    37    90    106   69   115   60      52       0
Total       1034  1001   33   19   104   275    312  322   428 | 233    177       13
b) Responses
Question 1: 1. Did the road have a positive or negative effect?
Positive (%)      Negative (%)     No change(%)
Villager                 100                0                 0
Transport                100                0                 0
Services
Total                    100                0                 0
Question 2: Is the road now better than before
Better (%)      No change (%)
Villager                 100                0
Social Services
Transport                98                 2
Services
Total                    99                 1
Question 3: Did the improvement irnprove your economic opportunity
Not applicable to paved roads.
Question 4. What were the positive effects of the road improvement?
This question is designed to capture localized effects of rural roads improvements and construction, and
was not applied to improvement of paved roads.
Question 5: . Have you improve services as a result of better roads (for transport services providers only).
|      Yes           No      l
Providers Transport Services                  99             1
- 32 -



4.4    Black Spots
a) Profile of interviewees.
Number: 240
Male/Female: 240/0
Prevailing age bracket:41-50
Percentage illiterate: 47 percent
Gender                Age                     Education Level
Sample                                         Illiterate
#    Male Female -=20 21 a 30 31 a 40 41 a 50 >50 Prima  Pnmarv Secondarv H her
Safety illae140 140            0    0     14    37    44    43    65     19     27      1
|Transport Serv  100  100  0    0    12    33    38    15    47      9     9       0
240 1  240   0     0    26    70    82    58    112    28     36      1
b) Responses
Question 1: 1. Did the road have a positive or negative effect?
Positive (%)    Negative (%)    No change (%)
Villager                        84              12              4
Social Services
Transport Services             95               5               0
Total                          89               9               2
Question 2 : Is the road now better than before
| Better (%)     No change (%)
Villager                               87               13
Social Services                         -               -
Transport Services                     98               2
Total                                  91               9
Question 3: Did the improvement improve your economic opportunity
Not applicable to black spots.
Question 4. What were the positive effects of the road improvement?
This question is designed to capture localized effects of rural roads improvements and construction, and
was not applied to improvement of black spots (on paved roads)
Question 5: Not applicable to black spots.
Question 6. Did the safety improvements make it safer for you and your family (for villagers/black spots
onely)
Yes                   No
Villagers                     81                     19
-33 -



Question 7. Are road safety improvements a priority for you ( for providers transport services/black spots
only)
l:E::~: Yes                                           |     No      l
I Providers Transport Services        |      96       |      4      l
- 34 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
The preparation of an ICR-Intensive Learning requires the conduct of a workshop to discuss the results of
the project, including the findings of the beneficiary survey.
Organization. The workshop was carried out on October 14, 2002 in Rabat. The workshop was organized
by the DRCR (Directorate of Road and Road Traffic) and conducted in the DRCR's conference facility.
Attendance. The workshop was attended by about 50 people, including representatives from
*      the Ministries of Economy and Finance; Affaires Generales; Transport; and Equipment
*      the DRCR
*      DPEs (provincial branches of DRCR)
*      CNPAC (road safety commission)
*      representatives from local govemments (communes and associations)
*      CID consultant
*      World Bank
Agenda. The workshop lasted a full day. The agenda was as follows:
I.     The Project
Presenters: All government units involved with the project
II.    Findings of Beneficiary Survey
Presenters: DRCR/CID representatives
III.   Case studies
Presenters: Representatives from Local Govemments and DPEs.
IV.    World Bank comments on project and relevant intemational experience
Presenters: Bank project team
V.     General Discussion
Key conclusions . The key conclusions of the workshop were:
(a)    the project met its objectives
(b)    impact on the population was significant, notably, as reflected by the survey, in facilitating access
to social services, helping increase enrollment in primary education , helping improve provision of
transport services, and effecting reductions in travel time, vehicle operating costs and truck rates;
(c)    the efforts to improve highway safety need to be pursued,
(d)    the contribution of local finance was successful and greatly increased ownership of the road
improvements
(e)    the workshop itself was very useful.
- 35 -



Annex 9
Appendix 1. List of Workshop Participants
Nom Prenom                                      Foncfion
DRCR
BEN NCER M'hamed              Directeur des Routes
DARDOURI Mohamed             Directeur Adjoint
RMILI Abdennebi              Directeur Adjoint
IMZEL Ahmed                  Chef de Division
BENZEKRI Jaouad              Chef de Division
BOUNOUA Lahssen              Chef de Division
HIMMI Mohamed                Chef de Division
ALAOUI M.MOUHSINE            Chef de CNER
BEN AZIZ Ikrarn              Chef de Service A la DP
FADIL Hammadi                Charge des projets finances
MALIKI Adil                   Ingenieur A la DT
BOUHOUT Hakim                 Ingenieur A la DP
BRAHMI Mustapha               Ingenieur A la DP
RISSAOUI Mustapha             Chef de Service A la DPF
DRE/DPE
ENOURHBI Abderrahirn         Marrakech
AYAD Allal                    Khernisset
BEN ALLA Mohammed             Azilal
JAHID Mohamed                 Chefchaouen
El JANATI Ahmed              Taounate
OUTIFA MOhamed                Chtouka-Inezegane
BENTAOUHIT                    Rabat
BEJRHIT Mohamed              L'Oriental
ISMAILI Abedellah             Meknes
BAKHTI El Hassan              El Jadida
OUAHI Omar                    Kenitra
EL GHAMRASNI Med              Ifrane
GHARBI Abdellah               Ouarzazate
JAFRANE Said                  Taroudant
RZAIZI Mohamed               Tiznit
MOUTAOUAKIL Larbi             Settat
CID
BENSSIED TaYb                Ingenieur principal
Ministere de l'Economie des
Finances et de la Privatisation
CHERKAOUI Farouk              Chef Service des decaissement du Financement Multilateral
CHERGUI Aicha                 Inspecteur finances
HAMIA Mohamed                 Charge du secteur routier
- 36 -



Nom Prenom                                     Fonction
Association Adrar Tassgedlt
Chtouka Ait Baha
BARGACHE Mohamed              President
Association Semlalia
BOUTAM Abdellah               Secretaire Generales
MAKTOUM Ahmed                 Membre Technique
Ministere du Transports et de
la Marine Machande
ZHAR Hamid                    Directeur de la Planification et de Etudes
IDRISSI Najib                 Chef de Division
FADILI Mohamed                Chef de Division
FNICHEL Abdesslam             Chef de Service
CNPAC
BOULAAJOUL Benacer            Chef de Service
LPEE
JAKANI                        Directeur du CERIT
DPE (ME)
GOUNI Youssef                 Chef de Service
Ministere des Affaires
Gen6rales de Gouvernement
EL AMRANI Abdellcrim         Charge de mission
Commune Rurale d'amen
Selfia
CHKIRNI                       President de commune
Banque Ntondiale
FEGHOUL Mohamed
HERNAN Levy
BERGM Sylvia
NAJAT Youwari
WARD Cristopher
- 37 -



Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Evaluation Report
Note: An English translation of this annex is available separately.
1.     Gen6se, description et evolution du projet
1.1.   Genese du projet
Depuis 1969, la Banque Mondiale a soutenu la politique du Gouvemement en matiere de routes en
fmancant cinq projets routiers pour la construction, F'amelioration et la remise en etat des routes et dix
projets agricoles pour les routes de desserte rurale. Les projets routiers ont ete concus pour encourager des
investissements A fort rendement pour 1'economie marocaine (entretien et remise en etat en particulier), et
pour aider A renforcer les institutions responsables de la construction des routes, de leur entretien et de la
coordination des transports. A travers ces projets, l'intervention de la Banque a permis de renforcer la
prioritM donnee aux travaux d'entretien et de rehabilitation sur lesquels le gouvemement marocain fait
maintenant porter tous ses efforts de financement.
Le projet de routes secondaires, tertiaires et rurales, appele communement 6eme Projet Routier, a et
identifie A l'origine en 1991 comme un projet de routes rurales. Cependant en 1992, le Gouvernement a
demande d'en e1argir le cadre aux autres domaines prioritaires du secteur, A savoir la securite routiere et le
reseau des routes secondaires et tertiaires.
Les objectifs globaux qui ont ete retenus pour le projet s'inscrivent dans le cadre de la strategie
d'intervention de la Banque au Maroc qui vise le developpement du secteur prive et des secteurs sociaux, la
lutte contre la pauvrete, la conservation des ressources hydriques, la gestion du secteur public, la protection
de 1'environnement, le financement et la gestion du secteur public.
Les objectifs du projet sont:
* repondre aux besoins essentiels du monde rural touche par la pauvrete en ameliorant l'acces aux
services sociaux et aux marches;
* accelerer le developpement du secteur prive en diminuant les contraintes liees A
la reglementation des transports routiers et en faisant davantage appel A des intervenants contractuels
pour les travaux routiers et leur contrBle;
* developper les competences en matiere de gestion routiere au sein des nouvelles directions regionales;
* ameliorer la securite routiere.
Les principales actions du projet initialement prevues qui permettent d'atteindre ces objectifs sont:
- La rehabilitation d'environ 2219 kmn de routes secondaires, tertiaires revetues en effectuant des
enduits superficiels, des renforcements et/ou des travaux d'e1argissement,
- La rehabilitation d'environ 1133 km de routes rurales prioritaires non revetues et la construction de
96 km de routes bitumees,
- L'aamelioration de la gestion du reseau routier (appui technique, planification et programmation,
- 38 -



amelioration par etapes et formation) et renouvellement de l'equipement essentiel pour 1'entretien
routier,
- La rationalisation de l'organisation de la securite routiere et le soutien d'actions prioritaires.
1.2.   Les r6alisations
Lors de la revue A mi-parcours du projet, afn de tenir compte des contraintes de programmation et des
d6lais d'achevement du projet, il a ete convenu d'apporter les modifications suivantes A la description du
projet:
- Routes rurales : rehabilitation de 1 000 km de routes rurales prioritaires et construction et bitumage de
235 km de routes rurales prioritaires.
- Routes secondaires revetues: execution d'un programme d'enduisage, de renforcement etlou
d'61argissement d'environ 2 660 km de routes secondaires revetues.
- Gestion du reseau routier : acquisition de 7 porte-chars, 5 camions etraves et 5 chargeurs sur chenilles.
1.2.1. La composante routes rurales
Le programme d'amenagement de pistes concemr  par le projet porte sur 46 operations totalisant un
lineaire de 713,8 km(soit 11,7 % de l'ensemble des amenagements du PNRR) pour un montant global de
l'ordre de 138,3 MDH.
Le programme de construction, quant A lui, porte sur 15 operations totalisant un lineaire de 231,6 km (soit
4,5 % de l'ensemble des constructions du PNRR), pour un montant global de l'ordre de 143,4 MDH.
L'ensemble de ces operations ont e  achevees.
Ces operations d'amenagement et de construction de routes rurales ont permis le desenclavement d'une
population rurale estimee A environ un million de personnes dans l'ensemble des regions economiques du
Pays.
Enfin, il convient de noter que la composante routes rurales du projet prevoyait une action
d'accompagnement visant la finalisation du reclassement du reseau routier. Actuellement, seul le
reclassement du reseau routier A la charge de l'Etat est acheve. Le reseau des routes communales n'est pas
encore arret.
1.2.2. Composante rehabilitation
Le programme de rehabilitation des routes secondaires et tertiaires comprend des travaux d'elargissement
et de renforcement ainsi que des travaux revetement pour rattraper le retard d'entretien periodique.
Le programme de rehabilitation du projet comporte 94 operations dont 55 operations pour le volet
conservation du patrimoine et 39 operations pour la modernisation du reseau, pour un lineaire global de
1131,8 km, y compris 12 operations A financement local qui representent un lineaire de 219,4 km.
- 39 -



Tableau 1.1. Repartition des lineaires et du nombre d'operations des routes secondaires et tertiaires revetues par
nature d'interventions(non compris les op6rations financees localement)
Renforcement          Revetement              Total
Avec 4largissement      393,8,2 km            169,8 km             563,6 km
(30 operations)      (9 op&rations)       (39 operations)
Sans 6largissement       335,9 km             248,6 km             584,5 krn
(37 op&rations)     (18 operations)      (55 operations)
Total              729,7 km             418,4km              1148,1 km
(67 operations)     (27 operations)       (94 opeations)
Les operations de maintenance et de rehabilitation realisees dans le cadre de ce projet ont permis de
soutenir I'action du Ministere de l'Equipement en matiere de sauvegarde du patrimoine qui constitue l'une
des priorites de la politique routiere. Ainsi, on note une amelioration du reseau routier revetu en etat << bon
A acceptable >> de 3 points, passant de 63,1% en 1996 A 66% en 2000. II en est de meme de la valeur d'UNI
qui est passee de 3724 mm/km en 1996 A 3600 mm/km en 2001.
1.2.3. La composante gestion du reseau
- Acquisition de materiel : La liste des engins acquis avec le fmancement de la Banque Mondiale a ete
reduite aux equipements d'intervention d'urgence. Elle comprend 7 engins porte-chars, 1 pelle hydraulique
et 3 camions chasse-neige. Ces materiels ont ete acquis pour un montant total de 15 249 900 DH.
- Etude d'appui technique (mise a disposition d'experts et formation): L'objet de ce contrat (n DR
13/99) est de mettre A la disposition de la DRCR des experts dans le domaine routier pour des missions de
courte duree autour d'un certain nombre d'axes bien identifies. Un programme de travail a e  arr&e avec
le groupement, titulaire du marche, autour de quatre axes de developpement:
1- Amdnagement de capacite des routes d fort trafic: cet axe se rapporte A la definition de la
capacite des routes actuelles et sur la possibilite d'utilisation du manuel americain HCM ou de son
adaptation au contexte marocain;
2- Processus des dtudes: cet axe est poursuivi par une expertise relative A la definition de termes de
references pour la realisation de certaines actions jugees prioritaires pour ameliorer le processus des
etudes dont notamment la revision de certaines instructions et CPC.
3- Amelioration du service rendu d l'usager: la reflexion concemant cet axe est achevee.
4- Mise d niveau du CNER: de 1'exploitation du rapport de la premiere mission, il ne parait
opportun d'entreprendre de nouvelles actions dans le cadre de ce marche.
A ce jour, les missions de diagnostic ont ete realisees pour les quatre axes sus-cites. Ces missions ont
mobilis6 environ 25% du montant du marche y afferent.
1.2.4. La composante securite routiere
Entre 1994 et 1995, la DRCR a realise 118 amenagements de securite pour un cofit de 35 000 KDH. Au
-40 -



titre des annees 1997-2003, c'est le programme de securite routiere finance par le Projet de routes
secondaires, tertiaires et rurales qui a ete mis en cnuvre. II comporte 86 amenagements lourds de securite
pour un cout de 111,6 Millions de Dirhams, dont 50 sont acheves au terme de l'exercice 2001, pour un
cout de 67.000 KDH.
Le programme retenu a connu un demarrage tardif en raison des retards dans la preparation et
l'approbation des etudes d'execution. Toutefois, le taux d'execution, qui est de 60 % au 31 decembre
2001, reste appreciable.
A priori, les donnees brutes semblent indiquer que la situation de la securite routiere ne s'est pas amelior6e
depuis les progres enregistres entre 1995 et 1996, bien que les indicateurs rapportant le nombre de tues a
la population et au parc national de vehicules aient tendance A stagner.
1.3.   Indicateurs de performance
Conformement au rapport d'evaluation du projet etabli en Mai 1995, les indicateurs qui ont e  retenus
pour le suivi de l'execution des operations du projet sont les suivants:
Tableau 1.2. Description des indicateurs de suivi du 6eme Projet Routier
Programme                  Dfinition des indicateurs de suivi           Priodicite
- Routes Rurales    1- Interruptions de trafic(kmrjour)                      I an
2- Trafic (veh/j)                                        Ian
- Routes revetues       1- UNI                                                   I an (*)
2- Trafic (veh/j)                                         I an
- Securite routiere     1- Nombre de tues                                         I an
2- Nombre de tu6s par millions d'habitants               2 ans
3- Nombre de tues par millier de vehicules               3 ans
(*) Lors de l'elaboration du rapport a mi-parcours du projet (1998), la p6riodicite initiale des mesures de l'UNI
qut etait annuelle a e modifi6e pour devenir triennale. En effet, pour chaque section relevant du programme de
maintenance des routes revetues, l'UNI est renseigne une seule fois sur trois ans. Aussi, il a e propose a la
Banque de calculer une valeur moyenne de l'UNI qui est triennale glissante.
1.3.1. Routes rurales
L'objectif de la composante relative aux routes rurales est de repondre aux besoins essentiels du monde
rural touche par la pauvrete, en ameliorant l'acces aux services sociaux et aux marches. Comme le montre
le tableau suivant, les valeurs reelles des indicateurs retenus ont permis d'atteindre ces objectifs.
En effet, pour l'ensemble des sections du projet, l'indicateur des interruptions de trafic est passe 52 301
km*jours en 1995 A 3647 km*jours au 31 decembre 2001, et ce, alors que le projet n'est pas encore
entierement acheve.
L'evolution de l'indicateur de mesure des interruptions de trafic, exprimee en milliers de km*jours, est
repr6sentee A la figure 1.1 . II y apparait, en particulier, que l'objectif vise a ete atteint, et meme depasse,
et ce, en depit des retards enregistres au cours des trois premieres annees d'execution du projet.
- 41 -



interruptions
de trafic   60
(1000*km*jour)
50 -
40                            _                    |       Valeurs cibles
30             _____                  -.--. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Valeurs r6eI1es
20
10
1995  1996  1997   1998  1999 2000   2001
annee de mesures
Figure 1.1 .Evolution de l'indicateur d'interruption de trafic
En outre, les valeurs cibles de l'indicateur de mesure du trafic sur le reseau(exprimees en millions de
v6hicules*knm/an) ont ete approchees au cours des trois premieres annees de l'execution du projet, pour
etre nettement depassees A partir de l'an 2000.
Trafic sur le reseau
(Mllilhons
v6h.*kmIan)  70 -       =          
60
/0                   Valeurs cibles
40          -                                     -4i< - Valeurs reelles
40~               _   
30-
20 -        -     - 
1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001
annee de mesures
Figure 1.2.Evolution de l'indicateur de trafic
Au 31 decembre 2001, le trafic reel degageait un excedent de l'ordre de 13,4 millions de vehicules*km/an
par rapport aux estimations preliminaires du projet.
En ce qui conceme la desserte de population, le nombre de personnes ayant acces en tout temps aux routes
realisees dans le cadre du Projet a atteint plus d'un million (Fig. 1.3) soit 8 % de la population rurale
nationale.
-42 -



1000
800
600
400
200
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000    2001
Figure 1.3. Evolution de la population desservie par les routes rurales du projet
1.3.2. Routes revetues
Comme le montre le tableau qui suit, le projet a contribu a l' amelioration du niveau de service du reseau.
En effet, les valeurs reelles de l'UNI durant la periode de realisation du projet sont inferieures aux valeurs
cibles.
Tableau 1.3. Evolution de la valeur d'UNI du reseau routier revetu
Valeurs d'UNI(mm/km)
Valeur cibleValeur reelle
Valeur de depart:
3 724 mm/km
30-juin-97                  37003450
30-nov-98                   36703395
31-dec-01                   36003367
En ce qui concerne 1'entretien periodique, les travaux sont realises A 100% par l'entreprise. D'autre part,
les pourcentages des travaux d'entretien de routine realises A l'entreprise depassent les valeurs cibles du
projet et ont atteint 47%/ en 2001.
1.3.3. Seurite routiere
Comme le montre le tableau donne ci-apres, le nombre de tues a connu une reduction en passant de 131
tues par million d'habitants en 1994 A 128 tues par million d'habitants en 2000.
-43 -



Tableau 1. 4. Evolution des indicateurs de s6curit6 routiere au long de la dur6e du projet (y compris les tues en
agglom6rations urbaines)
Indicateur                     1994        1996       2000         2005
Nombre de tues           (cible)                3605       3572        3521         3521
Nombre de tues           (reel)                 3605       2807        3627           -
Nombre de tu6s           (cible)                131         124         113          103
par Millions d'habitants  (reel)               138 (1)      105         128
Nombre de tues           (cible)                4,1         3,7         3,0          2,5
par Millier de vehicules  (r6el)              2,78 (2)      2,00        2,16
(1) Le calcul de l'indicateur est base sur une population de 26.073.000 habitants
(recensement de 1994), et sur un taux de croissance annuel de 2,06% (taux observ6 entre 1982 et 1994).
(2) Ce taux a e calcul6 sur la base d'un parc automobile evalue en 1994 A 907302.
2.     Evaluation des performances du projet
Bien que le projet a connu un retard d'environ trois ans dans son demarrage Oes negociations du projet ont
e entamees enl993 alors que le projet n'a demarr6 qu'en juillet 1997), dfi A un certain nombre de
questions qui restaient en suspens, notamment en ce qui conceme le financement de l'entretien des routes, la
Banque et l'organe d'execution ont donn6 un bon 6lan au projet qui a pu d6marrer effectivement en 1997.
2.1.   Evaluation des performances de I'organe d'ex6cution et de la Banque
2.1.1. L'organe d'execution
Les performances de la DRCR sont satisfaisantes pour ce qui concerne l'accomplissement des formalites de
mise en vigueur du pret et l'acheminement des demandes de decaissements.
Le contr6le et la surveillance des travaux ont ete assures correctement par les Directions R6gionales et
Provinciales de l'Equipement, avec le recours des laboratoires agre6s, en mettant un personnel competent
sur le projet pour faire respecter les normes techniques et de qualite exigees dans le domaine. Les
d6comptes et les demandes de d6caissement ont et6 etablis r6gulierement. La Banque a pu recevoir
regulierement les rapports d'avancement du programme sur les plans physique et financier.
Toutefois, la r6alisation de certaines actions prevues dans le cadre du volet relatif aux etudes de
developpement institutionnel, notamment en ce qui conceme les contrats de pilotage des travaux et la mise
a disposition d'experts, a connu une lenteur qui est due A des difficult6s rencontrees lors de la mise en
ceuvre de ces etudes. Apres le cadrage des objectifs attendus de ces etudes, la DRCR a pu faire aboutir les
actions les plus prioritaires qui rentrent dans le cadre de ces 6tudes.
2.1.2. La Banque
Apres le demarrage du projet, les performances de la Banque ont donn6 un bon 61an au projet. Les missions
de supervision ont permis A la Banque de suivre de tres pres l'ex6cution des differentes composantes du
projet.
En outre, les visites de chantiers effectu6es dans les provinces de Settat, Khouribga, Khemisset, Meknes,
Tiznit, Agadir, Taounate, Khenifra et Beni-Mellal par les reponsables de la supervision du projet du c6te
de la Banque ont 6galement contribue A ameliorer cette qualite et tirer profit des recommandations 6mises
par ces experts lors de ces visites.
-44 -



Les resultats obtenus montrent que le projet a e  bien prepare et evalue, et que ses objectifs sont atteints.
En conclusion, le 6eme Projet Routier, finance par la BIRD, a e  bien concu. II correspond A des priorites
economiques dans le secteur routier et a e realise avec succes. II a contribue au desenclavement du monde
rural (environ 1 million d'habitants ruraux sont desservis par les routes du projet), et A l'amelioration du
niveau de service des routes et de la securite routiere.
La mise en ceuvre du 6eme Projet s'est deroulee dans le cadre d'une collaboration etroite entre l'organe
d'execution et la Banque. A titre d'exemple, les criteres de s6lection des projets ont ete revus pour
permettre d'identifier les operations pertinentes A fort impact dans les zones beneficiaires.
C'est ainsi que lors de la revue A mi-parcours du projet effectuee en 1998, la criteres de selection des
operations de routes rurales eligibles au fmancement du 6eme Projet Routier tels qu'ils ont ete fixes dans le
rapport d'6 valuation ont e revus. Suite A cette revue, il a ete decide que la justification economique de ces
operations soit effectuee comme suit:
- pour les amenagements de routes dont le cofit des travaux est inferieur A 0.2 MDH/km, la justification
economique des operations se basera uniquement sur une analyse multicritere. Les op6rations dont la
note d'analyse multicritere est inferieure A 8 sont eliminees.
- pour les am6nagements de routes d'un cofit superieur A 0.2 MDH/km et les constructions de routes
revetues, la justification economique se base sur analyse multicritere suivie d'une evaluation
economique par HDMIII. Pour cette demiere categorie d'operations, il a e convenu de maintenir les
operations rentables dont la note est superieure A un seuil fixe A 6 au lieu de 8, initialement prescrit par
la Banque.
La revue a mi-parcours du projet a egalement etendu la zone d'action du projet en ce qui conceme la
maintenance du reseau routier A d'autres provinces du Royaume en dehors de celles situees dans les regions
de l'Oriental et du Sud qui etaient les seules prevues initialement par le projet.
2.2.   Impact socio-economique
2.2.1. Contexte
Le 6eme Projet routier a ete choisi par la Banque pour faire l'objet d'un rapport d'achevement dit
d'enseignement intensif (RAPEI). L'une des exigences pour la preparation d'un tel type de rapport est la
prise en compte des resultats d'une enquete aupres des beneficiaires du projet pour pouvoir en tirer des
enseignements dont pourront beneficier A la fois l'emprunteur (le Gouvemement du Maroc), I'agence
d'execution du projet (la DRCR - Ministere de l'Equipement), et la Banque Mondiale.
2.2.2. Objectifs de P'enquete
Cette enquete vise A 6valuer l'atteinte des objectifs suivants:
-    repondre aux besoins essentiels du monde rural touche par la pauvrete, en ameliorant l'acces aux
services sociaux et aux marches,
-    ameliorer la securite routiere.
-45 -



2.2.3. Principaux resultats obtenus
Operations d'amenagement et de construction
Les impacts les plus ressentis par les beneficiaires sont:
- la reduction du temps d'acces aux services socio-administratifs (chef-lieux, centres de sante,
etablissements scolaires). Ce progres est imputable a la fois a l'amelioration des routes et a de
nouveaux equipements dont la construction a e rendue possible en partie par les routes.
- I'amrlioration des services existants de transports, notamment les taxis, les autobus ou le transport
informel qui assurent un service plus frequent et moins cofiteux, selon 38% des personnes
interrogees.
- L'amelioration de l'acces a l'approvisionnement en produits alimentaires et autres produits de
premiere necessite. Cette amelioration a eu pour effet une diminution des prix d'achat selon 22%
des personnes interrogees.
- La reduction des couits d'exploitation des vehicules, d'ofu une diminution des tarifs de transports de
voyageurs et de frets par rapport a ceux pratiques dans les routes non amenagees.
Operations de maintenance
Les impacts les plus ressentis par les beneficiaires sont l'am6lioration des services existants de
transport public sous forme de taxis et de bus qui assurent un service de transport plus rapide (exprime
par 59% des enqu8tes) , et la reduction du cofit de reparation et d'exploitation des vehicules, selon 25%
des personnes interrogees.
En outre, I'elimination des congestions et des coupures des routes a permis une circulation plus rapide
et l'augmentation de la fluidite du trafic:
-   35% des personnes interrogees ont mis l'accent sur la possibilite de circuler plus vite,
- 27% ont signale la reduction ou l'elimination des coupures,
- 14% ont signale l'amrlioration de la fluidite du trafic.
Securite routifre
Parmi les impacts les plus ressentis par les beneficiaires, on peut citer:
- 70% des personnes interrogees ont affirme que la circulation est plus sfire apres la realisation de
l'amenagement;
- 57% ont signale une reduction du nombre d'accidents;
- 32% ont signale que la circulation est devenue plus sure pour les pietons.
2.3.   Impact sur I'environnement
Dans le cadre de l'evaluation de l'impact sur l'environnement des operations du 6eme Projet Routier, la
DRCR a elabore un questionnaire qui a e  envoye en 1999 aux DRE/DPE en vue de le renseigner pour
toutes les operations prevues en construction ou en e1argissement.
-46 -



L'analyse des questionnaires renseignes par les DRE/DPE a montre que globalement les operations
realisees n'ont pas eu d'impact negatif sur l'environnement. En effet, 1'execution des travaux de
construction et d'amenagement de pistes s'effectue dans 1'emprise de la route. II en est de meme pour les
travaux d'e1argissement.
Quelques impacts negatifs sur l'environnement, quoique minimes, ont ete releves et concement en
particulier la non remise en etat des quelques zones d'emprunts des materiaux et de campement des
chantiers et la modification de trace des itin6raires utilises par le betail.
Une visite de terrain a e  effectuee par une equipe de la DRCR dans les DPE de Tiznit et
Chtouka-lnezgane et a porte sur une dizaine de sections.
Apres ces visites, la DRCR a diffuse une circulaire A 1'ensemble des DRE/DPE au cours de F'annee 2000
leur demandant de mettre en oeuvre les recommandations visant la prise en compte de I'aspect
environnement dans la realisation des futurs projets routiers et la reduction des impacts sur l'environnement
lors de 1'execution de ces projets.
3.     Recommandations pour les futurs projets
3.1.   Criteres d'eligibilite des routes rurales
Les criteres d'eligibilite des routes rurales qui exigent en sus de l'analyse multicritere une evaluation
economique par HDM III ne sont pas toujours adaptes A cette categorie de routes. En effet, une route peut
avoir un faible trafic tout en assurant un r6le socio-administratif significatif alors qu'une route qui draine
un trafic de transit important peut avoir un fort irnpact economique sans assurer un r6le socio-administratif.
A ussi, il est propose pour la justification economique des routes rurales d 'adopter I 'un des deux criteres
suivants: soit une note d'analyse multicritere superieure d 8, soit un TRI>=12%.
3.2.   Procedures de passation des marches
La passation des marches des projets finances par la Banque connait souvent des retards tres importants
dus principalement A la difference des procedures entre la Banque et celles habituellement appliquees par
la DRCR notamment pour ce qui conceme les procedures de passation des marches par appel d'offres
international avec preselection pour les quelles il est propose:
- de les adopter uniquement pour les operations dont le cout depasse 2OMdh quelque soit la nature
des travaux.
- de domicilier la preselection et l 'ouverture des plis au niveau de la province concernee par le
projet et non au niveau de la region
- de reduire le delai pour la preparation des offres par les entreprises nationales de 45 jours d 15
jours comme 1'exige la reglementation nationale.
3.3.   Maitrise de la gestion de 1'execution
Pour les marches de construction et de maintenance depassant 2 millions de dollars, l'accord de la Banque
est necessaire pour etablir l'attestation d'eligibilite exigee par le Ministere de l'Economie, des Finances et
du Tourisme. Cet accord prend beaucoup de temps en raison des longs delais d'acheminement du courrier
entre le Maroc et le siege de la Banque aux USA. Sans ladite attestation les DRE/DPE mandatent les
-47 -



decomptes selon la procedure normale(c'est A dire un seul mandat par decompte).
Pour eviter un tel retard dans l'execution des marches, il est preferable que I'attestation d'eligibilite soit
6tablie sur la base de I'attestation de rattachement signee par la DRCR comme pour les operations dont le
montant et inferieur A 1,5 millions de dollars.
3.4.   Procedures de decaissement
Le pret BIRD 3901-MOR dispose d'un fond de roulement ouvert A la Tresorerie Generale du Royaume. La
procedure de financement, telle qu'elle est arretee par le Ministere des Finances par circulaire du
29/06/1990, stipule que les pieces justificatives de paiement doivent etre acheminees par les tresoreries
provinciales. Un releve de paiement par march6 est adresse A la Tresorerie Generale du Royaume, A la
Direction du Budget pour etablir la demande de realimentation du fond de roulement. Une copie est
communiquee par le Ministere des Finances a la DRCR , et elle sert de base pour l'actualisation des
paiements.
Pour permettre a la DRCR d'actualiser de facon reguliere le rapport trimestriel des paiements des marches
finances, la DRCR souhaite que la Tresorerie Generale du Royaume lui envoie les pieces justificatives au
meme titre que la Direction du Budget
-48 -



