Page  1
                                                           Conformed Copy
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3901 MOR
                              Loan Agreement
               (Secondary, Tertiary and Rural Roads Project)
                                  between
                            KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated July 7, 1995
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3901 MOR
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 1995, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
    (B)   the Bank has received a letter dated May 18, 1995 from
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to further the efficiency and sound
development of the Borrower's transport sector (hereinafter
called the Program);
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
Page  2
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
    under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
    inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3
    of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)   "CNPAC" means the national road accident prevention
committee of the Borrower;
    (b)   "MPW" means the ministry of the Borrower responsible
for public works;
    (c)   "ONT" means Office National des Transports, the
Borrower's agency responsible for transport;
    (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
    (e)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower's fiscal years, which
period commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each
calendar year.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of fifty seven million six
hundred thousand dollars ($57,600,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dirhams a special deposit account in its
General Treasury on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  3
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                on the date immediately preceding each date
                specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                Agreement is signed.
         (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
                cost, as reasonably determined by the Bank
                and expressed as a percentage per annum, of
                the outstanding borrowings of the Bank
                drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
                such borrowings or portions thereof as the
                Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's
                investments; and (B) loans which may be
                made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                interest rates determined otherwise than as
                provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
         (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
                the second six months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
          principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
          of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
          Quarter."
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
Page  4
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
technical, engineering, administrative and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
    Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the generality of the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall: (i) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than
September 30 of each year for the Bank's comments, the
Borrower's proposed road investment program for the following
year and subsequent years through the Project completion date,
together with a financing plan therefor, said program to
include a detailed description of road rehabilitation and
resurfacing, construction of facilities and provision of
equipment to be carried out during the next year under the
Project and a technical and economic evaluation, carried out in
accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii)
thereafter finalize said road investment program, taking into
consideration the Bank's comments thereon and take all measures
necessary to ensure its prompt implementation.
    Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than June
30, 1997, undertake an in-depth review of the Project and its
implementation arrangements and submit a report thereon to the
Bank, which shall be in such scope and detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request and (b) promptly after completing the
review, carry out those recommendations arising out of said
review as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
    Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than December
31, 1998, submit to Parliament draft legislation satisfactory
to the Bank, to: (a) allow unrestricted for-hire operations of
trucks weighing below eight tons gross; (b) abolish the
mandatory use of ONT for road freight forwarding and set forth
its new mission; (c) establish deregulated tariffs; and (d)
introduce simplified procedures and professional qualification
standards for access to the trucking industry, without any
quantitative limits.
    Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than December
31, 1996, submit to Parliament draft legislation satisfactory
to the Bank, to include in CNPAC's mandate: (a) the definition
of highway safety policy and the preparation of corresponding
action plans; (b) the preparation of legal and regulatory
reforms in road safety; and (c) the coordination of the
Borrower's activities with respect to road safety.
    Section 3.07. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
    (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan for the future operation of the Project;
    (b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
Page  5
    (c) thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking
into account the Bank's comments thereon.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                in accordance with appropriate auditing
                principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
                but in any case not later than six months
                after the end of each such year, the report
                of such audit by said auditors, of such
                scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
                have reasonably requested; and
         (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                concerning said records and accounts and
                the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                time to time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                Bank has received the audit report for the
                fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                from the Loan Account or payment out of the
                Special Account was made, all records
                (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                receipts and other documents) evidencing
                such expenditures;
        (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to
                examine such records; and
         (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                report of such audit contains a separate
                opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                statements of expenditure submitted during
                such fiscal year, together with the
                procedures and internal controls involved
                in their preparation, can be relied upon to
                support the related withdrawals.
    Section 4.02. The Borrower shall include in CNPAC's
restructuring the strengthening of its financial resources
through the allocation of 50% of the surcharge on traffic
violation fines.
Page  6
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out.
                                ARTICLE VI
                                Termination
    Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and External
Investments of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance and External Investments
          Rabat
          Kingdom of Morocco
          Cable address:                            Telex:
                MINISTERE FINANCES                  31936M
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                            Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                           248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.                     82987 (FTCC)
                                                     64145 (WUI) or
                                                    197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                       By /s/ Mohamed Benaissa
                                                Authorized Representative
Page  7
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Anil Sood
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                             Middle East and North Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated                 % of
                         (Expressed in              Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1)  Road works           43,500,000               72%
(2)  Goods                 3,700,000               100% of foreign
                                                   expenditures,
                                                   100% of local
                                                   expenditures
                                                   (ex-factory
                                                   cost) and 75%
                                                   of local expen-
                                                   ditures for other
                                                   items procured
                                                   locally
(3)  Consultants'           5,000,000              100%
     services and
     training
(4)  Unallocated            5,400,000
                           __________
          TOTAL            57,600,000
                           ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts not exceeding $500,000 equivalent for works,
$250,000 equivalent for goods, and $100,000 equivalent for
services, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
Page  8
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to improve communications
between regions and access to rural areas, strengthen network
management, and improve road safety and road transport
efficiency.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Rural Roads
1.  Finalization of the reclassification of the Borrower's
highway network.
2.  Carrying out of a program of studies and training to improve
institutional arrangements for network management and for the
road network.
3.  Rehabilitation of 1,133 km of priority rural roads,
including earthworks and regravelling.
4.  Construction and paving of 96 km of priority rural roads.
Part B:     Paved Branch Roads
    Carrying out of a program of maintenance resealings,
structural overlays and/or widening works on about 2,219 km of
paved branch roads.
Part C:     Network Management
1.  Acquisition of about 30 utility vehicles and renewal of
about 14 pieces of snow removal equipment, including 7 low bed
trucks for network operations.
2.  Provision of technical support to MPW in the environmental
area and for its regional directorates.
3.  Implementation of actions to develop the awareness of staff
in the regional directorates on environmental issues, and
strengthen their capability and expertise in pavement
management system, planning and programming of road works,
including implementation of a training program for road
personnel on network management, and project management,
scheduling and programming.
4.  Carrying out of studies on the phasing and coherence of
improvement works over major branches of the network.
Part D:     Road Safety
1.  Institutional strengthening of CNPAC including the extension
of its role, the systematic introduction of safety audits on
road designs before construction, and design and implementation
of training programs.
2.  Identification of safety hazards which can be eliminated
through low cost corrective actions on the interurban road
network, definition and carrying out of rehabilitation measures
to address such hazards and reduce the risks of accidents.
3.  Acquisition of equipment for enforcement of traffic
violations, including training in the use of such equipment.
Part E:     Road Transport
    Liberalization of the road transport market to improve its
efficiency.
Page  9
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
    December 15, 2000                          1,110,000
    June 15, 2001                              1,145,000
    December 15, 2001                          1,185,000
    June 15, 2002                              1,230,000
    December 15, 2002                          1,275,000
    June 15, 2003                              1,320,000
    December 15, 2003                          1,365,000
    June 15, 2004                              1,415,000
    December 15, 2004                          1,465,000
    June 15, 2005                              1,515,000
    December 15, 2005                          1,570,000
    June 15, 2006                              1,625,000
    December 15, 2006                          1,680,000
    June 15, 2007                              1,740,000
    December 15, 2007                          1,805,000
    June 15, 2008                              1,870,000
    December 15, 2008                          1,935,000
    June 15, 2009                              2,000,000
    December 15, 2009                          2,075,000
    June 15, 2010                              2,145,000
    December 15, 2010                          2,225,000
    June 15, 2011                              2,300,000
    December 15, 2011                          2,385,000
    June 15, 2012                              2,470,000
    December 15, 2012                          2,555,000
    June 15, 2013                              2,645,000
    December 15, 2013                          2,740,000
    June 15, 2014                              2,835,000
    December 15, 2014                          2,940,000
    June 15, 2015                              3,035,000
    _______________________________________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                   The interest rate(expressed
                                   as a percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan
                                   on the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                    0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                    0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                      0.55
not more than 11 years
Page  10
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                   0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                   0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                    1.00
maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.      Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines),
and in accordance with the following procedures:
    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and may be extended
a second time only if the bidding documents or adjustment of
the bid price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the
contract over the period of extension. Such an increase in the
bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the
Bank's prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part
D.2 (a) of this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be
required for (i) a first extension of the bid validity period
if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any
subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance
with this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Bidders for works under Part A.4 of the Project and for
bid packages under Part B estimated to cost the equivalent of
$2,000,000 or more shall be prequalified as provided in
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.  To the extent practicable, contracts for works under
Part B of the Project shall be grouped into bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more.
Part B:    Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
the Kingdom of Morocco may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Page  11
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Works for Parts A.3 and D.2 of the Project, and works
for Part B of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of
$2,000,000 or less per contract, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.
2.  Items or groups of items for Parts C of the Project
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,600,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.  Contracts for proprietary software and technical
documentation up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $40,000
may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of prequalification:
    With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.(2) hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $1,500,000 or more, and (ii) each
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000
or more, and (iii) each contract for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.     Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Page  12
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by
the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each. However,
this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the
terms of reference for such contracts or to the employment of
individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by
the Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $4,300,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $3,200,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$8,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
Page  13
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; and
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
Page  14
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
