Page  1
September 22, 1999
H.E. Fathallah Oualalou 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco
Re:
Loan No. 3901-MOR
(Secondary, Tertiary and Rural Roads Project)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement                
Excellency:
We refer to the Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco (the Borrower) and 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) for the 
above-mentioned Loan, dated July 7, 1995 (the Loan Agreement), and to the requests of 
the Borrower dated respectively June 11, 1999 and July 20, 1999 to amend the Loan 
Agreement.
We are pleased to inform you that the Bank has acceded to the above request. 
Accordingly, the Loan Agreement is modified to read as follows:
(1)
Section 3.05. of the Loan Agreement shall read as follows:
“The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1999, submit to Parliament 
draft 
legislation satisfactory to the Bank, to: (a) allow unrestricted for-hire 
operations of 
trucks weighing below eight tons gross; (b) abolish the 
mandatory use of ONT for road 
freight forwarding and set forth its new 
mission; (c) establish deregulated tariffs; and (d) 
introduce simplified procedures 
and professional qualification standards for access to the 
trucking industry, without 
any quantitative limits”.
(2)
Section 3.06. of the Loan Agreement shall read as follows:
“The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 2001, submit to Parliament 
draft 
legislation satisfactory to the Bank, to include in CNPAC's mandate: (a) 
the definition of 
highway safety policy and the preparation of corresponding action 
plans; (b) the preparation 
of legal and regulatory reforms in road safety; and 
(c) the coordination of the Borrower's 
activities with respect to road safety”.
(3)
Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement:
Part (A) (3) shall read as follows:
“Rehabilitation of about one thousand kilometers (km1000) of priority 
rural roads,  including earthworks and regravelling”.
Part (A) (4) shall read as follows:
“construction and paving of about two hundred and thirty five kilometers 
(km235) of 
priority rural roads”.
Part B shall read as follows:
“Carrying out of a program of maintenance resealings, structural overlays 
and/or 
widening works on about two thousand six hundred and sixty 
kilometers (km2,660) of paved 
classified roads”.
Part (C) (1) shall read as follows:
“Acquisition of seven (7) low bed trucks, three (3) snow removal trucks, 
and one (1) 
hydraulic excavator”.
(4)
The Project’s Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001.
Page  2
All the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement, as amended hereby, shall 
remain in full force and effect. Please confirm your official agreement to the 
foregoing, as the Borrower’s authorized representative under the Agreement, by duly 
signing and dating the corresponding form of confirmation below and returning this 
amendment letter to us at your earliest convenience. A signed duplicate original of 
this amendment letter is enclosed herewith for the Kingdom of Morocco’s official 
records
Very Truly Yours
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christian Delvoie 
Director 
Maghreb Department 
Middle East and North Africa Region
CONFIRMED AND AGREED
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By /s/ Fathallah Oualalou        
Authorized Representative
Date October 19, 1999
