                                                                                                                       92554
Morocco: More than Just a Road                                                                                         May 3, 2004
                      A national roads program was launched in Morocco in 1995. It coincided
                                                                                                          -- Resources --
                      with the launch of another program to bring drinking water and
                      electrification to rural areas. The government set an ambitious target for          Full Story (PDF)
                                                                                                          English | French
                      the roads program: 10,000 kilometers either paved or upgraded from dirt
                                                                                                          Audio clip
                      to gravel between 1995 and 2005. The benefits of a new road go beyond
                      gas and milk delivery to services such as health and education.                     Project

                                                                                                          The World Bank in Morocco

                                                                                                          Also available in:
                                                                                                          Español | Français



               “You can’t kick-start development in rural areas if you don’t have infrastructure.”
                                                                                   --Ahmed Imzel
In Morocco, poor rural roads leave many villages isolated during the rainy and snowy seasons.
Health treatment is too far away, children’s schooling is easily interrupted, shopping is difficult. To
overcome this, a national roads program to upgrade 10,000 kilometers in a decade was launched in
1995. A new program will do another 15,000 kilometers by 2015. The new roads are bringing with
them access to schooling, health care, and services—and paving the way to better lives for rural
Moroccans. 


                       “It’s better now. People are happier.”
                       --Ben L’Habib L’Houssain
                       Before an all-weather road came to the village of Ait Igda in Morocco’s High Atlas Mountains, it took
                       Ben L’Habib L’Houssain two hours to get his fresh milk to market by mule. Now it takes only half an
                       hour in a minivan taxi. The road has had other benefits as well. The village receives regular gas
                       deliveries. Access to services such as health care in Demnate, a nearby larger town, has become
                       easier. “Earlier, you could have a nightmare situation—people would die on the way to Demnate for
                       health treatment,” L’Habib L’Houssain notes.


          “Now we can get supplies in once or twice a week…It used to be like once a month.”
                                                                            --Brahim Bahraoui
A new road linking the centuries-old Berber village of Tiloghuite has opened up the once inaccessible
settlement to small motor vehicles. For merchants like Brahim Bahraoui, 34, this has meant a boost
for business. Supplies such as gas, cooking oil, rice, and flour can be delivered twice a week, rather
than once a month. And, while he used to sell gas canisters for 80 dirhams, he now sells them for 50
—with the new road, the gas is cheaper, and he’s selling more.


                       “Before, it was quite difficult...to buy very essential, basic things.”
                       --R’Kia Khannafour
                       Before a road linked the small village of Tiloghuite in the Atlas Mountains to its administrative center
                       of Ouaouizert, people used to have to travel by mule to do their official business. Now Santana-
                       model Land Rover taxis ply the route daily. R’Kia Khannafour, Tiloghuite’s deputy mayor, explains the
                       improvement. “To get an official paper or certificate…something that costs 3 dirhams [$0.30], you
                       would end up paying 50 or 100 dirhams extra in transport—just to get something that is worth
                       practically nothing.”


Updated May, 2004
