Docnmmt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Rept No.  12594
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
TURKEY
PULP AND PAPER REKARILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2545-TU)
DECEMBER 10, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12594
Type: PCR
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Country Department II
Africa Regional Office
This document bas a resticted distnibution and may be used by recipients only in the performanee of
their official dudes Its contents may not otherwse be diselsed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EUI,ALENI
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (IL)
A4erage Exchange Rates (per US dollars)
1985               US$1                       TL 522
1986               US$1          =            E h75
1987               US$1          =            TL 857
1988               US$1          =            TL1422
1989               US$1          =            TL2122
1990               US$1          =            TL2609
1991               US$1                       TL4172
1992               US$1                       TL6872
GOVERNMENT OF TUREY FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICUAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
office of Director-G4nere
Operatlons Evaluation
December 10, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO TEE EXECUTIvE DIRECTOR AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBTECr:        Project Completion Note on Turkey - Pulp and
Parer Rehabilitation Proiect (Loan 2545-TU)
Attached is the Project Completion Note on Turkey - Pulp and Paper Rehabilitation
Project (Loan 2545-TU) prepared by the Europe and Central Asia Regional Office.
This project was designed to assist the Government of Turkey in improving the
operational efficiency of the state-owned pulp and paper plants through rehabilitation. The project also
aimed at preparing the ground for the selective privatization of the subsectoral state enterprises.
A disagreement between the Bank and Seka (Turkish Pulp and Paper Enterprise) on
the selection of consultants for the preparation of detailed engineering design and project management
stalled the project 11 months after the effective date. Subsequently, the Government of Turkey
requested the Bank to cancel the loan and agreed to pre-pay the outstanding balance of US$973,215.00
(consisting of disbursements for project preparation under a project preparation facility and the interest
and commitment charges). It appears that a reassessment of the need for further investments in Seka,
combined with uncertainties about public enterprise management policies, might have prompted the
Government of Turkey to ask for cancellation. The subsector study subcomponent of the project was
carried out. It was, however, financed under Technical Assistance for State Economic E'nterprises
Project (Loan 2400-TU).
The project is not rated because there is insufficient information as to the impact of
the Bank's technical and advisory involvement in Turkey's pulp and paper subsector. No audit is
planned.
Attachment
Ibsdomeaha  retriced dibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duies. Is contet
may att otheise be disclosed without Wodd Back authodzation.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
TURKEY
PULP AND PAPER REHABILITATION
(Ln. 2545-TU)
PRFACE.
This Project Completion Note (PCN) is for the Pulp and Paper Rehabilitation
Project for which a Loan (Ln 2545-TU) in the amount US$55.1 million equivalent
was made to the Government of Turkey (GOT), with SERA, a State Economic
Enterprise (SEE), as the beneficiary. The Loan was approved by the Board on
5/23/85, signed on 5/29/85 and made effective on 9/17/85.
The PCN has been prepared in lieu of a Project Completion Report, because
the Loan, with an undisbursed balance of about US$54.1 million, was cancelled at
the request of GOT on August 4, 1986, a year after it became effective. It is
based on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report, internal Bank memoranda, minutes
of the Board discussions, supervision reports and interviews with Bank staff who
were associated with the Project.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
PULP AND PAPER REHABILITATION
(Ln. 2545-TU)
EVALUATrON SUMMARY
Introduction
The Project had its genesis in the outward-oriented strategy adopted
by the Government in the early Bs and represented the first step toward the
reform of the pulp and paper industry in Turkey. It was identified in 1980 on the
basis of a study prepared by SEKA with the assistance of consultants, Rust
Overseas Inc, financed under the Bank's Project Preparation Facility (PPF).
However, because of mid-course changes in scope and delays in reaching agreement
on the financial restructuring program for SEXA, on issues of pricing and
interest rate policies and the possible privatization of SEKA, the Project could
not be appraised until October 1983 and required a post-appraisal in May 1984.
Proiect Obiectives and DescriDtion
The Project was designed to assist GOT in rationalizing investments
in the industrial sector through the rehabilitation of existing capacity, in
improving the efficiency of SEEs in the pulp and paper sub-sector and in the
selective privatization of sub-sectoral SEEs. Accordingly, provision was made
under the Project for: (a) technical assistance to (i) GOT for a comprehensive
study to identify, evaluate and recommend alternative strategies for the
development of the pulp and paper subsector, including options for the
privatization of SEKA and (ii) SEKA for strengthening its capabilities in the
areas of operations and maintenance, environmental protection, finance and
accounting, and manpower and training; and (b) imports of essential spare-parts
and equipment needed for the rehabilitation and improvement in the energy
efficiency of three SEKA mills.
Implementation
Start-up of the Project was stalled due to disagreements between the
SEKA and the Bank on the selection of consultants for the preparation of the
detailed engineering design and proje  management. The issue was brought to the
attention of the Bank by a number of _.3tential bidders, claiming that they had
been accorded unequal treatment in the evaluation and selection process. The
Bank, based on the findings of a mission sent to review the relevant documents,
advised the GOT and SEKA to cancel the consultant selection process underway and
invite new proposals, using a revised letter of invitation. Despite follow-up
meetings with representatives of SEKA, the issue of consultant selection could
not be resolved. In response, GOT requested the Bank to cancel the undisbursed
amount of the Loan and agreed to pre-pay the outstanding balance of US$973,215,
covering the PPr advance and interest and other charges. The Bank acceded to this
request and, as noted, the Loan was cancelled on August 4, 1986.



- iii -
At the time of cancellation, the State Planning Organization had
awarded the consultancy contract and t,ie firm had initiated work on the Pulp and
Paper Subsector Study, for which US$300,000 was allocated under the Loan. As the
study was deemed important by GOT, at its behest, financing for the study was
made available under the ongoing Technical Assistance for State Economic
Enterprises Project (Ln. 2400-TU), which provided for, inter alia, studies to
improve the efficiency of SEEs.
lindinog and Lessons Learned
GOT had cited the unresolved issue of consultant selection and
SEKA's wish to not incur additional debt while the possibilities for
privatization were being explored as reasons for requesting the cancellation.
However, with hindsight, both appear problematic. The former could have been
resolved easily by inviting new bids. This would have delayed the start-up of
the Project, but not enough to compromise its objectives. As for the latter,
there was no indication during the project processing cycle to suggest that the
privatization of SEA was imminent.  In fact, even after protra.ted discussions,
agreement could niot be reached on modalities for and the scope of privatization.
it was essentially for this reason that provision was made under the sub-sector
study for identifying, inter alia, suitable arrangements for attracting local
private sector and/or international pulp and paper companies to invest in SmKA.
In retrospect, it may well have been a reassessment on the part of
GOT of the need for further investments in SEKA that precipitated the decision
to request cancellation of the Loan. This, clearly, was not the case with the
subsector study for which financing was secured from the Bank under the ongoing
TA operation. Consequently, the Bank's decision to accede to GOT's request was
appropriate. Even if the Bank had persevered, it is unlikely that the objectives
of the Project, as originally envisaged, would have been achieved, given that
SEKA continues to function as a state economic enterprise.



- iv -
PROJECT QO2PtETON NOTE
PULP AND PapER REHABILI=TTION
(Ln. 2545-TU)
BASIC DATA SHEET
A.    KEY PROJECT DATA
Total Project Cost (US $ million)          86.8
Total Project Cost (Turkish Lira)       28210.0
Loan Amount (US S million)                 55.1
B.    STAFFWEEK INPUT
FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    Total
Identification/Prep   34.4    43.7    42.7                      120.8
Appraisal                               8.5                       8.5
Negotiations                            0.9      7.3     0.4      8.6
Supervision
TOTAL                                                           137.9
C.    MISSION DATA             Mission                        Nandays
Dates           Persons      in Field
Appraisal                05/19/84              3
Supervision I            10/12/85             2            26
Supervision 1I           03/10/86             2            10
D.    OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower:                Government of Turkey
Beneficiary:             SERA, a State Economic Enterprise for Pulp and
Paper
Fiscal Year of Borrower:                   January 1 - December 31
Appraisal Year Average Exchange Rate:      USD1 - 325 Turkish Lira
TL 1 - USD .00308



