Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22462
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-44090)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 80.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
FOR A
SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
June 29, 2001
Human Development Unit
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 29, 2001)
Currency Unit = Bulgarian Leva (BGN)
I Lev = US$ 0.44
US$ 1 = Leva 2.26
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALMP    Active Labor Market Program
ASAL    Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
DBMI    Differentiated Basic Minimum Income
EU       European Union
FESAL   Financial Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GMI      Guaranteed Minimum Income
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDF      Institutional Development Fund
IMF      Intemational Monetary Fund
LIL      Leaming and Innovation Loan
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MOLSP   Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
NGO      Non-Govemment Organization
NSSI     National Social Security Institute
PAYG    Pay-as-you-go
PTUF    Professional Training and Unemployment Fund
RIF      Regional Initiative Fund
SIAP     Social Insurance Administration Project
SIC      Social Insurance Code
SIF      Social Investment Fund
SISA     State Insurance Supervision Agency
SPAL     Social Protection Adjustment Loan
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
USAID    UnHted States Agency for Intemational Development
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director-   Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager/Director    Annette Dixon
Task Team LeaderJTask Manager:   John hunes



BULGARIA
Social Protection Adjustment Loan
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              13
6. Sustainability                                                                  14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 16
9. Partner Comments                                                                18
10. Additional Information                                                         18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              35






Project ID: P051151                                      Project Name: Social Protection Adjustment Loan
Team Leader: John A. Innes                               TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Social Protection Adjustment Loan             LI/C/TF Number: SCL-44090
Count,y/Departmnent: BULGARIA                                           Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: SS - Social Protection Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/16/1997                             Effective: 12/03/1998          12/03/1998
Appraisal:  12/02/1997                               MTR:
Approval:  11/19/1998                             Closing: 12/30/1999          06/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE/Ministry of Labor and Social Policy (MOLSP)
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                         Johannes F. Linn
Couintry Manager:    Andrew N. Vorkink                         Kenneth G. Lay
Sector Manager:      Michal J. Rutkowski                       Michal J. Rutkowski
Team Leader at ICR:   John A. Innes                           Neeta G. Sirur
ICR Primary Author:   Boryana Gotcheva
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Eintry:                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
No QA G available.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The general objective of the loan was to support the Government's social protection reform
program aiming to put in place an effective, sustainable system of income support and poverty relief,
consistent with the needs of a market economy. The loan also aimed at supporting the efforts to reduce the
temporary adverse effects of the transition on vulnerable population groups in an affordable way, to



establish a viable safety net and to reduce poverty. The main areas supported by the SPAL were: (a) social
insurance (structural reform in the pension system, pension and health insurance); (b) labor markets
(unemployment and labor market flexibility); and (c) social assistance (institutional reform of the social
protection system, resource relocation within the safety-net programs, including child allowances and
disability benefits).
The general and specific objectives of SPAL were fully consistent with the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Bulgaria discussed by the Board on April 28, 1998. The CAS highlights social
protection and poverty reduction as a central element of the Bank's strategy to support the Govermment's
economic reform. The CAS lays out the case for adjustment lending in support of the social safety-net
reform, aimed, inter alia, at: (a) ensuring that the costs of transition are socially sustainable; (b) reducing
poverty, especially poverty brought on by the hyper-inflation during the winter of 1996-97; and (c)
restructuring of the safety-net to both reduce fiscal costs and reliably provide social protection to Bulgaria's
rapidly aging population. The CAS viewed the SPAL as a key step in a broader agenda of Bank support to
the social sectors.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no revisions in the general or specific objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
The SPAL had four main components: (a) pension reform (a move-away from over-reliance on a
pay-as-you-go (PAYG) public pension scheme towards a fiscally sustainable and diversified three-tier
system involving the public and the private sectors; (b) labor markets and unemployment; (c) social
assistance; and (d) health insurance. The components were part of the Government's Social Protection
Reform Strategy aiming at:
1. ensuring adequate protection for the most vulnerable groups through improved targeting,
meaningful benefit levels and provision of quality services;
2. restoring and maintain the principle of insurance as the basis for protection against loss of income
due to unemployment, old age and other risks;
3. reducing work disincentives arising from the system of social protection, by reducing payroll taxes;
4. ensuring the medium- and long-term fiscal sustainability of the system of social protection
consistent with lower social security taxes; and
5. improving administrative efficiency, through reducing duplication and fragmentation among
overlapping social protection programs.
1. Pension System
A. Objectives
* Improve the long-term financial viability of the public pension scheme;
* Substantially reduce the long-term contribution rate;
* Diversify old-age risk beyond public system by encouraging the development of voluntary private
pension funds; and
* Increase equity across occupations and gender by stricter adherence to social insurance principles.
B. Actions Prior to Board
-2 -



*   Clearance of arrears and compliance in contribution payments has been substantially improved by
passage of laws and regulations which:
1. require that employers pay social insurance contributions before any other obligation;
2. require a limit on wage increases in enterprises with arrears in social insurance contributions;
3. block access to bank loans to meet payroll for enterprises with social insurance contribution
arrears;
4. relocate responsibility for contribution collection from the Ministry of Finance to the NSSI;
and
5. require reporting of contributions on an individual as well as enterprise basis.
*   National Social Security Institute (NSSI) has established the administrative capacity to record and
monitor contributions on an individual basis as frequently as contributions are due and paid.
*   Initial cost-saving measures have been implemented including the following:
1. an amendment to the Labor Code was made which allows individuals to voluntarily retire later
with higher benefits, coupled with a denial of benefits to "working pensioners";
2. Government has passed an amendment to the pension law providing for gradual lengthening of
the earnings base used to determine pension benefits by including all years after 1996 with the
three best years before 1997, thereby gradually lowering benefit levels; and
3. payments for special dietary food supplements have been eliminated from the social insurance
system.
*   The Council of Ministers has issued an ordinance for stabilizing the Social Insurance Fund through
reclassifying about 140,000 category I workers to category II, and reclassifying current category II
workers (about 490,000) to normal retirement category III.
*   NSSI has transferred ownership and management of spas, holiday homes/hotels, and other property not
directly related to the operation of the pension fund to a distinct commercial affiliate of NSSI, and has
prepared an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the privatization of the affiliate's assets.
3 Government has appointed a high-level Council on Social Reform chaired by the Deputy Prime
Minister, which in turn has appointed a working group consisting of representatives, inter alia, from the
MOLSP, Ministry of Finance, NSSI and the Securities and Exchange Commission to coordinate all
relevant activities related to pension reform.
*   Government has prepared and presented to the Bank for comment a draft law on voluntary non-state
(private) retirement program which includes the principles laid out in Matrix Attachment (A).
*  NSSI has maintained the pension fund in surplus, notwithstanding retention of children's benefits
scheduled for transfer to Republic Budget
C. Actions by Second Tranche Release
*   Development of a plan for, and enactment of a law for, systemic reform of the pay-as-you-go pension
system, satisfactory to the Bank with features as described in matrix in section 10 - Additional
information.
*   A law, satisfactory to the Bank, to be enacted for special early retirement schemes for those remaining
in labor categories I and II within the parameters given in matrix in section 10 - Additional information.
*  NSSI privatizes partially or fully ownership of assets of the commercial affiliate that owns spas,
- 3 -



holiday homes/hotels and similar property, in accordance with an agreed action plan.
*  Submission to Parliament and enactment of a law, satisfactory to the Bank, on voluntary pension funds
and provide evidence of implementation satisfactory to the Bank.
II. Labor Market
A. Objectives
*  Increase the flexibility of the labor market;
* Improve work incentives for the unemployed; and
* Protect workers laid-off under the structural reform program.
B. Actions Prior to Board
*  Government has passed the framework and issued regulations satisfactory to the Bank, for the
Unemployment Security and Employrnent Incentives Act which, inter alia:
1. adopts a view of the right to labor, employment incentives and unemployment protections
which is consistent with the needs of a market economy;
2. establishes the legal basis for, and purposes of, the payroll contribution-financed Professional
Qualification and Unemployrnent Fund;
3. reduces the overall payroll contribution to the unemployment fund to 4.5 percent (from its
peak of 7 percent) from 07/01/98, introduces cost-sharing between employer and employee,
and obliges budget organizations to contribute at the same rate as other employers.
4. tightens eligibility for, and reduces the lower bound of (from 90 to 80 percent of minimum
wage), cash benefits and limits the range of active labor market measures financeable through
the fund to those deemed to be the most efficient;
5. eliminates payment of cash benefits to most non-contributors (e.g., school leavers); and
6. enables the development of voluntary private unemployment insurance.
*  Ordinance no 331/97 was issued by the Council of Ministers and provides for severance payments
(commensurate with age, length of service, and remuneration level)to workers in the State enterprise
and budget sectors made redundant as a result of the MOF's structural adjustment program.
C. Actions by Second Tranche Release
*  The evaluation of active labor market programs to be completed, its findings and recommendations
discussed with the Bank, and an action plan agreed for reform of active labor market programs.
*  An Act for Establishment of a Social Investment Fund, satisfactory to the Bank, to be submitted to
Parliament.
*   Submission to Parliament and enactment of an amendment to the Unemployment Security and
Employment Incentives Act to further reduce the payroll contribution rate from 4.5 to 3 percent, while
maintaining employee contributions at least at 20 percent of the total.
*  Submission to Parliament of amendments to the 1986 Labor Code, satisfactory to the Bank, aimed at:
1. reducing required paid leave for education, maternity and childcare; and
2. easing restrictions on terminations for misconduct or economic reasons.
- 4 -



*   Submission to Parliament and enactment of legislation, with provisions satisfactory to the Bank to:
]. increase incentives for compliance with payroll contributions; and
2. reform sick-pay regulations.
*   Submission to Parliament and enactment of amendments to the Act on Unemployment Security and
Employment Incentives, which:
1. provide wage subsidies to employers only if they create additional jobs; and
2. remove the present exemption for the payment of unemployment contribution for budget sector
workers employed on labor contracts.
III. Social Assistance
A. Objectives
*   Strengthen and consolidate means-tested benefits targeted to the most vulnerable
individuals/households in an affordable way;
e   Reduce or eliminate duplicative in-kind benefits and universal cash benefits;
* Strengthen the management and quality of social assistance programs/services, and
*   Increase community and private participation in the delivery of social assistance programs and
services.
B. Actions Prior to Board
*   Govemrnent has issued a Regulation on Social Assistance effective 11/01/97 which inter alia:
1. unifies the eligibility criteria (means and asset test) for the differentiated basic minimum
income (DBMI) monthly support program and the in-kind utility program;
2. reduces the fiscal cost of the utility component of the scheme by eliminating provisions for
support in the non-heating season and reducing the supported norms in the heating season to a
level more consistent with survival needs;
3. increases protection for vulnerable groups including: children through making provision for
higher coefficients for those aged 0-16 (of 0.9 and 1.5 in the non-heating and heating seasons
respectively); and population over 70 years living alone and disabled persons (in the heating
season) through provision of a higher coefficient of 1.2;
4. reduces "exceptional" payments from a maximum of 7 times a year to 3 times a year per
household;
5. rescinds duplicative programs for means-tested provision of free or subsidized medicines
through the Social Assistance network, transferring full responsibility to the health system
(which runs a similar program);
6. reinstates a 30 percent disregard for eamed income in the eligibility calculation for the
consolidated DBMI monthly support program; and
7. allows a 1.2 coefficient for the disabled in both the heating and non-heating seasons.
* Progress has been made towards reducing fiscal costs of (currently universal) child allowances as
follows:
1. The Law on Protection Against Unemployment and Stimulation of Employment has been
enacted which eliminates duplicative child allowance payments from the Professional
- 5 -



Qualification and Unemployment Fund; and
2. Government has frozen child allowance benefits in nominal terms since May 1997.
* Government has halted implementation of the (unaffordable) 1995 Law on Protection, Rehabilitation
and Social Integration of Disabled Persons and has continued to provide lower cost in-kind benefits.
* Government has enacted a Social Welfare Act, satisfactory to the Bank, with provisions, inter alia, for:
1. establishing a legal distinction between social assistance benefits and social care services
recognizing separate criteria and functions for each;
2. establishing Territorial Centers for Social Welfare with responsibility for overseeing the
quality of services provided through social welfare offices, facilities and programs;
3. requiring program reporting by local social assistance offices to the National Social Welfare
Center through the Territorial Centers;
4. centralizing responsibility for management and financing of social care institutions with
inter-municipal functions;
5. enabling central earmarked co-financing of social welfare programs currently financed solely
through central government block grants to local budgets;
6. requiring the creation of community councils (involving community representatives, NGOs
etc.) at district and central levels to oversee the operation of social welfare programs;
7. enabling NGOs and private individuals to provide social care under appropriate licensing and
supervisory arrangements; and
8. providing for independent resolution (e.g., by Social Welfare Councils) of appeals concerning
social welfare programs.
*   Government presented for Bank comrnments a minimum staffing and equipment plan for the
establishment of Territorial Social Welfare Offices, including an action plan for implementation.
C. Actions by Second Tranche Release
* Replace in-kind portion of the consolidated DBMIlin-kind utility monthly income support program with
an equivalent cash benefit for the heating season.
* Implement monthly co-financing from central and local budgets of benefits to families included in the
consolidated monthly income support program, including an additional provision of an appropriate (5-7
percent) administrative charge to be paid from the center to the general municipal budget.
* Submission to Parliament and enactment of a Family Support Law with provisions satisfactory to the
Bank, to replace the 1968 Act on Birth Rate Stimulation which has proven ineffective.
*   Issue Regulations on Social Care which specify: licensing requirements; contractual and funding
transfer arrangements; and minimum standards for the delivery of social care services by NGOs and
the private sector.
* Establish and appropriately staff and equip the Territorial Social Welfare Offices.
* Complete audit and outcome evaluation of methodologies, organization and staffing levels and
equipment needs in all social welfare programs, including an action plan for implementation of
findings.
*   Improve, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the 1995 Law on Protection, Rehabilitation and Social
Integration of Disabled Persons by replacing universal benefits with targeted benefits based on means
and assets tests.
IV. Health Insurance
-6 -



A. Objectives
Improve the fiscal sustainability of the health system; and reduce costs of health benefits to employers.
B. Actions Prior to Board
Government has enacted a Health Insurance Act, satisfactory to the Bank.
C. Actions by Second Tranche Release
Submission to Parliament and enactment of Health Insurance Legislation which takes into account the
comments provided by the Bank.
3.4 Revised Conmponents:
None
3.5 Quality at Entiy:
This project was not subject to a quality at entry review, and therefore ratings or reporting on the QAG
process are not available.
Most assumptions made at the stage of the project development were reasonable. The main project risks at
entry were related to the uncertain macroeconomic and fiscal development prospects after the deep
economic crisis of 1997. More precisely, the Government's and Bank had overly-optimistic assumptions
about the mid-term employment growth prospects and expectations for a more significant improvement of
the living standards and welfare. The higher than projected rate of unemployment increased the pressure on
the financial sustainability of the social assistance system, the pension insurance fund and the PTUF. The
main technical risk was associated with the large and ambitious reform agenda which required coordination
and sequencing in the preparation of several important and politically sensitive pieces of legislation as the
Mandatory Social Insurance Code and the Labor Code in a compressed timeframe. The SPAL required
also enactment of part of the new and amended legislative acts by Parliament. The Government was not in
the position to influence the agenda of the Parliament and the timing of the passing of the different laws
respectively.
Ownership of the project by the GOB was considerable: the project design was highly relevant to the
Government's reform priorities in the social sphere, and consistent with the borrower's strategy for
mitigating the adverse effects of transition on poor and vulnerable population groups. The loan program
served as a good start-up point for building of an effective and sustainable system of income support and
poverty relief that meets the requirements of a market economy.
The SPAL reform program was prepared based on the results of an integrated household survey, poverty
and social assessments, detailed studies of the costs and benefits of the existing social benefits programs
and the reforms already undertaken by the Government.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
-7 -



The main objectives of the social protection reform as specified in the President's Report have now
been largely achieved. A part of the conditions for the release of the second tranche (actions referred to in
Section 2.02 of the SPAL Loan Agreement and listed in Schedule 3 of the Loan Agreement) were not
fulfilled or were fulfilled only partially, among them were the privatization of NSSI assets, enactment of the
Social Investment Fund Act, the enactment of amendments to the Unemployment Security and Employment
Incentives Act, enactment of a new Family and Child Benefits Act, submission to Parliament of
amendments to the Labor Code and of the Law on Protection, Rehabilitation and Social Integration of the
Disabled, completion of the study of the net impact of ALMPs and drafting of an action plan for their
reform. The initially expected closing date of the Loan December 31, 1999 was extended by six months to
June 30, 2000 to allow time for the completion of the agreed actions.
In May-June 2000, the Bank made a final review of SPAL implementation progress, assessed the
prospects for fulfillment of the pending conditions, and upon the request of the Government cancelled the
disbursement of the second tranche. At that point in time, of the approximately 21 second tranche
conditions, 15 had been completely fulfilled. However, at that time there were 5 items partially fulfilled
and one item remained not fulfilled. The Government acknowledged the need of revisiting its social
protection strategy, the child and family benefits policies in particular. A nation-wide opinion survey
indicated that the prevalent public perceptions continued to strongly support universal (non-means tested)
child benefits. The Bank and the IMF offered technical assistance for the phasing of the implementation of
the law and the move towards a combined (dual) approach, including (a) a small increase in the amount of
the monthly universal benefit, and (b) introduction of a supplementary allowance targeting, based on the
GMI eligibility criterion, the poorest part of the families with children. The development and
implementation of a new strategy and policy required more time and high level of coordination with other
parts of the legislative framework (e.g. the personal income tax regulations). At that point these regulations
were not in place and the Government was not in the position to draft them within the SPAL
implementation timeframe. Also, at that point the fiscal situation in the country was improving and the
Government did not need the Bulgarian leva equivalent of the SPAL second tranche resources for
immediate balance-of-payments support.
However, the work on the legislation continued after the closing of the loan. Further improvement
of the social assistance system and the labor market flexibility was included in the reform agenda of the
Government and the Parliament for 2001. As of the time of this ICR report, only one condition (the new
Act of Child and Family Benefits) remain unfulfilled of the original measures supported under the SPAL.
4.2 Outputs by conponents:
Pension Reform
The objectives/outputs of the Pension Reform component of the SPAL were achieved in a
satisfactory manner. The SPAL succeeded in setting the legislative basis for the establishment of a
multi-pillar pension system in the country. The transition to a fully-fledged three-tier modem pension
system in Bulgaria is a major output of the SPAL. The public component of the pension system (the first
and the second pension pillar) was introduced with the adoption of the Mandatory Social Insurance Code
(SIC). The Code was approved by the Council of Ministers on September 13, 1999 (Decision No. 615);
approved by Parliament on December 2,1999 (State Gazette No. 110 of December 17, 1999) and enacted
on January 1, 2000. The MOLSP, together with a "Working Group for Pension Reform" that was
supported by USAID and included participation of representatives of all areas of Bulgarian society,
developed the pension reform proposal for a defined benefit first pillar and a defined contribution (universal
and occupational) second pillar. The SIC achieved the following: (i) reduced the benefits of the
-8 -



pay-as-you-go pension system, mainly by reducing accrual rates for pension rights and by increasing
retirement age; (ii) increased the general retirement age; (iii) changed the benefit formula establishing a
closer link between contributions and benefits rewarding longer working life; (iv) unified the system by
removing early retirement categories (with the exception of military and police) from the basic system; (v)
introduced an occupational pension scheme to pre-fund early retirement; and (vi) introduced a mandatory
funded supplemental pension scheme. Thus, the underlying objectives of the systemic pension reform to (i)
improve the long-term financial viability of the public pension scheme; (ii) substantially reduce the
long-term contribution rate; (iii) diversify old-age risk; and (iv) increase equity across occupations and
gender, were met.
Also, the voluntary pension pillar was restructured under the SPAL. The Bank offered three
different options for its reformn and the Government opted for a fully capitalized pension regime. The
Voluntary Pension Insurance Act regulating the third pillar of the pension system and establishing the State
Insurance Supervision Agency (SISA) was adopted by Parliament on July 20, 1999. Already, 9 pension
companies are licensed by SISA to manage both mandatory (universal and occupational) and voluntary
pension funds. The necessary secondary legislation was also developed. The Bank submitted to the
Government a Pension Reform Note highlighting issues and risks emerging in the process of the pension
reform implementation.
As a part of the pension reform the Council of Ministers adopted transitional arrangements for the
implementation of new Labor Categorization Regulation (No. 235 on October 20, 1998, enacted on
January 1, 2000). The number of people working under category I and II decreased from 750,000 in
1990-91 to 120,000 - 130,000 in 2000. The re-categorization of workers in early retirement categories into
a regular category, together with the creation of the new early retirement scheme significantly reduced
NSSI's income from contributions.
The Labor Market
The performance under the SPAL Labor Market component was satisfactory. The outputs
envisaged in the SPAL matrix and related to increasing the flexibility of the labor market, improvement of
the work incentives for the unemployed and providing protection for the workers laid-off under the
structural reform program, were partially produced by June 30, 2000. The Government continued to work
on a number of these conditions after the loan was closed (e.g. on the Labor Code amendments, the study of
the active labor market policies (ALMP), etc.) and managed to meet the requirements set in the SPAL
Policy Reform Program Matrix.
The loan allowed undertaking two evaluations of the active labor market programs (ALMPs). The
first one - an initial assessment of the gross efficiency of ALMPs, was conducted in 1999 with support of
the British Know How Fund. The second one - a net impact evaluation of ALMPs, recommended by the
Bank, started in August 1999 and has conducted by the Netherlands Economic Institute. By the end of
June 2000 the executing agency submitted a draft report which the Bank reviewed and gave comments.
Some of the findings were found questionable and with limited use for the preparation of an Action Plan for
reform of the ALMPs. The report was finalized in the end of 2000 and published on January 22, 2001.
The Government continued working on the Employment Action Plan till the end of April 2001.
The SPAL supported the submission to Parliament for passage of a Social Investment Fund Act.
At the time of the cancellation of the loan the work on the first draft of the act has advanced substantially.
On April 20, 2001 it was approved by the Council of Ministers, but not yet submitted to Parliament. The
work continued, although at a slower pace. The final draft of the SIF Act was submitted to Parliament on
-9-



October 23, 2000, approved on March 21, 2001 and enacted on April 3, 2001.
One of the objectives of the SPAL was to increase labor market flexibility and lower the cost of
labor for the employers. This involved meeting several conditions to second tranche release. First, it
required reduction of the payroll contribution to the Professional Training and Unemployment Fund
(PTUF) from 4.5 percent to 3 percent through an amendment to the Unemployment Security and
Employment Incentives Act, while maintaining employee contributions at least at 20 per cent of the total
amount of the contribution. As of July 1, 1999 with the 1999 State Budget Act the Government adopted a
reduction of the contribution to the PTUF to 4 percent and made a case that a furither reduction will
undermine irreversibly the financial sustainability of the PTUF given the unexpectedly high unemployment
rate. The Bank was prepared upon submission of adequate data to review the case, consider the condition
partially met and opt for waiving the further reduction in the contribution rate to 3 per cent of the payroll.
The employee contribution rate was determined and kept at the level of 0.8 percent of the payroll or 20
percent of total contribution.
Second, the SPAL required increasing the incentives for compliance with payroll contributions and
reform of the sick leave regulation. These SPAL conditions were met through including adequate
regulations in the Mandatory Social Insurance Act. SIC included a new regulation according to which sick
leave is paid by the employer during the first three days of the leave, and after that by the Temporary
Incapacity Fund.
Third, increasing labor market flexibility required a number of Labor Code amendments. A
Concept Paper for Labor Code changes was prepared by a MOLSP team and found satisfactory by the
Bank. Labor Code amendments in line with the concept were drafted by a Bank funded Working Group
and first submitted to the Council of Ministers on March 31, 2000. Further amendments incorporating
SPAL requirements were incorporated after SPAL second tranche cancellation. More specifically, paid
matemity and childcare leave was reduced marginally in line with the provisions of the Mandatory Social
Insurance Code. The education leave remained paid only in the cases when the employer has given
permission for pursuing the respective education. The Labor Code amendments also provided for easing
restrictions on termination of labor contracts for misconduct and economic reasons. The Law for the
amendments of the Labor Code was approved by the Parliament on March 2, 2001 and enacted as of
March 31, 2001.
With respect to providing work incentives for the unemployed, the SPAL envisaged enactment of
amendments to the Unemployment Security and Employment Incentives Act that provide subsidies for
employers who create additional jobs. This SPAL condition was not completed. Drafts of the Act on the
Amendments of the Unemployment Security and Employment Incentives Act were discussed with the Bank
and advice was given by Bank experts on how to improve the targeting of wage subsidies. The latest
version of the draft act was reviewed by the Council of Ministers but was not submitted to Parliament.
SPAL contributed to enhancing work incentives through removing the exemptions from payment of
unemployment contributions. All existing exemptions were waived. Since January 1, 1999, all budget
sector workers employed on labor contracts (the single biggest category of workers whose salaries were
exempt from this liability) started paying unemployment contributions to the PTUF.
Social Assistance
The outputs of the SPAL Social Assistance component are rated as satisfactory. With the support
of the SPAL the Government reformed the social assistance system and improved its effectiveness. All but
- 1 0 -



one SPAL conditions related to the reform of the social assistance sector were successfully met. The SPAL
contributed to strengthening and consolidating means-tested benefits, to targeting benefits to the most
vulnerable individuals and households and to reducing duplicative benefit programs. The SPAL also
supported improving the quality of social assistance and increasing community and private participation in
the delivery of social services.
One of the important outcomes is the replacement of in-kind guaranteed minimum income (GMI)
program and utility benefits provision with cash monthly support programs. The in-kind portion of the
supplemental utility (energy) benefit to the poor households was removed in 1998. Only cash income
support is being provided for covering the energy bills since the beginning of the 1998/99 heating season.
The energy support is paid on a monthly basis. The program was adequately funded by the central state
budget in the period 1999 - 2001. The Bank requirement for improving the targeting of families with two
and more children was met through relevant changes in the eligibility criteria. The second Bank
requirement - to pay the energy benefit in one or two aggregate installments instead of each month, was not
accepted by the Government. Since May 1999 the in-kind portion of the main social assistance program -
the guaranteed minimum income (GMI) program, was reduced to 30 percent. The in-kind support 'basket'
was improved in structure to include only staple foods and avoid distortion in consumption leading to
reducing of individual and aggregate welfare.
The SPAL required financial stimuli to be provided from the central state budget for municipalities
making regular social assistance payments. This requirement was partially met. The FY 1999 and FY
2000 State Budget Laws envisaged state and municipal co-financing of social assistance on a monthly
basis. The state met its obligations to provide a half of the social assistance transfers, while the municipal
budgets failed to do so. In 1998-99 over 80 percent of the municipalities were unable to pay the amount
required for social assistance benefits, and on average, they experienced a 30 percent deficit in funding.
Since 2000 the state budget transfers (subsidies) for social assistance became earmarked and fell within the
category of priority Government budget allocations. The Ministry of Finance amended the formula for
allocating of social spending and improved the monitoring and accounting mechanisms. Yet, the system for
rewarding of municipalities that meet their expenditure obligations was not put in place as set forward in
the SPAL. Instead, the MOF and MOLSP agreed on special measures for strengthening the financial
security of the social assistance. They include due but undelivered municipal social payments for the
previous month to be executed at the expense of reducing the general municipal budget expenditures for the
next month. These measures also allow the state budget transfers of the outstanding social payments to be
made directly to the respective municipal social welfare office. These measures helped improving the
financial relations between the republican budget and the municipal budgets. In 2000 the municipal social
assistance programs remained under-funded and the municipal budgets recorded deficits basically as a
result of arrears accumulated in previous years. The municipal budget situation improved in 2001.
The Government failed to replace the 1968 Birth Promotion Act that has proven ineffective with a
new Family Support Law. A submission of a draft act to Parliament and its enactment were required
within the SPAL timeframe. The Government prepared a draft and submitted it to Parliament in late 1998.
The first reading passed but the second reading never went through. The latter and possible enactment was
postponed for after January 1, 2000 at the earliest, due to estimated deficiency of financial resources for its
implementation. The proposed draft law continued to stick to the universal model of child benefits and was
rejecting means-testing as expensive and not efficient in a situation where only 5 - 10 percent of the
families with children are not categorized as poor. Universal increase in child benefits with less than 50
percent required additional budget allocations of 1.5 percent of GDP on an annualized basis to implement.
This draft of the law was not acceptable to the Bank and it offered technical assistance on targeting of child
benefits based on some kind of already implemented means testing (e.g. based on the GMI) and for phasing
- 11 -



of the implementation of the law. The Bank and IMF agreed on and offered to the Government a joint
position on child benefits envisaging a modest increase in the universal benefit combined with a higher
increase in the benefit for families with children on social assistance. The Government acknowledged the
need for revisiting its social protection strategy and agreed with the position of the Bank and the Fund
related to the introduction of a dual scheme of universal and targeted (means tested) child benefits, but did
not go ahead with redrafting the law on time. Its initiative was limited basically by public attitudes - the
universal child benefits remained among the very few forms of benefit delivered based on a criterion
different from the GMI. Due to budgetary considerations this act was not included in the Government's
legislative agenda for 2001.
The MOLSP issued in 1998 a Regulation on the Implementation of the Social Welfare Act
specifying licensing requirements, contractual and funding transfer arrangements and minimum standards
for delivery of social care services by NGOs and the private sector. Territorial Social Welfare Offices were
established in each of the 28 districts. The activities under the IDF grant for "Strengthening of Policy
Making in the MOLSP" supported the administrative reorganization of the social assistance system, the
training of the central and district staff, the assessment of information and communication needs and of
public attitudes towards the existing social assistance programs.
The Government improved the 1995 Law on Protection, Rehabilitation and Social Integration of
Disabled Persons by replacing the universal benefits with predominantly targeted benefits based on means
and assets tests. Before the closure of the SPAL the Council of Ministers amended the Regulation for the
implementation of the existing act and adopted an Ordinance for the Technical Support Facilities and
Equipment for the Disabled. The amendments to the law were submitted to the Bank on April 18, 2000 and
enacted a year later. The legal amendments give a more comprehensive definition for disability, remove the
duplicative assistance programs, improve the system of delivery and clarify the eligibility criteria in order
to better target the disability benefits.
Health Insurance
The outcome of the SPAL Health Sector component is satisfactory. The Government succeeded in
reforming the health insurance system. It revised the Health Insurance Act to reflect Bank requirements
related to the organization of collection of social insurance contributions. These requirements were
reflected in the final and transitory regulations of the Mandatory Social Insurance Code. They provide for
simplification of the collection system for health insurance contributions and harmonizing them with the
other social assistance contributions collected by NSSI.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NA
4.4 Financial rate of ret urn:
NA
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The overall institutional development impact of the SPAL is substantial. The major areas of the
institutional development impact of the SPAL are the pension supervision and the management of social
assistance at the local (district) level. The SPAL supported in establishing the State Insurance Supervision
Agency (SISA) as an administrative structure under the Council of Ministers for regulating (through
licensing and suspending of licenses) of the private companies willing to manage private pension funds.
SISA monitors pension companies' compliance with legal provisions, oversees financial perfornance,
- 12 -



approves custodian banks and auditors, gives permissions for mergers and acquisitions of pension
companies. The SPAL supported in improving the collection capabilities of the National Social Security
Institute and enhancing its overall responsibility for the management and control over the Pension Fund and
the public social insurance in general.
The SPAL contributed to the institutional strengthening of the National Social Assistance Service
and its district and municipal offices. The role of these institutions expanded with respect to planning of
social assistance programs, service delivery, targeting of beneficiaries, needs assessment, provision of
information to the public and collaborating with the private sector, NGOs and communities.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of governnment or inmplenmenting agency:
The overall macroeconomic performance at the time of SPAL implementation was worse than
expected. The proceeds from the privatization of state owned enterprises and the inflow of foreign
investments remained smaller than expected. As a result of extemal factors (especially the war in Kosovo)
the external demand for Bulgarian export industries shrunk while imports continued to grow. The current
account deficit increased. These factors had a negative impact on economic development, prevented
employment from growing and posed fiscal constraints on increasing overall social spending. The higher
rate of unemployment and the lower than planned average wages endangered the financial stability of the
Professional Training and Unemployment Fund and did not allow further decrease of the contribution to it,
as envisaged in the SPAL matrix.
The donors were generally able to support the implementation of the reforms. USAID, through the
Bulgarian Pension Project, financed analytical work, technical assistance (including in the area of
information technologies), assistance for institutional development of the pension system, training, a broad
public education campaign and organization of international events for promotion of the Bulgarian pension
model and exchange of experience.
There were some delays in the parliamentary reviewing and approval of part of the key legislative
documents which required enactment.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The strategies and programs for the reforms of the pension system, health insurance, social
assistance and labor markets were generally well designed by the Government. It established and supported
three inter-agency working groups which developed the legislation for mandatory pension insurance,
proposed the amendments of the Labor Code and drafted the SIF Act The Government encouraged
tripartite cooperation and public consultations on key issues of the reform agenda.
The Government increased budget allocations to cover the initial higher costs of the pension
reform. After the introduction of the currency board the priorities of the Bulgarian Government's policy, in
addition to improving the living standards of the population, are to revive and stabilize the economy and to
increase the share of investment in the GDP as a basis for rapid economic growth. Compared to other
European countries, the relative share of expenditures for pensions in the GDP are relatively small but the
government managed to increase them at the time of the start of the reform. These expenditures as a
percentage of GDP grew from 8.4 percent in 1999 to 9.6 percent in 2000 and 9.0 percent in 2001.
At the same time the Government was not able to secure sufficient financial resources for
increasing the social safety net budget. Budget allocations were not sufficient for the introduction of the
new child benefits formula proposed in the draft Child and Family Support Act.
- 13 -



5.3 Factors generall) subject to implementing agency control:
The MOLSP had the appropriate commnitment to fulfill all the SPAL second tranche conditions.
Inernal organization and mechanisms for monitoring of and reporting on project implementation were put
in place. Tripartite consultative processes were initiated and led by the MOLSP in the case of the drafting
of the Mandatory Social Insurance Code, the SIF Law and the amendments of the Labor Code.
Under the SPAL MOLSP negotiated with the Bank a very ambitious reform agenda. Within the
limited timeframe of the project implementation the MOLSP failed in fully meeting all conditions. The
linkage between the different SPAL conditions proved to be complex and close, which made the setting of
priorities and the sequencing of reforms more complicated than expected.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost was DEM 145.7 million (US$ 80.0 million equivalent). The first tranche was
released on December 3, 1998 against conditions met by the loan approval date. Only the first tranche
(US$ 40.0 millions) was fully disbursed. On July 3, 2000 the Government of Bulgaria requested the
cancellation of the loan. On July 5, 2000 the Bank cancelled DEM 72,850,000.00 from this loan.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is considered highly likely for several reasons. First of all, the actions that the
Government had completed under the SPAL demonstrated a firm commitment, since many of these actions
were difficult to undertake from political point of view. The most notable among them are:
1. transferring of part of the social insurance payments to the employees (50 percent of the
contribution to the Health Insurance Fund, 20 percent of the contribution to the Professional
Training and Unemployment Fund and 20 percent of the contribution to the Pension Fund with the
provision for the latter contribution to go up to 50 percent in 2007);
2. increasing of the overall pension age;
3. privatization of hotels, spas and other assets of NSSI;
4. easing of the termination procedures for labor contracts;
5. cutting the number of social assistance programs and removing duplication, combined with stricter
eligibility screening and improved means-testing; and
6. cutting part of the disability benefits. It is highly likely to maintain the achievements already
generated and the expected ones in all areas of SPAL interventions. The policy environment for
the SPAL reforms is improving.
Sustainability is highly likely also because the social reforms were implemented in close relation
with the IMF three-year program, which complements and ensures sustained progress in strmctural reforms.
Last but not least, sustainability follows from the wide local participation in the work on the SPAL
reform agenda. In addition to policy makers, it included representation of the leading trade unions, civil
society organizations, academic institutions and development partners.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
NA
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
- 14-



7.1 Lending:
The Bank staff designed the SPAL in consistency with the Government's strategy and priorities and
in compliance with the CAS social protection objectives. The Bank used highly qualified staff in the
preparation stage to both design the project and advise the Government. The participation of Bank experts
was highly valued and effective. The lending instrument was suitable for achieving the loan objectives.
The design was linked to other Bank operations in the social sector, as the Social Insurance
Administration Project, and the Regional Initiatives Fund LIL. No Bank technical assistance project was
envisaged to accompany the SPAL, due to Government reluctance to accept such. Some technical
assistance was provided by USAID for pension reform, the UK for social assistance (supplemented by an
IDF Grant), and the Swiss on health insurance.
Coordination with the IMF was smooth and resulted in an effective complementary of Bank and
Fund activities. Constant communication both in the field and at HQ was instrumental. Both the Fund and
the Bank commented on each other's draft documents.
7.2 Supervision:
The supervision took place through regular supervision missions. Implementation progress was
closely monitored by HQ and field staff. Reporting was regular. Implementation problems were detected
at early stages and the Bank staff and consultants were flexible in suggesting and approving of acceptable
modifications related to the required legislative changes.
Additional financial support and technical assistance for the enforcement of SPAL loan covenants
was provided through the IDF Grant for MOLSP Capacity Strengthening.
Throughout the implementation phase the Bank had very good relationships with the MOLSP and
MOF, with USAID (on pension reform issues), with UNDP (on the ALMPs study), NSSI (on pension
reform and Pension Fund deficit issues), NES (on issues related to the PTUF budget), major trade unions
and employers' associations.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
There has been adequate preparatory work for the design of the SPAL. Design problems emerged
later in the course of implementation. They were caused by (i) overoptimistic planning of financial flows
as a result of a more optimistic vision about the macroeconomic performance and the rate of
unemployment; (ii) underestimation of the costs of the reforms; and (iii) underestimation of the capacity of
the institutions to plan and complete within a tight timeframe a very ambitious reform agenda.
7.5 Government implementation peiformance:
The Government and especially the MOLSP had a satisfactory implementation performance. The
Government was able to undertake many politically difficult and unpopular actions, such as: decreasing the
state pensions while increasing the contribution rates, extending the pension age by 5 years for men and 8
- 15 -



years for women, shifting part of the social insurance burden on the employees, cutting part of the benefits
for disabled persons, tightening the eligibility criteria for participation in the social safety net.
The major part of the actions included in the SPAL matrix were completed or very close to
completion on time. The deadline for the completion of the conditions to the disbursement of the second
tranche was extended by six months. This allowed closing of a substantial part of the SPAL agenda.
However, some of the outcomes were not achieved, predominantly for reasons that stayed outside the
implementing agency.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The MOLSP worked with the Bank towards planning and defining the actions to be completed
under the SPAL. It also worked hard towards implementing and coordinating these actions but part of the
decisions were taken outside the implementing agency.  The main problems were related to fiscal
constraints and delays in the review and approval of documents by the Parliament.
7.7 Overall Bor-rowerperformance:
Overall the Borrower performance was satisfactory. The Borrower encountered difficulties in
completing what was a very extensive reform program encompassing a range of politically sensitive issues
in a compressed time frame. Having fully or partially completed all except one condition for the release of
the second tranche, albeit with delays, the authorities determined that they did not need the second tranche
in the short period before the loan closing date because of Bulgaria's enhanced budget revenues and the
favorable and improving situation of the economy.
8. Lessons Learned
The existence of a multi-year Government reform program was an important precondition for the
design of the SPAL. The outlines of this reform were given in the Letter of Development Policy. The
Govemment actions to be accomplished before Board approval are summarized in the SPAL matrix.
The accomplishment of the SPAL objectives required strong Government commitment to the
reform. The Government demonstrated ownership of the program and readiness to implement unpopular
reform actions. Effective organization at the Bulgarian administration was also very important for the
fulfillment of the loan conditions. The SPAL agenda was ambitious and required very careful planning and
coordination of policies and sequencing of reform actions. The right sequencing of the adoption of
legislative measures was crucial for meeting the tight deadlines for the disbursement of the second tranche.
Sufficient management and implementation capacity needed to be in place within the Government,
and especially within the implementing agency. The role of MOLSP was central in initiating the social
sector reforms, preparing draft legislative documents and consulting about them with stakeholders,
facilitating the review process within the Council of Ministers and different committees of the Parliament.
Some flexibility of the conditionalities and benchmarks is needed to reflect the changing external
conditions, the balance-of-payments and fiscal situation, and as a result of re-thinking of reform priorities
and sequencing of reforms. One issue which emerges is whether the two-tranche operation had enough
flexibility in its approach. The lion's share of the preparation and design work for the SPAL commenced
in late 1997. With hindsight, an argument can be made that the reform agenda thus foreseen for the SPAL
- not least its substantial legislative component - was overly ambitious. Both the Government officials and
the Bank staff involved may not have been able to foresee the limitations in implementation capacity,
- 16-



particularly when the administration and the Parliament had a large additional agenda beyond the SPAL
(e.g. the heavy legislature agenda associated with EU accession). The "bar" for successful performance
under the SPAL may have been set too high.
Another issue is that in the second tranche conditionality, the Government (and the Bank) were
bound to precise conditions which may have needed refining as time passed. For example, the condition to
reduce the payroll contribution to the Unemployment Fund from 4.5 percent to 3 percent, may have been a
reasonable aspiration when agreed in 1998. At that time the unemployment rate was 15 percent and
falling. But by mid-2000, the unemployment rate was over 17 percent and rising, and the finances of the
unemployment fund would not permit any reduction in the contribution rate, which could be viewed as
responsible. And yet, if the Government had wished in mid-2000 to proceed with the second tranche
disbursement, the Board of the Bank would have been requested to grant a waiver. It is noteworthy that in
other Bank adjustment operations in Bulgaria, which have been designed as an interconnected series of
single tranche operations, progress has been very good.
Technical assistance, in this case covered to the possible extent with Bank grant financing, and
other donor financial support, helped in some of the design and implementation work of the SPAL. There
are fmancial advantages to the Governnent in securing technical assistance from (often bilateral) grant
sources, to complement policy reforms. But it is also true that subsequent reliance on donors presented
certain problems requiring intensive coordination of donor activities. This made the implementation of the
actions required by the SPAL dependent to a great extent on the availability, timing and quality from other
aid agencies. In the future, consideration could be given either to Bank-financed TA directly linked to the
policy agenda, or a more active Government stance in pursuing the coordination of other development
partners to assure that they provide the necessary technical assistance in a timely, high quality manner.
Timely parallel operations prevented overloading the SPAL and optimized the linkages among the
operations, but required coordination. The FESAL II and the ASALI focused on reforms that would not
have been dealt with in a comprehensive manner if these were incorporated in the SPAL. The SLAP, the
RIF LIL and the IDF Grant for institutional strengthening of the social assistance services complemented
the SPAL reform agenda with investing in equipment and technical assistance for the reform of the
mandatory pension insurance (SLAP), technical support for the improvement of labor market flexibility and
study of the active labor market programs (RIF LIL), training, technical support and equipment for the
establishment of the municipal and regional social assistance offices.
Given the complementary nature of the content of the SPAL and the IMF program, coordination
between the Bank and Fund was essential. This required communication both in HQ and in the field. Draft
papers from both sides were circulated for comments, and the Fund was invited to important decision
meetings. The Fund progran was an important mechanism to help ensure the sustained implementation of
SPAL labor market reform.
The SPAL required on the ground support due to the need for constant communication between the
Government and the Bank in dealing with implementation issues. Country office staff monitored
implementation progress and liaised with the Government. The use of country office staff at different
stages of the preparation and implementation of the SPAL contributed to improving the quality of the
operation and its overall impact.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
- 17 -



Comments on Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
by H.E. Ivan Neikov, Minister of Labor and Social Policy
I am pleased to submit my comments on the abovementioned ICR concerning the Social Protection
Adjustment Loan.
Having in mind the general objective of the Loan I consider SPAL a very successful project which
had influence on some of the basic components of the social model in Bulgaria - pension reform, labour
market and unemployment, social assistance and health reforms.
Here the examples were the establishment of the three-pillar pension system and setting the modem
legislation and transformation of some outdated acts into harmonized with the acquis communautaire
acts, which had a significant importance for the strive of the Republic of Bulgaria to join the European
Union.
Almost all of the conditions set out in the loan agreement were implemented (15 completely
fulfilled, 5 partially and I not fulfilled at the expiry date of the loan but by now it is 20 of the conditions
that are met), which shows that the SPAL had marked to a great extent the framework of the reforms in
the social sector and had given an impetus to them. Maybe here it will be appropriate to note the number
and comprehensiveness of conditions to be met during the SPAL life-span were probably not well
considered during the preparation phase which actually made the work extremely difficult within a
constant shortage of time.
Some of the SPAL conditions formed a base for development of new projects and for establishment
of a modem social policy (Child Welfare Reform).
I would give satisfactory mark to the SPAL and I would like to thank to all officers of the Bank
both from the Resident Mission in Sofia and from the Headquarters in Washington, D.C. for the extreme
amount of work done and for their kind cooperation.
(b) Cofinanciers:
NA
(c) Otherpartners (NGOs/private sector):
NA
10. Additional Information
NA
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
OBJECTIVES            ACTIONS BY BOARD             ACTIONS BY SECOND  STATUS AT                  CURRENT
PRESENTATION                 TRANCHE                 SECOND TRANCHE IMPLEMENTATIO
CANCELLATION         N STATUS
I. The Pension
System                Clearance of arrears and     D)evelopment of a plan for, Mandatory Social  Secondary legislation
*     Improve the     compliance in contribution   and cnactmenit of a law    Insurance Code     is under preparation.
long-term financial   payments has been substantially  for, systemic reforn of the approved by the Council The Bank has
viability of the public   improved by passagc of laws    pay-as-you-go pension  of Ministers on Sept.  submitted to the
pension scheme;       and regulations which:       system, satisfactory to thc  13, 1999 (Decision No. (iovernment a Pension
*     Substantially    (a) require that employers pay   B3ank with features as  615); approved by  Reform note
reduce the long-term  social insurance contributions    describcd in Matrix  Parliament on       highlighting emerging
contribution rate-    before any other obligation;  Atiacieintt (13).      December 2,1999 and  implementation issues.
*     Diversify old-age (b) require a limit on wage                       enacted on Jan. l, 2000.
risk beyond public    increases in enterprises with
system by encouraging   arrears in social insurance
the develop-ment of   contributions;
voluntary private pension (c) block access to bank loans to
funds; and            meet payroll for entcrprises with
*     increase equity  social insurance contribution
across occupations and   arrears;
gender by stricter    (d) relocate responsibility for
adherence to insurance   contribution collection from the
principles.           Ministry of Finance to the NSSI;
and
(e) require reporting of
contributions on an individual as
well as enterprise basis.
NSSI has established the
administrative capacity to record
and monitor contri-butions on an
individual basis as frequently as
contributions are due and paid.
Initial cost-saving measures have
been implemented including the
following:
(a) an amendment to the Labor
Code was made which allows
individuals to voluntarily retire
later with higher benefits,
coupled with a denial of benefits
to "working pensioners'";
(b) Government has passed an
amendment to the pension law
providing for gradual
lengthening of the earnings base
used to determine pension
benefits by including all years
after 1996 with the three best
years before 1997, thereby
gradually lowering henefit
levels; and
(c) payments for special dietary
food supplements have been
eliminated from the social
insurance system.
- 19 -



Council of Ministers has issued  A law. satisfactoty to the  Council of Ministers
an ordinance for stabilizing the  B3ank, to hc enacted for   transitional
Social Insurance Fund through   special early relirement   arrangements for
reclassifying about 140,000  schenies folr tilose    implementationi of new
category I workers to category n, remaining in laWor  Labor Categorization
and reclassifying current    categolies I aud 11 within   Regulation No. 235
category 11 workers (about   the paramoeters given in   adopted oni Oct. 20,
490,000) to normal retirement   Matrix Attachinent (C).   1998 and enacted on
category 11.                                        Jan. 1, 2000.
NSSI has transferred ownership  NSSI privatizes      Changes introduced in  Sales of spas,
and management of spas,      partially or fully      the Social Insurance    recreation homes/
holiday homes/ hotels, and other ownership of assets of   Fund Law to allow  hotels continue. By
property not directly related to  the commercial affiliate NSSI Supervisory Board the end of 2001 NSSI
the operation of the pension fund that owns spas holida   to tender assets. 25  expects USD 920,000:
to a distinct commercial affiliate t       ,      y  hotels tendered. Legal  30%o of the
of NSSI, and has prepared an    homes/hotels and     analyses to establish    privatization proceeds
action plan, satisfactory to the   similar property, in  ownership rights for the are to be channeled
Bank, for the privatization of the accordance with an  rest of the assets  into the pension fund.
affiliate's assets.          agreed action plan.     completed.
Govemment has appointed a
high-level Council on Social
Reform chaired by the Deputy
Prime Minister, which in tum
has appointed a working group
consisting of representatives,
inter alia, from the MOLSP,
Ministry of Finance, NSSI and
the Securities and Exchange
Commission to coordinate all
relevant activities related to
pension reform.
Government has prepared and    Submission to Parliamenit Volunitary Pension  Development of
presented to the Bank for    and enactment of a law.   Insurance Act adopted  accompanying
comment a draft law on       satiSfactorv tlo the Bank,   by Parliament on July  legislanion is ongoing.
voluntary non-state (private)    oni volitntar, pension  20, 1999. The State    II pension companies
retirement program which     fundls and plro ide     Insutance Supervision   are licensed by SISA
includes the principles laid out  evidence nf        Agency is established   for the management of
in Matrix Attachment (A).    implementation          and operational.      voluntary pension
NSSI has maintained the      satisfactory to the liank.                    funds.
pension fund in surplus,
notwithstanding retention of
children's benefits scheduled for
transfer to Republic Budget
- 20 -



II. The Labor
Market                 Government has passed the     Ilhe evaltiation of active                   Final report on the
*     Increase the    framework and issued          labor miarket programs to  The evaluation of  findings of the net
flexibility of the labor   regulations satisfactory to the    b)e completed. its findings ALMPs was delayed.   impact evaluation of
market;                Bank, for the Unemployment    and recommilenidationis  An initial assessment of ALMPs was received
*     Improve work   Security and Employment        discussedi xwith tlhe l3ank,  the gross efficiency of  in the end of 2000.
incentives for the     Incentives Act which, inter alia: and an actioni plan agreed  ALMPs was conducted  Employment Action
unemployed; and       (a) adopts a view of the right to  for retfrm of active labor  with support from the   Plan finalized in April
labor, employment incentives    market programs.     British Know How      2001.
*     Protect workers  and unemployment protections                         Fund in 1999.
laid-off under the    which is consistent with the                          Following the Bank
structural reform     needs of a market economy;                            recommendation, net
program.               (b) establishes the legal basis                      impact evaluation of
for, and purposes of, the payroll                    ALM Ps started in
contribution-financed        An Act for Establishment  August 1999. By the   The SIF Law was
Professional Qualification and   of a Social lnvestment    end of June 2000 the   submitted to
Unemployment Fund;           Fund, satisfactory to the   executing agency - the  Parliamnent on October
(c) reduces the overall payroll  13ank, to be submitted to   Netherlands Economic  23, 2000, approved by
contribution to the          Parliamcnt.             Institute, subnrittetd a   Parliament on March
unemployment fund to 4.5%                            draft report. Tihe Bank  21, 2001 and enacted
(from its peak of 7%) from                           reviewed the report and on April 3, 2001.
7/1/98, introduces cost-sharing                      made a number of
betveen employer and                                 substantive comnments
employee, and obliges budget                         and recommendations
organizations to contribute at the                   for impiovement.
same rate as other employers.
(d) tightens eligibility for, and   Submission to Parliament A Social Investment
reduces the lower bound of   and enactiicit of an   Funid Act, salisfactory to
(from 90 to 80% of minimum   amendmiient to the      the Bank, was approved
wage), cash benefits and limits   UnemployImnt n Sccurit   by the Council of
the range of active labor market and  nimployment    Ministers in April,
measures financeable through    Incentives Act to further   2000, but not submitted
the fund to those deemed to be   reduce tie pa! roll  to Parliament before the
the most efficient;          contribution rate from] 4.5  end of June 2000.
(e) eliminates payment of cash  to 3 pereen. whie
benefits to most non-contributors maintainin.g emplo)e-c
(e.g., school leavers); and  contribtitions at least at 20
(f) enables the development of   percenit of the total.
voluntary private unemployment
insurance.
-21 -



Ordinance no 331/97 was issued Submission to Parliament Reduction of payroll    The Labor Code
by the Council of Ministers and  of amendments to the  contribution to the  amendments were
provides for severance payments 1986 Labor Code,     Professional Training   submitted to
(commensurate with age, length  satisfactory to the 13ank,  and Unemploy-ment    Parliament in the
of service, and remuneration  aimed at:             Fund to 4% was        beginnin o20
level) to workers in the State   (a)  reducing required   adopted as of July I,   beginning of 2001
enterprise and budget sectors    paid leave for education,  1999 with the 1999    and approved by it
made redundant as a result of    maternily and childcare;   State Budget Act. The  on March 2, 2001.
the MOF's structural adjustment and                 Bank required and the  The Law for the
program.                     (b)  easing restrictions   Ciovemment has    Amendment of the
oni terminations for   submitted data on the   Labor Code is
misconduct or economic   deficit of the PTUF to  enacted as of March
reasons,               prove that further    31, 2001. The
contribution rate will   amendments related
undennine its        to educatonal,
sustainability. I'he  maternity and
employee contribution   childcare leave, and
rate was detennmied and for easing the
kept at the level of  termination of
0.8% of the payroll or  contracts remained
20% of total         in line with the
contnibution.        initial propositions.
Submission to Parliament A Concept Paper for    Enactmenit of the Act
and enactment of       changes in the Labor   on the Amendments of
legislation. with      Code was prepared by a the UInemployment
provisions satisfactory to   Ml.SP team of lawyers  Security and
the Bank to:           and circulated for    Employment
(a)  increase incentives  discussion. 'i he Bank   Promotion Act is still
for compliance with    provided comments.    pending.
payroll contribuitions; and  Labor Code
(b)  refonm} sick-pay  amendments in line
regulations.           with the concept were
drafted by a Bank
Submission to Parlianient funded Working (roup
and enactmenit of      of lawyers. First
amendments to the Act on amendments to the
UJnemployment Securty   Labor Code were
and Employment         submitted to CoM on
Incentives, which:     March 31. 20000 but
(a) provide wage subsidies they did not incorporate
to employers only if they   SPAI. conditions.
create additional jobs; and Further amendmenits to
(b) remove the present   the
exemption for the payment I.abor Code.
of unemployment        incorporatinig the Bank
contribution for budget   requirements were due
sector workers employed  by the end of April
on labor contiacts.    2000.
- 22 -



Paid leave for maternity
and childcare was
reduced marginally in
line wi(h the provisions
of the Mandatory Social
Insurance Code. For the
education leave the
Labor Code
amendmenits envisaged
it to remain paid only in
case when the employer
has given preliminary
permission for pursuing
the respective
educ.ation. [Ihe
amendments also
envisaged easing
restrictions on
termination of labor
contracts for misconduct
and economic reasons.
Completed. Complianec
with payroll
contributions is
regulated by the
Mandatory Social
Insurance Code, enacted
on Jan. 1, 2000. The:
sick-pay is regulated by
the same act As of Jan.
1, 2000 SIC introduced
a regulation accordinig
to which sick leave is
paid by the employer
during the first three
days of the leave. and
after that by the
Temporary Incapacity
Fund.
- 23-



The draft Act on the
Amendments of the
Unemployment Seculity
and Employ-ment
Incentives Act was
submitted to the
Council of Ministers.
This draft was reviewed
by the Bank. Comments
were submitted to the
h1OLSP on improving
the targeting of wage
subsidies. An improved
draft was later reviewed
by the Council of
Ministers.
Exemptions fiom
payment of
unemployment
contributions are
waived. Since January
1999 all budget sector
workers on labor
contracts are required to
pay unemployment
contributions.       _
- 24-



III. Social Assistance
*     Strengthen and   Government has issued a      Rcplace in-kind portion of The cash benefit
consolidate means-tested Regulation on Social       the consolidtated       program for the heating
benefits targeted to the   Assistance effcctive 11/1/97   D)BMI/in-kind utility  season was
most vulnerable        which inter alia:            monthly income support  Inmplemented in the
indiviuleablshueholds inc(a uniesther eligiilty     programi with an        winters of 1998/99 and
andaffoduablshuehway;   in()uiisteciiiy             equivalent cash benlefit for 1999/00.
an affordtlablseh way;  criteria (means and asset test) the heating season.                       MoF has not
*     Reduce or        for the differentiated basic                                               introduced incentives
eliminate duplicative  minimum income (DBMI)    I nmplemernt monthly                              for mulicipalities
in-kind benefits and  monthly support program       co-finanicing from central  Monthly co-Financing   which make social
universal cash benefits;  and the in-kind utility   and local buidgets of   was implemented       payments on a regular
program;                     benefits to families    with FY 1999 and FY   basis but has increased
*     Strengthen the   (b) reduces the fiscal cost of  included in the      2000 Budget laws.     penalties for the ones
management and quality  the utility component of the  consolidated monthly  Budget allocations for  that delay social
of social ssistance  cheme by eiminating incomne support programi,  social assistance have a paymenits.
of social assistance   scheme by alincinating       ilucsoding an additional    prioiity. Spending is
provisions for supportrin then of an          closely mionitored by
*     Increase        non-heating season and        appropriate (5-7 percent)  MoF.
community and private  reducing the supported norms administrative charge to                      'Ihe enactment of the
participation in the   in the heating season to a   he paid from the center to                    new Family Support
delivery of social    level more consistent with    the general imunicipal                        Law is still pending.
assistance programs and  survival needs;            budget.
services.             (c) increases protection for    S                     Not completed. A draft
vulnerable groups including:  Sms     to Parliament was submitted to
chilrenthrughmaking     zand eniactmnctt of a    Parliamnent in late
children througher           Fanmily Support Law with  1998. Second reading
provision for higher         pros isions satisftctory to  was delayed, due to lack
coefficients for those aged    the Bank. to replace the   of financial resources
0-16 (of 0.9 and 1.5 in the  196X Act on Birth Rate   for the implementation
non-heating and heating      Stiinulation which has    of the new law. The
seasons respectively); and   proven ineffective.     Bank has offered
population over 70 years                             technical assistance on
living alone and disabled                            the targeting of child
persons (in the heating                              benefits.
season) through provision of
a higher coefficient of 1.2;
- 25 -



(d) reduces "exceptional"
payments from a maximum    Issue Regulations on       Completed. The        The Amendments to
of 7 times a year to 3 times a Social Care which specify: Regulation on the  the 1995 Law on
year per household; and      licensing requirenmenits;   Implementation of the   Protection,
dapenupeholcative  coutractual and funding    Social Welfare Act was Rehabilitation and
(e) rescinds duplicative     transfer arrangements; and issued in 1998.     Social Integration of
programs for means-tested    minimum standards for                          Disabled Persons was
provision of free or          ihe delivery of social care                   enacted as of April 3,
subsidized medicines through services by NGOs and the                       2001.
the Social Assistance        private sector.
network, transferring full                            In accordance with the
responsibility to the health    Establish and         Law on
system (which runs a similar appropriately staff and  Administrative and
prograrn).           equip the 'Territorial  'Ierritorial Division of
program).                     Social Welfare Offices.   Bulgaria, 28 regional
(f) reinstates a 30 percent                           social assistance offices
disregard for earned income                           have been created and
in the eligibility calculation                        staffed.
for the consolidated DBMI
monthly support program;
and
(g) allows a 1.2 coefficient
for the disabled in both the
heating and non-heating
seasons.
Progress has been made       Complete audit and       An assessment of
towards reducing fiscal costs  ontiome esaluation of    infomnation flow
of (currently mis-targeted)    nme(hodologies.        needs was undertaken,
child allowances as follows:   or-gafni/ation and staffing  training program
(a) The Law on Protection    leve ls and equipment    developed and training
(a).The Law on Protection  needs in all social welfare conducted for the
Against Unemployment and   pjmIamus. incluiding an    regional social
Stimulation of Employment   action plan For           assistance offices under
has been enacted which        inipleimentationi of    the IDF Grant for
eliminates duplicative child   findings.              Strengthening of the
allowance payments from the                           Social Assistance
Professional Qualification    nimprove. in a manmier  Service.
and Unemployment Fund;    satisfactory to the 13ank,
and                           the 1995 Law oni        Amendments of the Law
(b) Govrmuenthas froen lProection, Rehabilitat%ion  were submitted to the
(b) Governiment has frozen    iland Social Integration of  Bank on April 18,
child allowance benefits in    Disabled lPersons by   2000. Draft changes
nominal terms since May      replacing universal      were reviewed by the
1997.                        benietits xN ith targeted  Ban and found
lvieeits based on means   satisfactory.
Government has halted        andl assets tests.
implementation of the
(unaffordable) 1995 Law on
Protection, Rehabilitation
and Social Integration of
Disabled Persons and has
continued to provide lower
cost in-kind benefits.
- 26 -



Government has enacted a
Social Welfare Act,
satisfactory to the Bank, with
provisions, inter alia, for:
(a) establishing a legal
distinction between social
assistance benefits and social
care services recognizing
separate criteria and
functions for each;
(b) establishing Territorial
Centers for Social Welfare
with responsibility for
overseeing the quality of
services provided through
social welfare offices,
facilities and programs;
(c) requiring program
reporting by local social
assistance offices to the
National Social Welfare
Center through the
Territorial Centers;
(d) centralizing responsibility
for management and
financing of social care
institutions with
intermunicipal functions;
(e) enabling central
earmarked co-financing of
social welfare programs
currently financed solely
through central government
block grants to local budgets;
- 27 -



(f) requiring the creation of
community councils
(involving community
representatives, NGOs etc.)
at district and central levels
to oversee the operation of
social welfare programs;
(g) enabling NGOs and
private individuals to provide
social care under appropriate
licensing and supervisory
arrangements; and
(h) providing for independent
resolution (e.g., by Social
Welfare Councils) of appeals
concerning social welfare
programs.
Government presented for
Bank comments a minimum
staffing and equipment plan
for the establishment of
Territorial Social Welfare
Offices, including an action
plan for implementation.
IV. Health
*     Improve the fiscal Government has enacted a    Submission to Parliament
sustainability of the  Health Insurmce Act.          and enactment of Health
health system; and                                   Insurance Legislation
reduce costs of health                               which takes into account
benefits to employers.                               the comments provided by
the Bank.
Because of a recent Constitutional Court ruling striking down the provision excluding working pensioners, the
measures encouraging delayed retirement likely will lose most of their effect
- 28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Prject Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Adjustment Operation                                 80.00           40.00             50
Total Baseline Cost                                  80.00           40.00
Total Project Costs             80.00           40.00
Total Financing Required              80.00           40.00
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Componet                                    -.p                                  W, i  W- Estinate
~~~~~L !                    A (p.    'Baiki .ov   -             . -  .  i nj-i;;<oyiC 7-*^;i tF.  -~
Adjustment Operation   80.0                        40.00                      50.0
-29 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)      Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count             Specialty                         Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
Identification                3   Team Leader (1)
mission                             Sr. Pension Specialist (1)
June 1997                          Research Analyst (1)
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal                     5   Team Leader (1)
mission                             Sr. Pension Specialist (1)
December 4-16,                      Social Assistance Specialist
1998                               (1)
Research Analyst (l)
Sector Leader (1)
Negotiations                  5   Team Leader (1)
April 2-6, 1998                    Program Team Leader (1)
Legal Counsel (1)
Disbursement Officer (1)
Project Officer (1)
Follow-up mission             3   Team Leader (1)
February 9-14,                     Sector Leader (I)
1998                               Project Officer (1)
Follow-up mission              I   Team Leader (I)
May 18-22,1998
Supervision
November 16-20,                2   Sr. Economist (1)                     S              S
1998                               Economist (I)
October 4-14, 1999             5   Team Leader (1)                       S              S
Social Assistance Specialist (1)
Labor Market Specialist (I)
Pension Reform Specialist (I)
Project Officer (1)
ICR
February 19-21,               2    Team Leader (I)                       S              S
2001                                Project Officer (1)
- 31 -



(b) Staff.
iStage of Project Cycl                       Actual/Latest Estima_
No. Staff weeks              U   (000)
Identification/Preparation               75.6                      222.88
Appraisal/Negotiation                    14.2                       39.71
Supervision                              51.1                      143.67
ICR                                       6.2                           5
Total                                   147.1                      411.26
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
FMacro policies                            O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
FSector Policies                           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
OI Physical                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development                0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
F Gender                            O H OSUOM ON O NA
O Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Private sector development               0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                   O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
3 Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
l Supervision                                        OHS OS  OLU  OHU
F Overall                                            OHS OS  OU  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
g Preparation                                        OHS OS  OU  O HU
X Government implementation performance              O HS OS  0  U  0 HU
3 Implementation agencyperformance                   OHS OS  O  U  O HU
M Overall                                            OHS OS OU O HU
- 34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. President's report to the Executive Directors, No. P7234-BUL, dated October 30, 1998
2. World Bank Identification, Pre-appraisal, Appraisal missions Aide-Memoire, as well as Minutes of
Negotiations
3. World Bank Supervision Missions Aide-Memoires
- 35 -



