Report No. PID6830
Project Name                     Bulgaria-Social Protection Adjustment...
Loan (SPAL)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Human Development
Project ID                       BGPE51151
Borrower                         Republic of Bulgaria
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
2 Triyaditza Street
1000 Sofia, Bulgaria
Tel:    8601/87 65 08
Fax:    80 06 09
Ministry of Finance
102 Rakovsky Street
1000 Sofia, Bulgaria
Tel:    869 222/987 47 45
Fax:    980 24 25
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           September 10, 1998
Date Initial PID Prepared        September 10, 1998
Actual Appraisal Date            December 1997
Projected Board Date             October 1998
I. Country and Sector Background
1.      Bulgaria is emerging from a major economic crisis of 1996 and early 1997
which resulted in a sharp contraction in GDP, very high rates of inflation, a
large outflow of capital, and a sharp depreciation in the domestic currency.
Inflation has been declining steadily since August 1997 and was down to 0.5
percent in October 1997 compared to nearly 245 percent in February. The
Government is committed to maintaining tight control on monetary and fiscal
policy to ensure sustained macroeconomic stability as a key springboard to
economic growth. Progress with structural reforms during 1997 attracted
significant interest from the international investor community and foreign
direct investment has exceeded expectations.
2.      A cornerstone of the nascent economic turnaround has been the adoption of
an economic program of stabilization and structural change which was conceived
in collaboration with, and received the support of, the International
Financial Institutions (IFIs).
3.      Bulgaria's social protection system (including pensions,
labor/unemployment, social assistance and health) amounts a significant share
of government expenditures, but is doing an inadequate job of protecting the
most vulnerable. At present, some form of social protection assistance or
insurance benefit is available to almost all of the population. However the
erosion of contribution compliance for social insurance coverage, combined



with the weakening of the link between contributions and benefits has resulted
in growing fiscal costs of the social insurance system as well as low
transfers to beneficiaries. The imposition of extremely high payroll taxes in
response to low contribution compliance is having detrimental effects in the
labor market. The existence of many duplicative and generally poorly targeted
programs of social assistance has swelled the ranks of claimants while
providing very limited transfers to those who are in genuine need. Moreover,
there is also a high degree of duplication in social protection provision,
with fragmentation of many cash and in-kind transfer programs among agencies.
In the health sector, too, there has been a marked deterioration in the
quality and quantity of health care services available to the population, in
large part related to the severe financial constraints affecting the sector
and the instability of funding availability.
II. The Country's Adjustment Program
4.      The proposed SPAL would support the government's social protection reform
program, which aims to put in place an effective, sustainable system of income
support and poverty relief, congruent with the needs of a market economy. It
would also support efforts to reduce the (temporary) adverse effects of the
transition on vulnerable population groups in an affordable way. The main
areas covered by the SPAL are social insurance (pensions and health
insurance), unemployment assistance and social assistance (including child
allowances). It will pursue poverty reduction through protecting and/or
raising key benefits, improved targeting and establishing robust financial and
institutional frameworks for the provision of better quality social assistance
and health services. It will help establish a viable safety net by
introducing structural reforms in pensions, unemployment and welfare programs.
The SPAL emphasizes efficiency improvements and resource reallocation within
safety net programs and , where feasible, resource mobilization through
increased partnerships with the public, the private (especially NGO) sector
and local governments.
III. The Proposed Loan/Credit
Amount: DEM 145.7 million
Terms: Twenty years maturity including a five-year grace period, floating
interest rate for LIBOR based Deutsche Mark single currency loan.
IV.     Objectives
5.      The proposed Social Protection Adjustment Loan (SPAL) aims to: (a) to
mitigate the adverse effects of transition on poor and vulnerable population
groups; and (b) begin to build up an effective and sustainable system of
income support and poverty relief that meets the requirements of a market
economy. The SPAL will focus on reforms in social insurance (including
pensions, health and short-term insurance for unemployment, sickness and
maternity), unemployment programs and social assistance. It will pursue
poverty alleviation by raising and protecting minimum benefits, and through
better targeting. It will help establish a viable social safety net by
introducing structural reforms in pensions, health financing and welfare
programs. In order to help safeguard the Government's macroeconomic
stabilization targets, the SPAL will emphasize efficiency improvements in the
safety net programs and the reallocation of resources within existing programs
towards needy groups, without increasing public expenditures as severe fiscal
constraints prevent the Government from undertaking reallocations from other
- 2 -



sectors in the short term.
V. Financing
6.      To be released in two equal tranches: the first DEM 72.85 million upon
effectiveness, and the remaining DEM 72.85 million upon fulfillment of second
tranche conditions.
VI. Implementation
7.      Detailed design and implementation of SPAL reform program will require
substantial support over the next several months. The Bank intends to provide
for intensive supervision of the loan aimed not only at monitoring progress on
tranche conditions but also at providing necessary technical advice and
support. On-going operations, including the Social Insurance Administration
Project and the Health Sector Restructuring Project will support the SPAL
policy agenda. In addition, the Bank has already begun a concerted
coordination effort with other interested official and private donors to
provide timely technical assistance and related non-lending services for the
design of key reforms.
VII. Sustainability
8.      The proposed SPAL is the outcome of a long and productive dialogue with
successive governments on social policy reform, and focuses both on immediate
issues and on the restructuring of existing programs to build an affordable,
well-targeted social safety net suited to the needs of a market economy. The
program is supportive of one of the key elements of the current Government's
strategic program -- namely, the establishment of a viable policy framework
for systemic reform in the social protection area.
VIII. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
9.      The design of the SPAL builds on experience of prior adjustment lending
in Bulgaria, and in particular the greater effectiveness and sustainability of
two-tranche operations.
IX. Poverty Category
10.     Program of Targeted Interventions.
X. Environmental Aspects
11.     None. The project is rated as category 'C.'
XI. Program Objective Categories
12.     Economic Management (EA), Poverty Reduction (PA)
XII. Project Benefits
13.     The social protection reform program supported by the SPAL will have
considerable benefits for the Bulgarian economy and the country's population.
The fundamental restructuring of the safety net implied by SPAL actions will
help stabilize and place on a sounder financial footing the key social
-3 -



insurance programs -- pensions, health care financing and unemployment
insurance -- and substantially strengthen and retarget social assistance,
thereby reducing and diversifying the major economic risks faced by Bulgaria's
people. Through its support of improved financial and allocative efficiency
in the social insurance programs and greater reliance on well-designed public-
private partnerships in the provision of social protection in each area, the
SPAL will help reduce the medium- and longer-run fiscal costs of social
protection, thus freeing up resources for other productive investments and
contribute to the maintenance of macroeconomic stability. While the design of
the SPAL program assumes that the Bulgarian economy will experience a steady
resumption of growth that will ease pressure on the social protection system,
it is also directly supportive of economic growth objectives -- principally
through its support for further reduction of labor market rigidities
especially payroll taxes and onerous labor market regulations.
XIII. Project Risks
14.     Within Bulgaria there has been growing recognition of the need to
radically restructure the social protection system and a concomitant increase
in support for the SPAL agenda. However, there remain significant risks that
need to be recognized. The main risks are political and are associated
primarily with pension reform, changes to the draft health insurance law and
changes to family allowances and maternity and child care leave benefits. In
each instance, proposed reforms may be viewed as disadvantageous to powerful
vested interests, such as older workers and pensioners, health care
professionals and current formal sector employees -- so that passage will
require not only sustained commitment from the Government but also intensive
public education campaigns to build broad understanding of reform premises and
expected benefits. Support for such public information efforts is available
from ongoing Bank investment operations in social insurance and health and
Government intends to draw on these operations as appropriate.
15.     A second major risk attending the successful completion of the SPAL
concerns the multi-dimensional aspects of reform design, and the need for
effective cross-agency collaboration to ensure the best possible results.
Historically, Government has shown limited capacity for such inter-agency
collaboration as was evident, for example, in the early draft of the health
insurance law which was insufficiently coordinated with other social insurance
activities and initiatives to spur economic growth. In the course of preparing
the SPAL, however, Government has become more aware of the need for inter-
agency collaboration, and in the pensions area has explicitly appointed an
inter-agency task force to move forward the reform design.
XIV. Contact Point:
John Innes, ECSHD
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-5826
Fax No.: (202) 477-3387
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
- 4 -



Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 11, 1998.
- 5 -



