Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9069
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1096-BD)
OCTOBER 12, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Asia Region
Country Department I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Exchange Rate
Currency Unit       1980     1983      1984     1985     1986      1987     1988
US$1 = Tk          15.48    23.76    24.95    26.00    29.89    30.63    32.85
Tk 1 = US$          0.065    0.042    0.040    0.039    0.034    0.033    0.030
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot = 0.305 meters
1 mile = 1.609 kilometers
ABBREVIATIONS
BADC     -      Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BIWTA    -      Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority
BIWTC    -      Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation
BR       -      Bangladesh Railways
BG       -      Broad Gauge
CPA      -      Chittagong Port Authority
ERR      -      Economic Rate of Return
GOB      -      Government of Bangladesh
ICB      -      International Competitive Bidding
MG       -      Metre Gauge
OCC      -      Operations Control Centre
PCA      -      Port of Chalna Authority
PCR      -      Project Completion Report
PDP      -      Primary Distribution Points
PIU      -      Project Implementation Unit
TTB      -      Telecommunication and Telegraph of Bangladesh
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofiee of Directouciiewal
Operatons Evakhatr n
October 12, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Bangladesh Fertilizer Transport
Proiect (Credit 1096-BD)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Bangladesh - Fertilizer Transport Project (Credit 1096-
BD)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1096-BD)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface ..................................................................
Evaluation  Summary .......................................................ii
PART I   -   Project Review  from  the Bank's Perspective ....................    1
I.      BACKGROUND .........................................................    1
II.    THE PROJECT ........................................................    2
A.    Origin of Project .............................................    2
B.    Project  Preparation  and Appraisal .............................    2
C.  Project Objectives, Description and Organization.                                               2
III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .............................................    3
A.    Implementation  of Physical Components .........................    3
B.    Implementation  of Other Components ............................    4
C.    Factors  that Affected  Project  Implementation ..................    4
D.    Time and Costs ................................................    4
E.    Project Results ...............................................    6
IV.    INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE ..........................................    7
A.    Borrower and  the Executing Agencies ...........................    7
B.    Consultants ...................................................    7
V. IDA PERFORMANCE.                                                                                         8
A. Project Formulation and Design.                                                                  8
B. Supervision.                                                                                     8
C. Covenants.                                                                                       8
VI.  CONCLUSIONS AND PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                       ..                        9
PART II - Project Review from the Perspective of the Executing Agencies
(Prepared  by  the Executing Agencies of the Borrower) ..........  11
I.      Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation ....................  11
II.    Bangladesh  Railways ................................................  15
III.   Bangladesh  Inland Water Transport Authority ........................  18
IV.    Chittagong  Port Authority ..........................................  20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
PART III - Summary of Statistical Data ................................... 21
1.    Related IDA Credits ...........................                             21
2. Project Timetable .23
3. Credit Disbursement .24
4. Project Implementation .26
5.  Project Costs and Financing .28
6. Project Results .31
7. Status of Covenants .35
8. Use of IDA Resources .37
ANNEX A - Economic Reevaluation ...............................                   39



BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CRLDIT 1096-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fertilizer Transport
Project in Bangladesh, for which Credit 1096-BD in the amount of SDR 19.10
million was approved on January 22, 1981.  The credit was closed on June 30,
1987, three years behind schedule.   Of the total amount approved, SDR 7.04
million was not disbursed, and the last disbursement was on January 21, 1988.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division,
Country Department I of the Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and III), and by the Executing Agencies of the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision
mission of the project in November 1987, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report; Credit, Guarantee and Project Agreements; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.
This PCR was reviewed by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) but
the project will not be audited at this time.



- ii -
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1096-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
1.       The socio-economic setting against which the project was identified and
prepared is discussed in paras 2-22 of the December 31, 1980 President's Report
(PR).  Paras 1.09-1.17 and 2.01-2.15 of the October 15, 1980 Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) respectively describe the transportation and the fertilizer
distribution systems.
2.       When the project was appraised in April 1980, the Bank was familiar with
constraints on project implementation in Bangladesh. The Bangladesh Inland Water
Transport Project (Credit 424 of 1973), expected to have been completed in
December 1974, was not completed until October 1979. The Second Inland Water
Transport Project (Credit 735 of 1977), expected to have been completed by
February 1980, had barely begun, and the project was not completed for another
five years. Project Performance Audit Reports on the two projects (OED Reports
No. 4026 of June 30, 1982, and 5778 of June 28, 1985) discuss in detail the
reasons for time overruns, and for partial achievement of project objectives.
These included government reluctance to use IDa funds to finance technical
assistance studies, weak implementation capability, and poor performance of
contractors. The SAR acknowledged the constraining effect of these factors and
noted (para 1.16) that "execution by GOB of many projects has been extremely
slow."
OBJECTIVES AND PROJECT COMPONENTS
3.       Intended:  (a) to improve the availability of fertilizer to farmers by
expediting fertilizer handling and distribution; (b) to reduce the cost of
fertilizer distribution; (c) to increase the efficiency and capacity of the
transport sector; and (d) to encourage private sector participation in fertilizer
distribution and transport. To achieve these objectives, the project would (i)
rationalize the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation distribution
system; (ii) improve transport handling contracting procedures to allow more
competition and provide lower cost and more dependable service; and (iii) remove
major physical bottlenecks in the fertilizer distribution system (SAR, para
3.02).
4.       Achieved:  (a) Distribution of fertilizer increased from around 840,000
tons  in FY81  to over  1.5 million  tons  in FY88;  (b)  average  fertilizer
distribution costs (in constant 1981 prices) declined from Taka 302 per ton in
FY81 to Taka 165 per ton in FY88; (c) capacity on specific transport links
increased significantly (e.g., Chittagong Port traffic increased from 5.4 million
tons in FY80 to 10.8 million tons in FY88), and efficiency improvements were



- iii -
achieved both in overall transport system improvements (Baghabari Port
development reduced cost of fertilizer transport to the Northwest from Tk 550
per ton to Tk 300 per ton) as well as in the use of existing transport equipment
(turnaround of railway wagons utilized in unit trains reduced from 22 days to
5 days, and locomotive utilization in fertilizer movements improved from 94 miles
per day to 138 miles per day).
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
5.       The project was implemented by four different agencies (SAR, paras 3.26-
3.29):   Bangladesh Agricultural  Development  Corporation  (BADC),  Bangladesh
Railway (BR), Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority (BIWTA), and Chittagong
Port Authority tCPA,.   implementation experience with the different project
elements under different executing agencies is summarized below. The project
consisted of the following components (SAR, paras 3.03-3.09):
(a) Port Improvements
Establishment of an inland port at Baghabar. (BIWTA). Completed in June
1983, with a year's delay, due to land acquisition problems (PCR, Part
II, para 3.2).
Development  of  fertilizer  depots  (BADC).    The  project  involved
construction of depots at Baghabari, Shiromoni, Rajshahi and Natore.
Construction work was scheduled to conmence in September 1981 and to
be completed by December 1983. Actual work did not begin before October
1983 and was completed in stages between June 1985 and March 1987.
Major causes  for delay were  problems with  land acquisition,  late
appointment of supervision consultant, and poor interagency coordination
(PCR, Part II, para 1.3).
Test dredging and the Karnafuli River at Chittagong (CPA). Begun in
April 1981 and completed on schedule in March 1982 (PCR, Part II, para
4.2).
Studies for bulk fertilizer handling facilities at Chalna. Not done
under  the  project.    Work  was  handled  by  Chalna  Port  Authority
independently (PCR, Part II, para 1.5).
(b) Unit/block train operations was the project's second major component.
BR was the executing agency for the following subcomponents (SAR, paras
3.30-3.35):
Wagon rehabilitation and workshop improvements. Only 416 wagons had
been rehabilitated against the planned 600 wagons.  Major causes for
the shortfall were poor management of wagon stock, delays in procurement
of materials, and management decision to shift rehabilitation work from
Saidpur to Paharthali Workshop (PCR, Part I, para 3.8).
Rail wagon ferry improvements. Procurement of wagon ferry barge was
completed 2.5 years behind schedule, conversion of a floating barge into
a workshop was not completed due to failure of the contracting firm,
and provision/upgrading of an additional tug was not implemented due
to failure in following IDA procurement guidelines.



- iv -
Rail siding improvement. Completed in conjunction with the setting up
of fertilizer warehouses at different locations (PCR, Part TI, para
1.4).
Operations control center. Implementation was incomplete at closure
of the credit but has now been completed by BR.
ow'S. .b
6.       The estimated project cost was US$40.8 million, with about US$20 million
representing foreign costs (SAR, para 3.20).   Actual project cost is 564.41
million Taka (PCR, Part III, 5).  Comparison of the two figures is not meaningful
because of project scope modifications during implementation (PCR, para 3.5).
Estimated project completion was set at June 30, 1984. Actual project completion
is not given in the PCR but the final closing date was set, after three
extensions, to June 30, 1987 (PCR, para 3.4). The principal causes for delay
were problems with land acquisition, poor interagency coordination, and lengthy
bureaucratic procedures.  As appraised, the project has an estimated ERR was
332  (SAR, para 4.04).   The PCR (para 3.7) gives a reestimated ERR of 30Z.
Institutional strengthening had mixed results (PCR, paras 4.01-4.02).
SUSTAINABILITY
7.       The PCR (para 6.02 to 6.04) concludes that project benefits are likely
to be sustained without further interventions, however this will depend to some
extent on BR's efforts to provide improved services to shippers of fertilizer.
FINDINGS AND LESSONS
8.       The PCR confirms the lessons drawn from the First and Second Inland
Waterways Projects (OED Reports No. 4026 and 5778), as well as from the First
and Second Highway Projects (OED Report No. 7954) which demonstrated the need
for thorough preparation, adequate appraisal, simple design, sufficient time for
implementation, systematic supervision, and adherence to covenants.
9.       Like previous projects, this too illustrates the difficulties in the
pursuit of improved transport services in an environment lacking adequate and
suitable staff, not equipped with the necessary mechanisms for interagency
coordination. and not fully familiar with IDA's procurement guidelines and
selection procedures.



BANGLADESH
FR TILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1096-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - Project Review from the Bank's Perspective
Project Identity
Project Name        Fertilizer Transport Project
Credit No.          1096-BD
RVP Unit            Asia
Country             Bangladesh
Sector              Transport
I. BACKGROUND
1.1      This Pro;ect Completion Report  (PCR) presents  the results of the
Fertilizer Transport Project (Credit 1096-BD) which has proved to be an important
IDA initiative in the transport sector in Bangladesh. The project involved four
separate executing agencies, was multimodal in that it addressed problems in
rail, inland water and road transport, and also required initiatives in various
institutional aspects of the transport sector, such as transport contracting
procedures. Many of the problems encountered in implementing the project are
directly related to this multifaceted nature of the project.
1.2      In recent years, the focus of IDA assistance in Bangladesh has been on
agriculture, which dominates the national economy, and this is consistent with
the country's needs and the Government of Bangladesh's (GOB) priorities.  As
there is no possibility of achieving acreage expansion due to heavy population
pressure on limited land, particular emphasis has been placed on projects that
provide agricultural inputs. Emphasis has also been placed on projects in other
sectors which facilitate agricultural development or which increase access to
rural areas. These included projects in the transport sector, which is critical
to the efficient functioning of the rural economy.   As one of these, the
Fertilizer Transport Project was designed to improve the supply and reduce the
cost of fertilizer to the end user, i.e., the rural farmers of Bangladesh, by
selective investments in the facilities used for the transport and storage of
fertilizer, and through improvements in the institutional arrangements for
fertilizer distribution.
1.3      IDA's lending operations in the fertilizer subsector have included a
Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1023-BD) approved in 1980 and
2 Fertilizer Imports Projects (Credit 944-BD and Credit 1044-BD) approved in 1979
and 1980.   In addition,  IDA also participated in the Ashuganj Fertilizer
Production Project (Credit 527-BD) along with 9 other agencies. In the tranzvort
sector, IDA's involvement in the highway subsector was through the Higlways
Project (Credit 408-BD), Highways II Project (Credit 964-BD) and the First Roads
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Credit 1827-BD) The first Rural Roads
and Markets Improvement and Maintenance Project (Credit 1940-BD) became effective
in April 1989. In the inland water transport subsector, IDA financed the Inland
Water Transport Rehabilitation Project (Credit 424-BD) and the Inland Water
Transport II Project (Credit 735-BD) IDA has also been assisting in the
development of Bangladesh's main seaport at Chittagong (Credit 1247-BD).



- 2 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Pro3ect
2.1      The problems affecting fertilizer production, marketing, distribution
and pricing in Bangladesh have been a major focus of IDA's assistance programs.
While the major constraint to increased fertilizer consumption has been on the
supply side, the distribution system has also been handicapped by poor planning
and coordination and a lack of adequate transport and storage facilities.  A
fertilizer marketing and distribution study (financed under Technical Assistance
Credit 409-BD) completed in 1977, provided the basis for formulating a
comprehensive and improved marketing and storage program for the Bangladesh
Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC), an autonomous agency responsible
for the procurement, distribution and marketing of agricultural inputs including
fertilizers.   Deficiencies in the country's transportation system were also
identified. Elimination or at least reduction of transport bottlenecks and the
use of least-cost fertilizer distribution patterns by different transport modes
together with iMprovements in coordination, could make a significant difference
in ensuring that farmers obtained fertilizer when required and at reduced cost.
It was against this background that the project was conceived.
B. Project Preparation and Appraisal
2.2      A project identification mission visited Bangladesh in October 1978.
In July 1979, a consulting firm submitted a report on the proposed Fertilizer
Sector Credit Transport Identification, which recommended improved contracting
procedures by BADC; use of an improved mix of transport modes for lifting
fertilizer from the factories; provision of additional storage space and a rail
siding at Shiromoni; development of inland water port facilities at Baghabari;
running of unit/block trains for transport of fertilizer; and, provision of
adequate storage (godown) capacity at strategic locations to enable handling of
unit trains. A transport sector identification mission which visited Bangladesh
in November 1979, envisaged transport components either as part of the fertilizer
sector credit or as a separate transport project.   The possible components
identified by this mission included improved maritime and riverine port
facilities; acquisition of barges, coasters, and trucks; rehabilitation of
railway wagons; and road decking of certain railroad bridges. Also identified
was the need for test dredging of the Karnafuli River at Chittagong Port. On
November 16, 1979, IDA agreed that the proposed Fertilizer Transport Project was
suitable for its consideration.   Project preparation was assisted by various
studies:  the proposed deepening of Karnafuli River by Farleigh and Co.; another
by J. Peltz and Partner of requirements for communications at riverine ghats;
an assessment by Chantiers Navals de Nameche of Selgium that Tugboat ISHAKHAN
supplied by them earlier to Bangladesh Railways  (BR) could be modified and
reengined; and an assessment of telecommunications requirement by J. Albestson
(consultant) The Fertilizer Transport Project was appraised by a mission which
visited Bangladesh in February 1980.
C. Project Objectives, Description and Organization
2.3      The overall objectives of the project were to improve the availability
of fertilizer to farmers by expediting its handling and distribution and thus
reducing  its  cost.    The  project  sought  to  achieve  these  objectives  by
rationalizing BADC's distribution system, improving transport contracting
procedures and removing major physical bottlenecks in the fertilizer distribution



- 3 -
system. For this purpose, the project envisaged assistance to various agenciess
BADC, BR, Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority (BIWTA), and Chittagong
Port Authority (CPA). The physical components of the project, for each agency,
were:
(a) BIWTA -    construction of Baghabari Riverine Port;
(b) CPA   -    trial dredging of Karnafuli River at Chittagong Port:
(c) BADC  -    (i) construction  of  storage  warehouses  at  Baghabari,
Shiromoni, Rajshahi and Natore;
(ii)  provision of rail spurs at Shiromoni, Rajshahi and Natore
and improvement of rail siding facilities serving
fertilizer factories at Ghorasal and Ashuganj;
(d) BR    -    (i) rehabilitation of 600 freight cars;
(ii)  acquisition of a new wagon ferry barge;
(iii) conversion of a barge into a floating workshop;
(iv)  modification and repair of the tug ISHAKHAN;
(v) provision of telecommunication at Bahadurabad Tistamukh
Ghats across Jamuna River; and
(vi)  setting up of an Operations Control Centre (OCC).
2.4      As  the  project  was  to  be  carried  out  by  several  agencies,
organizationally it was envisaged that each agency would appoint a project
manager and that coordination and monitoring would be undertaken by a committee
formed by representatives of each of the agencies and headed bv the Chairman of
BADC. It was also envisaged that Project Implementation Units (PIUs) would be
established by BADC and BR. According to the project implementation schedule,
project completion was envisaged by June 30, 1984 with disbursement continuing
up to December 31, 1984. In the event, the credit was closed June 30, 1987 with
disbursements continuing through December 31, 1987.
II.  PROJECT IMLDEENTATION
A.  Impleuntation of Physical Components
3.1      When credit disbursements closed on December 31, 1987, all physical
components of the project pertaining to CPA, BIWTA and BADC had been completed.
The trial dredging of Karnafuli River was completed on schedule by CPA and the
results were fully evaluated; BIWTA's inland water port at Baghabari became
operational in 1983; BADC's storage warehouses at Baghabari, Rajshahi, Natore
and Shiromoni were constructed, rail spurs were provided to serve the warehouses
at Shiromoni, Rajshahi and Natore and rail siding facilities at Ghorasal and
Ashuganj fertilizer factories were improved. The implementation of BR components
was, however, not satisfactory and only one component, namely, acquisition of
a  new  wagon  ferry  barge  was  fully  completed.    Other  components  like
rehabilitation of wagons, conversion of a barge into a floating workshop,



- 4 -
provision of telecommunications at the Ghats, and setting up of an Operations
Control Centre were only partially completed. Acquisition of a new tug for the
wagon terry was not accomplished.
B.  Implementation of Other Components
3.2      Apart from the phystcal components mentioned above, a number of other
components of the project were implemented. Running of unit/block trains for
fertilizer traffic has been accomplished, however, BR has not been able to fully
utilize unit trains due to partial implementation of BR's physical components.
Limited progress has been made in improving the management of rail ferry
operations. The allocation of fertilizer movements to different transport modes
has been rationalized to achieve least cost transport, transport contracting
procedures have been significantly improved and lifting contracts between BADC
and fertilizer factories have been improved to allow better coordination between
fertilizer production and transport. The studies related to bulk handling of
fertilizers at Chalna and of inventory management were also undertaken though
not under the project; these were conducted independently by Chalna Port.
C. Factors that Affected Project Implementation
3.3      The major factors which adversely affected project implementation were
the following:
(a) delay of over 20 months in the appointment of the supervision consultant
for construction of warehouses by BADC;
(b) inadequate and inappropriate staffing of BR's PIU and frequent changes
(six in six years) of the Project Director;
(c) inadequate and unsatisfactory monitoring of project implementation by
the PIUs of BADC and BR as well as by the Project Coordination
Committee;
(d) inter- and even intra-agency coordination problems relating to BR, the
Telecommunications and Telegraph of Bangladesh (TTB) and BADC;
(e) GOB's decision in 1983 not to go ahead with those BR components for
which commitments had not yet been entered into--these included
acquisition of the tugboat and provision of telecommunications, and
these components remained frozen for over a year when GOB rescinded the
decision; and
(f) inadequate appreciation and observance cf IDA's procurement guidelines
and selection procedures by BADC and BR.
Selection of the supervision consultant by BADC and evaluation of bids for
acquisition of a tugboat by BR are the two most notable examples of procurement
problems which caused delays running into years.
D. Time and Costs
3.4      The project, as originally envisaged, was to be completed by June 30,
1984 with credit disbursements up to December 31, 1984.   Due to incomplete
project implementation, the closing date was extended 3 times to June 30, 1987



- 5 -
with disbursement extending up to December 31, 1987.   While Chittagong Port
dredging was completed on schedule, there was a delay of about 10 months on the
part of BIWTA in commissioning of the inland port at Baghabari due to delay in
acquisition of land.  Several other components of the project were completed
after considerable delay and some have remained incomplete. Amongst the major
components that incurred delays were the following:
(a) Appointment of the supervision consultant for construction of warehouses
by BADC was done in October 1982, 20 months behind schedule.
(b) Construction of the storage warehouses was completed 4 1/2 years after
the appointment of the supervision consultant agairst the three years
envisaged, and this delay was due to heavy rains and floods, late
release of land by BR at Rajshahi and Shiromoni, and a court injunction
on land at Natore.
(c) Procurement of a wagon ferry barge by BR was completed in July 1985,
2 112 years behind schedule, primarily due to inadequate design of the
barge and delay in inspection of the work done by BR officials.
(d) Rehabilitation of wagons was only partially completed at closure of the
credit (416 wagons against the planned 600 wagons). The major causes
that contributed to the component remaining incomplete were the
inordinately long time taken by BR to identify individual wagons to be
rehabilitated and in providing them to the workshop; excessive delay
in procurement of materials and spare parts; decision taken by BR in
1987 to undertake further rehabilitation work on Metre Gauge (MC) wagons
at Paharthali Workshop, rather than at the originally nominated Saidpur
Workshop; and inadequate monitoring of performance.
(e) BR's component relating to the conversion of a barge into a floating
workshop remained incomplete until closure of the credit due to sinking
of the original barge nominated; stoppage of work due to floods; demise
of the Managing Director of the contracting firm and consequent
succession dispute; and, faulty preparation of conversion plans, etc.
The machinery, equipment and tools procured are consequently lying
unused.
(f) Another project component relating to BR which was only partially
completed when the credit closed was the provision of telecommunication
at the ferry landing ghats on Jamuna River and for the Operations
Control Centre.   The major factors contributing to the delay were
inordinately high prices quoted for undertaking this turnkey project
as originally envisaged, and the consequent need to resort to invitation
of tenders under international competitive bidding (ICB), GOB's decision
to freeze the work for over a year and poor coordination between BR and
TTB.
(g) Yet another project component pertaining to BR that remained
unimplemented was acquisition of a tugboat. The project had envisaged
that an existing tugboat (ISHAKHAN) would be repaired, modified, and
reengined by the original builder, but this decision had to be changed
when the firm quoted a price that made consideration of the alternative
of acquiring a new tugboat more attractive. Accordingly, quotations
were invited for modifications of the tug as well as for a new tug first



- 6 -
from six firms shortlisted for the purpose and then, when a number of
other firms expressed interest, under ICB. At this stage, in 1983, GOB
decide not to go ahead with those project components pertaining to BR
for which commitments had not already been entered into. This caused
over a year's delay and the tender could only be floated in May 1985.
Non-observance of procurement guidelines and selection criteria
necessitated re-invitation of bids for the second time, and then the
contract could not be awarded as the lowest evaluated bidder could not
fulfill the conditions of award. The award was not made to the second
lowest bidder due to disagreement between the IDA and BR on whether or
not the conditions stipulated had been met.  BR wished to award the
contract to the third lowest bidder, and this difference could not be
resolved. That brought the credit to a close.
3.5      The actual cost of the project when the credit closed amounted to Tk
564.41 million which was 10.7Z less than the appraisal estimate of Tk 631.73
million.  This is attributed to currency exchange variations favoring the US
dollar; non-completion of some project components for the reasons mentioned; and
non-utilization of the provision of Tk 8 million for studies of bulk handling
of fertilizer at Chalna Port and for inventory management, and of Tk 6.05 million
for improvements to the Ashuganj rail siding as different sources of financing
were utilized for these elements. However, for certain project components (like
provision of rail sidings, test dredging of Karnafuli River and tele-
communications facilities for BR), the actual costs incurred were considerably
higher than appraisal estimates due to incorrect initial estimates, increase in
the scope of work and cost escalation.   As regards disbursements, against a
provision.of SDR 19.10 million, the actual disbursement amounted to SDR 12.06
million and the balance of SDR 7.04 million was cancelled. Some costs incurred
by GOB were not reimbursed by IDA due to delays in submission of disbursement
requests beyond the closing date, and due to costs having been incurred after
the closing date. This situaticn was allowed to develop even though Government
and the agencies had considerable advance notice of the credit closing date.
E. Project Results
3.6      Implementation of the project, though incomplete in certain areas, has
resulted in achievement of project objectives in a very substantial measure The
new distribution system developed by BADC has succeeded in rationalizing the
choice of transport mode as evidently by the reduction in the average cost of
fertilizer transport from Tk 300 per ton in FY81 to Tk 165 per ton in FY88. BADC
has also improved its contracting procedures for transport as evidenced in recent
comparisons between BADC and Food Department contracting procedures in the inland
water transport sector.   Setting up of Baghabari Port has reduced costs in
distribution of fertilizer to the north-west of Bangladesh which were earlier
being transported by water-cum-rail route via Khulna Port (Tk 300/ton vs Tk
550/ton). Dredging of Karnafuli River has enabled handling of bigger ships and
more traffic at Chittagong Port (10.8 million tons in FY88 against 5.4 million
tons in FY80) and has led to reduction in lighterage costs.  Imported t Laftic
handled at port jetties has gone up from 0.9 million tons in FY80 to 1.7 million
tons by FY88. Rehabilitation of railway wagons, though incomplete, provision and
improvement of rail sidings and spurs and construction of large fertilizer
storage facilities together with better telecommunication facilities have
resulted in running of unit/block trains by BR which has substantially improved
utilization of locomotives and wagons, and has reduced the costs of BR's
operations. Turnaround of railway wagons used for transport of fertilizer has



- 7 -
improved from 22 days to only 5 days.   For fertilizer movements,  locomotive
utilization has improved from 94 miles per day to 138 miles per day.
3.7      As a result of the above as well as other investments in the fertilizer
industry, the availability and consumption of fertilizer in the country has
considerably improved.   Against fertilizer distribution of 842,000 tons in
1980-81, the figure achieved in 1987-88 was 1.5 million tons, an increase of 80Z.
In the same period, the production of cereals in the country went up from 13.2
million tons to 16.3 million tons. In FY81 when the project commenced, the cost
of movement and handling of fertilizer was estimated as Tk 302 per ton: at
constant prices, this cost has come down to Tk 165 per ton in FY88. In FY81,
the extent of subsidy given by GOB was Tk 1,017 million amounting to 25Z of the
cost; this came down to Tk 354 million or only 4.6Z of the cost in FY86 and to
Tk 655 million or 8.7Z of cost in FY88. While not all of these reductions in
transport cost and fertilizer subsidies stem solely from this project,  the
increased volume of fertilizer in itself providing some scale economies, the
project has contributed to improvements in the fertilizer distribution system.
The economic rate of return (ERR), estimated as 33Z at the time of project
appraisal, is now estimated to be 30Z.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A. Borrower and the Executing Agencies
4.1      The framework actually evolved for implementation and coordination by
GOB and its executing agencies largely corresponded to what was envisaged, but
the expectations regarding its effectiveness did not fully materialize. While
the position in regard to CPA and BIWTA was generally satisfactory, certain
deficiencies persisted throughout in BR's PIU related to adequacy and
appropriateness of staffing and frequent changes of incumbents (there were six
Project Directors in six years).  Inter- and intra-agency coordination problems
that were actually encountered far exceeded expectations, and caused frequent
delays in implementation of the project. The Project Coordination Committee was
not effective in resolving problems, and generally was active only when IDA
supervision missions visited Bangladesh.
4.2      Throughout  the  implementation period,  the project was  beset with
problems related to procurement and selection, largely in respect of components
pertaining to BR and, to a lesser extent, in respect of those pertaining to BADC.
IDA guidelines regarding procurement and selection criteria and procedures were
often not understood and frequently not observed by these agencies.   In this
regard, it may be noted that more frequent exposure of GOB and implementing
agency personnel to IDA procurement policies and guidelines through seminars and
other training activities is necessary.
B. Consultants
4.3      Consultants were appointed by BADC to supervise construction of godowns
and by BR for trial running of unit/block trains, for installation of tele-
communications at the ghats, and for establishment of the Operations Control
Centre. By and large, the consultants provided useful and satisfactory service
which helped the implementation of the project. In addition, consultants were
used by IDA during appraisal to advise on technical aspects of the project and



- 8 -
during  implementation  for project  supervision.   Overall,  the consultants'
performance was satisfactory and their inputs were useful and necessary.
V. IDA'S PERFORMANCE
A. Project Formultion and Design
5.1      IDA's contribution to the project formulation, design and implementation
arrangements was quite considerable. At the stage of project formulation and
appraisal, IDA rightly utilized consultant services extensively. Most of the
cost estimates developed were fairly accurate except those for trial dredging,
telecommunications and the tugboat.  As the project involved several agencies,
IDA rightly anticipated coordination problems and insisted on establishment of
a Project  Coordination  Committee,  comprising  representatives  of  concerned
agencies.  This mechanism, however, proved inadequate and largely ineffective
in resolving the nature and the quantum of coordination problems that were
actually experienced which led to long delays in decision making and project
implementation. Monitoring of the progress of the project by the Committee was
also considerably deficient.   It was only when supervision missions visited
Bangladesh that coordination problems could be resolved, decisions reached, and
project implementation given a push. In retrospect, it appears that for projects
involving a large number of agencies, IDA should consider evolving a better
mechanism for achieving coordination and for monitoring; this could perhaps
be accomplished by appointing a consultant project coordinator who would act as
Secretary to the Project Coordination Committee. Such a professional, charged
with adequate authority, can not only provide the necessary mechanism for
achieving coordination, but can also resolve day-to-day problems and expedite
decision-making and project implementation.
B. Supervision
5.2      Nine supervision missions visited Bangladesh after the credit became
effective in July 1981 and up to its closure in December 1987, a period of nearly
six and a half years. This works out to one supervision every eight-nine months
which is less than the normal rate for the average IDA-financed project.  In
fact, some supervision missions visited Bangladesh after a period of almost a
year and even then could devote only limited time to the project. Considering
the fact that the project was a multi-agency one having serious inter-agency and
intra-agency coordination problems, and the fact that the general situation in
Bangladesh in the area of project implementation was weak, the need for frequent
and intensive supervision was obvious.   Experience had shown that project
implementation improved every time a mission visited Bangladesh, but in between
such visits, progress was slow. Seen against this background, IDA's supervision
of the project was not adequate. Frequent changes in the Task Manager in IDA
(five in seven years), made the position still worse.  It is evident that in
Bangladesh, not only is frequent supervision necessary, but also it is nPcecsary
to build up trust by committing the same officer to supervise for a reasonable
length of time.
C. Covenants
5.3      The Development Credit Agreement had specified two conditions for credit
effectiveness.   These related to the onlending conditions of the credit to
various agencies and approval by GOB of the Project Proforma.   Both these



- 9 -
conditions were complied with after a delay of about three months.   Other
covenants related to employment of consultants, preparation of a national storage
plan for fertilizer, improvement of transport contracting procedures, running
of unit/block trains, improvement of the management structure at the ferry
crossing, renting of communication channels by TTB to BR, setting up of PIUs and
the Project Coordination Committee, were generally complied with though after
the stipulated deadlines had passed in several cases.
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
6.1      The Fertilizer Transport Project was conceived at an appropriate time
and its preparation was done fairly well. Implementation of the project was,
however, considerably delayed for various reasons. Some of the more important
lessons which can be derived for similar projects are:
(a) The Borrower and the executing agencies should be acutely aware of the
need for adequate and suitable staff being posted in their PIUs as only
then can timely project implementation and monitoring be ensured.
During project implementation, changes in key personnel should be kept
to a minimum.
(b) Multi-agency projects usually involve serious problems of coordination
which have an adverse effect on project implementation. While it is
necessary that the Borrower should evolve appropriate mechanisms to
achieve coordination, expedite decision making and -nsure adequate
monitoring, IDA should in such cases, consider appointing a project
coordinator in order to help resolve day-to-day problems, arrange
coordination and ensure satisfactory monitoring.
(c) For projects involving several agencies and with coordination and other
problems,  IDA must  ensure  adequate  supervision.    In  such cases,
supervision missions should be strengthened and the frequency and
duration should be increased.  It is interesting to note (see Part III
8.b) that supervision staffing and frequency reduced when the project
encountered increasing problems, and this indicates a need to improve
the effectiveness of project monitoring during implementation. Frequent
changes of Project/Task Managers also needs to be avoided.
(d) Inadequate or incorrect appreciation and observance of IDA's procurement
guidelines and selection procedures often lead to delays and higher
costs. In such cases, IDA has to enter into prolonged correspondence
with the Borrower and the executing agencies. In countries where such
problems are frequently encountered and where IDA's involvement is
considerable, the possibility of having a centralized procurement agency
for different projects may be explored.
Project Sustainability
6.2      Two broad areas of fertilizer transport were covered under the project:
(a) improvements in rail transport of fertilizer comprising investments in BR
and rail sidings with associated warehouse facilities; and (b) port improvements
at Chittagong and Baghabari to facilitate fertilizer imports and transport on
inland waterways. Of the total project costs, approximately three quarters was
accounted for by the former, i.e., rail transport improvements.  In assessing



- 10 -
project sustainability, it is necessary to examine these two broad areas
separately.
6.3      Sustainability of the investments in rail transport will depend on the
extent to which BR is able to secure a significant share of the total
requirements for fertilizer transport.  As a result of recent changes in the
Government's fertilizer distribution policies, essentially an increased reliance
on private sector distribution channels, BADC is now responsible for distributing
less than 25 percent of the total fertilizer traffic, as opposed to its former
near monopoly over fertilizer distribution.   The remaining fertilizer is now
being distributed by private dealers who procure it at the factory rate (or at
the ship in the case of imports), and this privately distributed fertilizer has
now almost entirely moved away from rail transport to truck or barge movements.
Of the fertilizer distributed by BADC (25 percent of total) only about a fifth
(5 percent of total) is moved by rail. The change in fertilizer distribution
policy became effective in July 1989, and hence the decline in rail transport
of fertilizer could well be a short-term phenomenon. In the future, BR will be
stepping up marketing activities and establishing specialized services for
private fertilizer dealers. The3 economies of unit train movements of fertilizer
have been clearly established under this project; the added dimension that needs
to be addressed now is the need to consolidate small private consignments in a
manner that is responsive to the needs of small private dealers who now number
over 200 small firms or individuals.
6.4      Sustainability of the investments in Chittagong Port and Baghabari Port
pose fewer uncertainties.   The dredging carried out for CPA has provided a
relatively stable channel and maintenance dredging is unlikely to require
excessive maintenance expenditures and would be well within the dredging
capability of the Port.   Baghabari Port does suffer from a higher degree of
siltation and sustainability of the investments in this port will depend on the
success of BIWTA in maintaining the channel to allow year round navigation.
Under the proposed Third Inland Water Transport Project, IDA is seeking to
strengthen BIWTA's dredging capability, and specifically to ensure that
approaches to Baghabari and other inland ports are adequately maintained.



- 11 -
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1096-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART It - Project Review from the Perspective of the Executing Agencies
(Prepared By the Executing Agencies of the Borrower)
This part presents four separate project completion reports prepared by each of
the four GOB agencies involved in the implementation of the various components
of the project. The four agencies are:
- Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
- Bangladesh Railway
- Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority
- Chittagong Port Authority
Their individual reports do not necessarily represent the views of either IDA
or of the other agencies involved in the project.
I. BANGLADESH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
1.1      Introduction. The overall objective of the Fertilizer Transport Project
was to improve the availability of fertilizer to farmers by expediting handling
and distribution and to reduce the cost of distribution. So far as BADC were
concerned, the project envisaged:
(a) construction of storage godowins at Baghabari, Shiromoni, Rajshahi and
Natore; and
(b) provision of railway sidings to serve the godowns at Shiromoni, Rajshahi
and Natore and augment rail siding facilities at the fertilizer
factories located at Ghorasal and Ashuganj.
The project also envisaged (i) undertaking studies for bulk fertilizer handling
facilities at Chalna, (ii) improvement of movement contracting procedures, and
(iii) rationalization of the fertilizer distribution system by using the least
cost mode of transportation.   Running of unit/block trains with fertilizer
traffic was sought to be achieved in order to expedite distribution and reduce
costs.
1.2      For the BADC component of the project, the costs estimated at tlhe
time of appraisal, amounted to Tk 204.80 million including Tk 125.62 as
local costs and Tk 79.18 as foreign exchange costs.
1.3      Implementation of the Project.  The work of construction of warehouses
was scheduled to commence in September 1981 and to be completed by December 1983
while   acquisition   of   land,   appointment   of   supervisicn   consultant,
prequalification of contractors and award of contracts was to precede this. In



- 12 -
the event, the work could commence only in October 1983 with a delay of about
2 years and was completed in stages between June 1985 and March 1987.   The
following factors contributed to the delay:
(a) general delay in land acquisition;
(b) delay in the appointment of supervision consultant. The consultant
was appointed in October 1982 about 22 months behind schedule, partly
due to delay in receiving IDA approval for finalization of terms of
reference and partly due to delay in finalization of draft agreement
and related formalities; and
(c) other causes like unusually early and heavy rainfall during the 1984
monsoon, power problems causing delay in piling work, increase in the
scope of work, labor problems at Baghabari, court injunction on the land
at Natore, occupation of the Rajshahi site by existing buildings of
Bangladesh Railway and of the Shiromoni site by boulders of the Railway.
1.4      As  regards  the rail  sidings,  the work was done by BR as BADC's
contractor. Sidings were made operational in conjunction with the setting up
of the warehouses at different locations.   Augmentation of the rail siding
facilities was also done at Ghorasal and Ashuganj fertilizer factories.
1.5      As regards other items envisaged in the project, the position is as
follows:
(a) The study for bulk handling facility at Chalna was not undertaken as
this work was handled by Chalna Port Authority independently;
(b) For improving contracting procedures, several steps were taken by BADC
including pre-qualification of contractors; increasing duration of
barge/coaster handling contracts from one to two years; introduction
of minimum pickup and delivery rates by factory; improvement of lifting
procedures from fertilizer factories, etc.;
(c) Likewise, the fertilizer distribution system has been rationalized by
adopting the following measures:
(i)   least-cost  routes  for distribution of fertilizer to Primary
Distribution Points (PDP) and Transit Points have been developed
and implemented;
(ii)  all the three modes of transportation are being utilized for
distribution of fertilizer from the Ghorasal factory;
(iii) direct shipment of fertilizer by truck from the Ashuganj factory
to the Comilla area is being allowed;
(iv)  despatch of fertilizer from factories and/or Chittagong Port to
northwestern districts of Dinajpur, Rangpur and Bogra by all-rail
routes is being undertaken subject to limitations of the ferry
service at Bahadurabad-Tistamukh ghat; and
(v)   running of unit trains commenced in 1985-86 when BR made wagons
available in rake formation. Over the years, despatches by block



- 13 -
train are being increasingly used and such trains now account
for about 50- of the total despatches by rail.
1.6      Costs.  Annex II.1 is a statement showing the appraisal estimates of
the BADC component of the project together with actual costs incurred. It will
be observed from this statement that:
(a) actual costs incurred were Tk 218.94 million against the appraisal
estimates of Tk 204.80 million;
(b) as against the appraisal estimates of Tk 135.18 million for construction
of warehouses, the actual expenditure incurred amounted to Tk 128.77
million due to reduction in the total warehouse capacity created from
32,000 tons to 28,500 tons and non-construction of ancillary buildings
and other facilities at Natore as the same were already available;
(c) rail siding costs were envisaged in the project as Tk 51.10 million
against which actuals have amounted to Tk 84.47 million due to increase
in the scope of work at Shiromoni and revision of cost estimates by BR
taking into account the latest costs;
(d) against the provision of Tk 10.52 million made for supervision
consultant, actual expenditure incurred was Tk 5.70 million, of this
amount, Tk 0.74 million is yet to be paid for want of funds; and
(e) no expenditure was incurred against the provision of Tk 8.0 million
allocated for the appointment of consultants for the Chalna Bulk
Handling Study and for the inventory management study.
1.7      Benefits.   Several anticipated project benefits have been realized,
including:
(a) increase in the distribution of fertilizer from 875,000 tons in 1980-81
to 1,515,000 tons in 1987-88;
(b) increase in the storage capacity by 28,500 tons has helped in improving
the availability of fertilizer;
(c) movement of fertilizer by least-cost mode of transport;
(d) increasingly greater dispatches by block/unit trains leading to faster
transit and distribution; and
(e) very significant reduction in the cost of distribution of fertilizer.
Movement and handling costs at constant prices have come down from Tk
301.58 per ton in 1980-81 to Tk 164.51 per ton in 1987-88.
1.8      Other Comments.  Both before and during implementation of the ptoject.
IDA's performance has been excellent.   Relations between BADC and the IDA
remained extremely cordial all along.
1.9      As a result of closing of the credit in December 1987, it has not been
possible for BADC to pay outstanding dues to BR, supervision consultant and
contractor, and claim reimbursement.



- 14 -
Annex 11.1
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1096-BD)
SUMKARY COST (BADC COMPONENTS)
Appraisal Estimates vs. Actual Costs
Estimate as per Appraisal    Actual Expenditure Incurred
Component                    Foreign    Local    Total    Foreign    Local         Total
Baghabari
(a)  Warehouse                  5.72    10.32    16.04        8.19       9.20     17.39
Shiromoni
(a) Warehouse including
Pontoon gangways         24.77    36.33    61.10        30.94      31.91     62.85
(b)  Rail siding               11.03    16.60    27.63       28.60      15.03     43.63
Natore                                                                                              I
(a)  Warehouse                  9.46    18.84    28.30        8.07       9.17     17.24
(b)  Rail siding                1.58     2.74      4.32       5.56       3.91       9.47
Rajshahi
(a)  Warehouse                 10.57    19.17    29.74       14.39      16.90     31.29
(b)  Rail siding                1.99     5.60      7.59       8.88       6.63     15.51
Ghorasal
(a)  Rail siding                0.86     4.65      5.51       9.24       6.62     15.86
Ashugani
(a)  Rail siding                1.88     4.17      6.Q5         --         --         --
Consultancy
(a)  Warehouse supervision    5.02       5.50    10.52        5.70         --       5.70
(b) C.A. inventory
management               1.50     0.50      2.00              --               --
(c)  Khulna bulk handling       4.80     1.20      6.00         --         --         --
Total BADC                     79.18   125.62   204.80    119.57         99.37   218.94
Note:  Total IDA share of the actual expenditure stands at Tk 119.57 million.
Out of this, only Tk 103.56 million have been disbursed by IDA.  Balance Tk 16.01
million could not be reimbursed due to closure of the Project. Consequently,
BADC could not pay the outstanding dues of Bangladesh Railway, consultant and
contractors.



- 15 -
II. BANGLADESH RAILWAY
2.1      Introduction.   BR's component of the project envisaged running of
unit/block trains for fertilizer traffic in order to reduce the cost of
distribution.   For this purpose, the project envisaged rehabilitation of 600
freight wagons. The project also sought to improve the Bahadurabad-Tistamukh
Ghat ferry in order that more fertilizer and other traffic could be moved between
the eastern and the western parts of the country. For this purpose. the project
envisaged (a) acquisition of a new barge, (b) conversion of a barge into a
maintenance workshop,  (c)  rehabilitation  of  a  tugboat,  and  (d)  ancillary
facilities. In addition, improvement of communications at the ghats and setting
up of an Operations Control Centre was planned.   BR was also required,  as
contractors for BADC, to provide rail sidings to serve BADC godowns at Shiromoni,
Natore and Rajshahi and to improve rail sidings at the fertilizer factories at
Ghorasal and Ashuganj.
2.2      Imp1ementation of the Project.  The status of implementation of the
project components is as follows:
(a) up to June 1988, 213 broad gauge (BC) and 203 meter gauge (MC) wagons
out of 225 BC and 375 MC wagons had been rehabilitated (60.52);
(b) regarding conversion of a barge into a maintenance workshop, the
contractor completed 68- of the structural work, and equipment and
machinery has also been procured;
(c) although the project had originally envisaged rehabilitation of the Tug
Ishakhan, later on, it was decided instead to procure a new tugboat;
but the proposed tugboat was not procured as the tender for supply
remained undecided due to difference of opinion between BR and IDA;
(d) a new barge was pror.red in 1985;
(e) some ancillary facilities were provided at Chittagong and at Saidpur
Workshop;
(f) as regards establishment of an Operations Control Centre, up to June
1988, only 622 of the work was completed; the work was, however.
continued by the contractor and is now completed though the system has
not yet been handed over to BR officially;
(g) improvement of rail sidings at Ghorasal and Ashuganj and provision of
rail sidings at Shiromoni, Natore and Rajshahi have been completed; and
(h) unit trains are running regularly and about 60Z of fertilizer traff-c
is now moving by these trains.
2.3      BR's Performance and Lessons Learned.  During the implementation (f *he
project, quarterly reports outlining the progress and problems encountered were
submitted to IDA.   The implementation of the project was delayed,  and the
bottlenecks which delayed the project implementation were duly reported.   As
regards the lessons learned from this project, it may be stated that the project
director should have been made more responsible in the execution of work. This



- 16 -
could surely help quick implementation of the project. The execution of work
got abnormally delayed due to the formality of decisions by higher authorities.
2.4      Actual Versus Appraisal Costs.  A statement is attached as Annex 11.2
showing actual versus appraisal costs. The actual cost of the project was about
Tk 12 million less than the appraisal cost due to rehabilitation of the tugboat
not having been undertaken and price escalation.
2.5      Benefits Anticipated and Benefits Realized.
(a) by running unit trains with fertilizers, the turnaround of wagons and
locomotives has shown considerable improvement.   The turnaround of
wagons used on unit trains is 5-6 days on MC and 2-3 days on BC against
35 days/20 days for other wagons, respectively; and
(b) improvements envisaged for Bahadurabad-Tistamukh Ferry could not be
achieved as the new tug proposed to be acquired was not acquired and
mobile workshop was not commissioned.
2.6      During the implementation of the project, IDA's performance was good
as was the relationship between BR and IDA.



- 17 -
Annex 11.2
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1096-BD)
(RELATED TO BR)
Appraisal vs. Actual Costs up to June 1988
(Amount in Millions of Taka)
Appraisal Costs                Actual Costs
Component                    Foreign    Local    Total    Foreign    Local          Total
1.  Wagon rehabilitation       31.46    44.86    76.32         55.48    35.09       90.57
2.  Telecommunication            4.69     8.61    13.30        23.25    12.54       35.79
3.  Tug Rehabilitation           9.61     9.82    19.43            --     0.08       0.08
4.  Barge acquisition            9.30     3.80    13.10         5.89      6.86      12.75
5.  Floating Workshop            6.30    15.30    21.60         4.75      4.80       9.55
6.  Ancillary Facilities         3.85     3.85      7.70           --     2.02       2.02
7. Consultancy for
Telecom                   1.40      0.16      1.56        0.58      1.99       2.57
Total                      66.61    86.40   153.01         89.95    63.38    153.33



- 18 -
III. BANGLADESH INLAND WATER TRANSPORT AUTHORITY
3.1      Introduction.    Considering  the  acute  necessity  of  a  river  port
connecting the northern districts of Bangladesh with the rest of the country by
waterways, BIWTA prepared a project for establishing a river port at Baghabari.
This project formed a component of the Fertilizer Transport Project financed by
IDA.  Apart from land acquisition and land development for the port, the project
provided for two pontoon jetties, two pontoons, four spuds, a transit shed office
and residential buildings and internal roads and parking area.
3.2      Project Implementation.  The project was implemented by BIWTA and the
work was completed by June 1983, about a year behind original schedule due to
delay  in acquisition of  land and physical  possession  of  it.   During the
implementation of the project, no major problem was faced.
3.3      Costs.  Against the appraisal cost of Tk 34.52 million and the Project
Proforma estimate of Tk 39.29 million, the actual cost incurred was Tk 36.60
million. Details of the costs are indicated in the statement at Annex 11.3.
The actual costs incurred were 6.8Z less than the Project Proforma estimate but
were about 61 more than the appraisal estimate mainly due to some increase in
the scope of work under ancillary facilities.  An amount of Tk 17.83 million
(US$0.785 million) was not reimbursed by IDA.
3.4      Benefits.   By establishing a river port at Baghabari,  a waterways
communication system between northern Bangladesh and the rest of the country has
been established leading to greater economic trade and development. The port
has  helped  bring  down  the  cost  of  distr thillon of  fertilizer  and  other
commodities to and from Pabna, Bogra and other districts in the western part of
country.  Traffic handled at Baghabari Port has :;'adually been growing from about
76,000 tons (including 30,00C tons of fertilizf-.) in 1983-84 to 247,000 tons
(including 123,000 tons o$ fertilizer) in 1986i37 and 306,000 tons (including
153,000 tons of fertilizer) in 1987-88.   Other commodities handled like food
grains, petroleum products and other foods have al3o registered considerable
growth.
3.5      General.  Both prior to and during the imipiementation of the project,
IDA's performance was very satisfactory and relati..ria between BIWTA and IDA were
extremely good.



- 19 -
Annex 11.3
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1096-BD)
Statement Showing Cost of Establishing Baghabari River Port
(Cost in Million Take)
Target Quantity         Estimated Cost      Achievement
As                 As
Si                                      per   IDA          per  IDA          Actual    Expen-
No.    Physical Components    Unit   PP *  Appraisal   PP   Appraisal  Quantity  diture
1.  Land acquisition           acre      40        --      3.20      3.20   35.62         2.82
acre
2.  Land fill                  cft *      5.00    --      11.10    11.10    4.03          9.34
million                             million
3.  Roads and parking          sft *      0.28    --      10.09    10.08    0.96          6.97
million                             million
4. Pontoons and gangways:
(a)  pontoon               no.        2 }                                 2}
(b)  pontoon jetty         no.        2}      __       6.28     6.28      2         7.14
(c)  spud                  no.        4 )                                 4)
5.   Transit sheds              sft        0.01    --       2.32     2.32    0.0099       2.71
million                             million
6.   Ancillary facilities       --         --      --       6.30      1.24    --          7.62
Total                                                39.29    34.52                36.60
-~-
Cost Summary
Local Cost       Foreign Exchange Cost       Total
1.   IDA appraisal costs                      18.58                  15.94              34.54
2.   Actual costs                             18.77                  17.83              36.60
Variation                               +0.19                  +1.89               +2.06
* cft - cubic feet, sft - square feet, PP - Project Proforma



- 20 -
IV. CHITTAGONG PORT AUTHC(ITY
4.1      Introduction.    Since  a considerable  part  of  the  requirement  for
fertilizer is met by imports, which were expected to go up, a reduction in the
cost of handling imported fertilizer at the country's main port of Chittagong
was sought to be achieved by enabling ships with greater tonnage to enter the
Port and by reducing the need for lighterage.   This required dredging of the
access channel. The project, therefore, envisaged trial dredging at the outer
bar to 30 feet below chart datum and to widen and deepen slightly the Gupta
Bend. The rest of the channel was to be dredged as necessary.
4.2      Implementation of the Project.   Trial dredging of Karnafuli River
commenced in April 1981 and was completed on schedule in March 1982 within the
period of 12 months envisaged. Australian consultants supervised the dredging.
An intensive programme of monitoring surveys was carried out concurrently in
order to assess the resiltation rates. Trial dredging results revealed that the
average annual siltation rate was much lower than the earlier theoretical
forecast. On completion of trial dredging, the consultant recommended that CPA
should own one trailing suction hopper dredger having 3,500 M3 for regular
maintenance of the channel. On further study, CPA reduced the capacity of the
dredger to 2,500 M3 and the same is currently being procured under bilateral
assistance.
4.3      Benefits.  Trial dredging has enabled Chittagong Port to handle deeper
vessels within the Port which has led to quicker turnaround of vessels and lesser
lighterage cost. Prior to the trial dredging, the maximum allowable draft of
vessels entering the Port was about 21 feet in the dry season and 25 feet during
the monsoon.   This has increased to 25 feet and 30 feet, respectively, after
dredging. Dredging of some shallow patches in front of the general cargo berths
has made entry of deeper draft ships possible resulting in significantly improved
port operations. Calculations indicate that benefits started accruing within
6 months of the commencement of trial dredging, and a saving of 1,436 ship days
was effected within less that 2 1/2 years. It has been estimated that this
amounted to a saving of Tk 823 million because of reduction in ships' waiting
time and of Tk 291 million as saving of lighterage cost aggregating to Tk 614
million.   The main objective of the Project, namely,  reduction of cost of
fertilizer transport was successfully accomplished with respect to fertilizer
imports through Chittagong Port.
4.4      Costs. The project appraisal costs for the CPA component were estimated
as US$5.39 million (including US$5.16 million for dredging and US$0.316 million
for supervision). Against this, the contract amount was respectively US$9.294
million and US$0.315 million aggregating to US$9.609 million. The actual cost
incurred was US$8.010 million including US$7.546 for dredging and US$0.464 for
supervision. The actual costs exceeded the appraisal estimates due to increase
in scope of work as well as increases in unit costs.
4.5      Conclusion.    The  project  was  well  conceived  and well  executed.
Throughout the implementation phase and before it, CPA had excellent cooperation
from IDA. CPA is now in a position to undertake dredging on its own.



- 21 -
PART III - Summary of Statistical Data
(Prepared by IDA)
1. Related IDA Credits
Year of
Credit Title              Purpose                            Approval      Status
Highways      (408-BD)   The project consisted of: (a)    06/28/73  Audited   OED
(4BANPAOO9)                construction of the Sitalakhya                Report    No.
Bridge and Feni Road sections                7954
of    the    Dhaka-Chittagong
Highway and improvements to
the war-damaged Surma River
Bridge in Sylhet; (b) study of
second bridge over the Surma
River    at    Sylhet    and
prefeasibility   studies   of
other high priority river
crossings;    and   (c)   the
strengthening of the Roads and
Highways Department.
Highways II                The project sought to reduce    12/13/79  Audited   OED
(964-BD) (4BANPA076)       vehicle    operating    costs                 Report    No.
between  the main population                 7954
center of Dhaka and Chittagong
through the construction of
bypasses around the towns of
Comilla and Chandina.
Inland Water Transport   Provision  of  spare  parts,    08/07/73  Audited   OED
Rehabilitation             tools and equipment required                  Report    No.
(424-BD) (4BANPA034)       in  support  of  Bangladesh's                 4026
inland    water    transport
rehabilitation program, and
modification or repair of the
offshore   oil   terminal   at
Chittagong.
Inland Water               To help improve the efficiency    07/12/77  P C R    0 E D
Transport II               of the inland water transport                 Report    No.
(759-BD)                   sector,      including    the                 5778
(4BANPA057)                operations  and  finances  of
BIWTA  and  BIWTC  and  the
preparation of a medium-term
investment program.
Fertilizer    Imports   To  finance  the  import  of    06/28/79  PCR 12/27/82
(944-BD)                   fertilizer   for   FY80,   to
(4BANPA063)                improve    fe r t i l i z e r
distribution and marketing,
and  to  establish  a  more
effective pricing system for
fertilizer.



- 22 -
Fertilizer    Industry   To   assist   in   increasing    05/20/80  Closed
Rehabilitation             production at three operating
(1023-BD)                  fertilizer  plants  (Ghorasal
(4BANPA074)                and Fenchuganj Urea plants and
Chittagong TSP plant) through
plant rehabilitation, staff
training, and provision of
spare parts, catalyst and
chemicals.
Fertilizer Imports II      To  finance  the  import  of    06/12/80  Closed
(1044-BD)                  fertilizer and fertilizer raw
(4BANPA068)                materials during fiscal year
81, to improve fertilizer
distribution and marketing,
and  to  establish  a  more
effective pricing system for
fertilizer.
Roads    Rehabilitation   Rehabilitation  and  improved    06/23/87  Supervision
and Maintenance            road  maintenance   including
(1827-BD)                  road rehabilitation works on
(4BANPA126)                about  305  km  of  roads  and
bridges in the northwest of
Bangladesh,    and   deferred
maintenance works on about 335
km of other major roads in the
northwest.
Chittagong Part Project   Construction  of  two  multi-    05/21/82  Supervision
(1247-BD)                  purpose berths, provision of
(4BANPA093)                equipment    and    spares,
maintenance   facilities  and
training facilities.
Rural Roads and Markets   Improvement of around 500 km    05/05/89  Supervision
Improvement         and   rural roads, construction of
Maintenance    Project   some 3,700 m of culverts and
(1940-BD)                  bridges  and improvements  to
(4BANPA158)                infrastructure  for  some  65
growth centers.



- 23 -
2. ProJect Timetable
Item                    Date Planned            Date Actual
Identification                      11/26/79               11/26/79
Appraisal Mission                   02/05180               02/05/80
Credit Negotiations                 09/15/80               09115180
Board Approval                      01/22/81               01/22|81
Credit Signature                    02/21/81               02/13/81
Credit Effectiveness                05/13/81               07/24/81
Credit Closing                      06/30/84               06130/87
Credit Completion                   12/31/84               12/31187
Comments
1.       The Project Brief had identified the following as main issues:
(a) improvement in BADC's contractual procedures for fertilizer transport;
(b) assurances on coordination between different agencies affected by the
project; and (c) procurement procedures for acquisition of trucks.
2.       At appraisal, it was agreed that BADC would revise its contractual
procedures for transport of fertilizer and that the project would not support
acquisition of trucks.  Financing of Shiromoni Complex, retroactive financing
for landfill at Baghabari and the procedure for onlending of IDA funds to
different agencies were some issues identified at that time.
3.       During the credit negotiations,  the issues identified earlier were
resolved and it was agreed that (a) IDA would finance Shiromoni Complex, (b)
BADC would improve its contracting procedures for fertilizer transport, and (c)
BADC will enter into contracts for lifting fertilizer from the fertilizer
factories.   Issues raised at this stage included BADC, BR and TTB signing a
Memorandum of Understanding for the telecommunications component, and BADC and
BR signing a Memorandum of Understanding for unit train operations and provision
of rail sidings and spurs as preconditions for Board approval. These conditions
were duly fulfilled.
4.       The two preconditions for credit effectiveness were approval of the
Project Proforma of different agencies involved and the onlending procedures.
Both these issues were satisfactorily resolved before the credit became
effective.
5.       At the time of the original completion date of the Project (06/130/.4),
it was seen that except for test dredging of Karnafuli River and setting up of
Baghabari Port, most of the components of the project were not completed.
Amongst the incomplete components were construction of BADC warehouses,
rehabilitation of wagons, conversion of a wagon ferry barge into a mobile
workshop, acquisition of a new barge, acquisition of a new tugboat and provision
of telecommunications. This necessitated extension of the credit closing date
up to December 31, 1985 in the first instance, then up to June 30, 1986 and then
again up to June 30, 1987 with disbursement continuing up to 6 months thereafter
against commitments already made.   While issues involved with most of these



- 24 -
components were resolved, unresolved issues at the time of final credit closing
included BR not placing order for a new tug, non-completion of work of mobile
floating workshop and rehabilitation of wagons.
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS million)
Actuals as
Appraisal Estimates              Actuals          Percentage of Estimates
During                    During                   During
Year        the Year   Cumulative   the Year  Cumulative   the Year   Cumulative
FY 1981        1.4          1.4
(1.1)        (1.1)
FY 1982        8.5          9.9            --        --             --          --
(6.5)        (7.6)
FY 1983       10.5         20.4          6.35       6.35           60.5        31.1
(8.0)       (15.6)        (5.55)    (5.55)         (69.4)      (35.6)
FY 1984        4.0          24.4         0.50       6.85           12.5        28.1
(3.1)       (18.6)        (0.47)    (6.02)         (15.2)      (32.4)
FY 1985        0.6          25.0         1.20       8.05          200.0        32.2
(0.5)        (19.1)       (1.15)     (7.17)       (230.0)      (37.5)
FY 1986                                  1.38       9.43            --          --
(1.41)    (8.58)
FY 1987         --            --         1.85      11.28            --          --
(1.68)   (10.26)
FY 1988         --            --         1.95      13.23            --          --
(1.60)   (11.86)
FY 1989         --            --         0.27      13.50
(0.20)   (12.06)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis indicate SDRs.
US$       SDR
Total Credit Amount               25.00    19.10
Amount Disbursed                  13.50    12.06
Amount Cancelled                   9.21      7.04
22.71    19.10
Date of Final Disbursement:  January 21, 1988



PLANNED AND ACTUAL DISBURSMENT SCHEDULES
90I
20                                               25.0
20.4/
20
115                                                --    13 *   -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13.50
10                 999.43 -
__  _ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 00
8.05 
- - -~ 0,0
.         /           ~~~~~6.35  6.85_-
5. 
0 
FY2O     FY81       FY82     FY83       FY84     FY65      FY66      FY87      FY88      FY89



- 26 -
4.  Project Iplementation
S.                                          Appraisal                Actual of
No.  Project Component                       Estimate               PCR Estimate
(A) Bangladesh Railway
1.   Rehabilitation of 600 wagons   Sept. 1980-April 1983   Sept. 1980-Dec. 1990  *
2.   Telecommunications               Sept. 1980-Sept. 1982   Sept. 1982-March 1989 *
3.   Tugboat modification/
acquisition                    Sept. 1980-Feb. 1982    Sept. 1980               **
4.   Procurement of a wagon
ferry barge                    Jan. 1981-Dec. 1982      Jan. 1981-July 1985
S.   Conversion of a barge
into a floating workshop       Nov. 1980-Dec. 1982      Nov. 1980-Dec. 1990   *
6.   Ancillary Works                  Dec. 1980-Dec. 1982       Dec. 1980-June 1986
(B) Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
7.   Appointment of supervision
consultant                     Sept. 1980-Jan. 1981    Sept. 1980-Oct. 1982
8.   Construction of Baghabari
warehouse                      Sept. 1981-Apr. 1983    Oct. 1983-June 1985
9.   Construction of Natore
warehouse                      Sept. 1981-Aug. 1983    Oct. 1983-Mar. 1986
10.  Construction of Rajshahi
warehouse                      Sept. 1981-Sept. 1983   Oct. 1983-Dec. 1986
11.  Construction of Shiromoni
warehouse                      Sept. 1981-Dec. 1983    Oct. 1983-Mar. 1987
12. Factory railroad siding
improvements                   Jan. 1981-Dec. 1981      Jan. 1981-Sept. 1987
(C) Chittagong Port Authority
13.  Chittagong test dredging         Sept. 1980-Mar. 1983    Sept. 1980-Mar. 1983
(D) Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority
14.  Baghabari Port construction    Sept. 1980-Aug. 1982    Sept. 1980-June 1983
*   PCR estimate.
** Order for acquisition of a new tugboat not placed
till the closure of the credit.
Co=ments
1.       General.   Project implementation on the whole was very slow.   The
following items contributed to the delay in implementation:
(a) There was initial delay of three months in the credit becoming effective
due to late clearance of project by GOB.
(b) Implementation was adversely affected as a result of GOB decision in
1983 not to go ahead with those BR components for which commitments had



- 27 -
not been made. These included acquisition of a tugboat and provision
of telecommunications. Work on these items could start only when GOB
rescinded its decision after over a year of debate.
(c) BR's Project Implementation Unit remained deficient of several key
personnel and there were also frequent changes in the incumbent for the
position of BR's Project Director.
td) Lack of timely and adequate inter-agency liaison delayed implementation
of the project. Inadequate liaison between BR and TTB resulted in delay
in implementation of the telecommunication component.
2.       BR Components:
(a) Implementation of BR's project components was extremely slow. In fact,
several components like rehabilitation of wagons, telecommunication and
conversion of a barge into a floating workshop remained incomplete when
the credit closed. Acquisition of a new tugboat was also not completed
by closure of the credit.
(b) Rehabilitation of 600 wagons was to be undertaken by BR at Saidpur
Workshop where input of certain machinery and equipment was made under
the project. BR took a long time in identifying individual wagons to
be rehabilitated and in providing them to the workshop. Rehabilitation
work was, moreover, completed only partially at Saidpur and later, in
1987, BR decided to undertake further rehabilitation work on Metre Gauge
wagons at Paharthali Workshop near Chittagong where the normal workload
was already heavy. No preference was then given to this work and the
monitoring of progress of the work was very inadequate.
(c) The work of conversion of a barge into a floating workshop suffered
considerable delay due to demise of the contractor and succession
dispute that ensued. Inadequate and unsatisfactory arrangements for
timely inspection of completed work by BR officials caused further
delay, non-payment of contractor's bills and the final abandonment of
the work by the contractor.
3.       BADC Components.  There was an initial delay of nearly two years in the
selection and appointment of the supervision consultant by BADC which led to a
corresponding delay in the commencement and completion of actual work of
warehouse construction. Construction work was further delayed due to heavy and
early rains in 1984, a court injunction on land at Natore, late release of land
by BR at Rajshahi, late release of land at Shiromoni by BR, who were storing
boulders at that site, and labor problems at Baghabari.
4.       CPA Component.  There was no delay in project implementation.
5.       BIWTA Component.  Delay in implementation of BIWTA component was mainly
due to delay in acquisition of land at Baghabari.



- 28 -
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(Amount in Hillion Taka)
Appraisal Costs                Actual Costs
No. Item                         Foreign    Local    Total    Foreign    Local         Total
Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority
1.   Baghabari Port                15.94      18.58    34.52      17.83      38.77      36.60
Total BIWTA                  15.94      18.58    34.52       17.83      18.77      36.60
Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
2.   Baghabari Warehouse            5.72      10.32    16.04       8.19       9.20      17.39
3.   Shiromoni Warehouse           24.77      36.33    61.10      30.94      31.91      62.85
4.  Natore Warehouse               9.46      18.84    28.30       8.07       9.17      17.24
5.   Rajshahi Warehouse            10.57      19.17    29.74      14.39      16.90      31.29
6.   Shiromoni Rail Siding         11.03      16.60    27.63      28.60      15.03      43.63
7.   Natore Rail Siding             1.58       2.74     4.32       5.56       3.91       9.47
8.   Rajshahi Rail Siding           1.99       5.60      7.59      8.88       6.63      15.51
9.   Ghorasal Rail Siding           0.86       4.65      5.51      9.24       6.62      15.86
10.  Ashuganj Rail Siding           1.88       4.17      6.05 
11.  Consulting-Supervision         5.02       5.50    10.52          --      5.70       5.70
12.  Consulting-Inventory
Management                  1.50       0.50      2.00
13.  Consulting-Chalna
Bulk Handling               4.80       1.20      6.00         --         --         --
Total BADC                   79.18    125.62   204.80        119.57    99.37    218.94
Chittagong Port Authority
14.  Dredging                      67.86      12.18    80.04      120.22   120.22    147.85
15.  Supervision                    2.97       0.53     3.50         4.92     2.77       7.69
Total (c) CPA                70.83      12.71    83.54       125.14    30.40    155.54
Bangladesh Railway
16.  Wagon Rehabilitation          31.46     44.86    76.32        55.48    35.09       90.57
17.  Barge Acquisition              9.30       3.80    13.10         5.89     6.86      12.75
18.  Tug Rehabilitation             9.61       9.82    19.43         0.08        --      0.08
19.  Floating Workshop              6.30      15.30    21.60         4.75     4.80       9.55
20.  Ancillary Facilities           3.85       3.85      7.70          --     2.02         --
21.  Telecommunications             4.69       8.61    13.30        12.54    23.25      35.79
22.  Technical Assistance           1.40       0.16     1.56         1.99     0.58       2.57
Total (d) BR                 66.61      86.40   153.01        63.38    89.95    153.33
Contingencies
23.  Price Contingency             52.99      60.64   113.62           -
24.  Physical Contingency          24.61      17.60    42.21           --        --        --
Total (e) CONTINGENCIES    77.62        78.24   155.86           --        --         --
GRAND TOTAL                 310.18    321.55   631.73        352.49   211.92    564.41



- 29 -
Comente
1.       The overall cost of the Project was Tk 564.41 million which was Tk 67.32
million (10.7Z) less than the appraisal estimates (Tk 631.73 million).   The
reasons for this are listed below.
(a) some components of the project (e.g., wagon rehabilitation, acquisition
of a tugboat, conversion of a barge into floating workshop) were not
completed;
(b) provision of Tk 8 million for studies in respect of bulk handling of
fertilizer at Chalna and for inventory management was not utilized as
they were financed through other sources;
(c) provision of Tk 6.05 million for improvement to Ashuganj rail siding
was not utilized as it was provided from other sources;
(d) BADC warehouses actually constructed had a capacity of 28,500 tons
against the provision of 32,000 tons in the project; and
(e) ancillary buildings and some other facilities at the site of BADC godown
at Natore and at ferry ghats were not provided as the existing
facilities were considered adequate.
2.       The  items  where  significant  cost  increases,  vis-a-vis  appraisal
estimates, were registered included the following:
(a) for provision of the rail spur at Shiromoni, actual costs incurred were
Tk 43.63 million against provision (without price and physical
contingencies) of Tk 27.63 million due to increase in the scope of work
and cost escalation;
(b) costs actually incurred for provision of rail sidings at Rajshahi and
Natore, and for improvement of rail siding facilities at Ghorasal were
considerably higher than appraisal estimates due to cost escalations
(Tk 40.84 million vs. Tk 17.42 million);
(c) costs actually incurred for test dredging of Karnafuli River were
considerably higher than appraisal estimates due to an increase in
the scope of work and price escalations (Tk 83.54 million vs. Tk 155.54
million); and
(d) costs for BR's telecommunications facilities were considerably higher
than appraisal estimates due to price escalation (Tk 13.3 million vs
Tk 35.79 million).



- 30 -
B. Pro3ect Financing
(Amount in Millions of Taka)
Planned (Credit Agreement)                   Final
Percentage                           Percentage
Source           Amount       of  Total              Amount         of Total
IDA               387.5           61.3                331.1           58.7
Domestic          244.3           38.7                233.3           41.3
Total         631.8          100.0                564.4          100.0
Comments
1.       As a percentage of the total costs, actual financing of the project by
IDA (58.71) was lower than planned (61.31) while the actual domestic financing
(41.31) was higher than planned (38.71).
2.       In terms of takas, the amount of IDA financing (Tk 331.1 million), was
Tk 56.4 million or 14.51 less than appraisal estimates (Tk 387.5 million); in
terms of SDR, however, IDA financing (SDR 12.06 million) was 36.91 less than
the credit amount of SDR 19.1 million, the balance of SDR 7.04 million being
cancelled. This is explained by currency exchange variations over the project
period greatly favoring SDR/US dollar (US$l being equal to Tk 15.5 in 1980 and
Tk 32 in 1987), and the following project specific reasons:
(a) actual project costs incurred (Tk 564.4 million) being less than
appraisal estimates (Tk 631.8 million);
(b) noncompletion of some components of the Project like wagon
rehabilitation, tug acquisition, floating workshop, etc.;
(c) reimbursement claims of Tk 10.7 million (Tk 5.3 million of BADC and Tk
5.4 million of BR) not being entertained by IDA due to the claims being
made, often after considerable delay, beyond the closing date of the
Credit; and
(d) BADC not claiming reimbursement to an extent of Tk 10.7 on.



- 31 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Estimated at             Estimated with
No. Indicator       Appraisal Estimate           Closing Date             Full Development
1. Reduction   in   As   a   result   of   During  1980-81,  when  As    rehabilitation
the  cost  of   implementation of the   the project commenced,  of  all  600  wagons
handling   and   project,    it    was   the cost  of movement  has not  been done,
distribution   envisaged that there   and    handling    of  m o v e m e n t    o f
of fertilizer.   would  be  saving  in   fertilizer  was  about  fertilizer              in
transport    a n d   Tk  302  per  ton;  at  unit/block trains is
handling costs.   The   constant  prices,  the  not  being  arranged
extent of saving was,   cost has reduced to Tk  to    the    extent
h ow e v e r ,    n o t   165 per ton in 1987-  feasible.   The cost
specified.               88.                        of  distribution  of
fertilizer    will
reduce further when
more fertilizer is
moved    by    unit
trains.
2. Reduction   in   With reduction in the   In FY81, the extent of  The need for subsidy
the  cost  of   cost of distribution   subsidy  given by GOB  is likely to reduce
production  of   of fertilizer, it was   was  Tk  1,017 million  further in the years
foodgrains.       envisaged  that   the   amounting  to  252  of  ahead  with  further
extent of government   the  cost;  this  has  reduction   in   the
subsidy  would  come   come down to as low as  cost of distribution
down.   The extent of   Tk  354 million  (4.62  that   will   result
reduction in subsidy,   of the cost)  in FY86  from  running  more
however,    was    not   and to Tk 655 million  unit/block trains.
specified.                (8.7Z of the cost) in
FY88.
3. Increase    in   Due    to    better   Availability  and  use  Availability and use
production  of   availability    and   of    fertilizer   has  of   fertilizer   is
foodgrains.       greater    use    of   improved from 842,000  likely  to  increase
fertilizer,   it  was   tons   in   FY80   to  further.
envisaged        that   1,515,000    tons    in
foodgrain  production   FY88.  This has led to
in the country would   an  increase  in  the
increase.                production of cereals
from 13.2 million tons
in   FY80   to   16.3
million tons in FY88.



- 32 -
4. Reduction   in   As   a   result   of   With  the  running  of  Further reduction in
BR's  cost  of   t r a n s p o r t    o f   unit/block  trains  of  BR's cost of moving
operation.        fertilizer in unit/       fertilizer,  there has  fertilizer   traffic
block trains,  it was   b e e n    m a r k e d  will take place when
envisaged    that   improvement   in  BR's  a greater proportion
utilization    of   utilization of wagons  of fertilizer moves
rolling   stock   ana   and  locomotives  used  by unit/block trains
locomotives    will   on such trains.   The  as more wagons  get
improve  which  would   turnaround  of  wagons  rehabilitated.
reduce  BR's  cost  of   has  improved  from  22
operation.         The   days to 5 days while
turnaround of wagons   utilization    o f
was  anticipated  to   locomotives    has
improve from 22 days   improved from 94 miles
to   7   days   while   per day to 138 miles
utilization    of   p  e  r            d  a  y  .
locomotives    was   Consequently, the cost
anticipated         to   of BR's operations for
improve    from   110   movement of fertilizer
miles per day to 220   has    come    down
miles per day.            significantly.
S. Increase    in   It  was   anticipated   As a result of trial  Chittagong Port has
t r a f f i c   that test dredging of   dredging,   Chittagong  not  yet  procured  a
handled    by   Karnafuli River would   Port  started handling  dredger    as    was
Chittagong   increase  draft  and   larger ships of up to  o r i g i n a . 1 y
Port    with   enable  bigger  ships   18,000 tons.   Overall  a n t i c i p a t e d .
reduction   in   (18,000  tons)  being   traffic   handled   by  Further reduction in
ljg>erage.        handled at Chittagong   that  port   increased  lighterage    is
Port.  Not only would   from 5.4 million tons  anticipated when the
overall    traffic   in   FY80   to   10.8  dredger is procured
handled increase but   million tons in FY88.  a n d    adequate
the    extent    of   Imported    traffic  maintenance dredging
lighterage    would   handled at jetties has  is possible.
reduce.                   increased   from   0.9
million in FY81 to 1.7
million    in    FY88
thereby reducing the
need for lighterage.



- 33 -
B. Economic Impact
I. Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
Appraisal       PCR
Component                                               Estimate      Estimate a/
(a)   Component I   - Baghabari Port Development         371          39?
(b)   Component II  - Shiromoni Improvements             502          26Z
(c)   Component III - Chittagong Port Dredging           231          322
(d)   Component IV  - Unit Train Operation               23Z          12?
(e)   Component V   - Wagon Ferry Improvement            382           -- b/
(f)   Component VI  - Additional Storage Facility        242          282
Overall                                                  33?          302
a/   Details of Economic Reevaluation provided in Annex A.l-A.6.
b/   ERR was not reevaluated since the component was not implemented, and all
costs incurred were included in component IV.
II.  Underlying Assumptions    Appraisal Estimate              PCR Estimate
(a) Component I - Baghabari      As    a    result    of   The assumptions made at the
Port Development             construction of Baghabari   time   of  appraisal  have
Port,   Baghabari   will   proved to be correct and the
become   the   fertilizer   same have been retained.
supply  centre  for  the
Eastern    Pabna    and
Southern Bogra districts.
With the commissioning of
Baghabari,  movement  of
fertilizer and foodgrains
going into the Port's
hinterland via the lenger
and round about route
through Khulna/Shiromoni
will be avoided.
(b) Component II - Shiromoni    (i) If Shiromoni were not   (i)   Same   estimates   at
Improvements                 improved,  a  new  river   appraisal with cost of each
port  facility  at  Tk  30   port being Tk 40 million.
million would have to be
added   for   each   0.2
million tons of cargo.
(ii)  Growth  of  traffic   (ii) Actual traffic that was
will be 15? until year 5   handled up to year 8, and
and 10? until year 8 when   15? growth for next 10 years
capacity is reached.         when   capacity   has   been
reached.



- 34 -
(c)  Component    III    -    (i) As a result of test   (i)   Same   as   appraisal
Chittagong Port Dredging    dredging,  the Port will   estimate.
be able to handle larger
s h i p s c a r r y i n g
fertilizer,    foodgrains
and oil products and the
need for lighterage of
these commodities will be
considerably reduced.
(ii)   Dredger   to   be   (ii) Procurement of dredger
provided in FY82.             to  be  arranged  in  FY91.
(Costs incurred also include
dredging   undertaken   in
FY89).
(d)  Component  IV  -  Unit    (i) By running unit/block   (i)   Same   as   appraisal
Train Operation              trains  with  fertilizer,   estimate.
the turnaround time of
b;oth    wagons    and
locomotives will sharply
reduce. This will enable
a reduction in the number
of wagons and locomotives
required and in the cost
of operation.
(ii)   Each   wagon   and   (ii) Based on recent actual
locomotive    will    be   performance, each wagon and
available for 310 days in   locomotive will be available
a year.                       for 275 days in a year.
(e)  Component  V  -  Wagon    With augmentation of the   Economic  reevaluation  not
Ferry Improvement            ferry capacity, transport   undertaken as this component
of fertilizer to north-   has    remained    largely
west   regions   of   the   unimplemented    an d
country can be arranged   consequently ferry capacity
by all-rail  route,  thus   augmentation has not taken
eliminating the existing   place.
additional transportation
by inland waterways.
(f)  Component    VI    -    Availability  of  storage   Same as appraisal estimate.
Additional    Storage    facilities   at  Rajshahi
Facilities                   and Natore with railroad
spurs   would   lead   to
greater fertilizer use,
m o r e f o o d g r a i n
production, and reduction
in transport and handling
cost.



- 35 -
Comments: Since some components of the Fertilizer Transport Project have not
been fully implemented, the overall benefits arising from nearly 95Z of the
investments actually undertaken have fallen a little short of appraisal
expectations which were based on likely benefits from about 962 of the
investments. This is primarily because appraisal estimates of overall benefits
had taken into consideration benefits from improvements in the wagon ferry, while
PCR benefits do not include any benefits stemming from improvement in the wagon
ferry since inputs in terms of an additional tugboat and a floating workshop
have not been provided.
C. Studies
Purpose as Defined
Study                 at Appraisal               Status               Impact of Study
Bulk fertilizer    Evaluation of            The study in            As a result of the
handling           various methods of       question is not         study necessary
facility at        handling fertilizer    undertaken under          facilities for bulk
Chalna Port         and final               the Fertilizer          handling of fertilizer
engineering for the    Transport Project        traffic at Chalna Port
selected alternative   but was done             was developed and is
to enable bulk          independently by        being used by BADC.
fertilizer handling    Chalna Port
facility being         Authority.
developed at Chalna
Port.
Couments: During the implementation of Fertilizer Transport Project, IDA agreed
to drop the study in question as Port of Chalna carried out the same
independently and provided the necessary facilities for bulk handling of
fertilizer.
7. Status of Covenants
Covenant
(Sect. No.                                          Deadline
of Credit                                              for
No. Agreement)              Subject                    Compliance          Status
1.   3.02(a)  BR to employ consultants to design       June 30, 1981   Complied with
fertilizer unit/block train                              though after a
operation and to assist in initial                       delay of four
operation of such trains.                                years.
2.   3.02(b)  BR to employ consultants to assist                        Complied with.
in installation of telecommunication
system for Operations Control
Center.
3.   3.02(c)  BADC to employ consultants for           Jan. 31, 1981   Complied with but
supervision of construction of                           in October 1982.
godowns.



- 36 -
4.   3.02(c)  BADC to employ consultants to assist   Jan. 31, 1981   Dropped since work
in studies and design of fertilizer                       was done
bulk handling facilities at Chalna                         independently by
and for improvement to fertilizer                          Chalna Port under
warehouse management and inventory                         USAID financing.
control practices.
5.   3.02(d)  CPA to employ consultants to assist                        Complied with.
i. the supervision of test dredging
of the channel to Chittagong and in
the monitoring of channel siltation.
6.   3.04(c)  Borrower to prepare a Project                              Complied with.
Completion Report.
7.   3.05(a)  BADC to furnish to IDA the National    Jan. 31, 1981   Complied with in
Storage Plan for fertilizer.                              May 1981.
8.   3.08      BADC to improve arrangements for                           Complied with.
contracting for distribution of
fertilizer by road and inland water
transport.
9.   3.08(a)  After December 31, 1980, but prior                          Complied with.
to Jan. 1, 1982, BADC to award all
new fertilizer transport contracts
in Comilla and Noakhali districts
through competitive bidding
procedure.
10.  3.08(b)  After December 31, 1980, fertilizer                         Complied with.
transport contracts should be
awarded by BADC only after a formal
prequalification procedure.
11.  3.09(a)  BADC and BR to undertake unit/block    Aug. 30, 1981   Complied with
train trials from Ghorasal or                              though after a
Ashuganj within two months of                              delay of four
appointment of Operating Consultant.                       years.
12.  3.09(b)  BADC/BR to enter into contract for        Oct. 31, 1981   Partially complied
unit/block train operation.            .                  with.
13.  3.10(a)  BR to make recommendations for            Mar.31, 1981    Complied with
improving management structure of                          after three years
Bahadurabad-Tistamukh Ghat ferry.                          delay.
14.  3.10(b)  BR to put into effect                     Sept. 30, 1981  Complied with
recommendations for improvement of                         after a delay of
management structure of Bahadurabad-                       three years.
Tistamukh ferry.
15.  3.10(c)  BR to replace steam shunting engines   Dec. 31, 1981   Complied with.
with diesel shunters at Bahadurabad-
Tistamukh ferry.



- 37 -
16.  3.11     TTB Board to rent to BADC and BR                          Complied with
communication channels controlled by                      partially.
OCC, operate and maintain them and
permit BADC and BR to provide their
own specialized telecommunications
equipment for OCC.
17.  3.12(a)  BADC and BR to maintain a Project                         Complied with.
Implementation Unit.
18.  3.12(b)  BIWTA and CPA to assign a Project                         Complied with.
Manager.
19.  3.12(c)  A Project Coordination and                                Complied with.
Monitoring Committee to be set up
under the chairmanship of Chairman,
BADC.
20.  3.13     CPA to consult IDA within seven                           Complied with.
months of completion of initial
dredging regarding result of
monitoring of siltation of channel
and program of maintenance of the
channel.
21.  4.03     BR to ensure that wagons                                   Largely complied
rehabilitated under the project are                       with.
used exclusively for the operation
of unit/block trains for fertilizer
distribution.
Comentss Most of the covenants were complied with fully although a few were
complied with partially. The deadline for compliance was not always met.
8. Use of IDA Resources
A. Staff Inputs a/
Staff Weeks
Stage of                                           Final
Project Cycle                                      Total b/
Through Appraisal                                  92.0
Appraisal through Board Approval                    30.0
Board Approval through Effectiveness                 6.5
Supervision                                       177.2
Total                                        305.7
a/ Data on planned inputs were unavailable.
b/  Estimated.



- 38 -
B. Missions
Special-      Perform-
Stage of                           Number   Days    ization         ance
Project                              of       in     repre-        Rating        Types of
Cycle          Month/Year          Persons  Field   sented a/    Status b/   Problems c/
Through        Sept.-Oct. 1979        4        24    ECN, FNA,RWS,    --            __
Appraisal                                          EGR
Feb. 1980              4       21    ECN,FNA,EGR         --          --
Appraisal      April 1980             4        10    ECN,RWS,EGR        --          --
through
Board        July 1980              1        10    ECN                --          --
Approval
Board          Feb. 1981              2         5    FNA,EGR            --          --
approval
through      April 1981             2         7    FNA,EGR            --          --
effective-
ness         July 1981              3        18    FNA,ECR,RWS        --          --
Supervision   Nov.-Dec. 1981          3        14    FNA,EGR,RWS         2          MT
June 1982              4       11    FNA,EGR              2          MT
Oct. 1982              5         6    FNA,EGR,ECN         2          MT
May 1983               1        12    RWS                 2          MT
Nov.-Dec. 1983         1       15    RWS                  3          MT
Oct 1984               1        18    RWS                 3          MT
Sept.-Oct. 1985        2       11    EGR,RWS              3         MT
Sept.-Oct. 1986        1       15    RWS                  3         MT
Nov. 1987              2       25    FNA,RWS              3          MT
a/  ECN = Economist; EGR - Engineer; FNA - Financial Analyst; and
RWS = Railway Specialist
b/  1 = problem free or minor problems; 2 = moderate problems;
3 = major problems
c/ MT - management



- 39 -
ANNEX A
ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
A.1   Baghabari Port Development
A.2   Shiromoni Improvements
A.3   Chittagong Port Dredging
A.4   Unit Train Operation
A.5   Additional Storage Facilities
A.6   All Components



- 40 -
ALNNEX A.I
OU1LIZZ T1110DP? P5OJWr
eRoJCC CUeLE7 104 RW t
EC0WIC EVA.AL.UAION OP 9A0        9       OEv fL.rO
....................... ...................................... ___..__............................
T?,#tC P,oj*ec4toflS                       6reft o  /                                   Cot-  */
(Thou,o.d teoo)                     (MlF  I  :oK Of rob *)                       (Mi I lo.  of rTapib*)
Fort.1,4o,   Otb*.  T'6ff'c    Pa.,I.        Othe, T'Iff;c    total         Coo tel        Opoleta.0          Total
a/              b/               C/             d/                          G/             '/
1900-s1                   0                 0           000             000          0 00        2r50             00o         27so
2.  1961-62                0                 0           0.00 0o00                    0 00         16 3            000          I6 36
3   1062-3                 0                 0           0.00 0o00                    0.00 o5.S                   0 00          s5 S5
4   1963-64               30                46            026            9 65         19 1          06             oo04            s7
3   t164-61               it                73          20 It           1' r7        38.47          7 94           0.12          a o0
6.  16e-66              L0S                00          28 30          1U.S5         46 n2          2 94            0.09         3 07
7.   965.-7              123               124          31 04           21.71        52.76          0.00           0 35          0 38
6.  1917-6               130               130           32 49          22.s4         55.01        0o00             0 o0         0 07
e                        137               137           33 56          23 90         57 41         0.00            0 40         0 40
1o                        145               145           35 52          24 6         601?           0.00            0 40         0 40
it.                       145               145          355 2           24 65        60.17          0.00            050          05o
12.                       145               145          3552            24 S         60.17 0o00                     0.50         0  0
13.                       145               145           3s 52          24 65        60.1?          0.00            0.50         0  0
*                        145               145          35 52           2465         60.17         0o00             0.50         0 so
15                        145               145           3552           245           60.17         000             0o0          0 so
to                        145               14S           3552           24 6          so 617        000 0oo                      0 o
17                        145               145           35 52          24.65         60.17        0o00             0 60         0 60
is                        145               145          35 52           24 5          0  L601       000             060          060
1                         145               14S     5    3552            2465         60.17          000             060          0 60
20                         145               145          3 552          24 65         60 I?         000             060          0 so
21.                        145               145          35.52          24 65         60.1?         000             060          0 60
22.                        145              145           35 32          2465          60.1?         0.00            060          0 60
am  () .            38 90
S/  Actual tAo         up .a   to yar F. SS seoeoh 'eat. a  to Its, 10  fto'oofto'. c*seSity of *oeaa.t d*-alo_.ant
a0 sommood to be '*eal.d.
hi  Aetual ton.6.^   ue to yoau  7, SS  reeth  St* .  to yes, 10   Thee..#tep. copeat,      y of ..aeent daeelo _ee4
-a seammoed tob re ,ached.
et  Th. s.eeas  so, ton aso;.  is celeulate4 es tth  4.f'e'.nCo  - t,lane.f% coa% betese  QC 'erel/Aahugsnj and  leckabo-
.i  SI.i'o.i/Nhulne (nlan   et*ata  and rg I). rob* S4?/tom, and Cho,meal/lAs enj 0nd fegabe.i (                  -ln  ve.)
.kich seusla Trb. 302/ton   trh  ea.ng  :. Ter, 245/to.
d/  rho eafage per ton seeine  s talcyulated as tha d4 "e'0Ca  -- t.anae.tA C44t batleo  0heh1e/Mera1 anY4.l    n    tah*du,abae
F,,to 6tehgberi (.a.l.,ad). rTah  340/ton, aJ0 t-a   4Ct .land aate   outv. Tabs 170 ton. eoc  is tabs 171/ton
0/  Aetual  oeo% incu-.ad
*/  Acuatee   60 to      6. and ae.tated thsrasfto,
6/  All Co1a1 sW.     W tenaf1'ts %NMW IOU   .. .b*n -,l*lLa  tO .46  *a..g-.



- 41 -
AMEX A. 2
OAN*LADO4
FMTZLLrZE TRANSPORT PRO.JECr
(Constant qn6 prices)
ge.e.ft  (MliI.oft Of Takes) 9/                   Costs (Mill;oo oi rkehe) f/
F..t. I ZO         *'55s^o t
T,sff;c       Oa.st-0          A^o'd
Year     (Thousand tons)      Se-Gs          tnCaatment     t'@It               Cs; el    Milnte"en           Total
*/              i/              c                                   /           */
i.  Xqo0-a1                 0             0 0            0 0            0.0                0.0            0.0           0.0
2.  1968162                 0              00            00             0.0                0.0            0.0            0.0
_.  1982-61                 0              0 0            0.0           0 0               15.$            0.0           15.$
'.  1963-4i                 0              00            0 0            0 0               37 8            0.0           37 6
S.  084t-08                 0              00            47 e          *76                  9.3           0.0            9.3
6   1965-641              145             i60             0.0           L6.0              24.1            0.0           24.1
7.  1988-67               116             12.2            0.0           12.2              36.6            0.0           36.6
6.  1967-66               125             ;2.6            0.0           12.0               0.0            0.0            0.0
9.  196-69                144              144           0 0           14.4               0.0            4.3            A 3
10.  1969-90               166             16.6            0.0           16.6               0.0            4.3            4 3
11.                        191             19 t           40 0          59.1                0.0            4 3            4 3
12.                        220             22.0           0.0           22.0                0.0            4.3            4 3
13.                        250             25.0           0.0           21.0                 0.0           4.3            4.3
14.                        266             28.8           0 0           28 6                0.0            4.3            4.3
15.                        331             33.1           0 0           33.1                0.0            4.3            4.3
16.                        381             38.1          40.0           78.1                 0.0           4.3            4.3
17.                        438             43.6           0 0           43.6                0.0            4.3            4 3
16.                        50t             50 0           0.0           50.0                 0.0           4.3            4.3
19.                         00             50 0            0 0          50.0                 0.0            4.3           4.3
20.                        500             50.0            0.0          50 0                0.0            4.3            4 3
2t.                        500             50.0            0 0           50.0               0 0            * 3            4 3
22.                        500             50 0            0 0           50 0               0 0            4 3            4 3
egtt (I) *           26.12
of  Aetual traffle handled uo to yea, 6 end 155 G,oath  at* for -*ts 10 year* -ts eses hity of ie ot  a .ached.
b/ Eati .ted at robe 100 per ton
c/  If Se;.o; *S,    . ret*^t*seoi.d. so new ,. at fec.'ty canti'g Yalks 40 million VW ad hav, to be 0dd
for *eah 200,000 tons of csago
4/ Actual costa.
*1  Actual* up to yrose a end 41 of ._..a.I :,.t  , .0..aft,
f/ All ceost  and benefits theough  tIS he,. bs.. *1stae  to 1966 Pricee



BANLDESH
FERTILIZ TRAIWPOfRT PROJECT
FROJEC  COELETIN REPORT
ECOldIC EVALLTIVN OF  iIMAG6  POlT REIWt
(Cae4tent 196 Pric")
Traffic Projctiose a/                         senofita ;/                                          Coat* */
CrTou"d TeaO)                            (I.H11ion of Taken)                                (4ll-l on of labs.)
0.1                                  oil                            Proc..r.nt  Na..n.nce
Ycr      Fertilizer  Foodgreine   Product      Fertiliaer  Foodgrine  Product        Total    Capital      Drodgor     Dredger          Total
il           c          d/                    */           f/ ./
I. 1960-8i           0             0          0           0.0          0.0       0.0      0.0       64.2             0 0          0 0       64 2
2. 1961-62           73            0        592          22.8          0 0      92 4    115.1       176 1            0 0          0 0       176 1
3  1962-83           0            57        490           0.0         19 9      6 6      80 5         6 4            0 0          0 0         6 4
4  1963-64            0          132         114          0.0         33 3      14 4     47 6         0 0            0 0          0 0         0 0
S. 1964-65           0             0        625           0.0          0 0      74.4     74 4         0 0            0 0          0 0         0 0
6  196S-61          114            0        649          25.1          0 0      71 4     96 5         0.8            0 0          0 0         0 O
7  19"-67            0           112        236           0.0         288       24 3     53.1         00             00           00         00
*    1967-88          0          471        460           0 0        120.2      46 9    167 1         0.0            0 0          0 0        0 0
9                     0          5CO        475           0.0        125 0      47.5    172.5       160.0            0 0          0 0       160 0
10                   25           475        490          50.0        11.6      49 0    217.8        0.0            0.0           00         00 
11                   SO           450        510          10.0        112.5     51.0    173 5         0 0          10000         150 0     1150 0
12                   75           425        525          15.0        106.2     52.5    173.7         0 0            0 0         150.0      1500 
la                  100           400        540          200 0       100.0     54.0    174 0         0 0            0 0         1500       150 0
14                  130           375        56O          25.0         93 6     56.0    114.6         0 0            0.0         150 0      150 0
15                  160           350       50           32.0         87.5     50.0    177.5         0.0            0 0         150 0      1500 
16                  190           325        600          36.0         81.2     60.0    179.2         0.0            0 0         150 0      150 0
17                  230           300        620          4 0          75.0     62 0    16b3.0        0.0            0 0         1500       1500 O
1i                  260           275        640          52.0         606      64 0    164 6         0 0            0 0         150        1500 
19                  290           250        660          50.0         62 5     66.0    186.5         0.0            0 0         150 0      ISO O
20.                  330          225        660          66.0         56.2      60.0    190.2         0.0            0 0        150 0       150 0
21.                  370          200        700          74.0         50.0      70 0    194.0        0.0             0 0        150 0      150 0
22.                  4C0          200        700          80.0         50 0      70.0    200.0        0.0             0.0        150 0      150 0
gm  (S)        34.25
*/ lecreeansl treffic mot reqiring lighIteing *ith channel deepning (actual. up to year 8).
b/ Ecoeoic cost of I igaterso  is oat,eted to bo Tlk- 20 per on.
el bcmsic cost of lighterae is seet.mted to be TaO&  250 per tm.
4J Bmoic cost of lighterage is eet..eted to be la&& 100 per on.
eJ Actul costs incurred.
f/ Likely cost of dredger propoee  for procurtent (CPA'  eat_ats).
e/ Us of dredger cpitel cost.
h/ Cost of drodedg    undert_an an 1968-09
*iAll cost. and benef.ts through 19M  ha.e been inflated to 1960 prices



BA LADESH
FERTILIERt TRAEPRT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECON9UC EVMLATION OF LINT TRAIN WUATION
(Constant 1988 price.)
Fertilizer    NDeiI Train Operation         Uni t/8lock Train Operation           Benefit.                     enft.   /                    Costs  /
Traffic            (Thoueand)                     (Thousand)                    (Thoucnnd)                 (nMll.on of Taka)           (H  l,on of Tabs)
Projction      -_- ---                      __________________________-----------  -----------------------  ----------------------------  - -------------
(Theunand    Wagm Days  Locomv itve         eao9n Days    Locomtivo       Wagon Days  Locomotive
leer         oen)       Rnequirod  DIa A Required      Required   Days Rhquired       Sawed      Days Sawed      Wagon& Locomat-w       Total           Tot" 
*/           h/           C/                d/            */                                         f         g a/                         h/
1.  19O-81           0           0.00         0.00              0.00          0.00          000           0.00         0.0         0 0       0 0                  0 9
2.  19B1-82            0          0.00         0.00              0.00          0 00          0.00          0.00         0 0         0.0       0 0                  0 0
3. 1962-83             0          0.00         0.00              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.0         0.0       0.0                 12 7
4.  1983-84            0          0.00         0.00              00o           0.00          000           0.00         0.0         0.0       0 0                 31 0
S.  1984-856           0         33.00         0.12              7.50          0 06         25 50          0.06         5.5         1 4       6 9                 23 4
6.  1965-11           75         82.50         0.30             18.80          0.15         63.70          0.1S        12 7         3 2      15 8                 41 6
7   1986-87           96        107.0 0a 39                     24.50          0.20         83.30          0.19        15.5         3 8      19 3                 90 2
8   1987-U8          222        244.20         0.89             55.50          0 44        188.70          0.45        34 7         9 0      43 7                  18 8
9                    300       130 00          1.20             75.00          0.60        255.00          0.60        45 9        11 7      57 6                  0 0
10                   400        440 00          1.60            100.00          0.80        340.00          0.80        61.2        15 6      76.8                  0 0
t                    500         55iO.00        2.00            125 00          1 00        425.00          1.00        76.5        19.5      96 0                  0 0
(S) *           11 7
/  Actual up to year 8 and esti_mted for next 3 years when capacsty . sning (actualt up to year 8)
b/ Traffec tone divided by 30 tons average per wagon multiply by 22 days turn around (available  agons). 
c/ Traffic tons divided by 1.000 ton per train multiply by 2 directions sultiply by 300 k1. average haul divided by 150 h_e. per day per a.a.lable locomot-ve.
d/ Traffic ton divided by 20 to"n avrage per wagn multiply by 5 days turn around (ursilablo wsgon-).
e/ Traffic ton divided by 1,000 ton por train multiply by 2 directions multiply by 300 kb. average haul divided by 300 1_. per day per availableo loc  t-ve
f/ Cost per  agon day equals, Tk 1       -0 equal  capital cost (lb 400,000) multiply by capital recovery factor at 12T over 30 years (0.124) d-eded by swvalablo days
(oecluding operating ad mintenaace cost).
g/ Cost per locomotive day equal. Tn 19,500 equals capital coet (Tb 400,000,000) multiply by capital recovery factor at 121 over 20 years (0.134) mult,ply by a.a.labla
days ( ecluding operating an m_intnene cost).
h/ Total economic cost consist of coot of  agon rehabilitation (Tk 83.4 *illion) plus coet of railroad sidings C(  68.6 million) plus coat of OCC
(M 38.6 million) wehich ttaa Tb 190D.6 million.
i/ All costs aW benefit. through 198 have been inflated to 1968 prices.
In



- 44 
ANNEX A. 5
BANOLAO6SI
Ft!tLIZ1R tRANPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF ACITIONAL STORAGE FACtITtES
( Constant 1968 Prics )
Benefits (Million of Takes) f/                     Coete (MillUon of Takes) f/
VaIue of
Throughaut    lrv.vn*,t a.d    !,cnem.sd            toti                                                  r1.1te
Year     Thousand tons   Handing Sa--go   Ploduction            Benefits            Capitol       Maintenance          Costs
a/               b/              c/                                   d/              */
t   1980-81          0                     0 0            0 0            0.0                 0.0            0.0                0.0
2.  1981-82          0                      0 0            0.0            0.0                0.0            0.0                0.0
3.  1962-83          0                      0 0            0 0            0.0                9.9            0.0                 9.9
*   1983-84          0                      0 0            0.0            0.o               11.6            0.0                11.6
3   1984-65          0                      0 0            0 0            0.0               17.7            0.0                17.7
S.  1985-86          33                     1.1           21.8           22.9               19.4            0.0                19.4
?.  19846-87         17                     0.2           10.5           10.7               25.4            0.0                25.4
S.  1987-86          26                     0.8           15.9           16.7                0.0            0.3                 0.3
o.  1968-89          33                     1.0           19.8           20.8                0.0            1.5                 1.5
10.  1969-90          AO                     1.2           24.0           25.2                0.0            1.5                 1.5
11.                   '0                     l.S           30.0           31.5                0.0            1.5                 1.S
12.                   60                    18            36.0           37.8                0.0            1.5                 1.5
13.                   60                     1.8           36.0           37.6                0.0            1.5                 1.5
14.                   so                     1.8           36.0           37.6                0.0            1.5                 1.5
15.                   60                     1.8           36.0           37.8                0.0            1.5                 1.5
te.                   60                     1.6           36.0           37.8                0.0            1.5                 1.5
17.                   60                     1.3           36.0           37.8                0.0            1.5                 1.S
18.                   so                     1.8           36.0           37 6                0.0            1.5                 1.5
19.                   60                     1.6           36.0           37.6                0.0            1.5                 1.5
20.                   sO                     1.6           36.0           37.6                0.0             1.5                1.5
21.                   60                     1.6           38.0           3r.6                0.0             1.5                1 5
22.                   60                     1.6           36 0           37.6                0.0             1.5                I S
ER  (I) *           26.35
*/  Actual up to tho yOer 1907-88 and *etisatod for later yeares u  to a maximum of 5 tie-. the total cepWity (12,000 tons).
b/ e tiated at rtlke 30 *er ton.
c/ With add;tional aerehouw caecsity and aneileb,lity, fertilizer use i- estimated to increeae by 5t. The slug
of foodgraing is rtak 8,400/ton. fertilizer Take d.800/ton and the outowt to fartiliaer ratio i n*atbliehed
is etabli shed st 2.0 benef;t pee ton equals Take 12.000
d/ Actual costs of additional storage end *,l Ieu-a at Rjoahahi and Notogr.
*/ Aetual* up to 1968-4 and 211 of capital cost t'.s*.a'.
f/  All costs end benefit. through  966 ha.e besf  *-'$        to 1t98 prices.



- 45 -
ANNEX A.6
SANCLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECONOMIC EVALtWATION OF ALL COMPONEWTS
(Conntant 1988 prices)
Net Cash Flow* a/
Additional    Baghabari    Shiromoni       Chittagong   Unit Train
Your        Storage         Port       Improvements Port Dredging  Operations          Total
I                0.00        (27.50)          0.00        (64.16)       (0.86)       (92.52)
2                0.00         (16.38)         0.00        (61.00)        0.00        (77.38)
3               (9.94)        (15.55)       (15.54)        82.04       (12.74)        28.27
4              (11.59)         10.24        (37.80)        47.63       (31.00)       (22.52)
5              (17.73)        28.61          38.32         74.38       (16.54)       107.03
6                3.52         43.75          (8.14)        95.70       (25.74)       109.09
7              (14.42)        52.41         (24.62)        53.15       (70.86)        (4.35)
8               18.42         54.96          12.75        167.08        24.89        276.09
9               19.30         57.06          10.10         12.50        57.60        156.56
1O              23.70         59.77          12.30        172.80       76.80         345.37
11              30.00         59.67          54.80       (976.50)      96.00        (736.03)
12              36.30         59.67          17.70         23.70        0.00         137.37
13              36.30         59.67          20.70         24.00        0.00         140.67
14              36.30         59.67          24.50         25.80        0.00         146.27
t5              36.30         59.67          28.80         27.50        0.00         152.27
16              36.30         59.67          73.80         29.20        0.00         198.97
17              36.30         59.67          39.50         33.00        0.00         168.47
16              36.30         59.67          45.70         34.80        0.00         176.47
19              36.30         59.67          45.70         36.50        0.00         178.17
20              36.30         59.67          45.70         40.20         0.00        181.87
21              36.30         59.67          45.70         44.00         0.00        185.67
22              36.80          59.67         45.70         50.00         0.00        191.67
ERR (I) -         26.41         39.12          26.12         31.75        11.74         29.76
a/  All cnah flows through 1986 have been inflatd to 1988 pricec



