Document of
The World Bank   FILE  COP
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2957-BD
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
October 15, 1980
South Asia Projects Department
Transportation Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may he used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Since August 1979, the Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at Tk
34.7 to the Pound Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to the US Dollar
and, consequently, the Taka-US Dollar rate is subject to change. The rate
below has been used throughout this report except where otherwise stated.
US$1          =   Tk 15.5
Tk 1          =   US$0.0645
Tk 1 million  =   US$64,516
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot        =   0.305 meters
1 mile             1.609 kilometers
PRINCIPAL GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       -     Asian Development Bank
AFCC      -      Ashuganj Fertilizer and Chemical Company
BADC      -      Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BG        -      Broad Gauge
BIWTA     -      Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority
BIWTC     -     Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation
BR        -      Bangladesh Railways
CPA       -      Chittagong Port Authority
DAP       -      Diammonium Phosphate
ER        -      Economic Rate of Return
GDP       -      Gross Domestic Product
GOB       -      Government of Bangladesh
HYV       -      High-Yielding Variety
ICB       -     International Competitive Bidding
IECO      -     International Engineering Company
IFAD      -     International Fund for Agricultural Development
LCB       -      Local Competitive Bidding
MG        -     Meter Gauge
MP        -      Muriate of Potash
MPSI      -      Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Inland Water Transport
MRRHRT    -      Ministry of Railways, Roads, Highways and Road Transport
NSP       -     National Storage Plan
OCC       -      Operations Control Cell
ODA       -      Overseas Development Administration of the United Kingdom
PCA       -     Port of Chalna Authority
PDP       -      Primary Distribution Points
RHD       -      Roads and Highways Department
TPY       -      Tons Per Year
TSP       -      Triple Superphosphate
TTB       -      Telecommunication and Telegraph of Bangladesh
USAID     -      United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    AGRICULTURAL AND TRANSPORT SECTORS  .....................                          1
A.    Introduction  ......................................                         1
B.    Agriculture  .......................................                         1
C.  Transportation .....................                                          3
II.    FERTILIZER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM  .....              ............                    5
A.    Introduction  ......................................                        5
B.    Marketing System  ..................................                        6
C.    Pricing,  Subsidies and Credit  .....................                       7
D.    Fertilizer Production and Imports  ....                  .............      8
E.    National  Fertilizer Projections  ...................                      10
F.    Transportation and Storage  ........................                       10
III.    THE PROJECT  ............................................                         15
A.    Background  ........................................                       15
B.    Description  .......................................                       16
C.    Cost Estimates  ....................................                       21
D.    Financing  .........................................                       22
E.    Implementation  ....................................                       23
F.    Procurement  .......................................                       26
G.    Disbursements  and Audits  ..........................                      27
H.    Environmental  Effects  .............................                      28
I.    Monitoring  ........................................                       28
IV.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION ..........................                                    28
A.    Main Benefits  and Beneficiaries  ...................                      28
B.    Port  Improvements  .................................                      29
C.    Unit/Block Trains  .................................                       31
V.    RECOMMENDATIONS  ....... .............                ....................        32
This report is based on information provided by the Government of Bangladesh
during missions in 1979 and on the findings of an appraisal mission in February
1980 consisting of Messrs. R.N. Panfil (Transport Economist), M. Alikhan
(Financial Analyst), A. Sabeti (Railway Specialist), D. Perfrement (Ports
Engineer) and C. Buratti (Railway Engineer) and J. Peltz (Port Operations
Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEX 1:   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
TABLES
1.        Transport of Bangladesh
2.        Fertilizer Offtake in Bangladesh 1965-79
3.        Fertilizer Subsidy
4.        BCIC Fertilizer Production & Capacity Utilization
5.        Fertilizer Imports
6.        Projected Fertilizer Production and Imports 1979/80-1984/85
7.        Proposed 1984-85 Sales Target District-wise
8.        Projected Movement for Total Fertilizer 1984-85 by Mode
of Transport
9.        Detailed Project Cost Estimate
10. (a)    List of Machineries, Equipment and Tools for Saidpur Workshop
(b)    List of Imported Materials required for the repair of 600
Wagons of Bangladesh Railways
(c)    List of Local Materials required for the repair of 600 Wagons
of Bangladesh Railways
11.        Machinery and Tools for Floating Workshop
12.        Telecommunication Cost Estimate
13         Summary Cost Estimates by Executing Agency
14.        Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Proposed Credit
15.        Economic Evaluation of Baghabari Port Development
16.        Economic Evaluation of Shiromoni Improvements
17.        Economic Evaluation of Chittagong Port Dredging
18.        Economic Evaluation of Unit Train Operation
l9.        Economic Evaluation of Wagon Ferry Improvements
20.        Economic Evaluation of Additional Storage Facilities
CHARTS
21590     Composition of the Board of Directors of BADC
21591     Organization of BADC Fertilizer Supply Wing
21592     Implementation Schedule
MAPS
IBRD #12279R1
IBRD #14885
IBRD #15043
IBRD #15044
IBRD #15042



BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
1. AGRICULTURAL AND TRANSPORT SECTORS
A. Introduction
1.01      Bangladesh covers a land area of about 55,000 square miles, most of
which comprises a vast alluvial plain. The country is effectively divided
into four parts by two massive rivers, the Jamuna and the Ganges, which at
their point of confluence become the Padma River. Later this river joins
into the Meghna River. In addition, there are many small rivers, canals and
other wat-rcourses. The nature of Bangladesh's geography creates complex
developme~.t problems. Of the 23 million acres of land under cultivation about
one-third is normally flooded annually for three to six months. The geography
also makes access to the various regions of the country difficult since trans-
port infrastructure is expensive and the river channels are frequently shifted
by floods, requiring waterways to be cleared and ferries to be shifted.
1.02      When Bangladesh became independent nine years ago, the newly formed
Government inherited a shattered economy; the country had lost a large number
of its academic and business elite, and much of the physical infrastructure
had been demolished. However, in recent years economic improvements, together
with greater political stability, signal a significant shift in the circum-
stances of Bangladesh and somewhat brighten its economic prospects. The real
average growth rate of gross domestic product (GDP) has been about 6% from
FY75 to FY79.
1.03      In spite of recent improvements,  Bangladesh is still one of the
poorest countries in the world. Gross national product at market prices in
1978/79 is estimated at about US$9.5 billion with per capita income of about
US$90.00. The population, currently some 90 million, is growing at about
2.7% per annum. Life expectancy is short, child mortality is high, and human
fertility has only begun to be checked by population planning measures. The
majority of the population is illiterate, ill-fed, ill-housed and under-
employed. In FY79, per capita foodgrain production and average nutrition
levels still remained below the levels attained in FY70. The country remains
critically dependent on foreign aid, which covers about 75% of public invest-
ments and represents roughly one-tenth of GDP.
B. Agriculture
1.04      Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy, accounting for 55% of
GDP, 75% of all employment and, directly or indirectly, over 90% of the coun-
try's exports. About 70% of agricultural value added is derived from crops



-2-
and the rest from forestry (6%), fisheries (9%) and livestock (13%). Rice,
by far the most important crop, accounts for about 80% of the cropped area;
jute, the principal export, for 6%; and a variety of other crops such as
wheat, pulses, oilseeds, sugarcane and vegetables for the remainder. Agricul-
tural productivity in Bangladesh is among the lowest in the world; the aver-
age rice yield of about 0.5 ton per acre is barely half of that for Asia as a
whole.
1.05      During the 1960s, agricultural production grew at an annual rate of
2.5%, lagging behind the population growth rate. As a result, foodgrain
imports increased from less than 0.6 M tons in FY61 to over 1.5 M tons in FY70.
Due to the adverse weather conditions as well as disruptions caused by the war
of independence, production during the early 1970s remained below the FY70 level.
This necessitated foodgrain imports which averaged 2.1 M tons per year between
FY72 and FY75 and accounted for about one-quarter of the total import bill. In
FY78 in addition to favorable weather conditions, measures taken by Government
of Bangladesh (GOB) stimulated foodgrain production resulting in a record
harvest of 13.1 M tons. Nevertheless, about 1.6 M tons of foodgrain were
imported to meet consumption and stock build-up requirements. For FY80,
in order to restore both consumption and stock levels from the depressed FY79
levels caused by a severe drought, the Government imported total foodgrains of
nearly 3 million tons, an all-time record.
1.06      The most promising development in the foodgrain sector in recent
years has been the rapid increase in wheat production. Wheat is increasingly
being accepted as a staple food, even in the rural areas. Wheat production
increased from an annual average of only 107,000 tons during the first half
of 1970s to 486,000 tons in FY79 as acreage planted and average yield both
doubled. The potential for further significant production increases is good.
1.07      Agricultural development in Bangladesh is constrained, inter alia,
by scarcity of cultivable land, lack of irrigation facilities, climatic haz-
ards, and deficient transportation for moving farm inputs and produce. Recent
surveys indicate the distribution of land ownership in rural Bangladesh is
becoming increasingly concentrated. On the other hand, Bangladesh has large
areas of highly fertile deltaic soils, a climate suitable for year-round
cropping, abundant groundwater resources for dry-season irrigation and high-
yielding varieties (HYV) of rice and wheat are suitable for cultivation. Much
of this potential, however, has not been fully exploited yet.
1.08      At GOB's request IDA is working with various GOB agencies to help
prepare a Medium-Term Food Production Plan to deal with sectoral problems.
The major objectives of the agreed strategy are to achieve food self-sufficiency
by FY85, create employment for the rural poor in order to improve incomes and
nutritional standards and to increase export earnings. Under the plan emphasis
is being placed on strengthening of rural institutions, improvement of fertil-
izer and farm input supplies, better utilization of existing irrigation facil-
ities and further expansion of irrigation facilities. Specifically, the
Government aims at increasing the production of foodgrains to 20 M tons by
FY85. This implies a sustained annual growth rate of about 6% over the
estimated level of FY80 assuming normal weather. This is an ambitious target
but is considered achievable given adequate financial and logistical support



-3-
and policies encouraging expanded private sector participation. Preliminary
calculations indicate that to achieve the announced goal of national foodgrain
self-sufficiency by 1985, about 2.0 M tons of fertilizer will need to be used,
an additional 3.6 M acres of land brought under irrigation (primarily through
tubewells), and the area planted with HYVs tripled to about 11 M acres.
C. Transportation
1.09      In addition to natural geographic barriers (para 1.01), the transport
network (Table 1 and Map IBRD 12279 Rl) suffered considerable damage during
the war of independence in 1971. It is estimated that 40% of the trucks on
the road and 35% of the buses were lost. The damage to railway workshops,
locomotives and wagons and other installations was severe. In addition, 299
railway bridges and 274 road bridges were either damaged or destroyed. Air-
fields were damaged and sunken ships blocked the ports. The available statistics
indicate that while passenger traffic has continued to grow since 1972, the
growth of freight traffic has been erratic. Freight traffic consists largely
of exports and imports moving through the maritime ports at Chittagong and
Chalna and of internal movement of a few domestically produced or processed
goods (cement, fertilizer and petroleum products). Much of the erratic growth
in freight can be attributed to the effects of fluctuations in imports espe-
cially foodgrains, fertilizer and cement, and in exports of jute and jute
goods.
1.10      The most striking development in the transport sector since partition
from India in 1947 has been the growth of road transport from its former minor
role to an important transport mode for both goods and passengers. This has
happened despite a poorly developed highway network with much of the main-road
network consisting of unconnected stretches requiring ferry services across
tumerous rivers, and bridges which are too narrow and have low load limitations.
The main-road system which is administered by the Roads and Highways Department
(RHD), comprises approximately 2,700 miles of bitumen-surfaced road and 1,500
miles of fair-weather road. The minor road network is maintained by local
authorities such as district councils, municipalities and thanas. Most paved
roads have been built since 1947, but they were constructed for much lower
traffic levels than presently exist. The results are low-average traffic
speeds, high operating costs and the need for major maintenance inputs.
Studies (financed under Technical Assistance Credit 622-BD), which will iden-
tify national priorities for road rehabilitation and maintenance, are now
being undertaken.
1.11      Bangladesh Railway (BR) is state-owned and managed and has a system
of 1,187 route miles of meter gauge track located mainly in the eastern part
of the country and 599 route miles of broad gauge in the west. The two halves
of the system are connected by two ferries across the Jamuna River. The track
is of low standard and most of it is poorly maintained. Since independence,
employee productivity and availability and utilization rates of locomotives
and rolling stock, have all fallen, thus reducing BR's carrying capacity.
Freight traffic is below pre-independence levels while passenger transport
has increased considerably due to very low passenger fares and a GOB policy



-4-
of priority to passenger traffic.  BR is now receiving considerable assistance
from the Asian Development Bank (ADB), Britain, Saudia Arabia and Canada.
1.12      The length of navigable waterways varies from 2,300 miles in the
dry season to 3,300 miles during the monsoon. The Bangladesh Inland Water
Transport Authority (BIWTA) controls the system, regulates traffic and fares
and maintains facilities (inland ports and navigation channels). Mechanized
inland water transport is provided by the Bangladesh Inland Water Transport
Corporation (BIWTC) and by private operators, the latter carrying about 90%
of passengers and 50% of freight traffic. The mechanized fleet is supplemented
by about 90,000 country boats of one or two ton average capacity.  Of the BIWTC
fleet of some 600 vessels, with a static capacity of about 180,000 tons, some
70% will require extensive repairs within five years, and a program of repair
and replacement is being prepared with the help of specialists financed under
an IDA credit (735-BD). The private sector, comprising about 600 vessels of
155,000 tons static capacity, is currently undergoing expansion with GOB's
help. The inland water transport subsector is also receiving assistance from
the Netherlands and Norway.
1.13      Bangladesh has two maritime ports--Chittagong and Chalna--which are
operated by the Chittagong Port Authority (CPA) and the Port of Chalna Authority
(PCA). Chittagong has alongside berthing facilities, though considerable light-
erage operations are required due to draft and length restrictions. In 1978/79,
Chittagong handled about 4.5 M tons of cargo. Port operations are characterized
by labor intensive handling techniques, slow customs procedures and overcrowded
storage and transit sheds. Recently, however, operations have been improving
and a possible port project is being prepared for IDA financing. Chalna Port
is at present operating as an anchorage but is being developed (with Yugoslav
financing) as a full maritime port despite the existence of draft restrictions
in the Pussur River. In 1978/79 this port handled some 2.0 M tons of cargo.
Under the Technical Assistance Credit (872-BD), IDA is assisting PCA in trying
to develop plans for overcoming the siltation problems.
1.14      Most transport activities fall under the responsibility of two minis-
tries: the Ministry of Railways, Roads, Highways and Road Transport (MRRHRT)
and the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Inland Water Transport (MPSI). The
ministries have control over staff appointments and promotions, wages and
salaries and budgets of operating agencies and relevant private sector activ-
ities under their respective jurisdiction. In addition, the civil aviation
and airports subsector comes under the Ministry of Civil Aviation and Tourism.
The Ministry of Planning is responsible for coordinating transport investments
and policies through its Transport Survey Section and its Transport Section.
1.15      Within the ministries control is highly centralized, and cooperation
among the various ministries and agencies is largely informal. Investment
priorities are not clearly defined; qualified and experienced specialists
have tended to seek employment in the private sector and in the Middle East.
The development of a fully integrated and effective transport planning process
is still incomplete, and present planning methods still reflect conditions at
the time of independence, when the emphasis was, of necessity, on embarking
upon a very large number of reconstruction projects with priority being given
to those projects for which external finance was most readily available.



- 5 -
1.16      Several common investment issues have emerged within the transport
sector. Firstly, some of the projects were oriented towards capacity expan-
sion without due consideration to economic priority or the operational effi-
ciency of the responsible agency. The tendency to assign greater weight to
the procurement of new equipment was reinforced by inadequate allocation of
funds for maintenance expenditures and for the procurement of spare parts, and
by the high import duty on spares. The position was further exacerbated by
the urgent need to rapidly re-establish a functioning transport system after
the depredations of the war of independence, this need being met most rapidly
by utilization of available foreign exchange for capital items. Secondly,
scarce funds and experienced personnel have frequently been spread over a very
large number of projects. As a result, execution by GOB of many projects has
been extremely slow. Finally, although the private sector plays an important
role in road and inland water transport, its access to foreign exchange and
local currency credit has been severely limited. Over the period 1973/74-
1977/78, only Tk 1.7 billion was invested in transport by the private sector.
1.17      GOB is struggling to resolve the investment issues and it will no
doubt take some time. More cognizance is being given to rehabilitation and
maintenance of the existing transport facilities. Also, because of the short-
age of resources, a number of projects have been by necessity indefinitely
suspended and investment plans are becoming more selective with more emphasis
on quicker yielding projects. Finally, the private sector is receiving
increased recognition by GOB and its policy is changing to encourage greater
private participation.
II. FERTILIZER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
A.  Introduction
2.01       In FY80, about 830,000 tons of fertilizer were used by farmers in
Bangladesh and since FY66, the offtake rate has increased over 15% per year
(Table 2). The fertilizers used in Bangladesh are urea (46% nitrogen nutrient),
TSP (46% phosphate nutrient), MP (60% potassium nutrient), and the recently
introduced DAP (18% nitrogen and 46% phosphate nutrient). At present, urea
accounted for 63%, TSP and DAP for 29%, and MP and micro nutrient fertilizers
for 8% of the fertilizer used. Fertilizer is used by all categories of farmers
in Bangladesh. Recent surveys 1/ indicate that fertilizer is now used by as
many as 70% of all cultivators and that it is used by landowners and by tenants
at virtually the same rate. However, fertilizer use in Bangladesh is still
one of the lowest in the world at only about 28 lbs (nutrient) per cropped
acre.
2.02      Due to heavy population pressure on limited land, there is virtually
no possibility of achieving any significant increased production through
expansion of acreage. Thus, growth in food and other agricultural production
1/   Bangladesh:  A Profile of the Countryside (Bangladesh Land Occupancy
Survey, 1978, Volume II), April 1979, Tables E-IX and E-X.



-6-
depends upon increased cropping intensity (through irrigation) and on raising
yield through the increased use of fertilizer and complementary modern inputs.
Studies made in recent years indicate that for more than half of the acreage
now under rice and wheat cultivation, an increase in fertilizer use alone,
without any other inputs and changes in practices, would bring about substan-
tial initial increases in yields.
2.03       If self-sufficiency in food is to be achieved by FY85, a rapid
increase in use would have to be recorded. To promote further consumption of
fertilizer requires an effective distribution system which is inter-related
with the marketing system, pricing and subsidy policies, domestic production,
procurement, transportation and storage systems.
B. Marketing System
2.04       Significant use of chemical fertilizer started in East Pakistan in
1958; and its use spread rapidly, particularly after the establishment in 1962
of the East Pakistan Agriculture Development Corporation, which later became
the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC). An autonomous
body under the Ministry of Agriculture, BADC is a government agency responsible
for the procurement, distribution and marketing of agricultural inputs, includ-
ing fertilizers, seeds, irrigation pumps and various types of agricultural
machinery.  The Corporation is headed by a Chairman who reports to the Minister
of Agriculture and has five Member Directors who report to the Chairman (Chart
21590). While BADC dominates the distribution of farm inputs, recent measures
have been taken, however, to increase the role of the private sector in the
distribution and marketing of fertilizer (see para 2.06), pesticides and
irrigation pumps.
2.05       In the past, BADC drew supplies from two maritime ports and three
domestic factories, and distributed the fertilizer to 67 intermediate warehouses
and then to 423 thana level godowns.  At the final distribution level, within
the thanas, fertilizer entered the private sector where dealers sold it to the
farmers. Of the 32,000 licensed dealers, 20,000 were estimated to be active,
each selling about 25 tons per year under a price structure, which gave them
too small a profit to provide an incentive to promote sales. Dealers were
required to register at the thana warehouse in the thana where they reside
and to purchase from that warehouse or an adjacent one if it reduced transport
costs. Dealers were restricted to selling within their union (subdivision of
the thana averaging about 12.5 square miles and 10-12 villages). BADC owned
or rented all the storage space at transit points and intermediary warehouses,
as well as in most thanas. However, in addition approximately 80 Thana Central
Cooperative Associations sold fertilizer at the thana level.
2.06      As a result of a pilot program conducted in 1976, jointly by BADC and
United States Agency for International Development (USAID), BADC has recently
taken a number of steps to improve the marketing system. These new measures
have increased dealers' margins, permitted farmers to buy from any dealer
whether or not in the farmer's own thana, and have simplified the process for



one to become a dealer. Backed by the USAID Fertilizer Distribution Improve-
ment Grant, signed in July 1978, BADC introduced more competition among private
fertilizer dealers (including cooperatives) by allowing private wholesalers to
enter the marketing system. Under the new system, BADC sells mainly to whole-
salers at primary distribution Doints (PDPs) while retaining responsibility
for sales to retailers in remote thanas. At the PDPs, BADC sells at reduced
wholesale rates for large quantity fertilizer purchases and at lesser discounts
to retailers at the thana warehouses. The retail price must not exceed the
maximum regulated retail price. All private dealers and cooperatives are
permitted to buy from all BADC warehouses but in times of shortages, the
quantity could be limited to a maximum amount. Private movement of fertilizer
is now unrestricted except within a five mile area from international borders.
2.07      The introduction of private wholesalers in December 1978 in one of
the country's four divisions (Chittagong), which accounts for one-fourth of
the area of the country and a third of total fertilizer consumption, has been
successful. Sales increased over the preceding year, and fifteen PDPs, which
are the heart of the new system, handled two-thirds of the Division's total
sales, whereas the year before all sales were being channeled through 105 thana
warehouses. This reduced costs of multiple handling, transport and losses.
Retail prices dropped in areas around the PDPs, and were below official prices
except in remote thanas. The new fertilizer wholesalers are moving fertilizer
cheaply and effectively from surplus areas to areas of need where they sell
to dealers and farmers, thus improving the flow of fertilizer throughout the
Division. However, there remain some unsolved issues of utilization of staff
and facilities in thanas where BADC warehouses have been closed, insufficient
PDP storage to supply the new system (see para. 2.26), and dealer discounts.
Cooperatives which formerly had monopoly sales rights in remote thanas have
also been experiencing difficulties. In spite of these difficulties the intro-
duction of the new marketing system has been successful, and it was extended
to two other divisions of the country (Dacca, Khulna) during FY79. Implemen-
tation in the remaining division (Rajshahi) started in July 1980. The unit/
block train operation to be initiated under the proposed Project fits in
well with the new marketing system in that the number of locations (PDPs)
where fertilizer is to be delivered has been reduced, while volumes to the
individual destinations have increased.
C. Pricing, Subsidies and Credit
2.08      The relative prices of foodgrains and fertilizer are crucial to an
agricultural production strategy that depends on increased fertilizer use.
In Bangladesh droughts and floods make fertilizer use a more risky enterprise
than in many countries. Ever since its introduction in Bangladesh, fertilizer
has been subsidized to promote its use. BADC purchases fertilizer and receives
a subsidy from the Government to cover the difference between its procurement,
marketing and distribution cost and its sales revenues. The unit subsidy has
risen rapidly in recent years, mainly because of the rise in the procurement
cost of fertilizer, as indicated in Table 3 for the period 1973/74-1978/79.
This rapid rise in subsidy costs has occurred despite a 140% increase in
prices paid by farmers during the same period.



- 8 -
2.09      The burden imposed by the subsidy is substantial, accounting in FY79
for about 75% of all development expenditures by Ministry of Agriculture and
7% of GOB's entire development budget.  While fertilizer subsidy and output
price support both have a positive effect on increasing agricultural output,
these two policy instruments differ in their cost effectiveness. It is probable
that the s-me output response can be achieved at lower cost to the Government
under a procurement policy of a guaranteed minimum price than under a fertilizer
subsidy, because higher output price is a more direct form of incentive and
encourages the farmer to use the most cost-effective input mix. GOB has agreed
with IDA and USAID in the context of financing fertilizer and foodgrain imports,
to gradually reduce the fertilizer subsidy and GOB has stated its intention of
eliminating fertilizer subsidies by June 30, 1985. As a first step GOB has
increased average fertilizer prices by 28% in FY79 and a further increase of
24% is a condition of effectiveness under the Second Fertilizer Import Credit.
In addition, under the proposed Fertilizer Transport Project one of the import-
ant objectives is to reduce movement costs and this should also help reduce
the extent of subsidy absorbed by GOB.
2.10      To facilitate and encourage fertilizer consumption, GOB provides
credit to the farmers. Institutional credit for fertilizer is provided pri-
marily by six commercial banks and one agricultural bank under a GOB funded
short-term credit program. The credit system was expected to meet fully the
needs of the small farmers and partially satisfy the requirement of larger
farmers. A survey indicates, however, that most of the credit was disbursed
to the larger farmers and credit repayments so far have been slow. GOB is
aware of the problems and the banks have introduced programs to open more
rural branch offices, provide better staff training to improve the repayment
record and to increase the availability of credit to small farmers. GOB has
also employed consultants (financed by IDA Technical Assistance Credits 409-BD
and 622-BD) to recommend measures for longer term improvements in the agricul-
tural credit system.
D. Fertilizer Production and Imports
2.11      Up to FY79 the major constraint in meeting the growing demand for
fertilizer has been the shortage of supply within the country. BADC procures
fertilizer from domestic fertilizer plants and imports the remainder. Thus
the supply of fertilizer to BADC for distribution depends on the efficiency
of the local plants and foreign exchange availability to procure imports.
2.12      Bangladesh has two urea plants, using natural gas as feedstock.  The
first plant, at Fenchuganj, was built in 1961 with a designed capacity for
production of 115,000 tons per year (tpy) of urea and 13,200 tpy of ammonium
sulphate. Following a recent rehabilitation program it is expected to produce
70% to 80% of its original capacity (Table 4). A second plant at Ghorasal,
was built in early 1970 with a design capacity of about 375,000 tpy of urea.
This plant experienced start-up difficulties, and a serious explosion in late
1974 put the plant out of commission for most of 1975. This affected fertil-
izer supply and hence sales and in 1974/75 fertilizer offtake fell by 26% over



- 9 -
previous years (Table 2). The plant was overhauled in 1978 and is currently
operating at about 65% of capacity. In order to meet growing phosphate fertil-
izer needs, a triple superphosphate (TSP) factory based on imported raw mate-
rials and with a design capacity of 152,000 tpy was completed at Chittagong
in 1970. Trial runs for the facility were done only in 1974 and 1975, and the
factory has continued to experience technical and raw material problems.
Despite recent improvements, its annual production is not expected to exceed
60% of the rated capacity, pending completion of improvements to be financed
under the recently approved Fertilizer Industries Rehabilitation Credit (para
2.14). Until recently, all of the above plants were owned and operated by
Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC), a semi-autonomous corpora-
tion responsible for management of major industries in the public sector,
including fertilizer, which accounts for about 40% of the production of BCIC
enterprises. However, these enterprises have recently been converted to
separate corporations, with BCIC continuing to exercise coordination and
supervision responsibilities.
2.13      Several urea plants based upon Bangladesh's sizeable natural gas
reserves are now under construction or in the planning stage. The Ashuganj
Fertilizer and Chemical Company (AFCC) is constructing a plant with a design
capacity of 528,000 tpy of urea at Ashuganj with financing by IDA (Credit 527-
BD) and 9 other aid agencies.  The project has encountered substantial delays
and cost overruns, and is expected to be completed by March 1981.  Agreement
has been reached with the People's Republic of China under which additional
BCIC facilities would be set up at Ghorasal for the production of 110,000 tpy
of urea.  These new facilities are expected to be in operation by late 1984.
In addition, GOB has approved, in principle, the setting up of an additional
fertilizer plant at Chittagong with an installed capacity of 528,00 tpy of
urea. It is expected to be in operation by late 1985. ADB is coordinating
arrangements for obtaining finance for this proposed project.
2.14      Local production since independence has been erratic and has fallen
short of expected levels. In order to identify and implement measures to
improve production of existing plants, studies were completed under IDA's
First and Second Technical Assistance Credits (409-BD and 622-BD) and final
recommendations formulated by consultants in August 1979 formed the basis of
IDA's Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1023-BD) approved
in May 1980. Foreign exchange is also being provided for the importation of
raw materials for the TSP plant under the Second Fertilizer Import Project
(Credit 1044-BD) of June 1980. With expected implementation of these projects
and the completion of Ashuganj, Bangladesh would have a production capacity
by 1982 of about 1.1 million tpy of urea, 13,200 tpy of ammonium sulphate and
152,000 tpy of TSP. The attainable output would be slightly lower than these
figures assuming no major difficulties are encountered.
2.15      Because of the disappointing performance of the domestic fertilizer
industry and the rapid growth in fertilizer use, imports have increased from
350,000 tons in FY76 to about 614,000 tons in FY79 (Table 5). In FY80, imports
fell to about 580,000 tons compared to imports in FY79 of 614,000 tons. This
decline is attributable to the drought in 1979, the carry-over of inventories,
and improvements in domestic production. To meet the import requirements in
FY80, various agencies (including IDA under the First Fertilizer Import Credit)
have provided funds for a substantial portion of fertilizer imports.



- 10 -
E. National Fertilizer Projections
2.16      Future transport needs will depend mainly on future fertilizer use,
domestic production and importation. Taking into account past fertilizer
use and trends (para 2.01), the new marketing system, subsiAy and credit
trends and the Second Five Year Plan objective of reaching £oodgrain self-
sufficiency, BADC has made fertilizer demand projections until 1984/85.
Fertilizer consumption in 1979/80 of about 830,000 tons was lower than
expected due to the effects of drought and farmer non-liquidity. Consumption
in 1980/81 is planned for 1.12 million tons. This is in accord with the long
range trend in fertilizer consumption since 1966, and the Medium-Term Food
Production Plan input requirements (see para 1.08). For the remainder of the
plan period, 1981/82-1984/85, about 15% growth per year is projected to achieve
a consumption of about 2.0 million tons by 1984/85 (Table 6). It is estimated
that this will permit the achievement of a 6% output growth rate in foodgrain
production projected under the Medium-Term Food Production Plan.
2.17      On the bases of the fertilizer plant improvement programs underway
and the completion of the new Ashuganj facility, domestic fertilizer produc-
tion and import projections have been made (Table 6). No account has been
taken of the proposed fertilizer factory at Chittagong which will not be in
production until late 1985. After 1982/83 with Ashuganj in full production,
Bangladesh's urea requirements should be substantially fulfilled primarily
by domestic production. Fertilizer imports will mainly consist of TSP/DAP
and MP from 1982/83 until 1984/85.
F. Transportation and Storage
2.18      Fertilizer, having a relatively low cost to volume ratio, incurs
high distribution costs compared to the product costs. Marketing and distri-
bution costs are referred to as incidental costs by BADC and have accounted
for an average of about 30% of gross sales costs over the five year period
1973/74-1977/78. Transport and handling costs alone account for about 60%
of BADC's incidental costs. Therefore, it is important that fertilizer
distribution is done in an efficient and cost-effective manner as well as
assuring its availability when needed.
2.19      In 1978/79 considering only the primary fertilizer distribution
system (ports and factories to intermediate warehouses and intermediate to
district warehouses), the inland waterways accounted for about 45% of all
fertilizer movements, roads for about 28% and rail for 27%. About 25% of
the water movement is by the Government-owned BIWTC. In addition, all rail
shipments are undertaken by the public sector (BR). While BADC maintains
a small fleet of about 65 trucks to meet emergencies, almost all truck trans-
portation is undertaken by the private sector. Thus in total nearly 60% of
the primary fertilizer distribution is transported by the private sector.
2.20      In 1978/79 fertilizer transportation was estimated to account for
about 10% of total maritime port traffic, 10% of rail freight and 12% of



- I 1-
inland water cargo, While these percentages do not appear to be high,
fertilizer transport -is third in volume terms after foodgrains and petroleum
products.  Given tne expected growth in fertilizer use, it is likely to be
the second highest volume product transported by 1984/85.
Distribution Plar
2.21      In order to project future transport requirements the national
projections were broken down to the division level (Table 7). An analysis
with the assistance of a computerized linear programming model was then under-
taken to determine the least cost total fertilizer distribution pattern for
the country. The resulting transport pattern by transport mode for 1984/85
is shown in Table 8. Inland water transport is projected to carry 45% of the
primary distribution, rail 27%, and road 28%. In general terms, there are two
major distribution patterns: one for domestically produced urea and another
for imported fertilizer. Urea is distributed from the fertilizer plants
located in the eastern part of the country where the natural gas fields are
found. Fertilizer imports are evenly split; Chittagong serves the eastern
side of the country, while Chalna serves the western side.
2.22      While no major overall change is projected in the proportion of
fertilizer carried by each transport mode (paras 2.19 and 2.21), the proposed
fertilizer distribution plan for 1984/85 has several major changes from the
existing fertilizer distribution system. First, more transport modes would
be utilized from the fertilizer factories. At the Ghorasal factory at present
most fertilizer is moved by inland water into Narayanganj located 40 miles
to the south and then is transhipped by railroad, road and inland water to
district destinations. This pattern results in double handling and there is
considerable congestion in Narayanganj. Under the proposed distribution plan
all three modes of transport (water, rail and road) would be utilized at
Ghorasal in order to make direct shipments--thus avoiding double handling at
Narayanganj. At the Fenchuganj factory, movements to Sylhet would go by the
road which is now being improved. In addition, provisions will be made at
the new factory at Ashuganj to allow direct truck shipments from the factory
to the surrounding region of Comilla.
2.23      A second major change of the new fertilizer distribution plan is
that urea shipments to the northwestern districts of Dinajpur, Rangpur and
Bogra would go via rail. The urea requirement of Northwest (N.W.) Bangladesh
is now being met by BR up to a total of 85,000 tons by using Meter gauge (MG)
and crossing the river through ferry service at Bahadurabad/Tistamukh Ghat.
Any additional urea fertilizer requirement of N.W. Bangladesh has to be met
at present by shipping fertilizer by water to Khulna (in the South) and
shipping it back up to the N.W. region on broad gauge (BG) and then tranship-
ment by MG and truck to destinations. This is a costly and inefficient method
of shipment resulting in not only increasing the movement by over 200 addi-
tional miles, but also results in multiple handling. This pattern is followed
because the railway ferry service at Bahadurabad/Tistamukh Ghat is a serious
bottleneck in the transport system. Under the proposed project (paras 3.15)
measures have been included which would substantially improve the ferry service.
2.24      A third major change of the proposed distribution plan involves
a change in railroad shipments. It is proposed under the new marketing system



- 12 -
that unit train operations be established. At present about 300,000 tons of
fertilizer are shipped by railroad on a wagon-load basis to various destina-
tions, which does not lend itself to potential efficiencies which could be
achieved from planned movement of large scale semi-bulk and bulk commodities.
The present method of transport by rail also severely limits the ability of
BADC to plan, monitor and optimize the inventory levels at the storage facil-
ities. Under the proposed distribution plan an estimated 75% or about 600,000
tons of fertilizer in 1984/85 can be moved in unit or block trains shipments.
For the most part the unit/block train operations will be to destinations in
Northwest and Northern Bangladesh where inland water access is limited.
Storage
2.25      While the major problem has been inadequate supply, the fertilizer
distribution system has also been handicapped by inadequate storage facilities.
The Storage Manager under the General Manager Supply (Chart 21591) is respon-
sible for the repair and maintenance of BADC godowns, the planning, coordinat-
ing and constructing of godowns (determining size, location and type of
facility to be constructed), the maintenance of records regarding storage
space available and details of every godown used for fertilizer. Storage at
both owned and hired godowns is also the responsibility of the Storage Manager.
The physical construction work is monitored by the Construction Division in
the Irrigation Wing.
2.26      Current storage facilities total about 480,000 tons, (155,000 tons
BADC owned, 240,000 tons leased and 85,000 tons factory storage). BADC has
under construction 31 godowns with total capacity of some 50,000 tons, about
half financed with its own funds and the balance under USAID Phase I program.
While the existing capacity of primary distribution points (PDPs) and transit
godowns is 160,000 tons, substantial new capacity in new PDPs is required to
meet the needs of the new marketing system. Accordingly, a National Storage
Plan (NSP) to identify the needs and location of additional storage is being
financed by USAID-Phase II program. USAID is also providing funds for final
engineering and construction of about 170,000 tons of storage identified under
the NSP. This program is scheduled to be completed by 1982. Thus BADC owned
warehouse capacity would amount to about 400,000 tons and the total to some
600,000 tons by 1985.
2.27      At present, it is estimated that a fertilizer inventory equivalent
to about five months consumption is necessary to ensure an adequate and unin-
terrupted supply of fertilizer to the farmers. About half of this is needed
for a minimum operating inventory to ensure availability at the local level,
while the other half acts as buffer against irregularities in the supply and
distribution system. While carrying inventory has related costs, it is less
costly than the loss of production due to fertilizer shortages. However, to
provide stock equivalent to five months of the 1984/85 offtake would require
doubling of the present storage capacity and the cost of maintaining inventory
at that volume would be prohibitive. The rehabilitation of fertilizer plants
under the Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1023-BD) and the
construction of new factories should enhance reliability and increase the
domestic production of urea and TSP. Also, the greater responsibility of
private wholesalers for distribution and improved transport capacity



- 13 -
and logistics to be provided under the proposed Project should result in a
more effective overall distribution plan and inventory management. With the
implementation of all these steps BADC can probably reduce its stock require-
ment. Under the Second Fertilizer Import Project Credit (1044-BD) assurances
have been obtained that BADC will review with IDA by December 31, 1980 the
results of its ongoing study of stock requirements and its proposed policy
for requirements for stocks for each product during the Second Five-Year Plan
Period.
2.28      During the appraisal of the proposed Project, a preliminary version
of the NSP was reviewed with BADC and the consultant, International Engineer-
ing Company (IECO). To take cognizance of the proposed distribution plan and
measures to reduce inventories mentioned above (para 2.27) locations and
capacity originally envisaged for godowns would need to be adjusted under the
NSP. Accordingly, BADC and IECO are taking steps to ensure that the godowns
are appropriately located, but land acquisition in Bangladesh is difficult
and BADC may not always be able to get prime locations. Because of the close
relationship between fertilizer storage and transport, IDA obtained assurance
during negotiations that (a) the NSP would be finalized and furnished to the
Association for comment by January 31, 1981, (b) thereafter and until the
Project is completed, the Government would consult, from time to time, with
IDA concerning future storage investments.
Contracting
2.29      The distribution of fertilizer is accomplished through private
shipping agents, Clearing and Forwarding (C & F) agents and carrying contrac-
tors, all of whom will be referred to in this report as movement contractors.
Movement contractors are generally selected on a competitive basis under
normal public tendering procedures. It is through the terms, conditions
and procedures of the movement contracts that BADC controls movement costs.
Since almost all fertilizer movements are handled by contract the improve-
ment of contracting procedures is essential for developing an effective
distribution plan.
2.30      Within BADC the Movement Manager is responsible for all transporta-
tion of fertilizer (Chart 21591). He liaises with the Sales and Purchases
Divisions and is responsible for the appointment of movement contractors
involved with the transport of fertilizer from ports and factory to interme-
diary godowns. In addition, movement from an intermediary godown in one
district to another district remains the direct responsibility of the Move-
ment Manager. However, the responsibility for movement of fertilizer from
the intermediary godowns within the districts is delegated to the district
managers. Biweekly reports are submitted by all districts indicating stocks
on hand and expected requirements and overall movement is planned at head-
quarters by the Movement Manager. The basic organizational structure is
sound and the movements are being handled satisfactorily given the present
deficiencies with the contracting procedures.
2.31      Some of the major deficiencies in the contracting system have been:
(i) the practice of awarding movement contracts to the lowest bidder even



- 14 -
though the contractor has performed poorly in the past; (ii) the award of a
group of routes to a contractor which contained unrealistically low rates for
some individual routes and excessively high rates for others. As a result
the contractor often refused to carry fertilizer on the unprofitable routes;
(iii) the contractors do not usually have their own means of transportation
and subcontract to transporters. During the period of high transport demand,
contractors are often unable or unwilling to pay higher prices needed to sub-
contract private transporters. As a result shipments are delayed and in some
cases not even made; (iv) BADC often makes advance payments to contractors
for the delivery of fertilizer. In some cases where losses of fertilizer in
transit were excessive, contractors would simply forfeit the deposit bond
money and the money withheld by BADC on contract payments, rather than take
responsibility for transit losses; (v) in other shipment contracts, a fixed
percentage has been allowed for transit losses. As a result, this percentage
has often been accounted for as a loss by the contractor; (vi) considerable
fertilizer loss occurs because hooks are used. Losses start from the damaged
bags at the port until final destination; and (vii) lastly BADC enforcement
of many of the existing contract provisions has been lax with little follow-up
when contract provisions were broken.
2.32      BADC is aware of the problems and has taken several steps to improve
contract procedures: (i) the introduction of an estimated rate system to
eliminate unreasonable low bids; (ii) the establishment of a claims cell to
process pending claims; (iii) the elimination of transit loss allowances to
contractors; (iv) the discontinuation of the practice of making partial or
advance payments; (v) the use of several contractors at main distribution
points to promote competition; and (vi) the introduction of a new system to
make contractors responsible for losses on rail shipments in exchange for
a 20% surcharge on rail rates to be paid to contractors.
2.33      The process of improving contracting procedures is dynamic in that
the experience gained from making changes will have to be evaluated and modi-
fied as appropriate. To further improve contracting procedures agreement in
principle was reached with BADC during appraisal of this project that addi-
tional key contracting procedures would also be implemented. These are: (i)
the start of a pilot project for contracting individual routes during 1980/81
in Comilla and Noakhali districts; (ii) the establishment of formal prequali-
fication procedures for contractors; (iii) the increase in the minimum average
barge and coaster discharge rate and the increase in the demurrage rates; and
(iv) the introduction of long-term barge/coaster hauling contracts. Before
negotiations, BADC had already completed the award of long term barge hauling
contracts to remove product from the new Ashuganj Factory and increased the
minimum average discharge and demurrage rates. During negotiations a time-
table during 1980/81 for the implementation of the other improvements to the
contracting procedures including further increases in discharge and demurrage
rates was discussed and agreed.
2.34      Another important aspect of the BADC distribution system involves
its contractual arrangements for the lifting of fertilizer from the Fertilizer
factories. At present from Ghorasal fertilizer is contracted to be lifted
only by inland water (para 2.22). Under the distribution plan all three modes



- 15 -
would be utilized at both Ghorasal and Ashuganj. To improve lifting proce-
dures, contracts between BADC and various fertilizer production units should
be developed incorporating the following points: (i) provision for lifting
of fertilizer by other modes (trucks and rail) and appropriate arrangements
for extra delivery costs, if necessary; (ii) minimum and maximum delivery
rates by transport mode, penalties/incentives; (iii) minimum and maximum
pick-up rates with corresponding penalties; and (iv) maximum inventory levels
and penalties to be provided if BADC does not lift stipulated quantities.  The
implementation of the provisions of lifting contracts would help ensure smooth
operations, define responsibility and assess penalties in case provisions of
the contract are not met.  GOB has agreed in connection with the Fertilizer
Industry Rehabilitation Project to develop and implement lifting contracts
between BADC and the various fertilizer factories. During the Fertilizer
Transport Negotiations, draft contracts for the lifting of fertilizer from
the factories were discussed and agreed.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.01      In line with Government's desire to improve the availability of
fertilizer to the farmer, a fertilizer marketing and distribution study with
IDA financing (Technical Assistance Credit 409-BD) was undertaken in 1978.
This study, which reviewed the status of the fertilizer subsector and proposed
actions for its improvement, has provided the basic framework for the proposed
project. Additional information was gathered on the sector which further iden-
tified the needs for a Fertilizer Transport Project, during the preparation
of two fertilizer import credits and a fertilizer rehabilitation project.
3.02      The overall objectives of the Project are (i) to improve the
availability of fertilizer to farmers by expediting fertilizer handling and
distribution and (ii) to reduce the cost of fertilizer distribution. Other
objectives are to increase the efficiency and capacity of the transport sector
and to encourage private sector participation in fertilizer distribution and
transport. The fertilizer transport project proposes to achieve these
objectives by:
(a) Rationalizing BADC's current distribution system, i.e. the
reduction of transshipments, better handling and the use of
more transport modes from the factories (para 2.21-2.24).
(b)   Improving transport handling contracting procedures which
will allow more competition and provide lower cost and more
dependable service (para 2.29-2.34); and
(c) Removing major physical bottlenecks in the fertilizer
distribution system.



- 16 -
Since the movement of fertilizer is interrelated with the movement of other
products, most of the Project components will directly or indirectly improve
the transportation system in general.
B. Description
3.03      Briefly outlined physical components of the project include (see Map
IBRD 14885):
(a) Port improvements--landing and storage facilities at Baghabari
and Shiromoni, channel dredging at Chittagong and engineering
studies for bulk handling facilities at Chalna; and
(b) Unit/block train operations--rehabilitation of railroad wagons,
improvement of a rail wagon ferry service, improvement of rail-
road sidings, establishment of a small fertilizer operations
control center and the construction of warehouses.
Preparatory work on the project has also highlighted the need to provide suffi-
cient foreign exchange funds to the private sector for the financing of trucks
and barges/coasters. This would enable the private sector to procure sufficient
spares and transport equipment to fulfill the transport needs projected under
the proposed distribution plan (para 2.21). Financing for this purpose is
included under IDA's Third Small Scale Industries Project (approved in September
1980) and additional financing is expected to be included in the proposed
Shilpa Bank Project which was appraised in August 1980.
Port Improvements
3.04      The following port improvements were based on a detailed analysis of
the BADC national fertilizer distribution plan (paras 2.21-2.24).
3.05      Establishment of an Inland Port at Baghabari, Pabna District:  The
port of Baghabari will become the fertilizer supply center for the Pabna and
southern Bogra districts, (see Map IBRD 12279R1), and could serve as a transit
center for the northwestern regions of the country in an emergency if railway
wagons were not available. In addition to fertilizer, other dry cargo traffic
such as foodgrains and cement will be able to utilize the proposed port. The
need for a river port resulted in a study being commissioned in 1970 which
reviewed nine alternative sites. In 1978 after successful dredging of the
approach channel from the Jamuna River, the development of a river port at
Baghabari was found to be the least cost alternative. An oil tank and jetty
facility has already been developed at the site and BIWTA has acquired about
40 acres of land for future development (Map IBRD 15043).
3.06      The Baghabari Port component includes the reclamation of the entire
site. Dredging and landfilling on an area of about 26 acres for immediate
development was completed during July 1980. Provisions will be made for the
acquisition of two cargo pontoons and access gangways, construction of transit
storage, access roads and offices and the installation of esential services.



- 17 -
In addition, the remaining 14 acres will be filled to allow for future dev-
elopment. Specifically for the fertilizer distribution, BADC has made an
arrangement to lease an area of about 2 acres from BIWTA to construct a
fertilizer godown with a capacity of about 4,000 tons.
3.07      Development of the Existing Fertilizer Depot at Shiromoni, Khulna
District: Shiromoni will become the dispatch center for unit/block trains of
imported fertilizer on the broad gauge system to the northwestern districts
and will become the most important transit storage center in the fertilizer
distribution system. A five acre site is presently owned by BADC on the
Bhairab River, approximately 10 miles north of Khulna, which has a warehouse
for about 8,000 tons of fertilizer (see Map IBRD 15044). Presently, access
to the facility is available over bamboo "jetties" and from the Khulna/Jessore
Road about a half mile to the west. The nearest railroad link is at Shiromoni
station about 1 mile to the west.
3.08      Under the project, it is intended to add a further 14,000 tons of
storage and to provide 2 pontoons with access ramps to enable some 1,500 tons
of fertilizer per day to be off-loaded. Also, a railroad spur from Shiromoni
will be constructed for loading of unit/block trains consisting of 50/60 wagons
for direct dispatch to the north. In addition, included in this component
will be access roads and parking area for truck dispatch and other ancillary
facilities.
3.09      Test Dredging of the Karnafuli River at Chittagong:  As indicated
by the fertilizer distribution plan in 1984/85 approximately 1 million tons
of fertilizer, mainly TSP, DAP and MP will be imported. About half of this
tonnage will come through Chittagong and the balance imported through Chalna.
Besides fertilizer imports, over 1 million tons of crude oil and nearly 1 mil-
lion tons of foodgrains are imported at the Chittagong Port annually. Most
of these products are presently lightered at the port of Chittagong because
the outer bar at the mouth of the river, caused by desposition of littoral
drift up the coast, is the controlling depth for ships entering the port with
about 18 ft at low water. Even with high tide, which has an average range
of about eight ft, the maximum cargo which a ship can bring into the port is
about 12,000 tons. In addition to the outer bar, the length of ships entering
the port is restricted to 600 ft maximum at the Gupta Bend.
3.10      Government with assistance from the Netherlands has undertaken
feasibility studies for the location of a deep water port which indicate that
despite the present draft limitations, Patenga at the mouth of the Karnafuli
River could be the most feasible site. However, the critical factor for any
development scheme for extended use of the existing port, is the depth of
the water at the outer bar and the extent to which it could be deepened and
economically maintained. Under the Project, it is proposed to carry out test
dredging at the outer bar to 30 ft below chart datum, and at the inner bar
to 23 ft. below chart datum, and to widen and deepen slightly the Gupta Bend
(Map IBRD 15042). The rest of the channel would be dredged where necessary
so that ships could enter the port with an allowable draft of 30 ft during
most (85%) of the high tides and reduce the need for lighterage. The test
dredging would be undertaken over a period of approximately 12 months so as



* 18 -
to monitor the rate of siltation so that optimum depth can be evaluated and
likely maintenance cost ascertained. In addition, supervision services and
training of CPA dredging crews and hydrographic staff will be included as
part of the project.
Studies for Bulk Fertilizer Handling Facilities at Chalna
3.11      To reduce shipping and handling costs, efforts are to be made to
convert the importation of fertilizer from bagged cargo to bulk. Investments
to permit bulk fertilizer handling at Chittagong Port are being financed
through an IFAD fertilizer sector loan under IDA supervision. At Chalna,
the country's other main port, fertilizer ships arrive at the anchorage via
the Pussur River and discharge fertilizer into lighters. By 1984/85 the
national fertilizer distribution plan indicates that over 500,000 tons could
be imported at Chalna. New berths have recently been completed at Chalna and
it is intended to utilize one berth for unloading fertilizer in bulk for bag-
ging ashore since this could provide a more efficient and less costly means
of unloading. Distribution upcountry would be undertaken from Chalna by
barge to Shiromoni, and by truck (for direct distribution) when the new ADB-
financed road between Chalna port and Khulna has been completed. However,
as with Chittagong, there are present limitations on ship sizes which can
enter the Pussur River due to sandbars at the mouth, where the limiting depth
is about 18 feet at low water. More importantly, at the new berths, the depth
alongside is limited to between 18 and 22 feet at low water because of silta-
tion. An IDA-financed study (Third Technical Assistance Credit 872-BD) is
presently reviewing the condition of the Pussur River to ascertain the likely
depths to which the river can be maintained and a report is expected by
December 1980.
3.12      Provided that the siltation problem does not become worse, the port
still could be used to unload fertilizer in bulk since ships could be light-
ened first at Chittagong and then sent to Chalna, as is currently being done.
Studies have been undertaken for the construction of a bulk fertilizer hand-
ling facility, but given the high costs of the recommended solution and the
siltation risk, Government has postponed making an investment decision until
more information is obtained. Under the Fertilizer Transport Project, funds
are provided to investigate various lower cost methods for bulk unloading of
fertilizer taking into account the results of the hydrological studies (para
3.11). In addition, financing will be included for final engineering studies
in case a facility is warranted.
Unit/Block Train Operations
3.13      The establishment of unit/block train operations for the movement of
fertilizer will provide a more reliable freight service to BADC while allowing
better utilization of BR's motive power and rolling stock. The proposed trains
will operate with dedicated rolling stock on both broad and meter gauge from
the fertilizer factories and ports to principal storage facilities in Northern



- 19 -
Bangladesh. 1/ To make the unit/block operations a viable concept, the
Project includes the rehabilitation of freight wagons, the improvement of
the rail ferry service, the addition or extension of key rail sidings and
the establishment of an operating control center and the construction of
storage facilities.
3.14      Wagon Rehabilitation and Workshop Improvements:  As part of estab-
lishing unit/block trains, under the project, about 600 freight wagons 2/
(225BG and 375MG) are to be rehabilitated at BR's Saidpur workshop for the
exclusive use of fertilizer transport. These wagons will be drawn from
BR's fleet of unserviceable wagons which at present number about 2,000. The
Project is intended to ensure rehabilitation of the fertilizer wagons without
interfering with BR's normal wagon rehabilitation program. Therefore, proce-
dures and machines at the Saidpur workshop were examined and evaluated and a
number of bottlenecks identified. Under the Project, a number of machine
tools will be provided to remove the identified bottlenecks and increase the
production rate for wagon rehabilitation to cope with the small additional
work on fertilizer wagons.
3.15      Rail Wagon Ferry Improvements:  The wagon ferry service at
Bahadurabad-Tistamukh Ghat has been operating for more than half a century.
Until recent years, it was a dependable operation transfering over 300 wagons
per day (both ways). However, since independence, the ferry crossing, plagued
with various problems, has become one of the most severe transportation bottle-
necks in the system. The number of wagons crossing per day has dropped to
about 120, reducing BR's freight carrying capacity and adversely affecting
rolling stock utilization. As a result, for example, fertilizer from the
Ghorasal factory headed for the northwest is transported considerably longer
distances by barge and rail at a much higher cost in order to avoid the rail
freight ferry bottleneck (para 2.23).
3.16      Under the project, assistance will be provided to improve the ferry
crossing's output and service reliability:
1/   The unit/block train origins and destination are:
Broad Gauge              Meter Gauge
Origins:          Shiromoni                 Ghorasal
Ashuganj
Destinations:    1.  Ishurdi/Muladuli    1.  Kirshoreganj
2.  Nator                2.  Mymensingh/Shumbuganj
3.  Rajshahi             3.  Jamalpur
4.  Santahar             4.  Gaibandah
5.  Joypurhat            5.  Rangpur
6.  Parbatipur           6.  Parbatipur
7.  Saidpur              7.  Dinajpur
8. Bogra
9. Santahar
2/   Four-wheelers.



- 20 -
(a)  Out of the five wagon barges, owned by BR, only three are in
operation. One which is not in service has been under repair
for two years but is soon to be completed. Under the proposed
project the other barge, which was damaged during the war of
independence, will be rehabilitated and converted into a main-
cenance workshop (para 3.16(c)). A new barge will be procured
to provide the necessary reserve capacity for a smooth
operation;
(b)  The most efficient ferry operation can be conducted by having
two tugs but at present, there is only one operational tug.
In 1974, a second tug was purchased for the ferry operation.
However, this tug (M. T. Ishakhan) was not only underpowered
(1,000 hp) for the task, but it developed a considerable number
of mechanical problems. Subsequently, modifications rendered
this tug unsuitable for the freight ferry crossing. Under the
project, it is intended to re-engine (1,500 hp) and rehabili-
tate M. T. Ishakhan so that it is suitable for rail ferry work;
(c)  At present, there are no facilities for proper inspection,
maintenance and repair of the marine equipment at the ferry
crossing. Provision will be made for establishment of a small
floating workshop at the ferry crossing for inspection and
minor repairs to the marine equipment, and other equipment.
A barge (WFBT), which was damaged during the war of indepen-
dence, will be rehabilitated for this purpose;
(d)  Present communications across the ferry are unreliable and
do not connect with the ferry wagon holding yards. A number
of VHF radio sets will be provided to improve communication
between the ferry crossing and the wagon holding yards
(Bonapara and Dewanganj Bazar); and
(e)  Provision will be made for a number of prefabricated structures
for storing equipment for civil works and marine inventories
and staff housing; six tank wagons will be rehabilitated for
fuel storage.
3.17      Rail Siding Improvement:  In order to accommodate the loading of a
unit or block train of fertilizer, provision is made under the project for
construction or lengthening of rail sidings to accommodate 60 wagons at origin
stations. The longer sidings at the origin stations will reduce the need for
shunting. In addition to track construction at Shiromoni (para 3.08), other
track work consists of the construction of two new tracks at Ghorasal, and
one at Ashuganj fertilizer factories. Rail sidings are also included as part
of the fertilizer storage facilities at Rajshahi and Natore (para 3.19).
3.18      Operating Control Center:  In order to ensure proper coordination
and control of the rail operations, an Operations Control Cell (OCC) will be
established. OCC will be manned around the clock, if necessary, by officers
and staff from BADC and BR. OCC will coordinate movement of fertilizer on
rail with BADC's Movement Manager. To facilitate such coordination, under



- 21 -
this project component provision would be made for communication equipment
between BADC and fertilizer factories, ports and major distribution warehouses
where the unit/block train will operate.
Additional Storage Facilities
3.19      The National Storage Plan now being finalized takes into account the
most economic means of fertilizer distribution. To the maximum extent feasible,
water and railroad transport to the primary warehouses is being emphasized.
This will require the construction of primary storage facilities at the terminal
points such as Baghabari and Shirimoni as described above (para 3.05 and 3.07).
Additional storage totalling about 14,000 tons is also included in the project
for Rajshahi and Natore. Both of these proposed sites located in northwestern
Bangladesh are main distribution points on the proposed unit/block train system
and will serve as PDP (para 2.06) as well as transit storage for shipment by
road to other storage points. Included with the additional storage would be
the funds for the construction supervision at Rajshahi and Natore as well as
at Baghabari and Shirimoni. Also provision in the project is being made for
technical support to assist in the improvement of the management and inventory
control at BADC fertilizer warehouses.
C. Cost Estimates
3.20      The total cost of the Project including taxes and duties is estimated
at US$40.8 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$20.0
million equivalent (49%). Taxes and duties are estimated to be about US$6.9
million equivalent or about 17% of the total project costs. A summary of the
Project cost estimates is presented on the following page. Detailed estimated
costs by year are given in Table 9 and more cost details are given in Tables
10 to 13.
3.21      The cost of civil works is based on final engineering.  Estimates
for equipment are based on recent prices for similar items and for Technical
Assistance on recent proposals under similar circumstances. The total cost
of providing 150 man-months of technical assistance for initiating unit train
operations, OCC telecommunication installations, dredging supervision, bulk
handling facilities studies at the port of Chalna warehouse construction super-
vision and warehouse management and inventory control is estimated to be about
US$2,000,000. The average man-month cost including salary costs, fees, inter-
national travel and subsistence would be about US$9,500. A physical contingency
of 5% has been added on equipment and warehouse construction and 10% on other
items except land acquisition at Baghabari. For price increases on foreign
exchange items an annual increase of 10.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981, 8% in 1982 and
7% in 1983 were allowed. On local costs, a flat 10% increase has been allowed.



- 22 -
Project Cost Estimates
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
---Takas Million--         ------ US$ Million------
Port Improvements
Baghabari                   29.01      21.55    50.56    1.87       1.39      3.26
Shiromani                   53.98      34.75    88.73    3.48       2.24      5.72
Chittagong                   12.53     71.01    83.54    0.81       4.58      5.39
Chalna                        1.20      4.80      6.00    0.08      0.31      0.39
Unit/Block Trains
Wagon Rehabilitation        45.02      31.30    76.32    2.90       2.02      4.92
Wagon Ferry                 34.36      30.06    64.42    2.22       1.94      4.16
Railroad Spurs and Sidings  8.86        2.70    11.56    0.57       0.17      0.75
Control Center                7.12      5.15    12.27    0.46       0.33      0.79
Additional Storage           52.08     30.41    82.49    3.36       1.96      5.32
Contingencies
Physical                     17.60     24.61    42.21    1.14       1.59      2.72
Price                       60.64      52.99   113.62    3.91       3.42      7.33
Grand Total           322.39    309.34   631.73   20.80    19.96    40.76
Rounding off error may occur in totals
D. Financing
3.22      The proposed IDA credit of US$25 million would finance about 61%
of the total cost (about 74% excluding taxes and duties). The credit would,
therefore, cover all foreign exchange costs plus about US$5.0 million equiv-
alent of local costs. Included in this amount is US$0.5 million for retro-
active financing for the land fill works at the port of Baghabari. This has
allowed the implementation period for Baghabari to be shortened since before
any construction can take place, the landfill has to settle for six to eight
months. The remaining project costs which would amount to about US$15.8 mil-
lion equivalent (including US$6.9 million for taxes and duties) would be met
by the Government. Approval by cost financing will be made available in a
timely manner. Approval by GOB of the Project Proformas 1/ required to
authorize the Government contribution to the project will be a condition
of effectiveness of the credit.
3.23      The portion of the credit allocated to BR (US$6.8 million equivalent,
excluding the unallocated contingency provision), CPA (US$5.9 million) and BADC
1/   An internal GOB document authorizing expenditure and staffing for a
project.



- 23 -
(US$9.6 million) 1/ will be onlent to these agencies on IDA terms. The portion
of the Credit allocated to BIWTA (US$1.4 million) will be provided as a grant.
This is acceptable given (a) the experimental nature of the dredging program
to be financed for CPA; (b) the nature of the proposed railway financing which
is primarily intended to improve services provided to BADC for fertilizer dis-
tribution; and (c) the dependence of BADC and BIWTA upon annual GOB budgetary
allocations for carrying out their programs. The completion of project financ-
ing arrangement acceptable to IDA will be a condition of credit effectiveness.
E. Implementation
3.24      The project will be under the responsibility of the Ministries of
Ports, Shipping and Inland Water Transport (MPSI), Railways, Roads, Highways
and Road Transport (MRRIiRT), Industry (MI) and Agriculture (MA). Within these
various Ministries, project execution will be undertaken by the agency directly
involved with each component as indicated below. Each agency will appoint a
project manager and project implementation units will be established in BADC
and BR. The proposed timing for implementation of the various project compo-
nents is shown in Chart 3.
3.25      Project coordination and monitoring will be undertaken by a com-
mittee formed by representatives from each of the involved agencies. This
committee was established for the preparation of the project and is headed by
the Chairman of BADC. A small project cell will be established by BADC to
undertake the day-to-day coordination and monitoring of the project. The
details of the project coordination and monitoring arrangements were discussed
and agreed during negotiations.
Port Improvements
3.26      Baghabari:  BIWTA will be responsible for all port improvements
except for BADC storage facilities at Baghabari. BIWTA has constructed bund
walls to contain the landfill, and dredging and reclamation for the first
phase (26 acres) using BIWTA dredgers was completed in July 1980. Once the
landfill has settled (6 to 8 months), the civil works, which will be contrac-
ted, can be undertaken simultaneously for both BIWTA and BADC. Dredging and
landfilling on the second phase (14 acres) will start in December 1980.
3.27      Shiromoni:  BADC will be responsible for the implementation of the
improvements at Shiromoni other than the rail connection to be undertaken by
BR. The construction would be done by local contractors. 2/ Since there is
already an existing storage facility in operation, construction of new facil-
ities will be carefully planned and implemented to ensure that the flow of
1/   This includes about US$2.2 million for railway sidings to be constructed
by BR.
2/   If the tender for this work occurs at the same time as tenders for other
USAID financed storage facilities, an international contractor may be
interested in this work.



- 24 -
fertilizer is unimpeded. Initial emphasis will be placed on the provision
of the railroad siding and river unloading pontoons since these facilities
do not exist.
3.28      Chittagong:  CPA will be responsible for the dredging at Chittagong.
Bidding dociments have been prepared and are now being reviewed by IDA. Pre-
qualification procedures of contractors have already been initiated and will
be finalized in October.  Bids are expected to be received and evaluated
during January/February. If no delays take place in the award of a contract,
it may be possible to start dredging the outer bar in March 1981 before the
monsoon season. However, the schedule for the award of a contract is extremely
tight and in order not to endanger the validity of the test dredging it will
probably be necessary to delay the start of the test dredging until late 1981.
The dredging trails are expected to cover a 12-month period. An early deci-
sion concerning future maintenance dredging will need to be made to enable
the necessary future allocation of funds for the procurement of a dredger.
An option clause for maintenance dredging will be included in the contract
to cover the interim period between the test dredging and the procurement
of a dredger. Additional financing for this two year option period can be
considered under the proposed Chittagong port project which is now under prep-
aration. The dredging will need to be carefully monitored and supervision
and analysis of the test dredging will be undertaken by consultants and
technical specialists. During negotiations it was discussed and agreed that
CPA would report the results of the test dredging and propose a program for
maintenance of the channel within seven months following the completion of
the initial dredging.
3.29      Chalna:  BADC in consultation with the Port of Chalna Authority
(PCA) will commission studies for the bulk fertilizer handling facility.
Agreement has already been reached between BADC and PCA that the facility
will be located at berth No. 9. The first phase of the study, which should
commence as soon as results are available from the hydrological studies,
would consist of an evaluation of various alternative methods of handling
fertilizer. The second phase would include final engineering for the
selected alternative if it is deemed to be appropriate.
Unit/Block Train Operations
3.30      BR, through the already established project implementation unit,
is responsible for the implementation of the unit/block train operations.
The project implementation unit will be staffed by competent railway officers.
To ensure and expedite implementation, except for wagon rehabilitation, each
project sub-component includes outside technical assistance to augment the
project implementation unit in design, tender document preparation, bid
evaluation and execution. For wagon rehabilitation sub-component, the project
implementation unit will be assisted by a team of expatriate consultants at
Saidpur workshop under an on-going railway technical assistance project. A
letter of understanding which contains the most salient points concerning the
unit/block train operations has been exchanged between BR and BADC. During
negotiations it was discussed and agreed that, in order to finalize the
details concerning the schedules, services, performance goals and related
operating costs, trial unit/block train operations from the Ghorasal or



- 25 -
Ashuganj factory will be initiated by August 31, 1981. About 6 man-months
of technical assistance will be provided in order to assist in the initiation
of the trial runs and to finalize contractual arrangements for the unit/block
train operations. A contract between BADC and BR covering the arrangements
for unit/block operations would be completed by October 31, 1981.
3.31      Wagon Rehabilitation:  The wagon rehabilitation will take place
at the Saidpur workshop and is expected to be carried out at an average rate
of 30 units per month beginning in June 1981.  So as not to delay work, BR
will provide necessary materials which will later be replaced under the
credit. BR is to ensure that no less than 85% availability of this fleet is
maintained. In addition, the unit/block trains are to be operated with full
vacuum brakes and BADC should take steps for the security of the dedicated
wagons. During negotiations IDA obtained assurances that the wagons rehabili-
tated under the Project would be exclusively for the operation of unit/block
trains for fertilizer distribution.
3.32      Rail Wagon Ferry Service:  BR will undertake the implementation
of the ferry improvements. BR is to take necessary action for improving the
maintenance and coordination of the ferry operation. Consolidating management
and/or providing clearly defined responsibility for the operational control
of the rail, marine, civil works and maintenance of the ferry operations from
Dewanganj Bazar to Bonapara is the first step towards such improvement.
During negotiations it was discussed and agreed that BR will review and make
recommendations for the improvement of the management structure of ferry
before March 31, 1981 and put into effect appropriate recommendations before
September 30, 1981. Also, in order to provide proper and adequate equipment
for the crossing operation, BR will need to replace the present steam shunters
with newly arrived diesel shunters by December 31, 1981.
3.33      Rail Siding Improvements:  Land acquisition and/or right-of-way
permission procedures have already been initiated by BADC and BR. The pro-
curement and laying of the track will be undertaken by BR under an agreement
between BADC and BR.  BR will provide necessary materials which will later
be replaced under the credit so as not to delay the work. At Ghorasal and
Ashuganj, work is planned to start in January 1981 and be completed by
December 1981.
3.34      Operating Control Center:  To ensure the proper functioning of the
OCC, ample and reliable telecommunication should be provided. To this end,
TTB will rent the necessary channels for use by the OCC. During negotiations,
IDA obtained assurances that BTT will rent, operate and maintain the necessary
communication channels and allow BADC/BR to provide its own special user equip-
ment for the OCC. The OCC will be located at BR's Dacca Division headquarters.
A memorandum of understanding between BADC, BR and TTB indicating major areas
of responsibilities has been signed.
3.35      Additional Storage Facilities:  BADC will be responsible for the
construction of fertilizer storage facilities at Rajshahi and Natore. The
prequalification process for local contractors for these facilities as well
as Baghabari and Shirimoni has already started. The facilities are planned
to be constructed over a two and half year period with full scale construction



- 26 -
starting during the 1981/82 dry season. Consultants for the construction
supervision are to be appointed by the end of January 1981. For the con-
struction of the railroad sidings/spurs, BADC has made arrangements for BR
to carryout the work. BADC would be responsible for the contracting of
consultants to provide assistance to improve warehouse management and inven-
tory control. The consultants are expected to start work in April 1981 and
provide about eight man-months of professional services and craining.
F. Procurement
3.36      Port Improvements:  All civil works for port improvements except
for Chittagong and the land reclamation works at Baghabari will be carried out
by local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures which have been reviewed and are
acceptable to IDA. The works are small and spread out and would not be of
interest to international contractors. The land reclamation at Baghabari is
being undertaken by force account utilizing BIWTA's dredgers. At Shiromoni
civil works and construction of the pontoons will be tendered according to
LCB procedures (para 3.27). The procurement of material handling equipment
would be by international competitive bidding (ICB). At Chittagong the test
dredging would be awarded according to ICB procedures.
3.37      Unit/Block Trains:  The rehabilitation of the railroad wagons would
be undertaken by BR under force account since BR is the only organization
doing this type of work. Materials and workshop equipment procurement for
the rehabilitation of the wagons would be in accordance with ICB procedures.
The contract for the construction of a new ferry wagon barge would be by ICB.
The rehabilitation of the existing ferry barge into a workshop barge would be
awarded in accordance with LCB procedures because it would be impractical to
transport the barge outside the country for conversion, and equipment would be
procured by ICB. The rehabilitation services for the tug would be done under
single source procurement with the original manufacturer. Telecommunications
equipment (US$75,000) for the ferry crossing would be procured through nego-
tiated contract with a supplier of similar equipment to BR to ensure equipment
compatibility and ease of maintenance. Telecommunications equipment for the
operating control center and BADC would be procured by ICB. BADC would
arrange for construction of railroad sidings/spurs by BR who would undertake
the work departmentally. In some cases, however, the construction of the
embankment for new sidings may be undertaken by subcontractors to BR.
3.38      Of the total project costs, based on the above, about US$13 million
equivalent would be procured under ICB, and US$20.7 million under LCB.  Force
account or departmental work would amount to about US$2.0 million and the
remainder (about US$5 million) would be for proprietary items, consultant
services and contingencies. IDA will review the invitation to bid and pro-
posed awards and final contracts for civil works estimated to cost US$200,000
equivalent and for all other goods estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or
more. Also, equipment, materials, spare parts and tools with unit prices not
exceeding the equivalent of US$25,000 may be procured in accordance with GOB's
procurement procedures which are satisfactory to the Association, provided
that the aggregate expenditure of items so procured does not exceed the
equivalent of US$300,000. Technical assistance would be provided by qualified



- 27 -
and experienced consultants and experts on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Association.
G. Disbursements and Audits
3.39      The following disbursement arrangements were disenuased and agreed
with GOB during negotiation:
(a) For civil works which are contracted:
(i) Dredging at Chittagong: 100% of foreign expenditures;
(ii) Others: 100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local
expenditures.
(b) For civil works executed under force account. 55% of expen-
ditures; disbursement for these works will be made against
a certified statement of expenditure, the documentation for
which is not submitted for review, but is retained by the
Borrower and available for inspection by the Bank during
the course of a Project supervision mission.
(c) For the rehabilitation of barge and tug: 100% of foreign
expenditures and 50% of local expenditures.
(d) For equipment, spare parts and materials: 100% of foreign
expenditures or 100% of local expenditures (ex factory cost)
for locally manufactured goods; and 50% of local expendi-
tures for other goods procured locally (off the shelf); and
(e) For consultant services and specialists: 100% of expenditures.
All disbursements will be fully documented. Based on the above and on the
implementation schedule (Chart 3), the schedule of disbursement (Table 14)
has been prepared.
3.40      In general, the accounting and audit systems of the various agencies
involved with the project are weak, but assistance with IDA financing is under-
way to improve their accounting and management information systems. BADC's
accounting system is deficient and accounts preparation for a number of prior
years are in arrears. Under the Third Technical Assistance Credit (872-BD)
consultants have started work to improve BADC's accounting and management
information systems. Under the current Second Inland Water Transport Project
(Credit 735-BD), BIWTA's Accounting and Management Information Systems Study
has been completed and is in the process of being implemented and BIWTA is
required to submit audited accounts within 6 months after the end of the
financial year. Under the Second and Third Technical Assistance Credits (622-
BD and 872-BD), a Chittagong Port Study is underway including provision for
improvement of the accounting and tariff systems. Currently, a number of
aid agencies have been involved with BR and ADB is actively pursuing improve-
ment of BR's finances, management and operations.



- 28 -
R. Environmental Effects
3.41      The project is not expected to have detrimental effects on the
environment and it should improve the availability of fertilizer and other
transport services. Except for the development of Baghabari port and the
dredging at Chittagong the improvements contemplated under the project take
place on or within existing facilities. Since the dredging of the Karnafuli
river could have significant environmental effects on its regime, only test
dredging has been proposed so that the deepening can take place in a gradual
manner with close supervision and monitoring.
I. Monitoring
3.42      During the implementation of the project quarterly reports outlining
the progress and problems encountered will be submitted to IDA. In addition,
the Government will prepare a completion report within six months after the
closing of the project. Details of the project monitoring and reporting were
discussed and agreed during negotiations.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.01      The project would help meet the demand for fertilizer by improving
the distribution system and thereby increase foodgrain and other agricultural
production. It would thus contribute towards meeting the national objectives
of foodgrain self-sufficiency and create employment in rural areas. The
return on supplying fertilizer to the farmer is substantial in that one ton of
fertilizer is conservatively estimated to increase production of foodgrain by
three to five tons, while the cost of one ton of fertilizer is roughly the
same as that of one ton of wheat and 40% that of one ton of rice.
4.02      The proposed fertilizer transport project would expedite fertilizer
movements and increase the efficiency and capacity of the transport sector.
Direct benefits from the proposed project would accrue mainly in the form of
transport and handling cost savings. Additional benefits would accrue in
terms of increased reliability of fertilizer supplies and in a relative reduc-
tion of storage facilities and buffer stocks for a given level of fertilizer
demand as compared with the situation without the project.
4.03      The benefits from the proposed project would be widely distributed.
The increased use of fertilizer which the project would facilitate would
benefit all sizes of farms and increased production would tend to lower
foodgrain cost to the population of Bangladesh. Increased availability of
fertilizer usually benefits the small farmer as it helps maintain a low price
and discourages black marketing. More specifically, BADC would be a direct



- 29 -
beneficiary of most of the reduction in distribution cost since they are
responsible for the primary distribution of fertilizer. These savings in turn
would revert back to the Government resulting in a lower fertilizer subsidy.
Fertilizer consumers would benefit by the increased availability and reliabil-
ity of stocks. Bangladesh Railways would also be a direct beneficiary of the
project ii. that the unit train operation would reduce cost and increase the
capacity of the railroads to carry other products. Since private transporta-
tion would be encouraged particularly in fertilizer movement by truck and
barge, the private transport sector would also be a beneficiary.
4.04      Economic evaluations have been undertaken separately for the main
subcomponents of port improvements, and unit/block trains operations. Where
appropriate, benefits to other traffic besides that of fertilizer have been
included. Details of the calculations of benefits and cost can be found in
the consultants' reports and in the project file. A weighted average, rate
of return (ER) of about 33% for the entire project is estimated based on an
evaluation of about 96% of project cost for which benefits have been quanti-
fied. The returns on the individual components are high due to the debottle-
necking nature of the investments. If the project is delayed by one year in
its implementation, the rate of return would drop to about 27% because of the
opportunity cost of benefits foregone.
B. Port Improvements
4.05      Since fertilizer is a bulk/semi-bulk material (in bags) with future
volume projected to reach two million tons by 1985, water transport will play
a major role in its distribution. The port improvements proposed under the
project include landing and storage facilities at Baghabari and Shiromoni, and
channel dredging at Chittagong. Except for Shiromoni which will be owned and
operated by BADC, the port improvements will directly benefit the movement of
other commodities as well as fertilizer.
Baghabari
4.06      The port of Baghabari will become the fertilizer supply center
for the Eastern Pabna and Southern Bogra districts. Already the port is the
distribution center for oil products and with the development of dry cargo
facilities, other products such as foodgrains and cement for the surrounding
regions will be handled at the port. Equally important is that the port could
serve as a transit center for the northwestern region of the country in case
of emergency, if the railway capacity were exceeded.
4.07      Benefits from the development of the port have mainly been measured
in terms of transport savings without and with the port. Without the port
both fertilizer and foodgrains going into the port's hinterland must be shipped
in a roundabout method through the Khulna/Shiromoni area. With the port, direct
waterway shipments to and from Dacca and the fertilizer plants to the east are
possible most of the year round. The traffic forecasts, calculation of saving
and economic evaluation are shown on Table 15. The ER for the port has been
estimated to be 37%. However, as is the case with any port accurate traffic



- 30 -
projections are difficult to determine and there are risks that siltation
could take place at the port or in the river channel. In addition strong
currents during the monsoon season and low water levels during the dry season
could increase transportation cost by requiring additional towing power in
the former case and reducing the effective cargo carried or vessel size in
the latter case. In a sensitivity analysis assuming that traffic was 20%
lower than projected and costs were 20% higher, the ER would still be 27%.
If implementation is delayed by one year, the ER would be 31%.
Shiromoni
4.08       Shiromoni will become the most important transit station in the
fertilizer distribution system, accommodating fertilizer movement by river,
rail and road. The facility will be the dispatch center for the unit/block
trains on the broad gauge system to the northern districts, particularly for
imported fertilizers. By 1985 it is estimated that about 400,000 tons of
fertilizer will be moved through Shiromoni. With the improvement of the
Shiromoni facility, the handling costs of transhipments will be reduced since
congestion at the public port (Roosevelt jetty) will be reduced and handling
costs will be reduced. In addition, the construction of other port facilities
will be avoided.
4.09      Comparing the without and with situation the proposed port improve-
ments at Shiromoni are estimated to have an economic rate of return of 50%
(Table 16). Only minimal risks are considered to be involved in this project.
The river is considered to be quite stable and problems with siltation are
not expected. Even if benefits are reduced by 20% and costs increased by
20% the ER is estimated to remain quite high at 26%. A year's delay in
project implementation would cause the ER to decline from 50% to 41%.
Chittagong
4.10      Dredging of the access channel to Chittagong to an additional 4
to 5 ft depth would allow ships to enter the port with larger cargoes (about
18,000 tons) compared to the present maximum of about 12,000 tons. The
deeper channel would thus reduce lightering and delays. Besides fertilizer
imports which are projected to grow rapidly, substantial savings could be
realized from the reduction of lightering of foodgrains, crude oil, and other
oil products. In addition, dredging would provide valuable data on the regime
of the Karnafuli River which is essential for further port planning and
development.
4.11      The economic analysis was performed on the assumption that the
proposed test would prove that dredging is feasible and that a dredger would
be purchased a year after the initial trials. Based on the expected volume of
maintenance dredging, the component is estimated to yield an ER of 23% (Table
17). The main risk in the project is that rapid siltation of the dredged
channel could take place and that the maintenance cost would exceed the bene-
fits obtained from reduced lightering of cargo. Even if dredging maintenance
costs increased 100% over the expected estimates, the ER would still be 13%.
In addition, there is a risk that import and export patterns could change from



- 31 -
those projected in the analysis. This is not considered to be a great risk
because of the conservative nature of the traffic projections and the likeli-
hood that changes in the individual products will not significantly affect
total imports and exports. With a 20% increase in costs and a 20% decline
in benefits, the ER is still acceptable at 12%. If implementation of this
component is delayed by one year, the ER would be 19%.
C. Unit/Block Trains
4.12      The analysis of unit/block trains was divided into two parts, unit/
block trains operation and the wagon ferry service. This was done since unit/
block trains could operate in some parts of the country even if the wagon
ferry service were not improved. In addition, a separate analysis has been
included for the additional storage facilities at Rajshahi and Natore.
Unit/Block Train Operation
4.13      The establishment of unit/block trains for fertilizer movement will
increase the railroad capacity and reduce total fertilizer distribution cost.
Under the present mode of operations, the amount of fertilizer which can be
carried by railroad is limited. By forming unit/block trains the turnaround
time of both the wagons and the locomotives will be sharply reduced compared
to those obtained under the existing operations. Table 18 provides a summary
of the economic evaluation of unit/block trains operations. The ER is esti-
mated to be 33%. Risks which could affect the projected ER are not considered
to be great since the operation of unit/block trains is less complicated than
the normal train operations. There is a possibility that the turnaround times
assumed in the analysis would not be obtained. However, even if the turn-
around were 50% higher than expected,the rate of return would be 20%. In
addition, to insure proper operations technical assistance is being provided
during the initial establishment period of the unit/block trains.
Wagon Ferry
4.14      The ferry crossing service between Tistamukha/Badhadurabad Ghat
was found to be one of the most serious bottlenecks of the transportation of
fertilizer to the northwest region of the country. Because the present ferry
capacity is limited, urea shipments from the factories located in the eastern
part of the country are often sent via Khulna to the broad gauge railroad
line. With the improvement of the ferry service on the meter gauge line the
200 mile shipment by inland waterways can be avoided at no additional travel
distance by railway.
4.15      The economic rate of return for the improvement of the ferry service
is estimated to be 38% (Table 19). Since improvement of the ferry service
does not involve any radical changes in technology of present operations, the
risks incurred in undertaking this component are considered to be small.
Given that the river banks continually shift, the present technology is con-
sidered to be most appropriate and the proposed improvements (streamlining



- 32 -
administration, more reliable communication, provision of floating workshop,
rehabilitation of the tug and acquisition of a reserve barge) are aimed at
increasing the efficiency and dependability of the existing services.
Additional Storage
4.16      Although storage needs are closely interrelated with unit trains
operation and the national storage capacity, an attempt was made to undertake
a separate economic evaluation of the storage facilities at Rajshahi and
Natore. The evaluation was made assuming two projections, one without the
storage facilities and another with the storage facilities.  With the increased
storage capacity it was estimated that fertilizer use in the Rajshahi and
Natore regions would increase by 5% over what consumption would have been
without the new storage facilities. The main benefits from the storage facil-
ities was therefore an increase in production which resulted from increased
use of fertilizer (subtracting the cost of fertilizer). The one ton of
fertilizer was conservatively estimated to yield 2.5 tons of foodgrain, even
assuming that all other inputs remain unchanged. In addition to the value of
increased production the facilities would also bring reductions in transport
and handling cost, since the railroad sidings would provide direct access to
the facilities.
4.17      The ER for the facilities was estimated to be 24%.  The most cri-
tical assumption in the analysis involves the projections of fertilizer use
in the region without and with the facilities. In a sensitivity analysis,
assuming the fertilizer consumption increase only by 3%, the ER would still
be relatively high at 16%. The sensitivity analysis with a one year delay
in implementation of this component indicated a rate of return of 24%. This
component is not as sensitive to implementation delays as most components,
since fertilizer consumption in the region was projected to increase rapidly.
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations the following matters were discussed and agreed:
(a)  the timetable for the implementation of the improvements to
the contracting procedures (para 2.33);
(b)  the details of the project coordination and monitoring
arrangements (para 3.25);
(c)  the reporting of CPA's test dredging results and proposed
program for maintenance of the channel within seven months
following the completion of the initial dredging (para 3.28);
(d)  the arrangement, between BADC and BR, for timing of the
unit/block train trials and operations (para 3.30); and
(e)  the timetable for improving management and placing diesel
shunters on the ferry service (para 3.32).



- 33-
5.02      During negotiations IDA also obtained assurances that:
(a) IDA be given the opportunity to comment on the final National
Storage Plan for fertilizer and be consulted concerning future
storage investments (para 2.28);
(b) The wagons rehabilitated under the Project would be exclu-
sively for the operation of unit/block trains for fertilizer
distribution (para. 3.31); and
(c) TTB will rent and maintain the necessary communication
channels and allow BADC/BR to provide its own special user
equipment for the OCC (para 3.34).
5.03      Conditions of effectiveness would be GOB approval of the Project
Proforma (para 3.22); and the completion of acceptable project financing
arrangements for passing on the credit to the participating agencies (para
3.23).
5.04      Based on the agreements and assurances obtained on the various matters
indicated above during the negotiations, the proposed project would provide a
suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$25 million equivalent (including about
US$500,000 for retroactive financing) to the Government of Bangladesh.



34 -
ANNEX 1
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
"Proposed 1984/85 Transport Requirements" (Distribution Plan), February 1980.
BIWTA
"Establishment of a River Port at Baghabari in the District of Pabna"
(Project Proforma), March 1978.
Economic Intelligence Unit
Fertilizer Marketing and Distribution Study, November 1977
International BankQf Reconstruction and Development
Bangladesh Sector Memorandum, September 1978
International Finance of Development Corporation
"A Review of BADC's Fertilizer Marketing and Distribution Costs
(Incidental Costs)", Preliminary Report.
J. Peltz, Consultant
"Bahadurabad/Tistamukha Ghat Railway Ferry" (brief reports)
dated March 8, 11 and 31, 1980.
J. Peltz, Consultant
"Ship Discharging, Bagging and Distribution of Imported Fertilizer
at Chalna" (brief report) dated March 11, 1980.
Soros Associates, Consulting Engineers:
Feasibility Study of Fertilizer Import Systems, April 1979.
Mission Data
"Terms of Reference for Study of Unloading Facilities required for Bulk
Importation of Fertilizer at Chalna", March 1980.
"Economic Evaluation, Chittagong Port Project", May 1980.
Computer Analysis of Project Components.



TABLE  1
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Transport of Bangladesh
1969/70   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78
Roads and Road Transport
Road Length (miles)              4481       4671       4724      4724       4750
Buses (on the road)              4365       6207       6812      7205       7509
Trucks (on the road)             9355       9378       9457      9838       9757
Railways
Route Miles                      1776       1786       1786       1786      1786
Passenger Miles (million)        2061       2524       2772      2879       3110
Freight Ton-Miles (million)       774        381        457       436        481
Inland Waterways (IWTC)
Passengers (million)               -         1.40       1.62      1.88      2.01
Freight Tons (million)             -         1.45       1.84      1.56      2.28
Ocean Ports (million tons)
Chittagong                        5.04       4.50       4.48      3.45      5.14
Chalna                                       1.54       1.53      1.09      1.78
Source: MPSI/!.RRHRT
June 1980



- 36 -
TABLE 2
BANGLADESH
FERTILISER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Fertilizer 0fftake in Bangladesh 1965-79
Year                      Offtake ('000 tons)              Percent Change
1965                              93.8
1966                             106.2                          13.2
1967                             162.1                           52.6
1968                            211.1                           30.2
1969                            225.3                             6.7
1970                            277.1                            23.0
1971                             304.4                            9.8
1972                             243.8                         -19.9
1973                             383.7                           57.3
1974                            379.8                          - 1.0
1975                             279.6                          -26.4
1976                             457.2                           63.5
1977                             512.6                           12.1
1978                            715.4                           39.6
1979                             742.0                            3.4
Source: BADC
June 1980



- 37 -                                TABLE 3
BANGLAPESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Fertilizer Subsidy
% of Cost
Taka Million         Taka Per Ton      Subsidized
1973/74                  28                    74              9.3
1974/75                 150                   536             30.5
1975/76                 485                 1,060             46.3
1976/77                 644                 1,256             46.1
1977/78               1,200                 1,677             50.0
1978/79               1,445                 1,950             50.0
1979/80 (estimate)   1,250                  1,471             40.0
NOTE: The economic subsidy based on the CIF costs of free market imports
would be somewhat different since the CIF price of fertilizer
provided under tied bilateral aid is 15-20% above the international
market price and the average ex-factory cost of domestically produced
urea is 30% below the CIF free market price whereas the average cost
of domestically produced TSP is about double the free market price.
Source: BADC/IDA
June 1980



BANGLADESH
-FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
BCIC - FERTILIZER PRODUCTION AND CAPACrTY UTILIZATION al
(In '000 tons per year)
_FY77                       FY78                        FY79                 FY80 Projected
Design                   Operating                  Operating                   Operating                  Operating
Plant         Product   Capacity   Production   Rate as %   Production   Rate as x   Production   Rate as %   Production   Rate as -
Fenchuganj   Urea         115.3        77.5           67          61.4            53          59.5           52          95.0             82
Sulfate      13.2         9.3           70           9.6            73           5.3           40           9.0            68
Chorasal      Urea        374.0       208.0           56         151.0            40         236.1           63         240.0            64
Chittagong
No. I      TSP           32.0                       0
41.3          27           62.3          41            80.0           52
No. 2      TSP          120.0        48.0          40                                                                                                      OD
Total                     654.7       342.8          52          263.3           40          363.2          55          424.0            64
a/ Based on 330 operating days for Fenchuganj and Ghorasal, and 300 operating
days for the TSP plants at Chittagong according to industry practice.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1980



- 39 -
TABLE 5
BANGLADE$H
FERUTLIZER TRANSP?  T PROJECT
Fertilizer Imports
Year                                         1,000 Tons
FY73                                           185
FY74                                           141
FY75                                           289
FY76                                           348
FY77                                            37
FY78                                           387
FY79                                           614
FY80                                           580
Source: BADC
October 1980



- 40 -
TABLE 6
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Projected Fertilizer Production and Imports 1979/80-1984/85
('000 Tons)
Urea     TSP/DAP      MP      Total    Increase
1979/80   -  Demand                     490       250        90      830
1980/81   -  Demand                    680        350      120    1,150          38
-  Domestic Production      410         95        -       505          -
-  Imports                  270        255       120      645          -
1981/82   -  Demand                    775        405      145    1,325          15
-  Domestic Production      625        100        -       725          -
-  Imports                  150        305       145      600          -
1982/83   -  Demand                    870        485      170    1,525          15
-  Domestic Production      700        120        -       820          -
-  Imports                  170        365       170      705          -
1983/84   -  Demand                    990        570      200    1,760          15
-  Domestic Production      800        130        -       930          -
-  Imports                  190        440       200      830          -
1984/85   -  Demand                  1,040        740      250    2,030          15
-  Domestic Production      900        120        -     1,020          -
-  Imports                  140        620       250    1,010
NOTE: These estimates are based on the assumption that by 1984/85 all domestic plants
including Ashuganj would be operating at 80% of rated capacity.
Source: BADC/IDA
October 1980



- 41
TABLE 7
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Proposed 1984-85 Sales Target District-wise
(Figures '000' of tons)
Name of
Districts              Urea            TSP             M.P.           Total
Dacca                   65              52             18              135
Kishoreganj             57              38             15              110
Mymensingh              75               57            18              150
Tangail                 32              23             10               65
Faridpur                28              20              7                55
Chittagong              64              40             16              120
Ctg. H/Tracts            8               4              2               14
Noakhali                53              36              9                98
Comilla                 90              79             25              194
Sylhet                  50              26              9               85
Rajshahi                75              57             22              154
Dinajpur                62              48             20              130
Rangpur                 75              65             25              165
Bogra                   56              37             11              104
Pabna                   48              34              8                90
Khulna                  26              14              5                45
Barisal                 57              25              8               90
Patuakhali              29              13              4               46
Jessore                 50              40             10              100
Kushtia                 40              32              8               80
Total                1,040             740            250            2,030
Source: BADC/IFDC
June 1980



BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Projected Move-ent for Total Fertiliber 1934-85 bv Mode of TransPort
(Figures in '000' of long tons)
Destination                                                                                                    Dispatched Fros,
Ashugani                Ghorasal               Fenchugani            Darayanagatj/Demra          Khulna/Shiromoni              Chittagong
District    Quantity                                                                                                                                                      Coarter
Required   Rail   Truck   Barge   Rail   Truck   Barge   Rail   Truck   Boat   Rail   Truck   Barge   Rail   Truck   Barge   Rail  Truck                      BarRe    Remarks
Dac-a              135                                          35     30                                                                                                       70
Kishoroganj        110       24               33                                                                                                             23                 30
Mymensingh         150       60                                 15                                               33                                          42
Tangail             65                                          32                                               33
Faridpur            55                                                 28                                                17        10
Chittagong         120                                                         19                                                                                    89         12
Ctg. H/Tracts       14                                                                                                                                               14
Poakhali            98             44          3                                6                                                                                    43           2
Comilla            194             42         48                                                                                                                     65         39
Sylhet              85                                                         10       30      10                                                           35
Rajshahi           154                              10                                                                            127       17
Dinajpur           130       10                     52                                                                             68
Rangpur            165       15                     60                                                                             90
Bogra             104         6                     30                 20                                                12        36
Babna               90                                                 38                                                23        13      16
Khulsa              45                                                                                                                     35   10*                                             r
Barisal            .90                       57                                                                                                                                 33
Patuakhali          46                        29                                                                                                                                17
Jessore            100                                                                                                                    100
K.ushita            80                                                                                                                     80
-,,+nin   2nan  115    86  170   152  82    116      35       30      10               66      57       344    248** 10           100    211         203
Additional transit movements
Ashuganj to Khulan/Shiromoni (barge)                = 104
Chittagong to Narayanganj/Demra (coaster)           = 118
Chalsa to Khulna/Shiromoni (barge)                  = 382
Total Movement            = 2634
* From Chalna
** 210 of this direct from '.halna if road completed
Source: BADC
June 1980
4



RANGI hARSH                                                                                                   T,bla 9
FSRRIL I SEA TRANSPOR8T PROJECT
ORTA[LES P15037rT COST ESTIMRTES
FIGIIROY IN 8111 lENT OF TAXAG
TOTAL       TOTAL        TOTAL        YR            R7         0 0          YR 1         YR I        ThI              YR 2         YR 2                     VR 2 8  3    Y0 3        OP 3         SR4         OR4          64
LOCAL      FOREIGN       TAFSLOAL                  ESIGN      TOTAL        LOCAL      FOOFION       r,.L-            LOCAL      ECEETIVJ      TOYTAL       LOCAL      FORSION       TOTAL        LOCAL      FOP1GN        R,,0L
PMRT IMROVEME8NTS
BAG.9ARAR1                              25,01        21.55       50.56         5.56        456         12.12        0.11         0.14        .Oa503-.1                                  7A            .5          .6          74
LANO AC00151710N              3.20                     9,20~       ~~~~~~ 2.14               2.14         1.06
tANS FILL                                 4,5         1.A4        11.:4,0,     3.42         4.59        7.90         1,16        2.28         3-,2
RCADS ANYPARKING                          6,05        4.03       10.02                                               3.02        2.02         S.'              3.C2        2.02         5.04
P014506 n,3SANY 5GANWAY5                  2.5         0.77         6.281                                            0.60         1.A           :"              1.10        I  1.6       3.7
00A00  5055                                .0           9.3       2.20.20                                                        0.20          .c0.0                       04           1.10        0.4          0.23         0.70
981 TSORAP                            10.4,3       561         19.04                                              0.0          10           .l00 el                     2.41         T.2 2       4.0 1        l.A0         0.42
ANVILA280 FACILITIES A MISC.             0.91         0.37        1. 24                                             0.25         0.12         2.i7,            0.31        0.12         0.50        0.2 5        0.12         0.37
SHIROMANI                               53,56        34.75       88l.7 3                                           10,25        11.64       c.4               31.76       16,1a1       48.06       11.07         6.31        18.28
RARSIOINS ANS GAN460Y  ~~~~~~~~~'.0  2.01  9.61                                     0.66        0.66         2.sA             - cy         9.95        3.57         0.66        0.66         1.32~~~6  ,   0.6  0 6  1 3
88n80  NDARAING                           4.21        1.9          6.S                                               0.61        3.61         0..60                        OA           2.44        200          26124
6A8R415)ASRS  2A.68     17.76       64.41                                              4.44         4.44        s.aA             13.12        8.88       22.21         0.08         4.44       13.32~~~4  4    44 -.8  3.22a 8  .44  3.3
RAILROAD SPUR              16.50        11.80       27.13                                              4,14         5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~53  0.51  12.63     5.03        17.06634 1  5.3  9
ANCI LLARY FACILITIES  MISC1.             210         1.:75       3.9                                                 .0         04            .J11  1                       .913       71.9         .0          0.011
CHITTAGONG                              12.53        71.01       00.54                                              4,18         4.198         ..              4.12       33.59        37.27         4.18       33.24        07.42
SUPPRAI SION  0.52       2.98        3.50                                              0.10         8.10         4.40             0.17        1.58         1.75        0.10         1.23         1.40~~~~~~O.IT 0.1  J.5  017  10:1  231.4
3855 ORFOOTNO                   12.01~~~~':C  900         004                                               4,27        4.00         A.2A             4.61        32.2        3602          4.00        232.262
CHALNA                                    I1.0        4.80         6.00                                              0.OA        0.10         .2.2             7.66         2.85        3. 53        0.45         1.90        2.25
PROPOSAL 800128  0.10    1.20        1.SO                                              0.08         0,15 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  8.27        1.05         1.2115 1-  .2
FNAL DRSIGNS                            0.90         3.6         4.50.8                                                                                                   1.9, 0       2.25         0.45        1.90I        2.25
UINIT/88O OC TRAINS
WAGON REHABILITATION               ___40.C2          31.30       76.32                                                                                        24.71        16.00       40.89        28.71       14.72        05.42
WRKASHOP ERaSIPNENT                       3.11        7.03        IA.94                                                                                        2.01.3                   9.8          1.00         164         274
RATYRRALS AND REPAIR                    41.84       23.04        65.3 8                                                                                      22.:23       10.:46       32.69       910.61.      1.8          3'2.65
WAGON FERRY                              3 4.3 04 0.06           64.42                                              4,98         3.45         0s              21.40        18.28       35.69         0 .91       8.42        16.33
BAR42 AOAIISITION                         0.20        5.30       13.10                                                                                         1.007       4.58         8.99         6.80        4.72L        6.955
TOO RE4RRILI000I1SN            0.32~      ~~~~~      ~~~ 9.32  19.43                                      1.4         1.04         3.A7.37                       7.07       13.59
FLATNG ATRAONS1.0                                62         2.021                                                            .8           .288                         3.24       11.88         4.54         2.16        6.78
0RLRCORRIONICATIINS         1.88        0.0~~~~~~~~~a  3  2.50                                         0.49         0.26        .10               1.1         8.67         1.8
ANCYLLARYFCLTE C810                       3.6         3.8         7.7 0                                              0.1         83I.010                                    0.0          .8          1.54         1.94        3.88
RAILROAD SPURS ANT SISINOS                816 1       2.70       11.56                                               3.41        1.16         4-o?             5.45         1.00        6.99
GORASAI                                  4.63         0.0          5.1220                                                        05           2.0.             2.12         0.33        2.78
*                   859~~~~~~~~~6SI5881                      4.24         1.22        6.,00                                              1.2,1       7.651        4.2'             3.02         1.21        0.24
CONTRO, CENTER                            7121        5.15        12.27                                              1.11         1.38        2.03              5.07        3.70        9.74,
OEIECORMMUICATIOMN                        6.96        3.75        10.71                                              1.2?        1.0 ?4                         .8          2.60         .5
TECHNILALASSISTANCE                       01.1V        .0          1,110,70                                                      0.31         9.s              0.0          1.0         117 -
AOOOTIONAL 01700SF                       12.09  ___31.41          82.40                                              5.35        5.35        .J.O9            21.03        13.25       34.09        10.40         9.91       28.31         5.80         8.88        8,01
WAREHOUSES                               37.77       20.31        5.42.90                                                        2.0          3.10            14.11         2.31       23.22        14.50         5.81       00.31         5080         0.98         8.11
RAILACRO SPURS                ~~~~~        ~~~~~~8.34  3.57  1.1I.IS                                                   1.1         2.J1              4.20        1.70        6.03         2.38         8.60         2.90
0082901515ON                             6.02         6,52       12.54                                               1,25        1.25         2,oO             2.26         2.76        5.00         2.91         2.51        9.82
C.CNTlNGENC T$S
TOTAL CONTISGONCTES                 ...78.24         30.60       191.04        0.45         0.46        0,91         7.39        7,02         -4..            37.68        35.95       73.63        29.59        32.86       62.45         3. 14        1.29         A,6A0
P4OSIC,,L                                17.60       24.61        42.21        0.45         0.06        3.0~)1       5.30        3.22          -,1             8.04        11.76       20.71         6.62         9.03       13.99         8.29         0.28         0.46
291IC.8                                  60.14       52.55       113.62                                              4,09        3,06         0.4.            26.73        20.15       52.92        24.97        23.03        ".R80        2.80         1,11         3.04
GRAND TOTOI                             522.59      30.78,       "31.73        6.01         5.32       11.33        43.51       42.52        0,4              6.0         180.40      3 1132        30.03       1021.21     207..01;4  ... ...94        4.16        L13.40
REIUIOTINO 5FF FOOCO MAY 20006 iI, TOTALS






- 4 -
TABLE 10(a)
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
LIST OF MACHINERIES, EQUIPMENT, TOOLS AND INSTAI.LATTON MATFPIAL FOR SAIDPllR WORKSHOP
(1980 PRICES)
SI. No.             Description.                    Location,                 Quantity.        Cost in Taka ('000)
1                     2                              3                          4                     5
1.       Vacuum Testing plant No. TM-6            C&W Machine                    1                    420
shop.
2.       25 tons capacity electric motors         Wagon shop.                    1                    160
over head crane No. CTO-16.
3.       25 tons capacity electric motor                "                        1                    160
over head crane No. CTO-17.
4.       Rivet forging machine No. FRM-ll.        Smithy shop.                   1                    132
5.       Rivet forging machine No. FRM-12.              "                        1                    132
6.       Universal Milling M/C No. MU-2           Tool Room.                     1                    900
7.       Universal Milling M/C No. MU-3           Mill wright                    1                  1,260
8.       Shearing and Punching machine            Smithy shop.                   1                    680
No. PP-5.
9.       Puoching and shearing machine            Wagon shop.                    1                    680
No. PP-4.
10.       Journal grinding & Burnishing            Wagon shop.                    2                  1,780
machine for BG & MG.
1.       Welding set.  220/440V                         -                      10 Nos.              1,200
12.       Oxy. Actylene cutting torch.                   -                        6 sets.              292
13.       Drilling Machine portable                      -                       10 Nos.                200
Cap. 1/2" Electric or Pheumatic..
14.       Drilling Machine portable.                     -                        4 Nos.               100
Cap: 1" pneumatic
15.       Grinding Machine portable 6"                   -                        6 Nos.                100
dia wheel.
16.       Rivetting hammer.                              -                       12 Nos.               100
17.       Chipping hammer.                               -                       12  "                 100
18.       Rivet heater furnace.                          -                        3  "                 100
19.       Pully block 1/2 ton Cap.                       -                        3  "                   50
20.       Screw jack 10 ton.                             -                       20  "                  260
21.       Hose for pneumatic                             -                       10000 Rft.             732
22.       Electrode - holder                             -                       50 Nos.                 50
23.       Welders shield.                                -                       50  '                   25
24.       W/shop lifting/carrying facilities
(hydraulic jacks, pick-up truck)              -                                           1,287
25.       R.S. Joist, Rails etc.                                                100                      14
26.       Miscellaneous                                                                                 26
Total              10,940
Source: Bangladesh Railways and Mission Estimates
October 1980






- 45 -
TABLE 10 X
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
LIST OP IMPORTED MATERIALS REQUIRED FOR THE REPAIR OF 600 WAGONS OF BANGLADESH RAILWAYS (19S0 PPICES)
S.No.                 Description                  Drqwing No.                   Quantity             Total Cost ('000 Taka)
-1                        2                            3                            4                         5
1.         Brake Beam M.S. with nut                  WA-1289                     120 Nos.                    200
for Wagon.
2.         Brake Shaft for Bogie Wagon.              WA-53                       180  "                       70
3.         Brake Shaft for 4-Wheel Wagon.            WA-52                        96  "                       30
4.         Coupling Screw Complete                   WA-1                        120  "                      200
high tensile steel for C&W.
5.         Spring, Spiral l1.1/2"                    W-457                       240  "                      300
for I.R.S. (1) Buffer.
6.         Spring, Steel liner for                   W-366                       240  "                      250
Buffer.
7.         Spring, Steel Outer for Buffer.           W-365                      240  "                       400
8.         Spring Steel, Bolster.                    0005/14                      60                          90
Item 5.
9.         Spring Steel, Bolster.                    0005/14                      60  "                       90
Item 6.
10.         Spring, Bearing Shackle and               WA-8                        360  "                    1,200
13 plated.                             (4-Wheels Wagon)
B.G.
11.         Drawbar hook M.S. for wagon.              W-445                       240  "                      400
12.         Type, 'teel 43" dia. on tread.            W-492                       360  "                    i,200
13.         Nut, M.S. for Brake Beam.                 W-1297                      600  "                       60
14.         Cylinder, Vacuum, Combined 'E'            VBA-7                       480  "                    7,000
Type 18" C&W & 4-Wheel Coaches.
15.         Piston rod, Short stroke stainless        VB-47                       240                         400
steel C&W and locos.
16.         Release Valve 3/4" single brand           VBA-50                      240  "                       80
for combined "E" type cylinder.
17.         Rolger bearings RBU-TBU with two                                    2,400  "                   33,230
Adapters (4 per wagon).
18.         Miscellaneous                                                                                     615
Total       45,815
Source:   Bangladesh Railways and Mission Estimates
October 1980



- 46 -
TABLE 10 (c)
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZF TE NSPO1,T PROJECT
LIST OF LOCAL MATERIALS REQUIRED FOR THE REPAIR OF 600 WAGONS AND INSTALLAlION OF EQUIPMENT OF
BANGLADESH RAILWAYS (1980 PRICES)
S1. No.          kP.L. No.                       Nomenclature.                  Quantity            Cost (TAKA 'OGC)
1.             GB4-911.        S.M. (1) Sheets black 8'x4'x3/16"               .6 ton.                 108
2.              "  411.        "           "       "   8'x4'xl/6"             3.6 tons.                648
3.              "  487.        "     Angle 2"x2"xl/4".                        1.2 ton..                216
4.             EB-4/3.         Electrodes Class B8 SWG.                     6,000 Rft. (2)              32
5.             EB-4/9.            Do             10 SWG                     6,000 Rft.                  32
6.              "  /11.           Do             12 SWG                     6,000 Rft.                  32
7.             HD/189.         Cable welding TRS fluxable.  250 volts   1.200  "                        10
300 or 400 amos. 1680/0076
8.             EB4/81.         Gas DA for industrial purpose.              6,000 Cft. (3)                2
9.              " /84          Gas Oxy. for industrial purpose             2,400 Cft.                    5
10.              " /93.         Glass Blue green & White for hand               30 pair.                  2
screen ARC welding 4 1/4"x3 i/4"x 1/8".
11.             GB3/New.        Pipe I|R hose 3/8" Bore Oxy. Black              120 Rft.                 10
12.             GB3/New.        Pipe hose 3/8" reference DA Red                 120 Rft.                 10
13.             GB5143.         Oil paste Red Oxide Genuine.                  1,200 Gall,               360
14.             CB28.           P.D.P. Whiting.                                 600 Gall.               180
15.              "X45.          Oil past white lead.                          1,200                     360
16.              GB/47.         Oil paste Zinc. Oxide Reduced                 1,200                     360
17.              GB/22.         P.D.P. Red lead non-setting.                  2,400                     720
18.              GB/178.        Varnish Mixing                                2,400 Galls               720
19.              GB/144.        Oil linseed Boiled.                           1,200                     360
20.              GB/145.        Oil linseed raw.                            12,000 Galls.             2,400
21.              GB/155.        White spirit.                                 2,400 Galls.              720
22.              GB/146         Oil stand.                                    1,200   "                 360
23.              GB/142.        Liquid paint Mixing Driers.                   1,200   "                 360
24.              GB-10/566.    Cloth, Emery No. 2.                              600 Nos.                  3
25.              GB-10/308.    Waste cotton No. 1 white.                         30 Cwt. (4)             10
26.              GB-10/1179    Oil axle, medium, C&W.                           240 Gall.               108
27.                  .          M.S. Rod 1" dia.                                 .6 ton.                108
28.                  -          M.S. Flat 4"xlI" (M-E Gr.2).                     .6  "                  108
29.                  -          Tin.                                             60 Lbs.                 25
30.                  -          Antimony.                                        36 Lbs.                 15
31.                  -          Lead.                                            36 Lbs.                 10
32.                  _          Cutting Nozzle (BDC) (inner   o outer)           12 Nos.                  6
size 3/64".
33.                  -          Cement                                           50 tons                  9
34.                  -          Bricks                                            1 lac.                 10
35.                  -          Sand                                          2,200 Cft.                  1
36.                  -          M.S. Rod & Flat bar                              5b tons,                65
Total Cost                       8,485
Source;  Bangladesh Railways and Mission Estimates
October 1980



- 47 -
BANGLADESH                                         TABLE 11
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
MACHINERY AND TOOLS FOR FLOATING WORKSHOP
S1. No.     Description of Machine                           Quantity           Total Cost ('000 TAKA)
1.        Surfacing and grinding Machine                       1                       388
2.        Radial Drill 2" & Accessories.                       1                     1,209
3.        Shaper 18" stroke                                    1                       617
4.        Universal Milling & Accessories                       1                    1,209
5.        Surface Planner (Wood).                              1                       227
6.        Painting Pistol complete set (airless)               1                        76
7.                  Ditto                 (air spray)          2                         30
8.        Cleaning Machine                                     1                        155
9.        Air Compressor (600 cu. feet/minute)                 1                       900
10.        Sand Blasting Machine & Accessories                  1                         90
11.        Motor Trolly (5 ton)                                  1                      151
12.        Derrick crane 10 tons.                               1                     1,133
13.        Generator 400/224 V 50HZ                             1                       730
150 KVA.
14.        Centre Lathe Cap. 9" & Accessories                   1                       479
15.        Portable weldingset                                  4                       982
16.        Oxy. Acetylene Torches with accessories               2                      121
17.        Band saw                                             1                       131
18.        Floor Grinder (adjustable angle)                     1                         57
19.        Portable Drills (3/4" - 1)                            3                        60
20.        Electric Hacksaws.                                   2                        23
21.        Progile cutting machine (Omera type)                 1                       113
22.        Hydraulic Bender (pipe and profile) 10 tons.         1                        85
23.        Threading machine with sets of discs.                1                       113
24.        Portable hand grinders (2 electric & 2 air)          4                        45
25.        Rivetting Pistol.                                    1                        19
26.        Pantograph oxy-cutting control set.                  1                       227
27.        Valves & Injector teeting bench uith tuning outfit 1                       1,115
28.        Handtools & Testers complete sets in steel           3                        68
boxes for electricians
29.        Handtool complete sets in steel boxes for           30                       541
mechanical tradesmen
30.        Miscellaneous gauges & testers                       -                       227
mechanical, electric & drawing equipment.
31.        Working tables & Benches                            20                       170
32.        Air fans overhead                                   10                       113
33.        Industrial Vacuum Sweeper                            1                        30
34.         Grinding Stpne-set                                   1                        15
35.        Extractors, pneumatic up to 3" set                   1                         76
36.        Hydraulic Jacks complete sets                        8                       378
4x5 tons
2x10 tons
2x20 tons
37.        Pulleys & Ratchets 3T sets                           4                         57
38.        Gang Trollyes with engines                           2                       113
39.        Water pimps (Relf priming)                           2                        42
2" and 3"   10 meter level
40.         ElectricAl bench test for auxiliary  equipment   1                           170
41.        Patching  Outfit for minor rewinding job              1                        95
TSotal        1Z 600
Source:  Bangladesh Railways and Mission Estimates
October 1980



BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
TELECOMKUNICATION COST ESTIMATES
(Taka '000)
Total                             Total
Description                   Local           Taxes and Duties            Local           Foreian            Cost
I.    Ferry (VHF)
a.  Material & Equipment        12.0                 97,0                 109.0            81.0              190.0
b.  Installation and Misc.    54.0                     -                   54.0               -               54.0
c.  Technical Assistance         2.0                                        2.0            13.0               15.0
Total I                68.0                 97.0                  165.0            94.0             259.0
II.   0CC (Including UHF/VHF) 1/
a.  Material & Equipment        15.0                321.0                 336.0           268.0              604.0
b.  Installation and Misc.   289.0                   59.0                 148.0            51.0              399.0
c.  Technical Assistance       12.0                    -                   12.0            56.0               68.0
Total II              316.0                380.0                  696.0            375.0           1071.0
1/   Including cable for T.T.B.                                                                                                 i
Source:  Bangladesh Railways and Mission Estimates
October 1980



_ 49 -
TABLE 13
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Summary of Cost Estimates by Executing Agency
(Taka Millions)
Total with
Foreign                       Taxes and                              Price
Exchange         Local         Duties           Total              Contingency
BIWTA
Baghabari Port                     15.94           8.23          10.35             34.52               40.17
Total BIWTA                    15.94           8.23          10.35            34.52                40.17
BADC
Baghabari
Warehouse                         5.72           8.68           1.64             16.04               18.66
Shiromoni
Warehouse                        24.77          28.23           8.10             61.10               74.69
Rail Siding                      11.03          13.08           3.52             27.63               33.77
Natore
Warehouse                         9.46          15.68           3.16             28.30               36.20
Rail Siding                       1.58           2.24           0.50              4.32                5.52
Rajshahi
Warehouse                        10.57          15.79           3.38             29.74               38.04
Rail Siding                       1.99           4.97           0.63              7,59                9.71
Ghorasal Siding                     0.86           4,38           0,27              5.51                6.52
Ashuganj Siding                     1.88           3.57             .60             6.05                7.15
Consulting
Supervision                       5.02           4.03           1.47            10,52                12.75
TA inventory management           1.50            .38            ,12             2.00                 2.42
Chalna bulk handling              4.80            .84            .36             6.00                 7.51
Total BADC                     79.18         101.87          23.75           204.80               252.94
CPA
Dredging                           67.86           4.35           7.83             80.04
Supervision                         2.97           0.53            -                3.50
Total CPA                      70.83           4.88           7.83            83.54               105.24
BR
1.  Wagon rehabilitation
a)  Workshop equipment            7.82            -             3.12            10.94
b)  Materials                    23.64          12.06          18.60            54.30 )              96.96
c)  Labor and Misc. (repair)       -            11.08            -              11.08
2.  Wagon Ferry
a)  Barge acquisition             9.30           0.60           3.20            13.10
.b   TUBg geh4bl;ttion            9.61           2.88           6.94            19.43
c}  Floating Workshop                                                                                79.46
i)  Machinery & tools         6.30           1.26           5.04            12.60
ii) Barge modification         -             9.00            -               9.00
d)  Telecommunications            0.94           0.68           0.97             2.59
e)  Ancilliary facilities &       3.85           2.62           1.23             7.70
Misc.
3. Control Centre
a)  Telecommunications            3.75           3.16           3.80            10.71                12.87
b)  Technical Assistance          1.40           0.16            -               1.56                 1.88
Total BR                     66.61          43.50          42.90           153.01               191.17
Total of Components         232.56         158.48          84.83           475.87               589.52
Physical Contingency                                                                             42.21
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                     631.73
Source;  Mission Estimates
October 1980



- 50 -
TABLE 14
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Proposed Credit
(Millions of US$)
For The         Cumulative
Quarter         Up To Quarter
FY 1981
To March 31, 1981                                0.7               0.7
To June 30, 1981                                 0.7               1.4
FY 1982
To Sept. 30, 1981                                1.0               2.4
To Dec. 31, 1981                                 2.0               4.4
To March 31, 1982                                2.5               6.9
To June 30, 1982                                 3.0               9.9
FY 1983
To Sept. 30, 1982                                3.0              12.9
To Dec. 31, 1982                                 3.0              15.9
To March 31, 1983                                2.5              18.4
To June 30, 1983                                 2.0              20.4
FY 1984
To Sept. 30, 1983                                1.5              21.9
To Dec. 31, 1983                                 1.0              22.9
To March 31, 1984                                1.0              23.9
To June 30, 1984                                 0.5              24.4
FY 1985
To Sept. 30, 1984                                0.4              24.8
To Dec. 31, 1984                                 0.2              25.0
Project Completion Date: June 30, 1984
Project Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Source: Mission Estimates
October 1980



BANGLADESE
EURTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Bashabari Port Development
Traffic Projection                           Benefit                                         Cost
Thousands of Tons                      Millions of Takas                               Millions of Takao
1/                2/               3/                4/     Total              5/ Maintenance 6j  Total
Year    Fertilizers   Other Products        Fertilizer   Other Products        Benefits    Capital    Operations        Costs
1                   -                  -                 -                        -          20.0         -             20.0
2          -                -                    -               -                -          23.5         -             23.5
3         43               90                   8.4             6.8              15.2          -          .3              .3
4         50               94                  9.8              7.1              16.9          -          .3              .3
5         58               99                 11.3              7.4              18.7          -          .3              .3
6         64              104                 12.5              7.8              20.3          -          .4              .4
7         70              109                 13.7              8.2              21.9          -          .4              .4
8         77              115                 15.0              8.6              23.6          -          .4              .4
9         85              120                 16.6              9.0              25.6          -          .5              .5
10         93              126                 18.1              9.5              27.6          -          .5              .5
11         93              126                 18.1              9.5              27.6          -          .5              .5
12         93              126                 18.1              9.5              27.6          -          .5              .5
13         93              126                 18.1              9.5              27.6          -          .5              .5
14         93              126                 18.1              9.5              27.6          -          .5              .5
15         93              126                 18.1              9.5              27.6          -          .5              .5
16         93              126                 18.1              9.5              27.6          -          .5              .5
17         93              126                  18.1             9.5              27.6          -          .5              .5
18         93              126                  18.1             9.5              27.6          -          .5              .5
19         93              126                  18.1             9.5              27.6          -          .5              .5   L.
20         93              126                 18.1              9.5              27.6          -          .5              .5
21         93              126                 18.1              9.5              27.6          -          .5              .5
22         93              126                 18.1              9.5              27.6          -          .5              .5
ER -372
Sensitivity analysis with benefit -20% and costs +20%, ER -27Z
Sensitivity analysis with one year implementai,ion delay, ER = 31%
1/ Urea only based on national fertilizer movement plans. No benefit calculated on DAP/TSP which will enter port.
15% growth rate until year 5, 10% until year 10. Thereafter capacity of present development is assumed to be
reached.
2/ Mainly foodgrains, Jute, cement, and other building materiala. 5% growth rate until year ten.
3/ The average per ton transport saving is calculated as the difference in transport cost between Ghorasal/Ashuganj
and Baghabari via Shiromoni/Khulna (inland water and rail), Taka 200/ton, and Ghorasal/Ashugnaj and Baghabari
direct (I W) Taka 70/ton,which equals Taka 130/ton.  In economic terms using a factor (1.5) based on the
BTS,the saving is Taka 195 ton (130 x 1.5).
4/ The average per ton transport saving is calculated as the difference in transport cost between Dacca/Narayanganj
via Bahadurabad ferry to Baghabari Tk 120/ton (railroad) and the direct inland water route Tk 70.00/ton which is
Tk 50. In economic terms the benefit is Tk 75/ton (50 x 1.5).
5/  50,7 (Total costs) t 4,8 (Thysical contingencies) - 12,0 (Taxes and duties)   43,5
6/ Based on information supplied by BIWTA
Source: Mlssion Estimates
October 1080



BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Shiromoni Improvements
_--- - Benefits            Millions of Takas------        Cost--
Traffic              Transport
Thousands of Tons        Operating 2/       Avoid  3/                             4/                5/
Year         Fertilizer  1/          Savings         Investment       Total         Capital       Maintenance      Total
I.                                                     30.0          30.0            20.0            -            20.0
2              263                   13.5               4) 43.5                                     6-.0
3              303                   15.2              -             15.2            23.4           3.3
4              348                   17.4              -              17.4            -             3.3            3.3
5              400                   20.0              30.0          50 0            -              3.3            3.3
6              440                   22.0              -             22.0            -              3.3            3.3
7              484                   24.2              -             24.2            -              3.3            3.3
8              532                   26-2              -             26.2            -              3.3            3.3
9              532                   26.2              -             26.2            -              3.3            3.3
10             532                    26.2              -             26.2            -              3.3            3.3
11              532                   26.2              -             26.2            -              3.3            3.3
12              532                   26.2              -             26.2            -              3.3            3.3
13              532                   26.2              -             26.2            -              3.3            3.3
14              532                   26.2              -             26.2            -              3.3            3.3
15              532                   26.2              -             26.2            -              3.3            3.3                             N
16              532                   26.2              -             26.2            -              3.3            3.3
17             532                    26.2              -             26.2            -              3.3            3.3
18             532                    26.2              -             26.2            -              3.3            3.3
19             532                    26.2              -             26.2            -              3.3            3.3
20             532                    26.2              -             26.2            -              3.3            3.3
21             532                    26.2              -             26.2            -              3.3            3.3
22              532                   26.2              -             26.2            -              3.3            3.3
ER = 50%
Sensitivity analysis with benefits -20% and cost +20%, ER - 26%
Sensitivity analysis with one year implementation delay, ER - 41%
1/  15% growth rate until year 5, 10% until year 8 when capacity of improvements is reached.
2/  Estimated at 50 Takas  per ton
3/  If Shiromoni were not improved, a new river port facility costing Tk 30 million would have to be added for each 200,000 tons of
cargo.                                                                                                                                         M
4/  88.7 (Total costs) + 6.3 (Physical contingency) - 11.6 (Taxes and duties) = 83.4
5/ 4% of capital costs.
Source: Mission Estimates
October 1980



BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Chittagong Port Dredging
Traffic Projections                              Benefits                                         Costs
Thousands of Tons                            Millions of Dollars                            Millions of Dollars
Oil                 2/           3/Crude4/    Oil  5/       6'  Test7/  Procurement  Maintenance, Total
Year   Fertilizer  Foodgrains  Products   Fertilizer  Foodgrains-  Oil -  Products- Total- Dred gix            Dredger       Dredger-  Costs
1                                                                                                6,0                                    6.0
2       108          240         108          1.2         2.9        0.3        .3       4.7                  13.0           2.0       15.0
3                                                                                        5.0                                  2.0       2.0
4                                                                                        5.2                                  2.0       2.0
5                                                                                        5.5                                  2.0       2.0
6                                                                                        5.8                                  2.0       2.0
7                                                                                        6.1                                  2.0       2.0
8                                                                                        6.3                                  2.0       2.0
9                                                                                        6.6                                  2.0       2.0
10                                                                                        6.9                                  2.0       2.0
11                                                                                        7.1                                  2.0       2.0
12      294          240         318         3.2          2.9        0.3       1.0       7.4                                 220        2.0
13                                                                                         9                                   2.0       2.0          1
14                                                                                       18.3                                  2.0       2.0
15                                                                                        8.7                                  2.0       2.0         w
16                                                                                        9.2                                  2.0       2.0r
17                                                                                        9.                                   2.0       2.0
18                                                                                       10,1                                  2.0       2.0
19                                                                ~~~~~~~~~                                       ~~~~~~~~~~10.6  2.0  2.0
20                                                                                        11.1                                 2.0       2.0
21                                                                                        11.5                                 2.0       2.0
22       600          240        720          6.6          2.9        0.3       2.2       12.0                                 2.0       2.0
ER = 23%
Sensitivity with benefits -20% and costs +20%, ER - 12%
Sensitivity with maintenance cost +100%, ER = 13%
Sensitivity with implementation delay of one year ER = 19%
1/  Traffic which will not have to be lightered with the channel deepening.
2/ Economic cost for lighterage is estimated to be US$11 per ton.
3/ Economic cost for lighterage is US$12 per ton.
4/  Based on ship waiting time saved.
5/ Economic sost for lighterage is estimated to be US$3.00 per ton.
6/ Straight line interpolation between reference years.
7   5.4 (Total costs) + 141 (Fhysical contingency) - 0.5 (Taxesarid dutrpS) =6.
8/  15% of dredger capital costs,
Source: Ilission Estimates
October 1980



BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Unit Train Operation
l/         Normal Train Operation      Unit/Block   Train Operations                             Benefits                                      Costs
Fertilizer         Wagons 2/       Loconotive       Wagon c/      Locornotive          Wagon      Locomotive     Wagons b6  Locomotive 7/ Total
Traffic             Days           Days             Days          Days 5/              Days       Days            <-million of Takas--    Benefits       Total 8/
Projection          Required       Required 3/      Required      Retqured             Saved      Saved
1         (Thousand of Tons)   (Thousands)    (Thousands)       (Thousands)   (Thousands)         (Thousands) (Thousands)                                              50.0
2                365               365.0           1.3              134.5         0.7                230.5       0.6             QO.7         4.0         24.7         56.7
3                420               420.0           1.5              154.7         0.8                265.3       0.7             23.9         4.6         28.5
4                480               480.0           1.8              176,8         0.9                303.2       0.9             27.3         6.0         33.3
5                550               550.0           2.0              202.6         1.0                347.4       1.0             32.0         6.7          38.7
6                550               550.0           2.0              202.6         1.0                347.4       1.0             32.0         6.7          38.7
7                550               550.0           2.0             202.6          1.0                347.4       1.0             32.0         6.7         38.7
8                550               550.0           2.0              202.6         1.0                347.4       1.0             32.0         6.7          38.7
9                550               550e0           2.0              202.6         1.0                347.4       1.0             32.0         6.7         38.7
10                550               550.0           2.0             202.6          1.0                347.4       1.0             32.0         6.7         38.7
11                550               550.0           2.0             202.6          1.0                347.4       1.0             32.0         6.7         38.7
ER = 33%
Sensitivity with benefits -20% and costs +20%, ER = 19%
Sensitivity with wagon turnaround time 50  greater than expected ER - 20X
Sensitivity with one year implementation d        Ma    t -
1/ 15% annual growth until year 5 when capacity of present program is reached.
2/ Traffic tons' 19 ton average per wagon x 19 days turnaround (available Wagons)
3/ Traffic tons- 1000 tons per train x 2 directions x 200 mile average haul', 110 miles per day per available locomotive
4/ Traffic tons-a 19 ton average per wagon x 7 day turnaround Cavailable wagon)
5/ Traffic tons 1000 tons per train x 2 directions x 200 miles average haul4- 220 miles per day per available locomotive
6/ Cost per wagon day = Tk 90.00 = capital cost (225,000) capital recovery factor @ 12% over 30 years (0.124)-:310 days.
operating and maintenance costs are excluded since they are assumed to be a function of mileage which is the same in both cases.
7/ Cost per locomotive day = Tk 6700.00 = capital cost (15,500,000) x capital recovery factor @ 12% over 20 years (0.134)
310 days available.  Operating and maintenance costs are excluded since they are assumed to be a function of mileage
which is the same in both cases.
8/ Total economic costs consist of wagon rehabilitation + Railroad sidings + OCC
Total Cost              76.3                    39.1            12.3
Physical contingency +  3.8                   +  3.9          +  1.2
Taxes & duties        - 21.7                  -  4.4          -  3.8                                                                                         m
58.4         +          38.6         +  9.7             =  106.7
Source: Mission Estimates
October 1980



BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Wagon Ferry Improvements
TRAFFIC PROJECTIONS 1/                 BEN{EFITS                             COSTS
Mainten-
Total    Diverted                                                 ance and
Total  1/ Diverted 2/  Other-   Other         Ferti- 4/ Other 5/                        g  Operat-7/ Total
Year        Fertilizer   Fertilizer   Cargo    Cargo          lizer      Cargo       Total   Capital       ing         Costs
(Thousands of Tons)                     (Millions of Takas)          (Millions of Takas)
1          115                          365                                                    25.0                    25.0
2          130              45          385       20          9.1       2.0         11.1       29.4        3.0         32.4
3          155              70          405       40         14.1       4.0         18.1                   5.1          5.1
4          175              90          425       60         18.2       6.1         24.3                   6.9          6.9
5          200             115          445       80         23.2       8.1         31.3                   9.0          9.0
6          220             135          465      100         27.3      10.1         37.4                  10.8         10.8
7          240             155          490      125         31.3      12.6         43.9                  12.9         12.9
8          265             180          515      150         36.4      15.2         51.6                  15.2         15.2
9          295             220          540      175         44.4      17.7         62.1                  18.2         18.2
10           320            245          570      205         49.5      20.7         70.2                  20.8         20.8
11                          245          570      205         49.5      20.7         70.2                  20.8         20.8
ER -381.
Sensitivity analysis with benefits - 20% and costs + 20%, ER ,20%
SensitivIty analysis with implementation delay of one year, ER - 30%
1/ Based on the 1984/85 Fertilizer Distribution Plan. 15% growth rate to year 5 and 10% to year 10.
2/ Traffic above the present level of 450,000 tons (85,000 tons of fertilizer and 365,000 other cargo),
which is considered to be present capacity of the ferry. Above 450,000 tons, all additional traffic
would have to be diverted if the ferry were not improved.
3/ Assumes a growth rate of 5% until year 10 when capacity of present improvement is reached.
4/ Transport cost to Northwest Region from Charasal/Ashuganj with improved ferry via Shiromoni/Khulna -
Tk 245/ton (250 miles inland water and 275 miles railway). With the ferry, the cost would be
Tk 100/ton (275 mtles rallway).  The flnancial savlngs would be Tic 135/ton.  The economic savings utilizing
a facility to inland water transport based on BTS is Tk 202 one tone (1.5 x 135).
5/ Estimated at 50% of the per ton savings to Fertilizer.
§/ 64.4 (Total costs) + 3.6 (Physical contingency) - 13.6 (Taxes and duties) = 54.4
7/ Maintenance and Operating costs increase in relationship to additional traffic
Source: Mission Estimates
-Qctober 1980



BANGALDESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Additional Storage Facilities
Benefits                                              Cost
-------------------------- - ------------- Millions of Taka---------------- -----------
Transport and           Value of-
Throughput                         Handling  2/         Increased.!      Total                4
Year         Thousands of Tons                     Savings             Production      Benefits      Capital 4      Maintenance      Total
-             .-            39.7              -            39.7
2_-                                                                 -             40.0              -            40.0
3                35                               1.0                   14.7          15.7             -              1.6            1.6
4                40                               1.2                   16.8          18.10            -              1.6            1.6
5                46                               1.3                   19.3           20.6            -              1.6            1.6
6                53                               1.6                   22.3           23.9            -              1.6            1.6
7  61                           1.8                   25.6           27.4            -              1.6            1.6
8                70                               2.1                   29.4           31.5            -              1.6            1.6
9                70                               2.1                   29.4          31.5             -              1.6            1.6
10                70                               2.1                   29.4          31.5             -              1.6            1.6
11                70                               2.1                   29.4          315-                            1.6            1.6
12           ~~~70                            2.1                   29.4           31.5            -              1.6            1.6
13270                                              2.1                   29.4          31.5             -              1.6            1.6
14                70                               2.                     9431.5                        -1.6                          1.6
15                70                               2.1                   29.4          31.5             -161.
16          ~~~70                             2.1                   29.4           315-                            1.6           1.6
17                 0212.                                                               31.5             -1.6                          1.6
18                70                               2.1                   29.4          31.5             -              1.6            1.6
19                70                               2.1                   29.4          31.5             -              1.6            1.6
20                70                               2.1                   29.4          31.5             -              1.6            1.6
21                70                               2.1                   29.4          31.5             -              1.6            1.6
22                70                               2.1                   29.4          31.5                                           1.
ER   24%
Sensitivity analysis with benefits -20% and costs + 20%, ER.' 17%
Sensitivity analysis with 3% increase in fertilixer use, ER- 16%
Sensitivity analysis with one year implementation delay, ER- 24%
1/ Throughput is estimated at 5 times capacity (14,000 tons).
2/  Estimated at Taka  30 per ton
3/  With additional warehouse capacity and availability, fertilizer use is estimated to increase 5Z.  The value of foodgrainis
4,600/ton; fertilizer 3,100/ton, and the output to fertilizer ratio is established at 2.5.  Benefit per ton
equals Taka 8,400.                                                                                                                      M
4/  82.5 (Total costs) + 5.4 (Physical contingency) - 8.2 (Taxes and duties) = 79.7                                                         o
Source: Mission Estimates
October 1980



BANG LADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Organization of BADC
Composition of the Board of Directors of BADC
Chairman
I
Executive     Directors
Administration     Member                 Member                 Member                 Member        Non-executive
Wing          Director               Director               Director                Director        Directors
Finance                Supply                Irrigation               Field
Wing                  Wing                    Wing                   Wing
Source: BADC
February 1980                                                                                     World Bank - 21590



BANG LADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Organization of BADC Fertilizer Supply Wing
Chairman
Membar
Dir. of SUPP'y
Generat Manager
(S l
Manager            Manager                                                               Mnager
(Storage)           (Sales)                                                               ove  nt
SF & AO   Dy. Manager       Dy. Manager        Dy. Manager        Dy. Manager           Dy. Manager        Dy. Manager        Dy. Manager
(Admnl             (P & S)         (Storage) - 2         (Sales)            (Hq. Movt.)         (Shipping)          (Movt.)
A.M. )Adinn)      Asst. Manager      A st. Manager     Assn. Manager |        Aast. Manager      Asat. Manager      Asar. Manager
A.M. (Eattl         IF & SI           (Stg) - 2           (Sales)             lHq MovWtl1        (Shipping)           DM tric
District   |    Dy. Manager          Dy. M tMovt.)                               (Mot.)
Manager -20             2       |     |    Chalna      Port| Gho                           | Plant
}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a Maag rV-t.
[   50M   55    rShsg. Officer |        Movt. Officer |   ;;    ;2 |Moat. Officer|
|         |  | ~~Movt. Of I ier |  |Narvyanraj||Fnganan  S| |SCamp. Cg
Port                           Plant~~lan
1                        ~~~~~~~~~~Transit Whse.  Plant             Plant
Inispector - 460           9
Souae: BADC
Februawy 1980                                                                                                                                                   world  Bank  -  21591



World Bank 21592
BANGLADESH FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                                             Page1
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
PROJECT COMPONENT                                                            1980                 19-81                                  1982                                    19  83
BANGLADESH   RAILWAYS                                            Agency       S  O N   D  JP   H  A  M   J  JA           SO   0 N  iJF   M  A  MiJ  J  A         SON   DiJ  F  MA              J 1   A  SO0N D
1.  REHABILITATION OP 600 WAGONS:-                                 BR
I.    Preparation and issu'e of Tender-
II.   Evaluation of Tender
III.  Acceptance of Tender and Award
IV.   Arrival of material_______ _____________
V.    Transportation of material                                                                                                                            -
VI.   Rehabilitation of Wagon___________
2.  TELECOMMUNICATION FOR PERRY
FERRY CROSSING AND OPERATING
CONTROL CENTRE:
I.    Preparation of Term  of Reference and appointment
of Consultant                                           BR
II.   Issue of Tender and preparatioo of
Tender schedule
TII.  Evaluation of Tender
IV.   Acceptance of Tender and Award
V.    Arrival of material
VI.   Transportation of material
VII.  Construction of Tower
VIII. Laying of lines for end equipment                      T&T
IX.   Inistallation of equipment                              BR 
X.    Start up of operationm
3.  MODIFICATION & REPAIR OP M.T. ISHA KHAN
I.    Letter to original manufacturer                         BR
II.   Offer from original manufacturer
III.  Evaluation of offer
IV.   Acceptance of offer and award
V.    Modification & Repair-
VI.  Trail run
4. PROCUREMENT OF A WAGON FERRY
BARGE
I.    Preparation and igsue of Tender                         BR
II.   Evaluation of Tender
III.  Acceptance of Tender and Award
IV.   Manufacture and delivery of Barge
V.    Fitting &fixing of rail
VI.   Transportation to site & operation
5.  CONVERSION OF A BARGE INTO FLOATING WORKSHOP
I.    Preparation and issue of Tenders and Barge
Conversion and equipment                                BR
II.   Evaluation of Tender-
III. Acceptance of Tender and award-
IV.   Conversion into floating workshop
V.    Arrival of material
VI.   Transportation of equipment
VII.  Installation of equipment
6,ANCILLIARY WORKS INCLUDING PROCUREMENT OF
OF MATERIAL AND INSTALLATIONI



Page 2
PROJECT COMPONENTS¶
BANDLADESH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT CORP'ORATION                Agency       1ON        _J_ F,M   A   M      J  A, S  O N   D *;J  F  M  A  MJ  J  A  SO0  N  D  J  F  M  A  M-J. J.A   S   O N   D
ia   WAREHOUSES
i)    Establishment of project Implementation
unit                                                BADC
ii)   Land Acqusition                                     BADC
iii)  Appointment of Supervising
Consultant                                         BADC
iv)   Consultant Servicesm                                                                 m            m     U
v)    Prequalification of Construction Contractor    BADC!
Consultant!
vi.)  TInvitation to Bid                                  BADC/
Consultant
vii)  Selection S Appointment of Contractor               BADC
viii) Notice to Proceed                                   BADC
ix)   Mobilization by Contractor                          Contractor
BAGNABARI
i)    Site Development                                    Contractor
ii)   Construction of Facilities                          Contractor                                                    - 
iii)  Construction of Ancillary Building                  Contractor!
iv)   Boundary Wall & Fencing                             contractori                                                                                      ________
v)    Sanitary & Water Supply                             Contractorj
vi)   Electrification                                     Contract orj
NATORE
i)    Site Development                                    ContractorJ
ii)   Approach & Internal Road                            Contracto
iii)  Warehouse Construction                              Contractor 
iv)   Ancillary Building Construction                     Contractor1
v)    Development of Railroad Spur                             BR
vi)   Boundary Wall & Fencing                             Contractor,
vii)  Sanitary & Water Supply                             Contractor!
viii) Electrification                                     Contractor.:
RAJSHAHI
i)    Site Development                                    Contractor':
ii)   Approach & Internal Road                            Contractor,
iii)  Warehouse Construction                              Contractor!
iv)   Ancillary Building                                  Contractor:-
v)    Development of Railroad Spur                             BR
vi)   Boundary Wall & Fencing                             Contractor,
vii)  Sanitary & Water Supply                             Contractor:
viii) Electrification                                     Contractor;
SHIROMONI
i)    Site Development                                    Contractor:
Si)   Construction of Warehouse                           Contractor~
iii)  Construction of Ancillary Building                  Contractor'
iv)   Boundary Wall & Fencing                             Contractor
CContractor
v)    Sanitary & Water Supply                             Cotractor7
vi)   Electrification
vii)  Railroad Spur-
(a)  Signalling Procurement                            BR ________________________
(b)  Signalling installation                           BR
(c)   Civil   Work                                     BR                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



Page 3
WAREHOUSES CONT'D (BADC)                                       Agency   ~S'        D     3F        A: 1            S O1 D 3A                       1           O N               fA            3 A  
viii) Pontoons and Gangways
(a)  Documentation                                Consultant
(b)  Bidding/Contracts                            BAnDC
Contractor
(c)  Fabrication                                  Contractor                                                                   -
(d)  installation                                 Contractor       
2.   FACTORY RAILROAD SIDINGS
Ghorasal                                                 BR
Ashaganj                                                 BR                       _________________
3. BULK FACILITY AT CHALNA
i)    Ptequalification of Consultant                      BADC
ii)   Appointment nf Consultant                           BADCm
iii)  Review & Apptoval of Proposal                       BAnDC
Consultant
iv)   Final Design                                        Consultant
4.   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
WAREHOUSE MANAGEMENT
i)    APPointment of Consultant                           SADC
ii)   Consultant Services in Bangladesh                   Consultant                                                                     UU
iii)  System Development
iv)   Review & Approval                                   BADC
v)    Training                                            BADG
CHITTAGONG PORT AUTHORITY
5.   CHITTAGONGr TEST DREDGING
i)    Bidding Documents Finalized/Approved                Consultant-
ii)   Prequalification of Bidders                         Consultant
iii)  Bids invited and received                           CPA
iv)   Bid Evaluation and Award                            CPA/GOB
v)    Triangulation and Predredging Surveys               Contractor
-vi)   Initial Dredging outer Bar                         Contractorm
vii)  Dredging other areas                                Contractor
viii) Siltation dredging, cuter bar                       Contractor______________                                                                                               -
ix)   Siltation Monitoring                                Contractor
BANGLADESH INLAND WATER TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
6.   1)    Land Acquisition                                    BIWTA
ii)   Dredging & Reclamation                              BIWTA
iii)  Pontoons & Gangways
iv)    a) Bidding/Contracting                             BIWTA
v)     b) abrication/Installation                         Contractor
vi)   Roads & Parking
vii)   a) Bidding/Contracting
viii)  b) Construction                                    Contractor
ix)   Transit Sheds
a) Bidding/Contracting                             BIWTA
b) onstruction                                     Contractor
x)     Services & Ancillaries                              BIWTA/
Contractor.......                                                                          ....






____________                                                                                                 IBRD-12279R1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBD127R
ui ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~               t
F-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
z  N                     'N                               ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T






BANGLADESH
TRANSPORT PROJECT
fERTILIZER
I N D, I A                                                          PRbiECT COMPONENTS-
y
lhit/81tk T-m Opwio
op-.tig c-f-I C-t., -d
_Fh.k,g                                                                                                                 R,e,j4rhatooo   Frt Ao4
RWe, P6rt                                               2..
N
dp                                                                                                       At
kidifw.p &odd 0_90
/."Yp,
r
J4LPU
OGR4                                    YNIENSINGI
jgl-.
Wl
HAII
IL
Bb
7.1 T                                             G,bl L
IH.
Lksh-
SSORE
23'
A
Wid
R.N
W"[.                                               Q  1
-KI-TAG
"fy.
41
A                                                                                                                      J
V,
g
Co- B.
N r' I A
B U R tVI A
10    11
8y  ct  B-
LAN






NEPAL j        BNWUAN  2                                                              <                                 BANGLADESH
_e w>  ,                                                 /  +                 DEVELOPMENT OF BIWTA SITE
AT BAGHABARI FOR BADC
8   BANGLADESH                                                                     aFOR FERTILIZER STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION
t,BANGLADESH                                                        /          \ 
24-  >,(DOcccp (   24'                    \9/  4    X  t\l                                                 i  0        PROPOSED  PROJECT AREA
INDIA  t                                                          )                                                        FUTURE DEVELOPMENT AREA
t                          ilililihk ~~~~~~SLOPE
-2r                        V j  S  0   ht    EASTERN MILK PRODUCER          |        \
aS                              COOPERATIVE UNION                        [B>                                                                            A
Bzcfy7y of donyqi  WLRMAtJ9-                          /    (4X       t <9S;1;,>\// '\\ \Xo                   o0        200       400
--Ihternot,onol Boundra'ieo  \  .                    /    , /          \ \ X  .         \   \ </ \\                     FEET
88°      950       920XW/                                  ,r           
3t /J  MUN         A                               O OIL COMPANY
bK Ondme show  rz  hsmzd°/isrtpvftyerr  )tredrrmd                                                                                                            $t      ot
FERRY PONTOONS,
/                                             N /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
TW  - h   .,d y l~ WldH..'~  ff -0-l  /f>7<h.
0c th-dlan   r/f suh-p bo .n mes O                                                                                                                                    tX1 -~dT~d -.,  
L4SeS9t-~059                                                                                                   / d
-d-~h lh~ -   d  ~,,.ly -  lh p    - l '0WIl 8-k  d                                                                                           s
fffi.,-pd-,-/h  k"'1          '74<y ..-






IBRD 15044
880 A,    900  900                                                                  BANGLADESH                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JUNE 1980
0   ST  00 ~~~'J      10T,, -rto k- beet pre,pard bY the                                                    A GLD S
_______IGO______              World Ba-k ~o etaff -1111111OY for
-26.               l(~~~~~ILOMETERS26         t,              h     - -i`
6(' <~ ' ,theo,,pcIt0n fhlhr iOt ntd-"                                             DEVELOPMENT OF BADC  SITE AT SHIROMONI
C.                 0 o50100tE                    meoo  Theddenooo akonoob-l dhn- -thIIand ekP           FOR  FERTILIZER  DISTRIBUTION  AND  STORAGE
do -ot -eply, on the port of the
La>  (   s._, ,_.,_.                World Back add to ofyatlheo, doY
Jodg-oPt 00 tttO 103 Cr0- of
any t-rr,rork otan/ endoretetet |-                                                  Existing buildings
m   9    >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o tcStOC of oacprcoSch koc/dar/ms
A GLADESH-l                                                                                                    L       i Proposed godowns
-24-    DvYcl                       I,N DIA 24n                                                                                          Boundary walls
j          \    Daccra  r    I1N01A402<
~~~~~~  o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~--e-                                          ---    Fence
Irjc>yct             le\ W Xi'----r-| |R- Railways
j holna S:                                                                                                         ------09 +   METERS    25   SO   75     __o=  Electric power
MEES0          25            5           75           100
INDi     (,                                             MTS50- .-   Telephone
&              4'             FEET0|  0se1        00            200 3oF00 *2                                Trees
5                                                                                                                                                          m
'4_<t  ;Rm
IxSTIN
7   PONTOONS
OPt b I110POUA  LO
0  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~i~~~~
~~p5reo storied~~w   7,






iBRD 15042
91-48'                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~9152~  MAY 198O
I N D I A                     This tap has Pean prepared bh the
.(V       '- !j                                          World g.k'o staff eluei-y for\                                             \
the cooveorence of the reders of
0 c t >                                    the report to Wthch 1t is atoached.
22'20  The d-ormnetio-s used -nd the
I                               2_20' boundaries Ottownrf- on this roP_
f' ~~~~~~~~ ~dosotintly, on the Part f theT
> w            W_orld eSnk ndts afilhetesn, soy
:)dqt-enr on the leag1 Otts of|
NS \   AL  tHV *           anytertory or anyndrsement
B A           D E   H                          or scoeptnre of such boondOries.-
>,  \   ,¢ <  \J\j  \                                    ~~~~~~~C hittagong   )    t                /      }   
P   t
3  t                                & 0 15~~~~~~ILAND \
X       <                   Ch ment-l     \<\                           \ .. At
Si'-,~~~~~~~~~~~~ot
*r                  A                                                                                                                           ;              : 
o     / 75 Kilse\                                                                            Ase  BUR
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T P jet                                                                                                  uptan    /
22-16'r                                                                                                                                                  g                                   22t16h
Part  im, it                                                                                                            J
/< t 9 :\ ( /;/ (1 ~~~~~~BANGLADESH
) \ X Su \ ok' D m ~~~~~~TEST DREDGING OF THE
/    X  \                           X   -//  <o° D                                         l   ~~~~~KARNAFULI RIVER
3 of @7engaz 8 \ -</ < = _ / 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Test dredging areas
2   \   \  \\              is - - -->   txini49//f                 0 ~~~~~~~~~~ f 1   1 ~Jetties
\   C/  I         a   a                         X17MTddie   /  \                                                     ~~~~~~~Training walls
k  <                     8         \                         ,vz      ,        .> /  Is~~~~~ ~~~~~land           6    -        Depth contours- faJthoms
\ X 2 0 0 < ~~~~~~ j .<X ... ;. ~~~~Mud
\ \ gOueer bar < 0 X -                                                                 Railway
\ % tX / R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                             -     -  o rt   lim it
Z2'2' \\                                                                                                                                                                                      {>12  22'12'
~~~~~ 0\                            a    tt ~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS O1,                                   2             3
~~~~~9 ;1_                                                                                                                 MILES                                                2
9t't4X' cr 91XtS'  r^iolv 9T-52'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9-52



