Document of             FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2894-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
December 31, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Since August 13, 1979, the Bangladesh Taka has been pegged to a
basket of major currencies, with Pound Sterling as intervention currency.
Consequently, the Taka-Dollar rate is subject to change. In the twelve month
period July 1979 through June 1980 this rate fluctuatecd between Taka 14.61
and 16.27 per US$, with an average for the period of Taka 15.48 = US$1.
On October 13, 1980, the Taka-Pound spot exchange rate (buying
rate) was officially set at 38.40 to the Pound Sterling. This compares with
the rates of Tk 34.69 set on August 1979 and Tk 36.20 set on July 31, 1980.
Unless otherwise stated the rate below has been used throughout this report.
US$1          =   Tk 15.5
Tk 1          =   US$0.0645
Tk 1 million  =   US$64,516
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot        =   0.305 meters
1 mile            1.609 kilomieters
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -     Asian Development Bank
AFCC      -     Ashuganj Fertilizer and Chemical Company
BADC      -     Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BG        -     Broad Gauge
BIWTA     -     Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority
BIWTC     -     Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation
BR        -     Bangladesh Railways
CPA       -     Chittagong Port Authority
DAP       -     Diammonium Phosphate
DCA       -     Development Credit Agreement
GDP       -     Gross Domestic Product
GOB       -     Government of Bangladesh
HYV       -     High-Yielding Variety
ICB       -     International Competitive Bidding
IECO      -     International Engineering Company
IFAD      -     International Fund for Agricultural Development
LCB       -     Local Competitive Bidding
MG        -     Meter Gauge
MP        -     Muriate of Potash
NSP       -     National Storage Plan
OCC       -     Operations Control Cell
PDP       -     Primary Distribution Points
SFYP      -     Second Five-Year Plan
TPY       -     Tons Per Year
TSP       -     Triple Superphosphate
TTB       -     Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board
USAID     -     United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
Agricultural Terms
Aman   -  Paddy planted before or during the monsoon
(which begins in June) and harvested in No ember
or December.
Aus    -  Paddy planted during March and April and harvested
during July and August.
Boro   -  Paddy planted in winter and harvested during April
to June.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Beneficiaries:       Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC)
Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority (BIWTA)
Bangladesh Railways (BR)
Chittagong Port Authority (CPA)
Amount:              SDR 19.1 million (US$25.0 million equivalent).
Terms:               Standard.
Relending Terms:    Credit proceeds for BR (US$6.8 million equivalent), CPA
(US$5.9 million equivalent) and BADC (US$9.6 million
equivalent) would be onlent on IDA terms. Credit proceeds
for BIWTA (US$1.4 million equivalent) would be provided as
a grant. The above figures exclude the unallocated con-
tingency provision.
Project            The project would improve the availability of fertilizer
Description:    to farmers by expediting fertilizer handling and distribu-
tion, increasing the efficiency and capacity of the trans-
port sector, and encouraging private sector participation
in fertilizer distribution and transport. The project
would rationalize BADC's current fertilizer distribution
system, improve transport handling contracting procedures,
and remove major physical bottlenecks in the fertilizer
transport system. The physical components of the project
include:
(i) port improvements - landing and storage facilities
at river ports and channel dredging at Chittagong;
and
(ii) unit block/train operations - rehabilitation of
railroad wagons and improvement of a rail wagon
ferry service, construction of transit storage
facilities and establishment of a fertilizer
operations control center.
The primary beneficiaries would be the farmers obtaining
more reliable access to fertilizer at reduced cost. How-
ever, the movement of fertilizer is interrelated with
movement of other products. Consequently, the economy,
in general, would benefit from lower movement cost for
many products.



- ii -
The project faces no special risks, although due to the
number of agencies involved, inadequate coordination could
cause delays. This risk will be reduced through the estab-
lishment of an overall coordination committee headed by
the Chairman of BADC and the establishment of a detailed
schedule for each component of the project.
Estimated Cost:                                             US$ Million Equivalent
Local Foreign Total
Port Improvements/Dredging             6.3       8.6    14.9
Unit/Block Trains/Ferry
Service Improvements                 9.5      6.4    15.9
15.8     15.0    30.8
Physical Contingencies                 1.1       1.6      2.7
Price Contingencies                    3.9       3.4      7.3
Total Project Costs                   20.8 1/  20.0    40.8 1/
Financing Plan:
IDA                                    5.0      20.0    25.0
Government 1/                         15.8        -     15.8
Total                             20.8      20.0    40.8
Estimated IDA
Disbursement:                                 FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85
Annual                      1.4    8.5   10.5    4.0    0.6
Cumulative                  1.4    9.9   20.4   24.4   25.0
Economic Rate
of Return:         33%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 2957-BD, dated October 15, 1980.
1/   Includes taxes and duties of US$6.9 million equivalent.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 19.1 (the
equivalent of US$25.0 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a fertil-
izer transport project.  Of the proceeds of the credit, about US$9.6 million
equivalent would be provided to Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corpora-
tion (BADC); about US$6.8 million to Bangladesh Railways (BR); about US$1.4
million to Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority (BIWTA); and about
US$5.9 million to Chittagong Port Authority (CPA). The proceeds of the credit
allocated to BADC, BR and CPA would be relent by the Government to those
agencies on IDA terms. The proceeds allocated to BIWTA would be provided as a
grant.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Current Economic Position
and Short-term Outlook" was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 21,
1980.
3.        The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.
With its economy already disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged
by the struggle for independence, the country was afflicted by poor harvests
in FY72 and FY73 and by devastating floods in 1974. Foodgrain output fell
drastically and recovered to the pre-independence level only in FY76; foodgrain
imports averaging over two million tons per year were required between FY72
and FY75 to maintain foodgrain consumption near minimum requirements. Aggre-
gate output in manufacturing recovered to the pre-independence level only in
FY75, as the sector needed to overcome the destruction and disruption caused
by the struggle for independence and, in its aftermath, the departure of
skilled labor and managers and widespread shortages of spare parts and
crucial inputs. The production of jute, the predominant export commodity,
declined sharply, and the terms of trade deteriorated. Inflation, declining
real wages, rapid population growth, labor unrest and political instability
added to the difficulties. In these early years, Bangladesh's policy makers
were by necessity almost entirely preoccupied with matters of relief and
rehabilitation and the need to shape a national government out of a provincial
administration.
4.        Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the last decade provided planners and policy makers the opportunity to
turn their attention from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of
development. It was not until FY75 that GDP recovered to the pre-independence
level, but between FY75 and FY80, it has increased by about 30% in real terms
(or about 5.5% p.a.), despite serious setbacks in agricultural production in
FY77 and again in FY79/FY80. Output in manufacturing (as measured by the
production index for large and medium-scale industries) rose by about 7.5%



- 2 -
annually between FY75 and FY80, most of this growth taking place outside the
jute industry. The late 1970s may be seen, therefore, as a period of economic
consolidation. The Two-Year Plan (FY79-FY80) was intended as an opportunity
to complete this economic consolidation and to reconsider development priori-
ties before the country embarked on its Second Five-Year Plan (FY81-FY85).
5.        The last two years have also brought significant political change.
From 1975 until March 1979, Bangladesh had been governed under martial law.
In elections held in February 1979, 29 political parties and groups contested
300 seats in the National Assembly. Roughly two thirds of the seats were won
by the Bangladesh National Party (BNP) headed by President Ziaur Rahman, who
had won the presidential election in June 1978. Thirty additional seats,
reserved for women, were subsequently filled by the BNP. Following the
convening of the new Parliament in March 1979, martial law was lifted and a
new cabinet appointed.
Recent Developments and Short-term Outlook
6.        Economic growth, which had been rapid in FY78, slowed substantially
in FY79 and remained relatively modest in FY80. Mostly as the result of a
record grain crop (13.1 million tons) and a 10% increase in industrial output,
GDP had increased by nearly 8% (in real terms) in FY78, following a 2% rise in
FY77. But the experience of FY79 and FY80 again demonstrated the vulnerability
of the Bangladesh economy to unfavorable weather conditions. A severe and
prolonged drought affected adversely four successive rice crops as well
as the size and quality of the FY80 jute crop; this had significant reper-
cussions throughout the economy.  The shortfall in foodgrain supplies led to a
rapid rise in rice prices, and inflation accelerated to an annual rate of
about 18% in the first half of FY80. The rate of growth of GDP fell consider-
ably and inequity in income distribution increased as lower income groups were
affected more severely by the foodgrain shortages and fast-rising prices than
the middle and higher income groups. The balance of payments, which still had
been in overall surplus in FY79, deteriorated markedly in FY80, mainly as a
consequence of costly food and petroleum purchases. GDP growth in FY79 and
FY80 averaged no more than 4.5% p.a.; with population growth still estimated
at about 2.7% annually, average incomes improved only moderately.
7.        This disappointing overall performance somewhat overshadowed
a number of encouraging developments and positive policy steps during this
period. These included: (i) the successful mobilization and distribution
of nearly 2 million tons of imported foodgrains in the first half of FY80;
(ii) continued rapid growth in wheat production and in fertilizer consumption;
(iii) a variety of policy measures taken to improve agricultural input avail-
abilities, to maintain incentive output prices for farmers, to strengthen the
administration of the family planning program, and to foster a more active
role by the private sector; (iv) increased capacity utilization in several
industries; (v) improved budgetary performance, reflecting a strengthened tax
administration, some reductions in subsidies and discipline in curtailing
current expenditures; (vi) substantial growth in non-traditional exports and
in workers' remittances; (vii) exchange rate adjustments and other measures
taken to encourage exports; and (viii) the conclusion of a Standby Arrangement
with the IMF.



8.        The slow growth of foodgrain production and its still extreme vul-
nerability to adverse weather conditions have become principal concerns of
Bangladesh's political leadership and economic planners. The Second Five-Year
Plan (SFYP) gives top priority--together with the containment of population
growth and the achievement of mass literacy--to the expansion of foodgrain
production, aiming at self-sufficiency in foodgrains by the end of the Plan
period. The experience of FY79 and early FY80, when a severe drought (combined
with serious slippages in expected foodgrain imports) caused a dangerous
erosion of food stocks in the country and required an all-out effort by the
administration to avert a major famine, served to highlight the importance of
reducing the threat of crop failures and widespread starvation. At the same
time, the Government's efforts to contain the crisis--although efficiently
executed and successful--demonstrated the high cost of such a diversion of
scarce administrative resources and public attention from long-term priorities
to short-term crisis management.
9.        The foodgrain supply situation stabilized somewhat in 1980 with
good boro, wheat and aus crops and with sizeable import arrivals to supplement
stepped-up grain procurement from the domestic crops.  The government's efforts
to ensure adequate consumption levels for the population and to build up
public grain stocks required to provide some security against future crop
failures or natural calamities were markedly effective during the first nine
months of 1980; relief for the victims of severe regional floods during the
past monsoon was provided quickly and effectively, and public foodgrain stocks
reached a level of over 1.1 million tons by the end of September 1980.
10.       Efforts to secure stock levels sufficient to operate the public
foodgrain distribution system and to provide security against future temporary
supply shortfalls or emergencies cannot yet be relaxed. The rapid stock draw-
down during the 1979 drought illustrated the still tenuous nature of the
country's foodgrain security situation. Public foodgrain stocks, although
currently higher than at any previous time in history, are still below the
recommended level. While further stock build-ups are to some extent con-
strained by the limited public sector storage capacity, this constraint is
expected to ease substantially in the course of the next 9-15 months when
additional storage facilities under construction will be completed. Further
replenishments of public stocks from domestically procured grain could be
substantial, since the forthcoming aman crop is forecast at a record level
of about 7.6 million tons, but sizeable additional foodgrain imports will
nevertheless be required during the second half of FY81 in order to bring
stocks near the recommended level of 1.5 million tons by June 30, 1981. 1/
11.       The prospects for rapid overall growth in FY81 are relatively
favorable, provided the weather remains good and the volume of commodity aid
is sufficient to permit increased imports of fertilizers, cement, petroleum
1/   A special meeting of the Bangladesh Aid Group was held in January 1980 to
consider the country's foodgrain situation, import and stock requirements
and policy measures needed to prevent future repetitions of the 1979
crisis. A report entitled "Bangladesh: Food Policy Issues" (IBRD Report
No. 2761-BD, dated December 19, 1979) was prepared for consideration at
that meeting and distributed to the Executive Directors in December 1979.



and other raw materials and intermediate goods. These conditions permitting,
foodgrain production could increase by more than a million tons above the
FY80 level and overall GDP growth might be as high as 7-8%, despite the
unfavorable short-term outlook for the jute sector and for jute goods exports.
The Balance of Payments
12.       Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive
structural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid. Export earn-
ings in FY80 represented less than 7% of GDP and less than 35% of the import
bill. Moreover, Bangladesh's exports continue to be dominated by raw jute
and jute goods, which together accounted for 74% of total export earnings.
The 1979 foodgrain shortage had an adverse impact on the balance of payments,
as the need to finance commercial purchases of foodgrain imports led the
Goverrment to curtail other imports, which fell considerably below targets.
Bangladesh's FY80 foodgrain and petroleum purchases alone accounted for over
three-quarters of the 51% increase in imports in that year. Total merchandise
exports rose by some 18% in FY80, mainly due to exceptionally high prices of
jute goods exports, but because the import growth was so much greater the
trade deficit widened from about US$950 million in FY79 to some US$1.6 billion
during FY80.
13.       The current account deficit in recent years has been considerably
smaller than the trade deficit, owing mainly to the rapid growth of workers'
remittances from the Middle East. These receipts, which totalled US$163 mil-
lion in FY80, are now the second most important source of foreign exchange
earnings, exceeded only by jute goods exports. The FY80 current account
deficit of US$1.48 billion was largely covered by disbursements of US$377
million in food aid, US$422 million in commodity aid and US$487 million in
project aid--total aid disbursements roughly 22% more than in FY79. In addi-
tion, however, reserves were drawn down by some US$140 raillion. At the end
of FY80, these reserves stood at US$250 million--equivaLent to little more
than one month's projected FY81 imports. Even though the capital flows which
finance Bangladesh's deficits continue to consist almost entirely of grants
or loans on very concessional terms, debt service payments nevertheless comprise
a significant burden. These payments rose to US$95 milLion in FY79 and an
estimated US$110 million in FY80, notwithstanding some debt relief measures
undertaken by various donors; the debt service ratio deteriorated from 13.5%
in FY78 to 15.3% in both FY79 and FY80.
14.       Between August 1978 and October 1980, GOB undertook a series of
exchange rate adjustments whereby the Taka was devalued by about 35% against
the Pound Sterling. However, since the Pound Sterling has appreciated vis-
a-vis US dollar, the Taka/dollar rate has remained close to Tk 15.5 = US$1
during the last two fiscal years. In July 1979, the IMF approved a Standby
Arrangement for a period of one year in an amount equivalent to SDR 85 mil-
lion. Net of repayments, and including disbursements from the IMF Trust Fund
and new SDR allocations, the IMF covered about US$60 million of Bangladesh's
external financing requirements in FY80. The Standby Arrangement was the
third since 1972. In addition, Bangladesh has made extensive use of Fund
resources under the oil and compensatory financing facilities. The financial



program agreed under the Standby Arrangement was designed to limit the expan-
sion in overall domestic credit. While the monetary targets embodied in the
financial program had to be revised upwards, the goals of the program were
largely met. The specific ceilings in the program on credit to the public
sector were exceeded largely because of unanticipated deficit financing by
the Government in the last month of FY80. A proposed Extended Fund Facility
is expected to be presented to the IMF Board during the latter part of
November.
15.       The FY81 balance of payments situation is expected to be difficult.
The terms of trade are projected to deteriorate markedly, reflecting mainly
an expected fall in jute goods export prices and a continuing rise in import
prices. Moreover, the anticipated shortfall in commodity aid availabilities
in FY81 implies that imports may increase by only 15% in nominal terms (a
negligible change in real terms) in the next fiscal year.
Public Finance
16.       Government finances improved considerably in FY79 and remained
relatively strong in FY80; in both years, the current budget surplus increased
in both absolute and relative terms. The overall budget was balanced in FY79,
but borrowing from the domestic banking system was a significant source of
budget financing in FY80, amounting to some 8% of total Government expendi-
ture. Further improvements in the mobilization of domestic resources are
needed if the ratio of public investment to GDP is to be raised above the
levels of recent years.
17.       The task of raising additional domestic resources is wide-ranging,
involving a broadening of the tax base and a strengthening of public sector
business enterprises and utilities as well as a reduction of the major subsi-
dies on food and fertilizer. The latter task has to be carried out with due
regard for both equity and production considerations. Reflecting its growing
awareness of the problem, the Government appointed a Taxation Enquiry Commis-
sion in 1977 and five special committees in 1978 to review various aspects
of public financial resource mobilization. The five committees reviewed,
respectively: (i) gradual elimination of the food subsidy; (ii) rationaliza-
tion of the rate structure of public transport agencies; (iii) economic pricing
by public utilities; (iv) reduction in agricultural input subsidies, including
the fertilizer subsidy; and (v) improvement in the financial performance
of public sector enterprises. The committees have concluded their work, and
the final report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission was submitted to the
Government in April 1979.
18.       A start has been made in implementing some of the recommendations
of these advisory groups and of the measures suggested by the interim report
of the Taxation Enquiry Commission, especially those in regard to tax adminis-
tration. In mid-1978, the Government increased railway fares, and in the
course of FY79 and FY80 it raised foodgrain ration prices, several utility
rates, and commodity sales prices of public sector enterprises. Fertilizer
prices, for example, were increased by an average of 28% in August 1979 and
petroleum product prices by up to 45% in November 1979; issue prices for food-
grains from the public distribution system were increased in May 1979 and



again in May 1980 by a combined 40%, as the Government began to move toward
a gradual elimination of the foodgrain subsidy. In some cases, these price
adjustments only kept up with inflation, but in others--notably the food and
fertilizer subsidies--they served to reduce the subsidy per unit of product
in real terms. Petroleum product prices were raised by a further 45% in
mid-1980--an adjustment which should serve to greatly reduce if not eliminate
the subsidy on this account during FY81.
19.       The Government is expected to incorporate the essential long-term
recommendations of the various review committees concerning the reduction of
subsidies and the rationalization of the pricing policie!s of public sector
enterprises and utilities into a comprehensive fiscal strategy paper for the
SFYP period by April 1981. This strategy paper will set out a time-phased
action program for fiscal policy measures and other steps to improve the
mobilization of public sector financial resources for the financing of the
development program embodied in the SFYP.
20.       Current budget revenues increased by 21% in FY79 and by 19% in FY80,
reflecting primarily the continued liberalization and growth of merchandise
imports and, hence, of import duties and sales tax receipts.  Current expendi-
tures rose by only 9% in FY79, but by 19% in FY80 owing to inflationary tend-
encies in general and a large increase in the foodgrain subsidy in particular
(caused by the need to purchase and distribute large quantities of grains in
order to avert a famine). Development expenditures (in current prices) rose
by almost 40% in FY79 and by 32% in FY80 and there were commensurate increases
in project aid disbursements in both years. These expenditure and disbursement
increases reflected a substantial augmentation of development activity as
measured in real terms. Food-for-work allocations in FY80 were more than
double the FY79 level as large quantities of foodgrains were made available
in support of a countrywide canal excavation campaign and other rural projects.
21.       Inflationary pressures, which had re-emerged in FY78 (sparked pri-
marily by excessive liquidity creation by the banking system) continued into
FY79 and gained force in the latter part of the year when rice prices rose very
rapidly. The cost-of-living index for urban consumers rose by 19% between June
1978 and June 1979, pushed by a 48% increase in average rice prices; since most
of this rise occurred in the last months of the year, however, the index for
FY79 stood only 9% above the average for FY78. Rice prices levelled off in
the second half of 1979, and the inflationary pressure eased considerably
during FY80. Nevertheless, for the year as a whole, the cost-of-living index
was about 15% above the average for FY79, with overall Liquidity (money supply
plus time and savings deposits) expanding by some 18%.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
22.       FY79 and FY80 constituted the period of the Two-Year Plan, which
was meant to provide an opportunity for policy reappraisal and for prepara-
tion of the Second Five-Year Plan. In the process of preparing the Plan, its
authors addressed the factors underlying the slow development of the economy
over the past decade. These include poor land use, insufficient irrigation
and flood control, inadequate administrative capacity, low domestic resource



mobilization, and social impediments to change. The planners also analyzed
the problems posed by the basic structural characteristics of the economy: an
environment prone to natural disasters; poor physical capital stock; a high
rate of population growth; mass poverty; a highly skewed distribution of
income and land ownership; a high ratio of population to land; extreme frag-
mentation of iandholdings and growing landlessness of the predominantly rural
population; high illiteracy; poor health and short life expectancy; high
unemployment and underemployment and scarce employment possibilities outside
agriculture; and a heavy dependence on foreign aid, not only for investment
financing, but also for food and other recurrent inputs.
23.       The Second Five-Year Plan, issued in draft form in May 1980 and
presently undergoing final public discussion, accords top priority to three
major efforts: (i) achievement of self-sufficiency in foodgrains by FY85,
with domestic foodgrain production targeted to increase to an annual amount
of 20 million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of the population growth rate
with a view of bringing the net reproduction rate down to unity by the year
1990; and (iii) progress towards mass literacy through the vehicle of free,
universal primary education.
24.       The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is con-
siderable. Yields and cropping intensity are well below potential levels,
fertilizer application rates are modest, and the available surface and ground-
water would permit a substantial expansion of irrigation. There is large
unsatisfied demand for irrigation; where irrigation is available, the increase
in fertilizer use and the shift to high-yielding varieties of rice and from
dry season rice to wheat have been widespread and rapid. The growth of fer-
tilizer consumption and of wheat acreage and production during the past few
years have been among the most notable positive developments in Bangladesh
agriculture and justify some optimism concerning the ability of the country to
achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains in the foreseeable future. The Govern-
ment has formulated, with assistance from IDA, a Medium-Term Foodgrain Produc-
tion Plan which provides an investment portfolio geared towards the attainment
of the SFYP target of 20 million tons of foodgrains. 1/ While the feasibility
of this target is beyond doubt, its achievement will be possible only if the
Government demonstrates the determination and capacity to allocate the resour-
ces required to provide the inputs needed by the farmers, and to permit the
private sector to play a substantial role in the provision and servicing of
modern agricultural implements and inputs. Other necessary requirements are
adequate levels of foreign aid to finance imported inputs, improved farmer
extension and training, and appropriate farm income and incentive levels.
Without suitable attention to these latter factors, farmers demand for inputs
could soon start to level off.
25.       Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus
far. Recent projections 2/ indicate that, unless the net reproduction rate
1/   The MTFPP target is flexibly set at the 18-20 million tons range, allow-
ing for a 10% shortfall due to adverse weather or other factors beyond
the control of the implementing agencies.
2/   IBRD projections prepared for the World Development Report 1980.



-8-
is brought down more rapidly than present trends indicate, the population
of Bangladesh, estimated at almost 90 million in Januar-y 1980, could rise
to 143 million by the year 2000. Birth control efforts in Bangladesh have
suffered thus far from poor implementation and have had only limited success.
Recently there has been some encouraging progress, however. The coordination
of birth control activities within the Government is improving, while training
programs for field staff have been revised and are now, for the first time,
considered adequate. GOB has decided to prepare a medium term implementation
plan for population and the Bank has agreed to provide technical assistance
in preparing this plan.
26.       Vigorous pursuit of the measures that have been identified to improve
performance should enable GOB to come gradually to grips with the population
problem. It should make it possible to double approximately the number of
acceptors of family planning during the SFYP period (from 14% of couples of
reproductive age in FY79 to 28% by FY85). Officially, the planners aim at
reducing the net reproduction rate to the level of one by 1990, although they
note that, as yet, no other country has succeeded in reducing reproduction at
such a rapid rate. This target is clearly not achievable, but the Government
means to use it to galvanize institutions at all levels as well as the popu-
lation itself into determined action to stabilize the size of the population
as early as possible.
27.       The third of the central objectives of the SFYP is the drive for
general literacy. The planners recognize that its attainment will take
longer than five years, but they have set themselves the target of intro-
ducing universal primary education and enrolling 90% of all children of
primary-school age by 1985. This program is to be supplemented by a national
non-formal mass education scheme for those already past primary-school age.
28.       A plan aimed at effecting a significant departure from past trends
will place a severe strain on domestic finance and managerial skills. Even
with the adoption of labor-intensive and low capital-cost techniques, a
significant step-up in development spending will be required. This in turn
will require sizeable increases in the mobilization of domestic and the
inflow of foreign resources. A critical factor will also be the extent to
which project implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate
improvements can be made in the ability of the administration to expedite
project implementation, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies
alone would be adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government
recognizes that in certain key areas greater reliance will have to be placed
on the private sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent, activities
such as education and rural development should be carried out in a decen-
tralized fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and grass-roots
participation.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH 1/
29.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of eleven
credits, amounting to US$148.6 million, made originally to Pakistan before
1971. A consolidation loan of about US$54.9 million and a consolidation credit
of about US$31.0 million, approved in 1975, provided for Bangladesh's assump-
tion of liability for portions of IBRD/IDA loans and credits for projects
visibly located in Bangladesh completed before independence. In addition, as
of November 30, 1980, 47 new credits have been approved, totaling US$1,371.7
million; of these, US$665 million have been for program credits (nine imports
program credits and two fertilizer imports credits). Annex II contains a
summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as of November 30, 1980,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh
became a member of the IFC, and two investments (for a shipbuilding company and
an investment promotion company) have been approved.
30.       Bangladesh's debt service ratio was 15.8% in FY79 2/ and is estimated
to have increased to 17% in FY80.  The debt service ratio might exceed 20% by
the mid-1980s unless careful debt management policies are pursued and aid is
provided on appropriately concessional terms. Bangladesh's total outstanding
and disbursed external public debt amounted to just over US$3 billion as of
June 30, 1980, with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting for 30% of
the total. In FY80, the Bank Group accounted for 3% of Bangladesh's total debt
service payments; because assistance is now entirely in the form of IDA credits,
debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
31.       The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(15 of the 36 new projects approved since independence, and two fertilizer
imports credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the Govern-
ment's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on projects that
provide agricultural inputs, including in particular the provision of adequate
fertilizer supplies to farmers.  Emphasis is also given to the provision of
irrigation, improved seeds, extension, credit and storage facilities, which
all tend to increase the demand for fertilizer.
32.       In addition to agriculture projects, emphasis is also being placed
upon projects in other sectors which facilitate agricultural development or
which reduce bottlenecks interfering with the economy's overall performance.
In transportation, for example, improvements are required to facilitate the
movement of imports and to bring domestic products to market. Future projects
1/   Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report for the
Bakhrabad Gas Development Project (Report No. P2920-BD) dated December 4,
1980.
2/   As a percentage of merchandise exports only.  If workers' remittances
amounting to US$140 million are added to total merchandise export earn-
ings of US$602 million, the debt service ratio would drop to 12.9%.



- 10 -
will focus on improving rural transportation services, eliminating key bottle-
necks interfering with commodity flows, and improving the maintenance of facil-
ities. Similarly, in power we expect to emphasize rural electrification and
eliminating shortages of generation capacity or distribution facilities which
have been a major impediment to utilization of existing industrial capacity.
33.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the nine imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the economy,
program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA operations
in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two fertilizer
production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project and several DFC
and small-scale industry projects. IFC is currently in the process of iden-
tifying further suitable investment opportunities.
34.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive capa-
city. The first population project is now making encouraging progress, and
a second population project was approved in FY79. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education.
35.       Disbursement of the import program credits has proceeded satisfac-
torily. Project disbursements initially lagged behind expectations, owing
largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts,
employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays
were serious constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, over-
centralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. Progress
has been made recently on these issues and the disbursement performance is
improving. IDA and GOB have given increased attention to regular monitoring
and supervision in order to identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is
providing assistance both under specific projects and under technical assis-
tance credits to assist in improving planning, project preparation and
implementation capabilities.
36.       In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should continue to cover all foreign exchange costs; and in order to
direct IDA lending to those sectors--such as agricultural and rural develop-
ment--where the percentage of foreign exchange costs is relatively low, the
financing of local currency expenditures is fully justified.
37.       Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on economic policy and
development strategy. It is also designed to enhance the coordination of
external assistance within the framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent
activities in this area have concentrated on food policy, industrial invest-
ment strategy, and increased domestic resource mobilization.



- 11 -
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
38.       Bangladesh covers a land area of about 55,000 square miles, much of
which comprises a vast alluvial plain. The nature of Bangladesh's geography
creates complex development problems. Movement between the various regions
of the country is difficult since transport infrastructure is expensive and
the river channels are frequently shifted by floods, requiring waterways to
be cleared and ferries to be moved.
39.       The transport network suffered considerable damage during the war of
independence in 1971. It is estimated that 40% of the trucks on the road and
35% of the buses were lost. The damage to railway workshops, locomotives and
wagons and other installations was severe. In addition, 299 railway bridges
and 274 road bridges were either damaged or destroyed. Airfields were damaged
and sunken ships blocked the ports. The available statistics indicate that
while passenger traffic has grown steadily since 1972, the growth of freight
traffic has been erratic, which can be attributed to the effects of fluctua-
tions in imports, especially foodgrains, fertilizer and cement, and in exports
of jute and jute goods.
40.       The most striking development in the transport sector over recent
decades has been the growth of road transport from its former minor role to
an important transport mode for both goods and passengers. This has happened
despite a poorly developed highway network with much of the main-road network
consisting of unconnected stretches requiring ferry services across numerous
rivers, and narrow bridges with low load limitations. The main-road system,
which is administered by the Roads and Highways Department, comprises approxi-
mately 2,700 miles of bitumen-surfaced roads and 1,500 miles of fair weather
roads. Maintenance costs are high and studies (financed under Technical
Assistance Credit 622-BD), which identify national priorities for road rehab-
ilitation and maintenance, are now being undertaken. In addition to IDA
assistance, the road sector is also receiving assistance from the Asian Deve-
lopment Bank (ADB) which is financing construction of a road between Khulna
and Mongla.
41.       Bangladesh Railways (BR), owned by the Government, has a system of
about 1,200 route miles of meter gauge track in the eastern part of the country
and some 600 route miles of broad gauge in the west. Virtually all of it is
single-track. The two parts of the system are connected by two wagon ferries
across the Jamuna River. The track is of low standard and most of it is poorly
maintained. Since independence, employee productivity, and availability and
utilization rates of locomotives and rolling stock, have all fallen, thus
reducing BR's carrying capacity. Freight traffic is below pre-independence
levels, while passenger transport has increased considerably due to very low
passenger fares. BR is receiving assistance from ADB, Britain, Saudia Arabia
and Canada.
42.       The length of navigable waterways varies from 2,300 miles in the
dry season to 3,300 miles during the monsoon. The Bangladesh Inland Water
Transport Authority (BIWTA) controls the system, regulates traffic and fares,
and maintains inland ports and navigation channels. Mechanized inland water



- 12 -
transport is provided by the Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation
(BIWTC) and by private operators, the latter carrying about 90% of passengers
and 50% of freight traffic. The mechanized fleet is supplemented by about
90,000 freight carrying country boats of one or two ton average capacity. A
program of repair and replacement of mechanized BIWTC vessels is being pre-
pared with the help of specialists provided under an IDA credit. The private
sector is currently undergoing expansion with GOB's encouragement. The inland
water transport subsector is also receiving assistance from the Netherlands
and Norway.
43.       Bangladesh has two maritime ports--Chittagong and Chalna--which are
operated by the Chittagong Port Authority (CPA) and the Port of Chalna Authority
(PCA), respectively. In FY79, Chittagong handled about 4.5 M tons of cargo.
Port operations are characterized by labor-intensive handling techniques, slow
customs procedures and overcrowded storage and transit sheds. Recently, however,
operations have been improving and a possible port project is being prepared
for IDA financing. Chalna Port is at present operating as an anchorage, but
is being developed (with Yugoslav financing) as a full maritime port despite
the existence of draft restrictions in the Pussur River. In FY79 this port
handled some 2.0 M tons of cargo. Under Technical Assistance Credit 872-BD,
IDA is assisting PCA in trying to overcome siltage problems.
44.       Most transport activities fall under the responsibility of two minis-
tries: the Ministry of Railways, Roads, Highways and Road Transport and the
Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Inland Water Transport. The civil aviation and
airports subsector comes under the Ministry of Civil Aviation and Tourism. The
Ministry of Planning is responsible for coordinating transport investments and
policies through its Transport Survey Section and Transport Section. Within
the ministries control is highly centralized, and cooperation between the
various ministries and agencies is largely informal.
45.       Several key problems affect investment and operations in the
transport sector. Qualified and experienced specialists have tended to seek
employment in the private sector and in the Middle East. The urgent need to
reestablish a functioning transport system after the war and the preference
of external donors for financing capital items has led, in some cases, to
preference for procurement of new equipment rather than maintaining or reha-
bilitating existing equipment. Scarce funds and experienced personnel have
been spread over a very large number of projects. As a result, execution by
GOB of many projects has been extremely slow. Finally, although the private
sector plays an important role in road and inland water transport, its access
to foreign exchange and local currency credit has been severely limited.
46.       GOB is making some progress in improving performance in the above
mentioned areas. More cognizance is being given to rehabilitation and main-
tenance of the existing transport facilities. In view of the shortage of
resources, investment plans are becoming more selective, with greater emphasis
on quicker yielding projects. Finally, the private sector is receiving
increased recognition by GOB and new policies are now encouraging greater
private participation.



- 1 3 -
47.        IDA lending to Bangladesh in the transport sector has consisted of
two highway credits (408-BD of 1973 for S25 million and 964-BD of 1979 for
US$10 million) and two inland water transport credits (424-BD of 1973 and
amended in 1975 for a total of US$8.7 million and 735-BD of 1977 for US$5
million). The first highway project has been physically completed and full
disbursement awaits arbitration of contractors' claims. The first inland
water transport (IWT) project also has recently been completed. A Project
Completion Report (PCR) has been prepared and is under review by OED. Both
projects encountered substantial delays due to administrative bottlenecks,
unfamiliarity of staff of the newly independent Government with IDA procedures,
and in the case of highways, deficiencies in some contractors performance.
The IWT project also suffered major delays when detailed investigation indi-
cated that damage to the Chittagong offshore oil terminal was more severe than
previously believed, and alternative technical solutions had to be found.
Nevertheless, both projects are considered to have achieved their objectives.
In particular, the PCR for the inland water transport project indicates that
there has been significant improvement since 1978 in operational efficiency
of the oil transfer system at Chittagong (with an estimated economic rate of
return of 25%) and that the spare parts provided under the project assisted in
rehabilitating IWT equipment. The two projects currently underway also faced
delays in meeting effectiveness conditions and in completing arrangements for
contracting with consultants but are now proceeding satisfactorily.
PART IV - THE FERTILIZER SECTOR
The Economic Setting
48.       Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy, accounting for 55% of
GDP, over 75% of the labor force and, directly or indirectly, over 90% of the
country's exports (mainly jute and jute manufactures). Bangladesh has a gross
area of 35 million acres of which about 22.5 million acres are under cultivation
at a cropping intensity averaging 150% in recent years. Foodgrains, mainly
rice, comprise the major agricultural crops contributing about 35% of GDP and
constitute the principal source of income of subsistence farmers. Rice and,
to a lesser extent, wheat provide almost 85% of the calorie and 70% of the
protein intake of the population. The size of the grain crops determines the
need for foodgrain imports. During the 1960s foodgrain production grew at an
annual rate of 2.4% lagging behind the population growth rate of about 3%. As
a result, foodgrain imports increased from less than 0.6 million tons in FY61
to over 1.5 million tons in FY70. Production during the early 1970s remained
below FY70 levels, necessitating higher levels of imports. In FY78, due to
favorable weather conditions, higher food prices in FY77, and a 40% increase
in fertilizer sales over FY77, foodgrain production reached a record 13.1
million tons which exceeded FY70 levels by some 13%. Nevertheless, even then
consumption exceeded production by 1.5 million tons, which had to be met from
imports. Foodgrain output in FY79 and FY80 has stagnated at just above 13
million tons mainly due to adverse weather. Given increases in population and
depletion of stocks in FY79, foodgrain imports increased to about 3 million
tons in FY80. Progress has been made, however, in increasing production from



- 14 -
the irrigated winter crops. The output of the FY80 boro rice crop is estimated
to have increased by about 15%, while wheat production in FY80 is estimated at
about twice last year's level.
49.        Due to heavy population pressure on limited land, there is virtually
no possibility of achieving acreage expansion in Bangladesh. Thus growth in
food and other agricultural production depends upon the increased and comple-
mentary use of modern inputs--fertilizers, irrigation, IIYV seeds, and pesti-
cides--and to a lesser extent upon improvements in cultivation and farm
management practices. Studies made in recent years indicate that for more
than half of the acreage now under rice and wheat, an increase in fertilizer
use alone, without increases in any other inputs or changes in practices,
would bring about substantial increases in yields. The Government has set an
official target of achieving foodgrain self-sufficiency by 1985, which would
require average annual output growth rates of about 6% over estimated produc-
tion in FY80 that would have been achieved assuming normal weather. This is
an ambitious goal, but it is considered to be achievable given adequate
financial and logistical support and policies encouraging expanded private
sector initiative. At the Government's request, IDA has been working with
various Government agencies to assist in the preparation of a Medium-Term Food
Production Plan, which is expected to be issued as an ofificial document before
the end of February 1981. Emphasis will be placed upon: (i) adequate and
timely supply of fertilizer, diesel fuel, seeds and pesticides; (ii) better
utilization of existing irrigation systems and equipment; (iii) expanding
investments in quick-yielding, labor-intensive irrigation, drainage and flood
control works, with particular emphasis on expansion of low-lift pumps and
tubewells; (iv) maintenance of incentive prices for foodgrains and improvement
in the foodgrain procurement and marketing systems; (v) strengthening of
extension services and supportive applied research; (vi) improved provision
of institutional credit; and (vii) improved project plaining and implementation.
Fertilizer Consumption
50.       Use of chemical fertilizers in Bangladesh has spread rapidly since
FY66 with fertilizer sales increasing at an average annual rate of above 15%.
Because of the disappointing performance of the domestic fertilizer industry
(see paragraph 53) imports increased from about 350,000 tons 1/ in FY76 to
about 600,000 tons in FY79 and FY80. The main fertilizers used in Bangladesh
are urea (46% nitrogen nutrient), TSP (46% phosphate nutrient), MP (60%
potassium nutrient), and the recently introduced DAP (18% nitrogen and 46%
phosphate nutrient). At present, urea accounts for 63%, TSP and DAP for 29%,
and MP and micro-nutrient fertilizers for 8% of the fertilizer used. Drought
in FY79 and the first part of FY80 depressed sales which for FY80 only reached
about 850,000 tons as compared to the FY80 sales target of 1,000,000 tons.
This still represents growth of 15% over FY79.
51.       It is estimated that achieving the foodgrain output target of the
Medium-Term Food Production Plan would require fertilizer consumption of 2.0
1/   Unless otherwise stated, all references to consumption, production,
and imports are in product tons (not nutrient tons).



- 15 -
million tons in FY85 as compared with about 830,000 tons in FY80. This
would require an annual increase in consumption of slightly over 15% per
year (comparable to the average growth rates since FY66). Assuming foodgrain
price incentives remain at satisfactory levels, this rate of growth should be
achievable since: (i) fertilizer use per acre of arable land is among the
lowest in the world and the incremental output response to fertilizer use will
remain high; and (ii) Government plans for investment in irrigation and flood
protection and promotion of high yielding seed varieties will increase the
incremental productivity of fertilizer use. However, sustaining such long-
term growth rates in fertilizer sales will require that sufficient supplies
be available both nationally and at the local level in time for the cropping
seasons. This will require both increased supplies and improvements in the
transportation and distribution system.
Domestic Fertilizer Production
Existing Plants
52.       Fertilizer is produced at two urea plants at Ghorasal and Fenchuganj
and at two triple superphosphate (TSP) units at Chittagong. These plants have
a combined installed capacity of 490,000 tons per year (tpy) of urea, 13,000
tpy of ammonium sulfate and 150,000 tpy of TSP. The nitrogen production is
based on domestic natural gas and the sulfate and phosphate production on
imported sulfur, currently from Iraq, and rock phosphate, currently from
Jordan and Morocco. All of these plants are operated by Government owned
corporations.
53.       Production from these plants has been erratic and below expectations,
but has shown improvement over the past three years from 265,000 tons (40% of
capacity) in FY78 to about 425,000 tons (65% of capacity) in FY80. For FY81,
production is expected to reach over 500,000 tons (about 70% of rated capacity
for urea and 60% of capacity for TSP). A program for removing bottlenecks to
efficient production is being financed under the recently approved Fertilizer
Industry Rehabilitation Credit (1023-BD). In addition, under a UNDP-financed
project, a contract has been signed with UNICO International of Japan to
provide operations assistance to the Ghorasal and Chittagong plants and to
train managerial, supervisory, skilled technical and operating staff.
Additional Capacity
54.       Ashuganj Fertilizer Factory.  A fifth plant is under construction
at Ashuganj, designed to produce about 530,000 tpy of urea. This project,
which is being financed by IDA (Credit 527-BD), and nine other agencies,
encountered substantial initial delays and cost overruns. (For more details
on the Ashuganj project, see Report P-2568-BD of May 18, 1979). Construction
is now progressing satisfactorily and the plant is expected to be completed
within the revised time schedule (March 1981) and at a cost close to the
revised estimates presented to the Executive Directors in May 1979.
55.       Agreement has been reached with the People's Republic of China
for additional facilities for the production of 110,000 tpy of urea to be set
up at Ghorasal, with Chinese technical and financial assistance. The plant is



- 16 -
expected to come on stream by early 1984. The Government is also making
arrangements for financing construction of another large fertilizer plant
at Chittagong which is to have an installed capacity of 560,000 tpy of urea.
Donor assistance for the Chittagong project is being coordinated by ADB.
Engineering arrangements for the Chittagong urea project are expected to be
finalized by mid-1981 and the plant is scheduled to be in operation by late
1985. With the timely implementation of the above projects, Bangladesh could
have an installed capacity of 1.1 million tons of urea in 1984 and 1.63 mil-
lion tons by the end of calendar 1985. However, during the first years of
operation of the Chinese financed plant and the Chittagong plant they are
not expected to operate close to their capabilities. In FY85 domestic urea
production may only be 0.93 million tons against projected demand of 1.13
million tons and some urea import will be required. By FY87, when production
from the two plants should reach full potential, marginal amounts of urea
imports could still be required and it is unlikely that: Bangladesh will have
any exportable surplus. Even assuming that urea consumption growth rates would
slow down to 10% per year after 1985, Bangladesh would need to have a further
increase in urea capacity by about 1988. Since TSP production is based upon
imported raw materials, no new TSP capacity (beyond the present 150,000 tpy)
is recommended, and even with improved productivity of existing TSP facilities,
Bangladesh will have to continue to import substantial quantities of TSP/DAP.
Marketing and Distribution
56.        The Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC), an
autonomous agency under the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests, is respons-
ible for the procurement, distribution and marketing of agricultural inputs,
including fertilizers, seeds, irrigation equipment and diesel fuel, and
various types of agricultural machinery. Recently, measures have been taken
to increase the role of the private sector in the distribution and marketing
of fertilizer (see paragraph 58), pesticides and irrigation equipment.
57.       While the major constraint to increased fertdilizer consumption
has been inadequate supply, the fertilizer distribution system has also been
handicapped by inadequate planning and coordination and the lack of transport
and storage facilities. A fertilizer marketing study (financed under Tech-
nical Assistance Credit 409-BD), completed in 1977, provided the basis for
BADC to formulate a comprehensive and improved marketing and storage program.
This program includes a USAID-financed project for construction of additional
storage capacity and a phased program to develop greater private sector
involvement in fertilizer distribution.
58.       Until recently, BADC's marketing system limited private participa-
tion to the retail level. In 1978, backed by the USAII) Fertilizer Distri-
bution Improvement Grant, BADC introduced wholesale ancd retail competition
among fertilizer dealers--private and cooperative--in a pilot project in
the five districts of Chittagong Division which account for about a third of
total fertilizer consumption. The new system proved to be effective and was
extended to Dacca and Khulna Divisions in January 1980 and to the remaining
part of the country (i.e., Rajshahi Division) on July 1, 1980. Under the new
system, BADC sells primarily to wholesalers at primary distribution points



- 17 -
(PDPs), while retaining responsibility for sales to retailers in remote and
inaccessible thanas. BADC sells at reduced wholesale rates for large quantity
fertilizer purchases at the PDPs. USAID is financing consultants to assist
BADC in setting up and monitoring the system.
59.       The new marketing system has enjoyed a successful beginning.  This
has reduced BADC's costs of multiple handling, transport and losses. As pri-
vate dealers take over the wholesale distribution and sales at BADC's thana
warehouses are reduced, these will be converted to other uses, leaving in
operation mainly those in remote thanas which have not attracted wholesalers.
Retail prices have dropped in areas around the PDPs and appear to be at or
below official maximum prices except at a few remote locations. The new
wholesalers are moving fertilizer cheaply and effectively from surplus areas
to those with unmet demand where they sell to dealers and farmers.
60.       Since its introduction in Bangladesh, fertilizer has been subsidized
to promote its use. BADC purchases domestically produced fertilizer at
Government-fixed prices and imported fertilizer at actual CIF costs. Domestic
and imported fertilizers are pooled and marketed by BADC at a price fixed by
the Government. BADC receives a subsidy from the Government to cover the
difference between its procurement and distribution costs and its sales
revenues. The subsidy thus defined 1/ has risen rapidly in recent years (in
spite of a tripling of domestic fertilizer sales prices during the period)
and about 50% of cost was subsidized in FY78 and FY79. The burden imposed
on the Government by the subsidy is substantial, accounting in FY79 for about
75% of all development expenditures by the Ministry of Agriculture and 7% of
the Government's entire development budget. Government policy, agreed with
IDA and USAID in the context of financing fertilizer and foodgrain imports,
is to reduce the fertilizer subsidy gradually. As a first step, average
retail fertilizer prices were increased by about 28% in August 1979 and a
further increase averaging about 24% is a condition of effectiveness of the
Second Fertilizer Imports Credit (Credit 1044-BD) and is expected to be
implemented shortly. Following this price increase, the percentage of cost
subsidized for the remainder of FY81 is estimated to be reduced to about 36%.
The Government's foodgrain procurement program is also being strengthened to
ensure attractive foodgrain prices to the farmers so that fertilizer applica-
tion continues to be economic despite increases in fertilizer retail prices.
After the 24% price increase, the estimated paddy/fertilizer price ratio of
1.1 to 1 will continue to make the use of fertilizer attractive (for compari-
son, the present ratio in India is 0.60 to 1, and in the Philippines 0.80
to 1).
1/   The economic subsidy based on the CIF costs of free market imports would
be somewhat different since the CIF price of tied bilateral aid is 15-20%
above the international market price, the average ex-factory price of
domestically produced urea is about half of the CIF free market price
and the ex-factory price of domestically produced TSP is marginally
below the free market price.



- 18 -
Transportation
61.       In FY79, fertilizer was estimated to account for about 10% of total
maritime port traffic, 10% of rail freight and 12% of inland water cargo.
Fertilizer is third in volume terms after foodgrains and petroleum products.
Given the expected growth in fertilizer use, it is likely to be the second
highest volume product transported by FY85. In FY79, considering only the
primary fertilizer distribution system (from ports and factories to interme-
diate warehouses and from intermediate to district warehouses), the inland
waterways accounted for about 45% of all fertilizer movements, roads for about
28% and rail for 27%. Deficiencies in the transportation system have been a
constraint to fertilizer availability. The elimination of bottlenecks and the
improvement of coordination and contracting procedures can make a significant
difference in assuring that farmers can obtain fertilizer when required and
in reducing distribution costs.
62.       IDA staff assisted Bangladesh in utilizing a computerized linear
programming model to determine the least-cost total fertilizer distribution
pattern for the country. In general terms, there are two major distribution
patterns: one for urea (projected to be over 85% domestically produced by
1984/85) and another for imported fertilizer. Urea is distributed from the
fertilizer plants located in the eastern part of the country where the natural
gas fields are found. Imports of TSP, DAP and MP are evenly split between
Chittagong which serves the eastern side of the country and Chalna which
serves the western side.
63.       While no major shift is projected in the percentage share of fertil-
izer carried by the various transport modes (i.e., railroad, barge, and truck),
the proposed fertilizer distribution plan for 1984/85 has several major changes
from the existing fertilizer distribution system. More transport modes would
be utilized from the fertilizer factories. Urea shipments to the northwest
districts of Dinajpur, Rangpur and Bogra would go via rail. Railroad shipments
would be more efficient through utilization of the unit/block train method of
operation, whereby trains would carry only fertilizer and carry it from the
point of origin (factory or port) to, at most, two destinations.  Inland water
transport routes to the northwest would be shortened through the development
of the inland water port of Baghabari (see attached map). Finally, handling
costs for imported fertilizer would be reduced by dredging the entrance to
the Port of Chittagong (avoiding the need for lightering) and by developing
the inland water port of Shiromoni (near Khulna in the southwest) as a major
transit station for imports into western Bangladesh.
64.       The feasibiiity of bulk handling and bagging facilities for imported
fertilizer has been under review for some time, since ocean shipping and port
handling in bulk form would result in significant savings. An IFAD Fertilizer
Sector Program Loan approved in December 1979 (with responsibility for super-
vision delegated to IDA) includes financing of a pilot project at Chittagong
which, at low cost, should quickly upgrade existing jetty facilities to handle
small bulk ships, lighters, mini-bulkers and, if the river were dredged, large
bulk ships.



- 19 -
Distribution
65.       The distribution of fertilizer is accomplished primarily through
private shipping agents, carrying and forwarding (C&F) agents and carrying
contractors, all of whom will be referred to in this report as movement con-
tractors. Movement contractors are generally selected on a competitive basis
under normal public tendering procedures. BADC controls movement costs through
the terms, conditions and procedures of the movement contracts. Since almost
all fertilizer movements are handled by contract, the improvement of contract-
ing procedures is essential for developing an effective distribution plan.
66.       Some major deficiencies in the contracting system have been identi-
fied and BADC has taken several steps to improve contract procedures, with
technical assistance by USAID-financed consultants. These steps include:
introduction of a bidding system based upon percentages of estimated rates;
establishment of a claims cell to process pending claims; use of several
contractors at main distribution points (avoiding need for rebidding when
one contractor cannot fulfill a contract or carry full load); and introduction
of long-term barge/coaster handling contracts. To improve contracting proce-
dures further, BADC would implement additional improvements in contracting
procedures, including: (i) the introduction of a pilot project for contract-
ing individual routes to be started in FY81 in Comilla and Noakhali districts;
(ii) the establishment of formal prequalification procedures for contractors;
and (iii) an increase in the minimum average barge and coaster discharge rate
and an increase in the demurrage rates (Section 3.08 of the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA)).
67.       Another important aspect of the BADC distribution system involves
its contractual arrangements for the lifting of fertilizer from the fertilizer
factories. At present fertilizer from Ghorasal is contracted to be lifted
only by inland water. Under the distribution plan all three modes would be
utilized at both Ghorasal and Ashuganj. This makes it essential that lifting
contracts between BADC and the fertilizer manufacturers be developed so that
the manufacturers can plan production, storage and handling arrangements based
upon an agreed schedule of fertilizer to be lifted by each mode of transport.
The implementation of the new lifting contracts would help ensure smooth
operations, define responsibility and assess penalties in case provisions
of the contract are not met. Under a provision of the Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation Credit (1023-BD), agreements satisfactory to IDA are to be
made between BADC and the domestic fertilizer manufacturing companies. As
an initial step, BADC has prepared draft contracts which are satisfactory.
Storage
68.       The fertilizer distribution system has also been handicapped by
inadequate storage facilities. Current storage facilities total about 480,000
tons (155,000 tons BADC owned, 240,000 tons leased and 85,000 tons factory
storage). BADC has under construction 31 godowns with a total capacity of
some 50,000 tons, about half financed with its own funds and the balance under
the USAID Phase I storage construction program. While the existing capacity
is adequate in total, too much of this storage is at thana level. Storage
capacity at primary distribution points (PDPs) and transit godowns is only
160,000 tons. Substantial new PDP capacity is required to meet the needs of



-- 20 -
the new marketing system. Accordingly, a study is underway, financed under
the USAID Phase II Storage Construction Program to identify the need for and
location of additional storage and establish a National Storage Plan (NSP).
69.       At present, it is estimated that a fertilizer inventory equivalent
to about five months' consumption is necessary to ensure an adequate and unin-
terrupted supply of fertilizer to the farmers. About half of this is needed
for a minimum operating inventory to ensure availability at the local level,
while the other half would act as a buffer against irregularities in the supply
and distribution system. While carrying an inventory has costs, it is less
costly than the loss of production due to fertilizer shortages. However, to
provide stocks equivalent to five months of the FY85 offtake would require
doubling of the present storage capacity and the cost of maintaining inventory
at that volume would be prohibitive. With the improvements in fertilizer
distribution and production financed under the proposed project and other IDA
projects (paragraph 71), combined with the increased responsibLlity of private
wholesalers for distribution, necessary fertilizer stock levels can probably
be reduced. Under the Second Fertilizer Import Credit (1044-BD), it was
agreed that BADC would review with IDA by December 31, 1980 the results of
its ongoing study of stock requirements and its proposed policy for holding
stocks of each product during the Second Five-Year Plan period.
70.       During the appraisal of the proposed Project, a preliminary version
of the NSP was reviewed with BADC and the consultant, International Engineer-
ing Company (IECO). To take cognizance of the proposed distribution plan and
measures to reduce inventories mentioned above, locations and capacity origi-
nally envisaged for godowns would need to be adjusted under the NSP. Because
of the close relationship between fertilizer storage and transport, IDA would
be given the opportunity to comment on the final NSP an,d be consulted concern-
ing future storage investments (Section 3.05 of DCA).
PART V - THE PROJECT
71.       The problems affecting fertilizer production, marketing, distribution
and pricing have been a major focus of the assistance programs of IDA and other
aid donors. In addition to the currently proposed project, IDA has financed
two Fertilizer Imports Credits (944-BD of June 1979 and 1044-BD of June 1980),
the Ashuganj Fertilizer Production Project (see paragraph 54), and a Fertilizer
Industry Rehabilitation Project (see paragraph 53). Assistance to this sector
has also been provided under the First and Second Technical Assistance Credits
(409-BD and 622-BD).
72.       The framework for the proposed project was provided by the fertilizer
marketing and distribution study financed under Technical Assistance Credit
409-BD (see paragraph 57). During the preparation of the two Fertilizer
Import Credits and the Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project additional
information was gathered on the sector which contributed further to the
identification of the proposed project. The proposed project was appraised
by a mission which visited Bangladesh in February 1980. The Staff Appraisal
report (No. 2957-BD dated October 15, 1980) is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are summarized in Annex III. Negotiations for the



- 21 -
proposed credit were held in Washington in September 1980; the Bangladesh
delegation was led by Mr. M.A. Samad, Chairman BADC.
Project Objectives
73.       The overall objectives of the project are to improve the availability
of fertilizer to farmers by expediting fertilizer handling and distribution,
and to reduce the cost of fertilizer distribution. The proposed project would
achieve these objectives by rationalizing BADC's current distribution system
(through the reduction of transshipments, better handling and the use of more
transport modes from the factories), improving transport handling contracting
procedures (paragraph 66) which will allow more competition, reduce costs and
provide more dependable service, and removing major physical bottlenecks in
the fertilizer distribution system. Since the movement of fertilizer is inter-
related with the movement of other products, most of the Project components
will directly or indirectly improve the transportation system in general.
Project Description, Organization and Implementation
74.       The physical components of the project are:  port improvements--
landing and storage facilities at Baghabari and Shiromoni, channel dredging
at Chittagong and engineering studies for bulk handling facilities at Chalna;
and investments required to initiate unit/block train operations--rehabilita-
tion of railroad wagons, improvement of a rail wagon ferry service, improve-
ment of railroad sidings, construction of fertilizer storage facilities, and
establishment of a small fertilizer operations control center. The fertilizer
distribution plan also requires growth in the private sector transport capa-
city (trucks and barges/coasters). The needs of the private sector for credit
to procure adequate spares and transport equipment to fulfill the transport
needs projected under the proposed distribution plan would be met through
existing DFC channels. For instance, financing for this purpose would be
available under the Third Small-Scale Industry Project (approved September
1980) and under the proposed Second Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project which was
appraised in August 1980.
75.       The project will be carried out by BADC, BIWTA, BR, TTB and CPA
as described below. Each agency will appoint a project manager. Project
coordination and monitoring will be undertaken by a committee formed by repre-
sentatives from each of the involved agencies. This committee was established
for the preparation of the project and is headed by the Chairman of BADC. A
small project implementation unit (PIU) will be established by BADC to supervise
its portion of the project and to undertake the overall day-to-day coordination
and monitoring of the project. BR will also establish a PIU for its portion
of the project. (See Section 3.12 of the DCA). The terms of reference of the
PIU's and the coordinating committee, the proposed arrangements for monitoring
the progress of the various agencies and a detailed implementation schedule for
each component were reviewed and are satisfactory.
Port Improvements
76.       The Inland Port of Baghabari would become the fertilizer supply
center for Pabna and southern Bogra districts and could serve as a transit



- 22 -
center for the entire northwest region of the country in an emergency. Devel-
opment of this port would permit direct inland water transport from Dacca and
the fertilizer plants to replace current longer routes through Khulna. This
component would include dredging and landfill to reclaim the site, acquisition
of 2 cargo pontoons and access gangways, construction of port facilities
together with access roads and essential services and construction of a 4,000
ton fertilizer storage godown. BIWTA will be responsible for all port improve-
ments at Baghabari except for fertilizer storage facilities for which BADC will
be responsible. BIWTA has constructed bund walls to contain the landfill, and
first phase dredging and reclamation work using BIWTA dredgers was completed
during July 1980. Once the landfill has settled (6 to 8 months), the civil
works, which will be contracted, can be undertaken simultaneously for both
BIWTA and BADC.
77.       The Inland Port of Shiromoni would become the transit storage center
and the dispatch center for unit/block trains of imported fertilizer on the
broad gauge system to the northwestern districts. Handling costs and delays
due to congestion will be reduced substantially from those prevailing at the
current general port facilities at Khulna. By FY85 it is estimated that about
400,000 tons per year of fertilizer will be moved through Shiromoni. This
component will include construction of 14,000 tons of fertilizer storage, pro-
vision of two pontoons with access ramps to enable 1,500 tons of fertilizer
per day to be off-loaded, access roads, a rail spur, and other ancillary facil-
ities. BADC will be responsible for the implementation of the improvements
at Shiromoni other than the rail connection to be undertaken by BR.
78.       Channel Dredging at Chittagong.  By FY85, about 500,000 tons of fer-
tilizer (TSP, DAP and MP) would be imported at Chittagong annually in addition
to other products. Most of the products are presently lightered at the port
of Chittagong, because the outer bar at the mouth of the river (caused by
disposition of littoral drift up the coast) limits the maximum cargo which a
ship can bring into the port to about 12,000 tons. Under the project, it is
proposed to carry out test dredging and to slightly widen the Gupta Bend. The
test dredging would be undertaken during a period of approximately 12 months
so as to monitor the rate of siltation. These measures, which are in line
with the overall port development alternatives being considered by GOB, will
allow ships to enter the port with cargoes of up to about 18,000 tons. Super-
vision services and training of CPA dredging crews and hydrographic staff will
be included as part of the project. CPA will be responsible for the dredging
at Chittagong. Bidding documents have been prepared and are now being reviewed
by IDA. Pre-qualification procedures of contractors 1have already been ini-
tiated. Bids are expected to be received and evaluated during January/February
1981. CPA is aiming at award of contract and commencement of dredging in
March 1981, before the monsoon season. However, this schedule is very tight
and start of dredging in late 1981, after the monsoon, is more likely. CPA
would consult with IDA seven months after completion of the initial dredging
concerning the results of its monitoring of siltation of the channel and the
proposed program for maintenance of the channel (Section 3.13 of the DCA).
79.       Chalna.  By FY85, over 500,000 tons of fertilizer is expected to
be imported through Chalna. Siltation is also occurring at this port both
at the outer bar and near the newly constructed berths. A study financed



- 23 -
under IDA Technical Assistance Credits 622-BD and 872-BD is presently review-
ing the condition of the Pussur River and a report is expected by December
1980. Under the currently proposed project, BADC, in consultation with the
Port of Chalna Authority, would commission studies to investigate various
lower cost methods for bulk unloading of fertilizer, taking into account the
results of the hydrological studies. In addition, financing would be included
for final engineering studies in the case that a bulk fertilizer handling
facility is warranted.
Unit/Block Train Operations
80.       The establishment of unit/block train operations for the movement
of fertilizer will provide a cheaper and more reliable service to BADC, while
allowing better utilization of BR's motive power and rolling stock on both
broad and meter gauge from the fertilizer factories and ports to specific pri-
mary distribution points in Northern Bangladesh. The turnaround time of both
wagons and locomotives will be sharply reduced and the railroad's capacity
for carrying fertilizer will be increased. BR will be responsible for the
implementation of the unit/block train operations. A letter of understanding
which contains the salient points concerning the unit/block train operations
has been exchanged between BR and BADC. In order to finalize the details
concerning the schedules, services, performance goals and related operating
costs, trial unit/block train operations from the Ghorasal or Ashuganj factory
will be initiated by August 31, 1981. About six man-months of technical
assistance will be provided in order to assist in the formation of the unit
train system, and the initiation of the trial runs. A contract between BADC
and BR covering the detailed arrangements for operations will be completed by
October 31, 1981 (Section 3.09 of DCA).
81.       Wagon Rehabilitation.  As part of the establishment of unit/block
train operations about 600 currently unserviceable wagons would be rehabili-
tated at BR's Saidpur workshop. This work is expected to be carried out at
an average rate of 30 units per month beginning in June 1981. BR is to continue
to maintain this fleet so as to ensure that no less than 85% availability of
this fleet is maintained. BADC would be responsible for the security of the
dedicated wagons. The rehabilitated wagons would be reserved for fertilizer
unit train operations (Section 4.03 of DCA).
82.      The wagon ferry service across the Jamuna River at Bahadurabad/
Tistamukh Ghat has been operating for more than half a century and until
recently, 300 wagons per day (both ways) were being ferried over the Ghat.
It has now become a serious bottleneck handling only 120 wagon crossings per
day. The removal of this bottleneck would permit direct rail shipments from
fertilizer plants to the Northern Region, avoiding 200 miles of additional
transport curently required to avoid this ferry crossing. BR will implement
the ferry improvements including improvements in the maintenance and coor-
dination of the ferry operation. As a first step toward such improvement BR
would reorganize management of the ferry service so as to provide clearly
defined responsibility for the operational control of the rail, marine, civil
works and maintenance of the ferry operations from Dewanganj Bazar to Bonapara.
A tug would be rehabilitated, a new barge procured, an existing barge converted
into a small workshop facility, and provision has been made for communication
equipment, pre-fabricated structures for storing equipment and staff housing.



- 24 -
In addition, BR would use recently acquired diesel shunters to replace the
existing inefficient shunters. A timetable for improving organization and
management and placing diesel shunters on the ferry service is given in
Section 3.10 of the DCA.
83.       Fertilizer Storage Facilities.  Two fertilizer storage facilities
with capacity totaling about 14,000 tons will be constructed at Rajshahi and
Natore. These facilities in northwestern Bangladesh will be main distribution
points for the unit train system and will serve both as F'DP's for the surround-
ing area, and as transit storage for shipment by road to other storage points.
(Additional storage to facilitate the unit train system is included as compon-
ents of the Baghabari and Shiromoni port components described in paragraphs 76
and 77). Construction of storage is planned over a two and a half year period
beginning during the FY82 dry season. BADC will be responsible for storage
construction, which would be undertaken by contractors. Included under the
project are consultants services to assist in supervision of construction and
in improving fertilizer warehouse management and inventory control practices.
84.       Rail Siding Improvements.  The project provides for construction
or lengthening of rail sidings at the origin stations to accommodate 60 wagons
at one time, reducing the need for shunting. Two new tracks will be construc-
ted at Ghorasal and one at the Ashuganj fertilizer factory. Rail sidings will
also be constructed at the Rajshahi and Natore storage facilities. Land acqui-
sition and/or right-of-way permission procedures have already been initiated
by BADC and BR. The procurement and laying of the track will be undertaken by
BR under an agreement between BADC and BR. In some cases, however, the con-
struction of the embankment for the new sidings may be undertaken by contract.
85.       Operations Control Center (OCC).  In order to ensure proper coordin-
ation and control of the rail operations, an Operations Control Center (OCC)
would be established, to be operated by officers of both BR and BADC. To ensure
the proper functioning of the OCC adequate communications must be established
between BADC and the fertilizer factories, ports and major distribution ware-
houses, where the unit/block trains will operate. For tlhis purpose, ample and
reliable telecommunication equipment would be provided under the project. The
Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board (TTB) would provide and maintain the
necessary number of channels for use by the OCC (Section 3.11 of DCA). The
OCC would be located at BR's Dacca Division headquarters. A memorandum of
understanding between BADC, BR, and TTB indicating major areas of responsibility
has been signed, which provides for TTB procurement and maintenance of OCC
equipment on behalf of BR.
Cost Estimates
86.       The total cost of the project (including about US$6.9 million of
taxes and duties) is estimated at US$40.8 million equivalent, with a foreign
exchange component of US$20.0 million equivalent. The cost estimates for
civil works are based on final engineering. Estimates for equipment are based
on recent prices for similar items and for technical assistance on recent
proposals under similar circumstances. The total cost of providing 150 man-
months of technical assistance for initiating unit trairn operations, final
engineering of bulk handling facilities at the port of Chalna, supervision



- 25 -
of warehouse construction and improvement in BADC warehouse ;nanagement and
inventory control practices is estimated to be about US$2,000,000. The
average man-month cost including salary, fees, international travel and
subsistence would be about US$9,500. A physical contingency of 5% has been
added on equipment and warehouse construction and 10% on other items except
land acquisition at Baghabari.  For foreign exchange items,   -ual price
increases starting at 10.5% in 1980 and declining to 7% in 1987 have been
allowed. On local cost a flat 10% annual increase has been allo;-led.
Financing
87.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 19.1 million (equivalent to US$25
million) would finance all foreign exchange costs plus about US$5.0 million
equivalent of local costs, or about 74% of the total cost excluding taxes and
duties. Retroactive financing of up to US$0.5 million is proposed for the
landfill works at the port of Baghabari (see paragraph 76) to cover expendi-
tures incurred after April 1, 1980, since the landfill has to settle for six
to eight months prior to any construction. The Government would finance the
remaining costs, estimated to be about US$15.8 million equivalent, including
US$6.9 million for taxes and duties. Government approval of the Project
Proformas required to authorize the Government contribution to the project
would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit (Section 5.0(b) of DCA).
88.       The portion of the credit allocated to BR (US$6.8 million equiv-
alent), l1 CPA (US$5.9 million), and BADC (US$9.6 million) 2/ will be onlent
to these agencies on IDA terms. The portion of the Credit aliocated to BIWTA
(US$1.4 million) will be provided as a grant. This is acceptable given (i)
the experimental nature of the dredging program to be financed for CPA, (ii)
the nature of the proposed railway financing which is primarily intended to
improve services provided to BADC for fertilizer and (iii) the dependence of
BADC and BIWTA upon annual GOB budgetary allocations for carrying out their
programs. The completion of project financing arrangements acceptable to
IDA will be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(a) of DCA).
Procurement and Disbursement
89.       Port Improvement and Fertilizer Storage Facilities.   All civil
works for these components, except for test dredging at Chitcagong and the
land reclamation works at Baghabari, will be carried out by local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures which have been reviewed and are acceptable to IDA.
These works are small and would not be of interest to an international con-
tractor; however, international contractors already working in Bangladesh
are eligible to compete under local bidding procedures. The land reclamation
at Baghabari is being undertaken by force account utilizing BIWTA's dredgers.
The test dredging would be awarded according to international competitive
bidding (ICB).
1/   This figure and subsequent figures for allocation to agencies excludes
US$1.3 million of unallocated contingencies.
2/   This includes about US$2.2 million for railway sidings to be constructed
by BR on behalf of BADC.



- 26 -
90.       Unit/Block Trains.  The rehabilitation of the railroad wagons would
be undertaken by BR under force account. Procurement of materials and tools
for the workshop for the rehabilitation of the wagons would be in accordance
with ICB procedures. The new ferry wagon barge would be procured through ICB.
The contracts for rehabilitation of the existing ferry barge into a workshop
barge would be awarded in accordance with LCB procedures, with equipment for
the workshop barge being procured through ICB. Since the tug was specially
designed for shallow draft operations required at this site, its rehabilitation
would be done by the original manufacturer on a contract basis. Construction
of railway sidings and spurs would be carried out by BR under arrangements
between BADC and BR satisfactory to IDA. Telecommunications equipment for the
ferry crossing (estimated to cost about US$75,000) would be procured through
negotiated contracts with a supplier of similar equipment to BR, to ensure
equipment compatibility and ease of maintenance. Telecommunications equip-
ment for the Operations Control Center would be procured through ICB.
91.       Before an award is made, IDA will review all contracts and related
documentation for civil works estimated to cost more than US$200,000 and for
goods estimated to cost more than US$50,000. Equipment, materials, spare
parts and tools with unit prices not exceeding the equivalent of US$25,000
may be procured in accordance with GOB's procurement procedures satisfactory
to the Association, provided the aggregate expenditure on items so procured
does not exceed the equivalent of US$300,000.
Disbursements
92.       The proposed credit would be disbursed against:  100% of foreign
expenditures and 50% of local expenditures for civil works for BIWTA and for
BADC warehouses and for rehabilitation of the railway barge and tug; 100% of
foreign expenditures for CPA civil works; 55% of total expenditure for rail-
way sidings and spurs; 100% of foreign expenditures or local expenditures (ex
factory) and 50% of other local expenditures for equipment, spare parts, and
materials; and 100% of expenditures for consultant services and specialists.
All disbursements would be fully documented. For civil works executed by
force account, disbursement would be against certificates of expenditure.
The documentation for such certificates would be retained by the implementing
agency and made available for inspection during supervision missions.
Project Benefits and Risks
93.       Direct benefits from the proposed project would accrue mainly in
the form of transport and handling cost savings. Additional benefits would
accrue in terms of increased reliability of fertilizer supplies and a relative
reduction of storage facilities and buffer stocks for a given level of fertil-
izer demand as compared with the situation without the lproject. The benefits
from the proposed project would be widely distributed. The increased use of
fertilizer which the project would facilitate would benefit all sizes of farms
and increased agricultural production would tend to lower foodgrain cost to
the population of Bangladesh. Increased availability of fertilizer usually
benefits the small farmer most, as in times of scarcity available fertilizer
is likely to reach the larger farmer in disproportionately large amounts.



- 27 -
94.       Economic return estimates have been made separately for the main
subcomponents of port improvements at Baghabari (37%), Shiromoni (50%) and
Chittagong (23%), the unit/block train operations (33%), the Rajshahi and
Natore fertilizer storage facilities (24%), and the wagon ferry improvements
(38%). Where appropriate, benefits to other traffic besides that of fertilizer
have been included. A weighted average economic rate of return of about 33%
for the entire project is estimated based on an evaluation of about 96% of
project costs for which benefits have been quantified.
95.       A sensitivity analysis based on reduced benefits and increased costs
for each component has been performed. For the component with the lowest rate
of return under the sensitivity analysis assumptions (Chittagong dredging
assuming 100% increase in maintenance costs) the rate of return was still 13%.
Other components showed rates of return above 15% even on the sensitivity
analysis assumptions. The returns on the individual components are high due
to the debottlenecking nature of the investments. For the same reason, the
risks are considered to be minimal. The main risk for the experimental
dredging component is that siltation of the dredged channel could be excessive,
i.e., maintenance cost would exceed the benefits obtained from reduced light-
erage of cargo. Actual dredging cost would have to increase by 200% for this
to happen. Due to the number of agencies involved, inadequate coordination
could cause delays. This risk will be reduced through the agreed coordination
mechanisms and the detailed implementation schedule established for each compo-
nent (paragraph 75). Even with a delay of one year in project completion, the
average rate of return would still be 27%.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
96.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
97.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit would be
(i) approval of the project proformas (paragraph 87); and (ii) completion of
the project financing arrangements (paragraph 88).
98.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 28 -
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
99.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Roberi: S. McNamara
President
December 31, 1980



- 29 -
Ainex I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    -  MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            144.0                                 MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME                 MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      97.3               1960  Ab   1970 Ab ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC              ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   40.0        60.0      90.0              197.9                     894.8
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUJIVALENT)       ..        32.O0e    43.0               166.0                    842.4
POPlLATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     53.2         68.1      84.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5.1           7.6      10.4               20.8                      39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      143.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        314.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      369.0        473.0     588.0              193.2                     376.1
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    540.0        683.0     871.0              409.6                   2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.3        46.4       42.9               42.0                     40.4
15-64 YRS.                         52.5        51.0      54.4                55.0                     56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.2         2.6        2.7                3.0                      3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4          2.5       2.7                2.2                       2.4
URBAN                              3.9          6.5       6.9                3.9                      4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TROUSAND)     51.0         50.0      46.0               37.4                      28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     25.0         25.0      17.6               14.6                       7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.5          3.1       3.2                2.6                       1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        345.6     903.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..       8.9               15.6                      39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         106.0        101.0      89.0              101.4                     116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMEh2TS)                  85.0        85.0       75.0               92.4                     108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          43.0        43.0       36.0               49.8                      60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        9.0         9.0        6.4               12.0                     18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     29.0         25.0      23.0               17.9                       5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTR (YEARS)    40.0        40.0       47.0               50.8                      63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             *-        153.0     139.0                 ..                     52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        45.0      53.0               30.2                      42.4
URBAN                               ..         13.0      15.0               66.0                      62.1
RURAL                               ..         47.0      55.0               20.0                      29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          6.0       5.0               17.7                      52.8
URBAN                               ..          ..       40.0               71.3                      71.1
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..                 ..                      42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICTAN              ..      8430.0/c  9260.0              6322.7                   4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..     7985O.0oc 42080.0              9459.0                   2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                        6610.0/d  5490.0             1758.4                     819.4
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..              502.9
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..            10524.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..         ..                  .                      28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                                ..         ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         ..
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..
RURAL                                ..         ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..        ..                 ..                        .
URBAN                               ..          3.0/       ..
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..



- 30 -                                                   Annex I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
-  MoST RECENT ESTTMATE).A
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME                  MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC                ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLhENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 47.0         61.0       81.0                80.9                      98.6
MALE                  66.0         80.0      103.0                 94.3                     99.2
FEMALE                26.0         42.0       58.0                 66.7                     97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   8.0         19.0       23.0                26.6                      55.5
MALE                  14.0         30.0       33.0                34.8                      60.7
FEMALE                 1.0          8.0       11.0                 18.2                     49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)   1.0            1.0        1.0                  9.9                      13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               ..         49.0       55.0                41.1                      34.6
SECONDARY                             ..         26.0       24.0                20.5                      28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          21.6]j         ..      26.0                 40.9                      85.8
CONSUhPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..         0.4        0.4                  1.8                      9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND                                                       25.8                     118.9
POPULATION                             ..         6.0       14.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..        0.4                 2.4                      39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..          ..        5.0                 13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..                   ..                      4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    18515.0        23666.8   31000.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    15.2         16.5       17.0                29.4                      36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               86.8         85.9       74.0                 70.5                     51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.3          3.5       11.0                11.6                      21.9
PARTICIPAIION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.0         34.6       34.4                 37.9                      39.1
MALE                                  58.7         55.8       55.3                 51.3                     48.5
FEMALE                                 11.4        11.8       12.1                 23.7                     29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.3          1.4       1.4                  1.2                       1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.31&         16.7h        .
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44-5/R         42.3/h    38.0/i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9_/          7.9/h      8.0/i.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9/g         19.6/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ES?:IMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..      139.0               107.8
RURAL                                  ..          ..      111.0                86.5                     192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                   ..                    182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..          ..       86.0                46.2
RURAL                                  ..          ..       86.0                51.7                      33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /d Government hospital establishnments only;  /e 1973;
/f 1962; /g 1963-64; /h 1966-67; /i Estimated percent of national income.
April, 1980



- 31 -Ane
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                                  Page    3
N-ata    Airvhagh ta data arIdaw   iri  so.rees  get.r. Sly jdged  the  -tos  author-itaiv   aad rel orber, it ab.id alto  berated that they  -a  .QI br inIer-
vaiuaaloaeptaha   eiaae  t  he  arkofttadaadtad defititec   atd  .a.tep.   used by difterra   crat.erierit -artletlg the dat.  The dat  ate a.tee-.
data~~~                            ~         ~ ai-sntottes    ora   etb   teis d -t reetheg ras of ate "    I'ladicea. ooahr -ith<t eIarn ge   era avIh   atri-ol Err h-ra gth   vle
'he II-Y ..d r.f.Fealtetca  Eeiat   ld   y-3ue.,3                                                     tro  -Fta-.et   Satl
ru rte 1b tote   Ianrse    -Peif    n a ltrind Beak, tion  197-E  ha.E.         90.vilbei..lrae   ert    eaoladtaittd   aytltdt
f"   -?-, P----, -rk.r a.d kil-ne.  ~         ~            ~            by a  least-re ybtsrlie.   ttablietee.t. ri vtdtg  ytitreally  rstadii
aidt, lysrlt   Fetrloat   rertea   gas ash bae_-, eerJ                                                             IIes   idg..esl   ir  rnerdaeyreaal    tiote  by"   a  Ai at(a   ya  aic .ttit
volt t        irlodr  woo riiocy -   -ett 1 atdiyet -eherd  taaytpl,l andrea
EOFRLYTCOtSU1071 INTA PETATISTIII ..I..                                                                            .elr.          --,IlyI"
Tra    aeeio      l-erellat        sa  JeStn If   lrBS             I  .97.ai198              usen    et varet l Ne    - Ntali ruibe   Prat  dsisgo  ta_id atdicor0
Othr  ipiatatE eeretattotl)-   ati  a  eha  to-r total FaFolotfohth;ee   I  ldehel'   n     dt
d itfeatie;          -01,190  a1id-197t dora                                                    ansea16ge97,..  17  SIter sfSeekl.ress peenn _T '  I`utehaldib, -caro   oree  ed rnal
Farvlttaa   roectata                                                Ahanorald  cttlas  if agroiFat tttasdialt se stoe  ilteg 9lytsI
Freaavioin  ear  000- feese  paylsenn  aijeelta   se  bead o  195       an  their eat  seal.) 5l boarde  orpn ldee  ayo __.y.teve bt. p-ildedi
least, .nd E  .t.a li. reetcyaoeIfaJe1 as 77.N  yeses.   he toot-                    hOssi les  erep. atIre.y.  .nt.  lets  _tideee nd                asertes
reor  feieetl_   t Mi-eac  alloe bns  hrt       eteaseiBdrieS                                                                                        _diaedprt
salts  trstyct   this it oCh-eedol    ftrfriittae    eeii o                                   Ad sated tcridrtt.R.tIo
tPI oaeet  ee   tea    Int reyedrt'itirr,  - ehsorb,  gerata                                    etar  tebiahl    -      f toal    -l avd  ira i - I Ceas  total, vle o   teag
aStrtrpaesbul   trl.    h   tnltr pIylata"tir  na                                      erd  l1I'ellfal  ages At she ar dory  leve  as  .yetcet egt  itfrdspdir
carsoed   r  he   ats o  te yoj itrd   checettiis.  of' the           - yd Ianpttr    rolog                   ieoea It;oral   rlderide    gdhl
ivteyertoln      n  the er  frae tditr it"t -   feeril IIst t,ee yll ts                     yershu   odese   Car Otieat  sgrpatyir-                        ea-tn;  a
Yearstarrna    y -ieata birthebd-Teya  abetata                    Piutr pasaien.             minc-er tre   ypi   ar  beSo  atsee.       h  atfcia   saa   Aft.          I
nter hoc beet etacied.                                             leresdary  ethos  -" toar       mt   s   eae-Cear   sosa   eadt
er  t.  t   legrialtfer  lord-It Isetad  as shone  fo  agniralteral l-td                       aI tent1
rely.       tiity   a-aItSnsslth..                                       inrelpren   Ierata  aeraclory n-pteratlto                                              atttit
Coyaloiar AB  StIrdrrore   yeInvt) _-, ChIdre   SR-l  yrra,   werkieg-ogerf (r-e              A      t.... de tErl  ia,idse              rsiryar    shlt  npdt  idp
hyEars., andr' r hetie    _tyersd -e  tr ee) as, p        -rrtees ti- f mI-er,  itPt                eryo   adysceesa   aidr    ntttot
loio lA, 17.adIE    ae                                                                    C-yal- tr Itr  ratliog -   ithuo andr JseReador   -  os        rtdet    raiiI
f...oie  leon   Ose)_eet -. tettal -  ms    eth_ar   tttl  i-ylayae   eede   lnl    iie   b   eteceItahr    e
yer d pla tes  een90-0,160E,  nd1707.                                                               eee-edvglnes
Ferlotia    tnhlt   E etf-abs-nelgat terteeI  at grheth OtOIdl    crayrt   yr r-Lieaesst   alen   edsdtie
loIhabaa  tr 19 i0-6 -, 190-l  anh..-S.s.pretgee   aa...t   asale    gd10yanan    nt
Crd    ichRt   nt  hoed   -'nI" iv    irh   Fe                     ead   tsd's
her     11 vo 2al  hpedbeiveh pr -r St3 c   ,t--Iteyrsre    rse   ag-secfE   fe-              NaI  Rereinnrt Inst rh It                         I tul )-, At  ryeno rtetaier  tr  -d-
ofturrb-auvr     deedr_s stOe upIfastin of nafesaJlwtol  yraI            Eg pegam.            as  h  eter; dtsfa  rec-tl yta                 nay cac hr_ hoptilt stie moat
lear                                                                        Iin~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eaea I.rit   birnuatItt Sy e aiidyphtfsS-  bo  the averag I rlta
Eieri  tend Pr Pdlctiac  iae faults  )h-7The0)  y         dtatye.ayc hscea -issat.'aRly apepl insetes  tewpire',deined at a                                           petaic t p
yrdricei.       l   odceoiia               rdttneeoeehseedeatd  feeddtad                         irete.     erre.riari   at re fodiig  g-serl teasI. It-ta  -esdes
Pe   q roleeda  yeary b    paeit i. Cerri lep er - e kiarygssd ( e0h.g.. srareata              probe"daily' Stqicappear  at1 least   oar tusepe steedR. ,."' I
cat Idatso)ethae  dbeadriaitttnt   egesfeed                                               Cnsidhcaletcoceoa    aItayt   Tet-iend  o  thetithe.r at
te  ae  nleed.   great  peoria   o   sa   rece   I  hte    t          iner   el  dr1     gth2     yarttridcgdlsaatte   drtac-Isai.resat
oasnta- e   used 1tclead    ern-esaing, and  psaest-disceIfatiss.,- Raqapr-                     Dtitas  nnros   siee   seIeI                     I eea         9d  17   s
haebodlve;lRth  1970, and 1977 data                                                           tithing  as paretegre  af toaI        a      ot;161   90ed17   aa
Feerayrs  sypv o  yrceinr estt. pe  dAy) -  9ea tah raitr.t at pntiyid-                 pedstey (aret)-lbo   er  it d               iing, y    b    Iscrr ic ..irt,   nosathe
0cyieaccat-      I tntal  reereiseearalsend by 010   eed    o   iitt17 7--pd197  dita.
iuln    y 950e 60, e    ht 1 11  gotsol   eaia  yert.Sersad                                  trvn    ae    r   ae tda   ea    ae    n  fett le_labor  da'rt at"
Cree carto Rten(ets  suhea  fee  a .tInl ai- nam1e -Protein.. scyd  at fid-yAr-                     st e      -are fr It atitoal    .l   .,   ti 
rtiv-d Irt  tiel  ac" d eels dsigu. e.                a.16-I   90ad17    aa                    riselsednvst                      ai   fyplteadr1   t   1adoe
aCed Ire   I-u yre       h. vi enido    in iIs 5.th  pteur   ta     eIf dnsit-yleg teuc-               TO
trrsdiacrie   de  li  rabie; 195, 190 ta  197  data.                                         INCOOR9 rIsTrIslp                                                                    I
are -E inectara  r at Birth     I-bieroge n-ghbre o  yIr  et.  lft .  i                       lysret_   ,ibst0   eeet2aset2  pret  adprtn    Oy're
orherrh   lpRdO ti, 190     id iI  dare.If    f
0rigoye _t_oacond lire          .   _a-Id.,i   91  90   n bln.197oedAelteFvrc   nae  ee   (O   e  netS                                                               es  aidral-
F-lroranta            ,,,t          A..  rathitr..e... C  ate IIer) . - Itit .. ce er, usf ret.l-Abecd ee-avtt  Israr ...          rl- it that  inee 'televe  helt    tIrf tdeiti
prrevaea  t teS  reyrtie  oylaian.    r  v  rha  ieea  e"Ia                  -ara  refftite   favrt  trea.. levelta one-chib   at. sp-bae ipee..
dont-or  to arrd       giettttoepr  a                      a   nfthn   thep                    and.. nea p-i peeren  ith.raaypaplaroc)sh   st.draal  she  ar          Iaboae y- r'
FO eDllo' vTictori   __otdieyda.,   rg.1.i.                                                                                                                T     I       nef-
'n-  oecet P%y,irono Ireer  if.  aatoia6 sar-trt Ill..rs~
t-c y,rriandeiilr   rardltota



- 32 -
ANNEX I
Page 4
BANGLADESR
ECONOMIC INICATORS
Population:           89.5 milliOn  (July  1983))
GNP Per Capita:       US$90 (FY80)
Amount             Average Annual Increase (8)        Share of GDP at Market Prices (Z)
(million US$            (in constant FY75 prices)_               (in current prices)
Indicator                              in current prices)
FY79              FY60-70   PY70-75   FY75-80   FY60          FY70       FY75       FY80 /a
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product Lb                      9,512.5                 4.0       -0.6        6.3    100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0
Agriculture lb                               5,174.0                 3.1      -1.3         4.3     59.9       56.9       63.6       51.9
Industry Lb                                 1,170.2                 7.9       -3.2        8.9       7.7        9.6        8.6       12.5
Services Lb                                 3,168.3                 4.9        3.3        6.6      30.1       30.0       25.0       28.8
Consumption                                    9,187.5                 4.4       -0.7        6.7     92.4       92.8      100.0      102.1
Gross investment                               1,330.0                10.9     -10.9        13.5       6.9      11.3         7.0      15.0
Exports of goods & nfs                           603.0                 0.8     -11.7         4.3     10.0         8.3       3.1         7.1
Imports of goods & nfs                         1,603.0                 8.8     -12.0       14.4        9.3      12.5       10.1       24.3
Gross national savings                           465.0                26.5     -17.7         ...      0.9        6.1        0.9       -0.4
Composition of Merchandise Trade (Z)
(in current prices)
FY73        FY75      FY79      FY80
MERCHANDISE TrE
Merchandise exports                              603.0                                              100.0       100.0      100.0    100.0
Primary                                        217.0                                               41.9        31.4       36.0      30.1
Manufactures                                   386.0                                               58.1        68.6       64.0      69.9
Merchandise inports                            1,603.0                                              100.0       100.0      100.0    100.0
Food                                           250.0                                               44.1        42.2       15.6      29.5
Petroleum                                      186.0                                                3.2        11.1       11.6      17.6
Machinery & equipment                          382.0                                               13.8         9.6       23.8      25.8
Other                                          785.0                                               38.9        37.1       49.0      27.1
FY74         FY75         FY76         FY77         FY78         FY79
PRICES AND TERMtS OF TRADE (1972/73-100)
GDP deflator
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                  7.9661       8.8759       14.8521      15.4667      15.1215      15.2193
Export price index                                       104.6         132.9        108.7        117.7        136.7        168.9
Import price index                                       156.9         215.4        195.8        189.1        180.2        214.2
Terms of trade index                                       66.7         61.7         55.5         62.2         75.8         78.9
As Z GDP
(at current prices)
FY73         FY75         FY77         FY79
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                         5.0          5.4          9.5         10.3
Current expenditure                                                     6.5          4.5          7.8          7.8
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                             -1.5         +0.9         +1.7         +2.6
Capital expenditure                                                     8.8          3.1          9.8         11.4
Foreign financing                                                       7.1          2.4          7.8          8.5
1960-70       1970-75       1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (Z)                                                         4.2          -0.7             5.7
GNP per capita growth rate (Z)                                              1.5          -3.3             3.0
Energy consumption growth rate (Z)
/a At constant FY78 prices.
Lb  At market pxices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
.   not available
- not applicable
ASADD
May 1, 1980



- 33 -
P'3' 5
BAWSCE OF FAWENTS  E.YTERNAI CAPITA! ASD DEBT
(a.illor USS i* torrent price.)
FY74       FY75      FY76       FY77       FY78       F-79       FY80       FY81       FY02       Fy83
BALANCE OF PAY9fENTS
vet e-port. of good. 4. Cervies                            -565.7    .696.4    -847.4    -140.3    -786.0    -865.0    -1610.0   -1718.0   -2057.0   -2271.0
ltporte of good. & eon-te.                                 418.6      502.7      507.6      610.0      643.0      819.0       993.0    1123.0    1176.0    1276.0
Import         d of gonde 6 nero4nea                       984.3    1199.1    1355.0        950.3    1429.0    1684.0       2603.0    2841.0    3233.0    3547.0
Set transfer,                                                                                      
yorrent .-o-t balan-e                                        -565.7    -696.4    .847.4    -340.3    -786.0    -865.0    -1610.0   -1718.0   .'057.0   -2271.0
D-r-nt private tn-- rt                                          -          -         -          -         12.0       15.0        20.0       25.0      30.0       35.0
MLT. lon.  (net                                               274.4     508.2      502.9      246.0      399.0      465.4       861.5      950.0      995.0    1145.0
Crant. f Oranr-114e f1oe-                                    347.0      395.6      244.3      229.7      386.1      495.2       504.5      810.0     950.0    1100.0
Gth-r cap-tal flo   (neOt                                       2.0    -358.8      153.1    -216.1        14.0       13.4        88.0     -45.0      153.0       59.0
.l e inr tD ennrv.. (- ' 1nCrdea...                           -57.8      151.3     -53.1       80.7      -25.2    -124.0        136.0      -22.0     -71.0      -50.0
:crernrlional recervee  en(d of period)                      115.0      266.3      213.2      293.9      268.7      393.0       257.0      279.0     350.0      400.0
00.0erv.  *- eo-tha of tiporte of neat 7e-r                    1.15      2.36       2.69       2.47       1.91       1.81        1.09       1.04      1.18       1.26
PY74      9Y75       FY78       FY77      Fn78        FY79
SROSS 3 ISBURSUfE.STS
Offtci, g-rant.                                                347.0     395.6      244.5      229.7      386.1      495.2
Gross disb-rso -enra of M..T IlOa.                             285.1     529.1      569.3      276.1      434.4      520.8
Cotneosional                                                   201.5     468.0      538.9      244.7      399.8      500.3
81 later-l                                                    82.4      305.6      357.3      117.3      237.3      226.8
.DA                                                           51.0      112.5      128.2       86.1       88.2      152.5
Dtbrc  nsltiltr-l                                             8 68.1     49.9       53.4       41.3       74.3      121.0
iinn-tonceao8onal                                              83.7       61.2       30.5       31.5       34.5       20.4
Offtal  7aport tr-dit.                                        40.6       45.3       16.5        4.2        1.7        3.3
3ther _ tiateral                                              5.4        0.3        1.2        0.5        0.5        0.1
Private                                                       37.7       15.6       12.8       26.8       32.3       17.3
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt ontat-ndi.g ad dleb.r.ed (and of period)                 490.6    1359.2    1806.5    2068 1    2581.8    3005.1
Off,ict1                                                     383.3    1240.9    1701.8    1951.8    2442.3    Z856.4
I80.                                                           -        54.9       54.9       54.9       54.9       54.9
IDA                                                         105.6      255.3      379.8      465.9     554.2      706.7
Other                                                       277.7      930.7    1267.1    1431.0    1833.3    2094.8
Pretat.                                                      107.3      118.3      104.7      116.3      139.4      148.7
Undiabore-d Debt                                              590.2    1033.2       952.7    1011.0    1316.2    1647.5
DEBT SERVICE
Tontl d.bt a-rvin- paynt.                                       18.0      31.0       88.3       58.5       67.4       95.4
Inter-t                                                        7.3       10.1       21.9       28.4       32.1      40.1
PaY Dere a  7.  nporto                                          4.3        6.2       17.4        9.6       10.5       11.6
paY_Dt  ac 7. S MP                                               0.2        0.3        1.3       0.9        0.9        1.2
Averag. int-ret ratro n n; -an- (7.)                             3.2        2.0        1.7        1.6       1.5        1.7
Offt. ll                                                        2.9        2.0        1.6       1.5        1.4        1.6
PrOrate                                                        4.6         2.3       7.S        6.4        6.2        6.1
Av-rage mat-riri of -N  ioana (Y.re)                            25.7       35.5      41.7       40.1       37.8       34.7
Offtioo1                                                       28.3      35.8       42.2       40.8       38.1       35.1
private                                                        13.4      15.2       11.3       11.0        9.5       14.8
0a.71 35OUP EXPOSURE C7.7
18RD 0OD 'total DOD                                             -         4.         3.0         2.6       2.1         1.8
70RD dOim-rmentottotal groat di .bvrs                           -                                  
1BRD dnbI noc-:totst   debt Cervlre                                                  1.8         5.6       5.0         4
'DA DOD .otal DOD                                               21.5     18.7       21.0        22.5      :1.4        23.5
IDA 0iob-r-n.t/total gro",  di-b-re eto                         17.8     21.2       22.5        31.1      20.3        29.2
DA -ebt Iart-oerotal dabt *ervlta                               1.1      3.2         2.4        5.2       5.6         4.6
.40 R of Debt 20retnndln9
t ,50d of FY79
Matrtrf n struCtre of debt -ntstandtng 7.1
Oac.rIv::e  no  wth: fII  vt nrs                                                       .23
.rur-,o;ea d ..... e nrhcn  10 oears12'
Sr rr rs err,r-..r of  ebr ou-otandlno '71
ASADD
May 1, 1980



- 34 -                   ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of November 30, 1980)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                            US$ Million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower           Purpose                  Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 15 credits fully disbursed                    54.9    536.98       -
340    1972   Bangladesh   Chandpur Irrigation II
(replaces Credit No.
184-PAK of 1970)                      13.00     0.02
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                              14.00     1.30
343    1972   Bangladesh   Telecommunications (re-
places part of Credit
No. 145-PAK of 1969)                   7.30     0.03
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                 21.00     2.97
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                   25.00     2.97
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                               7.50     3.31
487    1974   Bangladesh   Telecommunications II                    20.00      7.46
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                      62.00      8.40
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                               15.00      5.45
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                       27.00    16.73
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                     22.00    11.42
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training           12.00     6.38
622    1976   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                    7.50     1.32
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                         16.00    10.22
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                   25.00      6.81
/a   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



35 -                    ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                          US$ million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                  -       16.00   13.51
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                  -       21.00   16.56
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research             -       10.00    7.09
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II          -        5.00    3.31
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                               -       21.00   15.98
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II               -       25.00   23.39
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry II            -        7.00    6.00
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research              -        6.00    4.47
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control         -       19.00   16.74
866    1978   Bangladesh   Imports Program VII                -       75.00    2.34
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III           -       10.00    9.24
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries              -        6.00    5.67
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                -       25.00   24.90
921    1979   Bangladesh   Population &  Family Health II -           32.00   31.78
934    1979   Bangladesh   Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                   -       28.00   27.93
941    1979   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                    -      22.00   18.83
944    1979   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports                 -       25.00    3.11
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                   -       25.00   24.50
964    1979   Bangladesh   Highways II                        -       10.00   10.00
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII               -       50.00   18.19
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pumps                     -       37.00   37.00
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply II         -       20.00   20.00 /b
1023   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                  -       29.00   29.00
1032   1980   Bangladesh   Jute Industry
Rehabilitation                  -       20.00   20.00
1042   1980   Bangladesh   Mangrove Afforestation             -       11.00   11.00
1044   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports II              -       25.00   25.00
1054   1980   Bangladesh   Education IV (Primary
Education)                     -       40.00   40.00 /c
1065   1980   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry III           -       35.00   35.00 lb
1071   1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program IX                 -       65.00   65.00
Total,                                                      54.9  1,551.28  650.33
of which has been repaid                                   0.0       0.40    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                              54.9  1,550.88
Total undisbursed                                            0.0    650.33  650.33
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
/b   Not effective.
/c   Became effective in December.



- 36 -                   ANNEX II
Page 3
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at November 30, 1980)
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                 Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1979      Highspeed Shipbuilding           Ship-
and Heavy Engineering           building
Co. Ltd.                                          1.20    0.36    1.56
1980      IPDC                             DFC                -       1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                      1.20    1.41    2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -            -       -
Total commitments now held by IFC                            1.20    1.41    2.61
Total undisbursed                                            0.65    1.05    1.70
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: July 31, 1980
Project is completed and final withdrawal applications are being
processed.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All 3,000 deep tubewells have now been drilled and all but 30 have
been commissioned with the remainder awaiting arrival of engines. Approxi-
mately $1.2 million from the project and $0.7 million from the Extension and
Research Project (Credit 729-BD) will be consolidated to fund the Command
Area Development (CAD) of the deep tubewells in the Northwest of Bangladesh.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
-37 -                    Page 4
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date;  January 30, 1974; Closing Date:  June 30,
1981
There has been some improvement in the Bangladesh Agricultural De-
velopment Corporation (BADC) component; processing equipment is being installed,
and all of the revised program of civil works and land development with the
exception of the recently agreed 8,000 tons of additional storage has been
completed. BADC will undertake the construction of these stores on a priority
basis for completion by December 31, 1980. The Seed Certification Agency
(SCA) and Bangl2desh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) components are behind
schedule due to insufficient budgetary release of funds.  The main positive
aspect of the project continues to be the success of the contract grower
scheme.  'Wileat seed sales remain good, but paddy seed sales are well below
appraisal targets. The main problem preventing increased paddy sales are
poor marketing arrangements and lack of suitable improved varieties for multi-
plication. Marketing consultants have completed their report recommending
improvements in seed distribution and marketing. The Seed Certification
Agency continues to be weak, however, and an intensive training programme is
currently under preparation. Future prospects have improved as a result of
GOB's recent strong commitments to stimulate foodgrain production and support
inLensive seed production efforts, reflected, inter alia, by provision of full
ADP allocations for SCA and BRRI to permit completion of their FY81 work
programs. The closing date, originally September 30, 1980 was recently
extended to June 30, 1981.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project civil works continue to make progress and are expected
to be completed within six months of schedule. Poor quality work is being
remedied by contractors at no cost to the project. Slow delivery of primary
pumps has delayed installation. Sluice gates and accessories are in process
of delivery. About 735 low lift pumps were fielded in the FY80 boro season,
irrigating about 30,000 acres. The extension and cooperatives components
of the project are short of staff which is slowing development. An extension
of the Closing Date is under consideration.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date:  February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is now making adequate progress having been behind
schedule due to initial delays in hiring project consultants, and more
recently due to shortages of local Taka and a payment dispute with the con-
tractors. The payment dispute was settled in January 1980 and works have
resumed. Sluice gates and primary pumps are being delivered. Budgetary
allocation for FY81 is only half of what is needed and a revised allocation
is needed.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project:  US$16.0 Million Credit of
June 3 1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Project progress continues to improve after a difficult start. The
increasing production and income levels among project farmers are now becoming
visible. Irrigation equipment and agricultural input supplies are now being
provided on a reliable basis. Field level management appears effective but
headquarters management still requires strengthening. The rural works program
is making good physical progress and is having a significant impact on project
area families. However, supervision of contractors work and maintenance of
completed works require improvement. The livestock, horticulture and extension
components continue to make satisfactory progress. The fisheries component
had been making good progress, but pond excavation has slowed recently and
improved progress is required in registration of fisheries cooperatives,
assignment of pond leases, and identification of additional ponds suitable
for development.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
There has been progress in procurement of engines and pumps, tools
and equipment, office equipment and part of the transports.  Sales of shal-
low tubewells will be to both individuals and groups. The project has sold
its first phase of 2,050 pumpsets and procured its second phase of 8,450
pumpsets based on farmers' preference system. The construction of workshops
is proceeding with a modified program.
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation Project: US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983
The overall project implementation is about two years behind
schedule. Problems causing delays have been almost resolved. New pile driv-
ing hammers have been delivered and pile driving is being resumed. Concrete
placing started in June 1980 and continued through the rainy season. The
design of Feni Regulator has been reviewed resulting in some changes (without
delaying the construction) which increase the safety of structure, saving in
cost and time in sheetpile driving. Consultants have appointed a new Project
Manager and a new Construction Engineer who appear to have improved relation-
ship with WDB officials and the contractor. To reduce the increase in project
cost, IDA have given recommendations to WDB which, when followed, should result
in a substantial reduction in cost increase. Other project components progress
satisfactorily. However, close supervision is still required during the next
year to prevent further implementation delay.



- 39-
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date:
April 30, 1981.
Project implementation has improved. Most of the vehicles have been
procured and Phase I civil works construction is nearing completion. Contact
farmer attendance has increased by 60 to 100% in most areas. Main achieve-
ment of the extension service has been in expanding wheat cultivation through-
out Northwest.  Key problem remaining is the revision of Project Proforma (PP).
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Jute Project has been very successful in getting the project
farmers to use higher quantities of fertilizer, resulting in higher yields.
Partly as a result of this, raw jute stocks are high, and the price of deshi
(white) jute variety (70% of area) is low. Some jute farmers are switching
their jute area to rice production as was envisaged in the project. Higher
foodgrain production can be expected as a result. To maintain jute production
levels, further intensification of the production in the project area will be
necessary. Steps for ensuring such intensification were discussed and agreed
with GOB.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
All Phase I sites (56,000 tons) construction is underway, of which
storage godowns with a capacity of 30,000 tons are at roof level or above.
Out of 53,000 tons of Phase II, 8,000 tons sites have been tendered; and
selection of locations for 36,000 tons of new construction is to be done in
February 1981. Two major components--godown rehabilitation and paddy drying
are about 12 months behind schedule. Selection of locations for Phase III has
been delayed to February 1981.
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 Million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Progress in the implementation of the technical aspects of Project
continues to be satisfactory. BARC headquarters building is under construction
and work has commenced on the civil works component of the three regional
research stations. Contracts for the provision of farm and laboratory equip-
ment have been finalized. Consultants on farm development and potato research
have been appointed but not for research monitoring. The National Research
plan has been published and the recommendations of the BARC technical working
groups have resulted in the generation of 39 sub-projects to be financed under
the research grant scheme. Arrangements have been completed for 20 students
to take up overseas Ph. D. course and nine senior scientific staff have
attended career development courses. No progress has been made in the MSC
training program.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
There has been insufficient budgetary planning and management of
project finances. In order to avoid substantial cost overruns, BARC and BARI
have developed closer liaison and a consultancy account"ing firm will be
employed to ensure that future expenditures are properly planned and managed.
Cr. No. 864    Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Effectiveness had been delayed primarily due to delays by the Govern-
ment in approval of the project budget and staffing plan. In Chenchuri Beel
(CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) five regulators are under construction and
some embankment work has been completed. Some delays have occurred due to
difficulties in land acquisition. In Brahmaputra Right Bank (BRE) construc-
tion is underway. Some components proposed within this subproject have been
rejected as too costly, and the Government has been requested to prepare
modified proposals. Periodic project progress reports required under the
project are not being received.
Cr. No. 890    Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Fisheries and engineering consultants have comamenced field opera-
tions. A detailed Project Action Timetable has been prepared and approved
by IDA.
Cr. No. 955    Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project; US$25.0
Million Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date:
May 21, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Effectiveness was delayed due to slow progress in approval of the
project proforma. Delays have occurred in formalizing arrangements for CIDA
financing of consultants for the project. Nevertheless the consultants are
at work and have assisted in the preparation of reports on 15 subprojects.
Cr. No. 990    Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The Credit became effective on September 8, 19480 after having met
all conditions of effectiveness. Project Director has prepared a detailed
project Action Plan (timetable).
Cr. No. 1042   Mangrove Afforestation Project:  US$11.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
The two conditions of credit effectiveness, PLantation Trial Unit
(PTU) and Project Proforma (PP) approval have been fulfilled. The first
supervision mission has been completed and an action program is being
prepared.



- 41 -                   ANNEX II
Page 8
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Govermnents of Iran, Switzerland, UK
and US, providing a total of about US$190 million equivalent in addition to
the IDA credit. Site preparation work including the necessary dredging and
filling was completed on schedule. however, based on the soil analyses under-
taken by two specialist consulting finns, further preparation of the site was
undertaken to protect the plant against earthquake risks. Currently the
project is about 32 months behind schedule due primarily to the additional
site preparation and initial slow progress in (a) placing orders for time-
critical items and (b) planning for construction. Due to the need for addi-
tional site work, the delays and currency fluctuations, supplemental financing
was required. The required financing has now been obtained. The soil compac-
tion and foundation work has been completed and plant construction is now
progressing satisfactory. Some additional delays are being encountered due
to delays in the manufacture and delivery of some materials, but these delays
are still within the margin for contingencies provided in the schedule shown
at the time of IDA supplementary financing. The project is expected to start
production of urea in early calendar 1981.
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of November 30, 1980, disbursemen.s were about US$18.2 million
and Qualified Agreements to Reimburse letters of credit (QAR) had been out-
standing for US$1.7 million.
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project:  USQ7 Million of June lb,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implement-
ing Banks have developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed
ahead of schedule. There has been good progress in training commercial bank
staff, distributing circulars to commercial bank branches describing project
procedures, and advertising the availability of funds for small industry
loans.  The project was fully committed by the commercial banks in July 1980.
Staff of the Small and Cottage Industries Corporation have begun preparation
of subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.



- 42 -                    ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 866    Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 Million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 8 1979-
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
As of November 30, 1980 disbursements were about US$72.7 million
and QAR were outstanding for US$1.6 million.
Cr. No. 944    Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 Million Credit of June 29,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
As agreed, fertilizer prices have been increased by an average of
about 28%. A staffing plan and administrative authorizations have been
completed for the provision of staff for the secretariat of the fertilizer
coordinating committee.  Credit funds had been fully committed, but due to
currency fluctuations some additional fertilizer has now been ordered. The
Government is requesting a short extension of the Closing Date to allow time
for delivery.
Cr. No. 980    Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 Million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing late: February 28, 1982
As of November 30, 1980, QAR were outstanding for US$11.1 million
and US$31.8 million had been disbursed.
Cr. No. 1023   Fertilizer Industry Rehiabilitation Project:  US$29 Million
Credit of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate
fertilizer manufacturing companies has been accomplished, and project financ-
ing agreements have been executed.
Cr. No. 1032   Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project:  US$20 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
This project is making satisfactory progress, but is a little
behind schedule on hiring two of four sets of consultants required to assist
on some aspects of implementation.  Flotation of the first Tender Notice for
procurement of rehabilitation spares is imminent. Tender documents for the
construction of two new training centers are in preparation. Disbursements
to first quarter FY81 were nil, but should begin in the second quarter to meet
expenses in connection with purchases of weighing scales, orders for which
have already been made, and to meet consultancy costs.
Cr. No. 1044   Second Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Agreed increases in fertilizer prices were announced on November 5,
1980.



- 43 -                     ANNEX II
Page 10
Cr. No. 1065   Small-Scale Industry III Project:  US$35 Million of October 17,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1071   Ninth Imports Program:  US$65 Million Credit of October 17,
1980; Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
About US$40 million equivalent of import licenses and letter of
Credit authorizations have been issued.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407    Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project finances completion of the construction of the Bangla-
desh Agricultural University (BAU), a fellowship program for BAU and building
of five new and equipping of eight existing technical institutes (polytechnics).
The BAU component is now about 85% complete. By the project closing date
(December 31, 1980), all civil works are expected to be completed except the
nonacademic buildings (gymnasium and auditorium) which may be completed in
three months time if adequate funds are allocated by the Government. The
fellowship program is nearly complete. Equipment of procurement is progress-
ing well. Civil works associated with the technical education component are
complete and the polytechnics are now operating.   About 75% of all equipment
has been procured, installed and is being used by students. No problems are
foreseen in procuring the remaining equipment before the closing date. Proj-
ect costs (in dollar terms) are close to appraisal estimates due to currency
devaluation. Most local cost overruns are caused by taxes imposed on imported
goods.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project finances a variety of training institutions for agricul-
tural extension and rural development staff. Technical assistance is also
provided to assist in the improvement of the training programs. Implementa-
tion of the civil works associated with the training institutions is about 85%
complete and about 95% of the equipment has been procured.  The physical
aspects of the project are generally on schedule. However, the recruitment of
the consultants, who are to assist in conducting the studies and in improving
the training programs under the project, is delayed by about two years. This
is due largely to the ineffectiveness of the National Committee on Rural
Training (NCRT) which is in charge of the educational aspects of the project.
To improve the effectiveness of the NCRT, IDA has agreed to hire under the
project local consultants who would assist the NCRT in performing its func-
tions.  The appointment of these consultants is now being finalized.



- 44 -                   ANNEX II
Page 11
Cr. No. 912    Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 31, 1979: Effective Date: Novemniber 2, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The Project Implementation Unit manager and architect are in post.
All sites for piuject buildings havc been made availahle.  Agreements with
consulting architects have been signed and designs are in progress. The
equipment and office furniture lists are under preparation and master lists
of Technical Training Center equipment are ready to be submitted for IDA
approval. Curricula in ten trades have been prepared at Technical Training
Centers (TTC). Courses for 110 training officers in on-the-job training have
been concluded.  Existing ILO/UNDP experts are assisting project development.
Cr. No. 1054   Fourth Education (Primary) Project:  US$40f.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date:  December 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The Credit became effective on December 1, 1980 after having met
all conditions of effectiveness.
Population Project
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of USS25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Program performance
during the last year generally has improved with better coordination and
cooperation between the Health and Population Control and Family Planning
Divisions following the appointment of a single Secretary in charge of both.
Training programs for field workers have recently been revised and upgraded,
which should improve their performance. Implementation of civil works compo-
nents, initially encouraging in several areas, has deteriorated, and is now
behind schedule across the board. Specific performance targets were recently
set by GOB in consultation with IDA to expedite the rate of progress of con-
struction components. Due to the slow pace of construction, disbursement of
the credit has also shown less than expected improvements. A one year exten-
sion of the Closing Date will probably be required to complete the project
and full disbursement of the credit.
Cr. No. 921    Second Population aiLd Family Health Project:  US$32.0
million; Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date:  April 1,                      4
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress has been made on project staffing, site acquisition, and
completion of master plan for the project.  Project architects have been
appointed and design development and tender document preparation are under
way.



- 45 -                    ANNEX II
Page 12
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project:  US$25.0 Miillion Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1981
All works under the project are now complete. Arbitration on the
Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims is in progress.  IDA has agreed to a
request from the Government of Bangladesh for an extension of the closing
date of the credit to March 31, 1981 in order that credit funds may be used
to defray the cost of eligible components of the settlement.
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1981
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behind the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation aids and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels
have already been prepared and most items agreed. All consultants' contracts
have now been signed and work is underway, after initial delays. As the
implementation of the consultants recommendations is expected to extend
beyond the current closing date a further extension may be necessary.
Cr. No 964      Second Hlighway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date June 30, 1984.
Effectiveness was delayed due to slow progress in approval of the
Project Proforma and in the appointment of consultants for supervision.
However, preparation for project construction is proceeding. Construction
equipment bids have been called but orders have just been placed and the Gov-
ernment of Bangladesh is currently identifying items of existing equipment
which can be temporarily diverted to the project. If such equipment can
be made available, contracts for the earthworks, bridges, and culverts are
expected to be placed in the near future, and it is expected that construction
will commence, as scheduled, at the beginning of the 1980/81 construction
season.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 343    First Telecommunications Project:  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
.
The project was completed as its closing date June 30, 1980.  Three
of the four microwave systems provided under the project, the Dacca-Sylhat,
Dacca-Mymensingh and Dacca-Bogra systems were completed and are in operation
since the end of 1978. The fourth microwave system between Kushtia-Natore
and Rajshahi was part of a contract under Project 487-BD and was completed
and extended to service in July 1980.  Physical completion of the proiect
was about four and one-half year behind schedule.



- 46 -                   ANNEX II
Page 13
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Project execution is largely behind schedule due to delays in pro-
curement, civil works and reduced output of the domestic telephone switching
equipment factory, combined with difficulties in ordering equipment under the
project and in completing local construction and installation.  Also TTB,
reinstated to function as a "Government Board" since April 1979, encountered
difficulties and delays in organizing its finances and accounts and in manag-
ing efficiently its operations and development. In November 1979, the Govern-
ment was pressed by IDA to take promptly the decisions and the measures required
to enable TTB to improve its management and finances, to nave the telecommuni-
cations accounts transferred from Government to TTB and to transfer to TTB
the assets from the cyclone project. An action program agreed to this effect
has been implemented by the Government and TTB during the first half of 1980.
Although the project is late, most of the outstanding problems have been reduced
or are being eliminated. Covenants under the project are now being complied
with. TTB is presently taking final procurement action to commit the funds
remaining under the project which represent about 30% of the credit. Corres-
ponding works will require about two years from order. In the absence of
satisfactory accounts, it is difficult to assess the financial position of
the beneficiary. A new action prograrn to be implemented by December 1980 has
been agreed recently with TTB on the organization of its finances and on the
preparation of its future development program.
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit
of April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Twenty-four subprojects have been approved for financing under this
credit thus committing the total amount of the credit. However, due to the
slow rate of commitments during the early years of the credit, a one year
extension of the Closing Date was necessary to provide time for completion
of agreed subprojects. Disbursements have recently improved and amounted
to US$6.2 million at the end of November 1980. The subprojects financed are
expected to have a significant beneficial impact on strengthening IDA's lend-
ing program to Bangladesh.
Cr. No. 872    Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date:  January 19, 1979;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982                                                    a
Implementation of this project has begun, with 16 subprojects totaling
about $6.2 million having been approved. Seven further subprojects totaling
about $4 million have been approved in principle, and would be expected to be
committed within the next few months.



47                        ANNEX II
Page 14
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934    Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Consultants have been appointed as scheduled and have begun design
work.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941    Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Consultants have been engaged and have begun design work as scheduled.
Cr. No. 1001   Second Chittagong Water Supply Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 48 -               ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER TRANSPORT CREDIT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare project:
The project was identified in September 1979, but
benefited from fertilizer sector work performed
over several years, starting with a fertilizer
marketing and distribution study financed in July
1975 under the First Technical Assistance Credit
409-BD.
(b) Agencies preparing the project:
BADC, BIWTA, BR, CPA and consultants financed
under IDA technical assistance credits and
USAID fertilizer assistance programs.
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA and date
of first mission to consider the project:
September 1979.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
January 31, 1980.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
September 25, 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days after signature.
Section II:    Special IDA Implementatinn Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) BADC would make specified improvements in the
fertilizer transport contracting procedures
(paragraph 66).



- 49 -             ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) IDA would be given an opportunity to comment on
the National Storage Plan for fertilizer (para-
graph 70).
(c) GOB would maintain a project coordinating committee
and each implementing agency would appoint a project
manager (paragraph 75).
(d)  CPA would consult with IDA on the results of its
monitoring of siltation of the channel to Chittagong
and the proposed program for maintenance of the
channel (paragraph 78).
(e) A contract would be signed between BADC and BR by
October 31, 1981, covering arrangements for unit
train operations (paragraph 80).
(f) The rehabilitated wagons would be reserved for
fertilizer unit train operations (paragraph 81).
(g) Improvements in the organization and management of
the Bahadurabad-Tistamukh Ghat ferry service would
be made by agreed dates (paragraph 82).
(h) Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board would
provide channels required for Fertilizer Operations
Control Center (paragraph 85).
(i) Special conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i) approval of the project proformas (paragraph
87); and
(ii) completion of project financing arrangements
(paragraph 88).



I



<r:,''ffiJ;tt.gD  -D!S; ; ,,,agFERlL                                                                                                                         rOJE&V
lEslar-rC t w    r  r  - W4xVi,n4 a9t9 ! C 0 <w-&>ff
> -2 WE.-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~riri&st nJ Boo,ro
C' v        l=ierr-A                                 N                       . i
t J ; 0 / W J~~~~~~~~~~~~ogon                                                    n          o Ld(  9~\5aksh9-go            Iuel'  
9  JLP;                 s3 r/I
13;            ) K< >                                                                                                                      i
PA$IjSTAN' 'g1,-j$ror;r  CNi1A0           B;                                  a  y               o  A              Bm  a  ci g   os /\! W R jt
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
&E r-. &   fi;!;!fr  io A                                                                           ,
,9.5jr <r>.; i ( t 0,                                                                          ) 90  ' -d 5 K ri F
9 ;  3  2-;sff  L ab v EhiromXMS y \,{$ e% Mp jd S R \\>) S yk#p.
rwatiXraii;Z@i '<ii'- o3 ffi @  2 tgL;A @< <0 ,%jt l5,g, g 0 .. \ \< I ......Q t ,>eBU,<,.,s
Sr|;>E,   Z!"I 5""i r,ietgE                            >                                                                                 \ \        k4                   <       ,
v   n t; rei 3 Ap o U z c3s isc f   r e  \   ;   X   W   X   1  ;  BAmL    \   X     >        n3k,          \ XSItckun       RANGAM>v-e .iS
7o 25  7' ''j '' --a    S>=<        ;          > <)/>Uh}2Bgrt[!<\9                                              %    X <          J     i\ \\            %       >t                  > 5 r
3t   '';';SD  .............  DD  J&;  i ctS t<  S 1 l 5-  11  ........................................................ X%  aH9(OC P 0\~O S, r
ixof.j,A,- v. 4::       b    AJ \n.,;9  b  '                                                                                                                                         :t!XA t S f  XUKA     D[       HSAO   f+ V''z 
ejUL3;lugrgi Q2gG0ZJ33XNVElLX X    -?t3SXefgsC Wb(R   X   tE   X             B         d   (It Aly   
S ! F w ~~~~~~~~~I, g  =r5=,Xi4iQ<4tj?                                                                      COM X 5 LL
1w,ek?.*    e*1;N22;9  Et  :t  9-1 /@t         t4t    <')         t             5<g           ?q            .I                                                          J"
,  W    >X0  f J( >C?                     uft  2QX e)                                                         k.,
I>KX5*  :0 5 '8t5 Ee n7 nf N, '.                                     B                     o; f               Be7 n         C 7/                        J;                     I,S
W    ,- 2  NX rD  A " k    . | ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~AB.
Q   fr  w; j) sy  of  8-grsl         ll                                   |    7        o      40,e   ,a o0:                                                                          -al
|   VJ55RI LANKA   ||       0                          90> 0  0                                91                                      9>           \At           - -c7fu



