Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17878
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
SCIENCE EDUCATION AND LIBRARIES COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
(Loan No. 3468-KO)
May 15, 1998
Education Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     'Korean Won (W)
At appraisal       US$1 = W 730
At completion      US$1 = W 1707
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
March - February
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BE           Board of Education
CULA         Committee for University Library Automation
EFB          Education Facilities Bureau
ELPD         Education Loan Projects Division
EMD          Equipment Maintenance Division
GHS          General High School
GOK          Government of Korea
GPN          General Procurement Notice
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IFB          Invitation For Bids
KCUE         Korea Council for University Education
KEDI         Korea Educational Development Institute
KIST         Korea Institute of Science and Technology
MOE          Ministry of Education
O&M          Operations and Maintenance
OSROK        Office of Supply, Republic of Korea (name at appraisal)
PCC          Project Coordinating Committee
PCR          Project Completion Report
PPAR         Project Performance Audit Report
R&D          Research and Development
SAROK        Supply Administration, Republic of Korea (name at completion)
SEC          Science Education Center
SNU          Seoul National tUniversity
SOE          Statement of Expense
STEB         Science and Technical Education Bureau
TAP          Technology Advancement Project
TRC          Technical Repair Center
UEO          University Education Office
VHS          Vocational High School
VTI          Vocational Training Institute
Vice President:    Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director:    Sri-Ram Aiyer, EACKO
Manager:           Alan Ruby, EASED
Task Team Leader:   Robert McGough, EASED



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface .............                                                          iv
Evaluation Summary ..............V
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives .1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives                   .2
C.    Implementation Record - Major Factors Affecting the Project   . 3
D.  Project Sustainability                        .4
E. Bank Group Performance                           .5
F. Borrower Performance                           .6
G. Assessment of Outcome                           .6
H. Future Operation                             .7
I.  Key Lessons Leamed                            .7
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessment                       .8
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .10
Table 3: Project Timetable .12
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual 13
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .14
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .15
Table 7: Training Included in Project .16
Table 8A: Project Costs ...........................................     17
Table 8B: Project Financing .......................................... 18
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits ..........................................   19
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .................. ........................ 20
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ...................... 21
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...........................................   22
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ..........................................  23
ANNEXES
Annex A:    Completion Mission Aide Memoire
Annex B:    Borrower's Evaluation Report submitted as a contribution to the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
T'his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonmance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



iv
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
SCIENCE EDUCATION AND LIBRARIES COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
LOAN 3468-KO
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Science Education
and Libraries Computerization Project in Korea, for which Loan 3468-KO in the amount
of US$50 million equivalent was approved on May 12, 1992, signed on June 19, 1992
and made effective on September 9, 1992.
The loan was closed on schedule on December 31, 1997. Final disbursement took
place on May 7, 1998, and a balance of US$787,190.33 was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Robert McGough, assisted by Mss. Carol Ball and
Omporn Regel. The ICR was reviewed by Mr. Alan Ruby, Manager, EASED and Mr.
Sri-Ram Aiyer, Country Director, EACKO. The Borrower's contribution to the ICR is
included in the ICR as Annex B.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's last supervision/completion
mission in September - October, 1997, which visited the Ministry of Finance and
Economy, Ministry of Education (MOE), Supply Administration, Republic of Korea
(SAROK), Chonnam National University's Library and Natural Science College, Pusan
National University's Library and Natural Science College, and the Pusan Institute of
Science Education. This information in this report is based on materials in the Project
Implementation Index File, Division Files, and submissions from the Borrower dated
January 15, 1998 and February 13, 1998 as well as information received during the
completion mission. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by: (a)
providing specific data upon request; and (b) contributing views reflected in their own
evaluation of the project's preparation and execution. The Borrower's Evaluation
Summary which is included in this ICR as Annex B.



v
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
SCIENCE EDUCATION AND LIBRARIES COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
(Loan 3468-KO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
i.    The overall objective of the project was to assist in improving the quality of basic
science education and to provide a more effective flow of information between university
libraries which service teaching and research.
Implementation Experience and Results
ii.    Overall implementation was highly satisfactory.  The project was closed on
schedule with no cost overrun. Counterpart funds for the base costs to cover library
database conversion and staff for network support for the implementation of the Library
Network Component were somewhat short at the beginning of the project but were
adequately provided for during subsequent project years. Counterpart funds for the other
two components (Science Education Centers and Undergraduate Science Education) were
adequately provided throughout the project years.  The actual disbursements were
US$49,212,809.67 million or 98.4% of the loan amount. Disbursements conformed to all
Bank's procedures including the use of Special Accounts. The project encountered four
difficulties during the beginning years of implementation. Two were procurement related
due to the complexity of the mainframe computers, the third was the dispute between two
ministries over the library network control, and the fourth was budget shortage for funds
and staff supporting the library network. These difficulties except the latter affected the
disbursements during early years and resulted in a two-years delay of depositing the initial
US$4.0 million deposit to the Special Account. Eventually, disbursements were on
schedule after the overcoming of the initial difficulties. Effective implementation during
later years made the project implementation satisfactory. There was no overdue audit report
and all other covenants were in full compliance.
iii.   The project was designed to raise the quality of science programs offered in the
secondary schools and in the basic science programs in the universities in order to
strengthen the quality of science and engineering degrees, and to establish an interlibrary
network linking 37 institutions to enhance the access to information of students, faculty and
researchers as stated in the SAR (para. 2.4). All of the project objectives were successfully
met.
iv.   The modernization of laboratories in secondary schools and an improvement in the
quality of science education was apparent. The general scientific awareness to the public
was accomplished through schools' demonstration and exhibition programs.  The



vi
equipment operational hours has substantially increased as well as the number of trainees
and hours for experimental and practice training contributing to raising the quality of
science education.
v.    The establishment of the joint science centers in all national universities was
completed and has been widely recognized as successful. The high-cost sophisticated
equipment installation and testing in the participating higher education institutions were
completed on schedule. The joint usage of specialized equipment and reducing Operations
and Maintenance (O&M) costs were considered as a very efficient way of using scarce
resources. Research programs have been broadened and related scientific publications have
significantly increased.
vi.   The national library network was also completed and was operational in more than
40 universities. The network actually linked to all the universities in Korea. The
procurement and installation of network hardware and the computer operating system
conversion to Unix were successfully completed despite an earlier power struggle between
the Seoul National University (SNU) and the Central National Library. The switching over
to computerized systems for cataloging, search and research has been functioning well and
in full use. The SNU was the managing entity of the library database after an agreement
was reached between MOE and the Ministry of Culture. The initial network supporting staff
shortage indicated by SNU, was later provided by the Government to support the Library
Computerization Component. Computers were considered adequate and Bank staff during
the ICR mission was told that there will be an annual equipment budget provided by the
Government. There was no training issue because the network's software was user friendly,
and no specific training courses were needed.
vii.  The procurement process for this project had a longer than usual lead time than
other Bank-financed projects in Korea. Due to the complexity of mainframe computer
specifications, the Bank required prior review for all mainframe computer procurement for
this project. Based on the good track records of the Government's procurement division,
the Supply Administration, Republic of Korea (SAROK), prior reviews usually were not
required for other Bank-financed projects in Korea.
viii. Another procurement delay was due to the decision by SAROK to use the longer
procurement procedure that involved two-stage bidding for the first mainframe computer
procurement for the SNU. Procurement of mainframe computers was further delayed by
one participating university relating to the acceptability and compatibility of a donated
mainframe computer by Samsung Company in Kangwon.
ix.   The control of the library network between two ministries, Ministry of Culture
and Ministry of Education, was a major implementation delay in addition to the approval
required by the Ministry of Communications for any communication equipment over the
amount of US$300,000. Shortage of staff and computers was corrected during the third
year of implementation. Budget allocation was improved under the new budget situation



vii
of the Ministry of Education, which assumed the management responsibility for the
library network.
Sustainability
x.    All equipment in the science education centers in the secondary schools and in the
joint science centers in all national universities was well kept, managed and maintained.
Utilization rate of this equipment has been high. The quality of science education has been
raised given the proof of high employment rate and increased number of graduate school
entrants. There were no issues on management and recurrent costs relating to these centers.
Therefore, it is very likely that the centers will be sustained and continue to be operational
in the future.
xi.   The Government has a clear understanding of the current issues and needs in the
library automation system, and sees the benefits of easy access through internet and local
area network (LAN) and making the electronic information resources available to students
and faculty of all universities and colleges in Korea. The Government has demonstrated its
continued support for the project by its inclusion of Won 1,866 million in the 1998 budget
for the hardware and software upgrading programs and O&M costs of the library network
system. The ICR preparation team was informed by several faculty staff of the participating
universities that these costs will be included in the future national budget and will be
increased annually to meet the library automation system yearly requirements.
xii.  In addition, the increased usage of the library network system by the network
community including university students and faculties will act as a backbone for the
sustainability of the library network system. It is widely recognized that accessing the rich
information resources of the library network system as well as the importance of internet
access have been crucial and effective to all university students and faculty. 37 national
universities were planned to participate in the project, but 44 national universities were
actually included as well as other universities, both public and private. Linking all 184
universities to the library automation system is underway and development and upgrading
of that system will be continuous.
Bank Group Performance
xiii.  Bank performance was satisfactory in the preparation and appraisal stages of this
project. A previous similar Bank-financed project, the Science and Technology Education
Project, Ln. 2427-KO, gave a clear direction and understanding of the issues and needs, and
therefore, reduced the number of staff weeks required for project design, processing and
implementation.
xiv.  There was one implementation problem at the beginning of the project namely the
exclusion of two eligible categories under the Schedule 6 of the Loan Agreement. The
appropriate action was taken and corrections quickly made. The good working relationship



viii
between the Bank and the Borrower was not affected, and therefore there was no adverse
effect on the development outcomes of the project.
xv.   Bank supervision totaled about 28 staff weeks. This amount of time commitment is
relatively low by Bank standards. For the most part, this is due to efficiencies gained from
the Bank management's decision to supervise all of the current education projects, in Korea,
using single, well-prepared missions (3 to 5 projects during each mission). Supervision
work was detailed and cost effective.
Borrower Performance
xvi.   Borrower performance during project preparation and appraisal stages was highly
satisfactory. There were implementation delays during the first year of the project. These
resulted from: (i) using the two-stage bidding process for the mainframe procurement
causing a longer than usual lead time; (ii) unresolved issues between two ministries (MOE
and MOC) causing budget problems; and (iii) the requirement for additional approval by
the Ministry of Communication for the purchase of communications equipment, which was
unforeseen by the project preparation team. By the third year all problems were solved and,
given the high quality of the MOE staff and efficient procurement support of the national
procurement agency, SAROK, implementation was on schedule and completed on time
with no budget overrun.
xvii.  Counterpart funds were adequate for the  Science Education  Centers and
Undergraduate Science Education Components. During the first year of the project, there
was a shortage of counterpart funds for library network support, but this concern was
effectively addressed by MOE. The shortage did not affect the project's outcomes.
xviii. Covenants were in full compliance, and there were no overdue audit reports
throughout the project years.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
xix.   Although the project was rated highly satisfactory, it should be noted that this
project was not prepared with an appropriate set of monitorable performance indicators. 'I/
Fortunately, the ICR preparation questionnaire and GOK's own evaluation summary gave
some positive indications on the achievements of project impacts and outcomes.
xx.   Science education centers of the secondary schools and joint science centers of all
the national universities have raised the quality of the science education and increased
I  The project was prepared at a time when monitorable project indicators were not required as a part of the project
design. Also, the project's design is straight forward and much of the expected benefits are obvious and not
difficult to declare through subsequent evaluation. These evaluations have determined that the project was
highly satisfactory and that it effectively met all of its objectives.



ix
relevance of the rapid changing technology of the workplaces. Graduates from secondary
schools were able to find employment or continue to universities/colleges.
xxi.  The computerized library network system is currently in full operation at its
planned scale. In the future, it will be linked to all universities, private or public, in
Korea. The agreed computer operations system, Unix, is working well, and the Korean
language software has proven to be both effective and efficient. Through this system,
university students and faculty members in Korea have come to better understand the
need for information provided by the network. The use of the system has also been a key
factor in the notable increase in the number of research programs and scientific
publications (during the project years).
xxii. Korea graduated from borrower status in June 1995, however, due to the recent
financial crisis in the region, the Government has asked for some structural adjustment
loans.
xxiii. There is one key lesson to be learned from this project. Due to the complexity of
the computer environment and its fast changing technology, sufficient preparation time
should be allowed to assess the long-term compatibility of planned and existing
equipment, software and systems in order to prevent unforeseen implementation delays.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
SCIENCE EDUCATION AND LIBRARIES COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
(Loan 3468-KO)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The broad aim of the project was to assist in improving the quality of basic
science education and to provide a more effective flow of information between university
libraries which service teaching and research. More specifically, the project provided
assistance to: (a) raise the quality of science programs offered in the secondary-level
science education centers and in undergraduate basic science programs in selected
universities to strengthen the quality of science and engineering degrees; and (b) establish
a computerized, interlibrary network linking 37 institutions to enhance the access to
information of students, faculty and researchers.
Sectoral Development Objectives
2.    This project was developed on the basis of the outcomes of a previous project, the
Science and Technical Education Project (Ln. 2427-KO).  For several years, the
Government had sought to raise the quality and quantity of university and college trained
scientists and engineers to meet the emerging labor market demands. A key strategy in
this effort is the Government's efforts to improve the quality of basic science education in
the secondary schools and to raise the scientific awareness of the general public in Korea,
thus providing a better supply of potential students to the universities and colleges.
3.    As a second part of the project, the government also realizes the importance of
sharing information within the universities and the international communities for teaching
and research. The globalization of technology is a key factor to the potential success of
the industries in Korea. The library automation system is designed to enable the
universities to access national and international information to support this effort.
Policy Issues
4.    The Korean economy is becoming increasingly reliant on technology information-
oriented production. The changing trend in the whole world is also towards knowledge
intensive and information-oriented economic societies. In order to maintain and expand
its international competitiveness, Korea must find ways to produce sufficient quantities of
scientists and engineers to keep abreast of this trend.



2
5.    The Government has a clear understanding of the issues and needs in the scientific
fields. It also understands that the production of qualified scientists and engineers is not
only a function of the university environment. A steady supply of potential students must
be prepared first through high quality basic science education in the secondary schools.
Evaluation of Objectives
6.    The Government's objectives for the project must be considered relevant in that
they are intended to strengthen the nation's capacity to train scientists and engineers, a
critical area of shortage in the labor force of the nation. These efforts are particularly
important as technology is the driving force for successful competition with other nations.
The project's objectives are also based on the outcomes of the previous project (Ln.
2427-KO).
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.    The project met its overall objectives and its main achievements include the
following:
(a)   The project successfully modernized the experimental and laboratory equipment
for the 15 science education centers serving secondary science education. Raising the
quality of science teachers is considered, by MOE, to be one of the most important
factors in the strengthening of science education. The purpose of the science education
centers is to provide in-service training to science teachers and to develop and distribute
science instructional materials for the use within secondary schools.  The total
"equipment using hours" (for equipment financed by the project only) was as high as
243,948 hours, covering 81% of total experiments defined in the curricula. The operation
of the science education centers also has a high rate of project-financed equipment usage,
with about 80% of their total capacity hours being used. The scientific awareness of the
public was also enhanced through a program whereby the schools provided technology
demonstrations and exhibitions.
(b)   The establishment of the joint science centers in 18 national universities with
colleges of natural science was completed and has been widely recognized as successful.
A total of 3,674 pieces of equipment have been procured as scheduled. Research
programs have been broadened and related scientific publications have significantly
increased.  There were about 3,508 research activities that used project-financed
equipment, or about 42.1% of the total research activities planned during the project
years. Student enrollment has increased by about 4.4% and the number of graduates, by
about 5.3%. The number of graduates who obtained employment has also increased by
about 18.5%. The most impressive increase is the number of graduates advancing to
graduate schools. This increase was about 44.5%.
(c).  The national library network was also completed and became operational in 44
universities. Eventually, it is planned that the network will link to all the universities in



3
Korea. The linking status of the network in Korea, so far, has accomplished the
following: (i) libraries - 90%; (ii) campus - 70%; and (iii) internet - 64%. It is expected
that the linking process will be completed by the end of 1998.
(d)   The procurement and installation of network hardware and the computer operating
system conversion to Unix were successfully completed despite earlier delays. The local
language software is 100% complete and is operational. The computerized cataloging,
search and research systems are also fully operational and are functioning well. The SNU
has been designated the managing entity of the library database after an agreement was
reached between MOE and the Ministry of Culture. Initial network supporting staff
shortages at SNU, were provided for by the Government under the budget of MOE.
Computer equipment is now considered adequate for the short to medium term and an
annual equipment budget is provided by the Government to support the maintenance and
future expansion requirements of the library automation system.
(e).  The project scope actually exceeded the original design of the project. The library
network was not only linked to the original 44 national universities libraries covered by
this project, but was also linked to 2 public universities and 138 private universities.
C.   IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
THE PROJECT
Implementation Record
8.    The overall implementation of the project was satisfactory despite some
difficulties during the early project years. The Education Facilities Bureau of MOE had
the main responsibility for executing the project. Even though it is an agency that has
considerable amount of experience in implementing Bank-financed projects and has the
benefit of help from the Government procurement agency, SAROK, there were still
delays during the early implementation stage of the project. Much of this was due to the
difficult systems design requirements of the project.
9.    With the exception of main frame computers, prior review of procurement is not
typically required for Bank-financed projects in Korea. This agreement is in recognition
of the efficiency and dependability of the GOK's procurement agency, SAROK. The
primary causes for the longer than usual lead times for the procurement of the 11
mainframe computers was: (a) the complexity of the mainframe computer specifications;
and (b) the requirement for prior review by the Bank.
10.   Procurement was also delayed by SAROK's decision to use the two-stage bidding
procedures for the first mainframe computer for the SNU. The procurement was
inappropriate and was corrected quickly by the Bank for the rest of the mainframe
computer procurement. Procurement of the mainframe computers was also delayed
somewhat because there was a compatibility issue relating to a donated mainframe
computer from the Samsung Company in Kangwon.



4
11.  In addition, during the first year of the project, it became evident that all
communication equipment contracts that exceeded the amount of US$300,000 were
required to be approved by the Ministry of Communications. This procedure caused
some delays as it was not foreseen in the original project implementation plan.
12.   There were no time overruns for any project components, and no budget shortage
for the Science Education Centers and Undergraduate Science Education Components.
The initial budget shortage for the Library Network Component was corrected during the
early years of the project. The actual disbursement were US$49,212,809.67 or 98.4% of
the loan amount. All of the mainframe computers were procured under the ICB
procedures, and as well as 95% of the other equipment procured under the project. Other
than the two-stage bidding procurement procedure used for one procurement, there were
no deviations from the agreed Loan Agreement there were no other irregularities.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
13.   The procurement delays and a two-year disbursement delay during the first part of
the project was the only major factors affecting the project. Early recognition of the
problems and a strong cooperative working relationship between the Bank and GOK
overcame the initial difficulties. They did not significantly affect the overall achievement
of project objectives.
Consulting Services
14.   The technical oversight of the long-term network development was undertaken by
the Committee for University Library Automation (CULA) with terms of reference
agreed by the Bank. Their efforts were less than satisfactory during the first two years of
the project. Consequently, during the third project year, the responsibility was transferred
to the Ministry of Education where the Bureau of Education Information Management
was established. This organization's performance was highly satisfactory and it was
successful in recovering from the implementation delays suffered during the first two
years.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
15.   The Government understands the importance of science education and has long
placed a priority on the development and maintenance of this subsector. It is current
Government policy that this subsector will remain a high priority for development in the
foreseeable future. The Government's strong commitment has allowed the participating
science education centers of the secondary schools and joint science centers in the
undergraduate science universities and colleges to grow and to prosper in their respective
educational environments.  Given the current demand for high-technology skill
development, and GOK's willingness to support a wide variety of programs to meet this
demand, there is every reason to assurne that finances will continue to be provided and



5
the policies in the subsector will be clearly focused to support the changing needs of the
workforce in Korea.
16.   The library automation system will be also be sustained, because the Government
has a clear understanding of the current issues and needs of the libraries and the role that
they must play in the preparation of skilled workers and scientists. Likewise the
Government is already impressed with the benefits that are being derived from easy
access through internet and local area networks (LAN) and the provision of electronic
information resources to students and faculty of all universities and colleges in Korea.
The Government has demonstrated its support in the library automation system by
financing and appointing a Committee (Bureau of Educational Information Management)
located at the Advanced Academic Information Center to establish a comprehensive
cataloging system of all the data possessed by all the university libraries in the country.
17.   There is already evidence of this commitment. Originally, only 37 national
universities were financed under the project.  Upon completion, all 44 national
universities were included. The library network has also expanded to other universities,
both public and private. So far, 118 universities out of the total 184 universities in Korea
have been linked to the library network. Linking all 184 universities to the library
automation system is underway and further development and upgrading of that system
will be continuous.
18.   The Government has also included 1,866 million Won for the 1998 budget to
continue its contribution towards the hardware and software upgrading programns and
O&M costs for the library network. It is understood that these costs will be included in
future national budgets and will be increased annually to meet the library automation
system's yearly requirements.
19.   Given the above mentioned findings, it is reasonable to assume that the project
outcomes will be fully sustainable in the future.
E. BANK GROUP PERFORMANCE
20.   Staff time spent on preparation and appraisal stages was very low compared with
other Bank projects. This project was designed and approved on the, basis of the
evaluated results of a previous similar project, Ln. 2427-KO, so both the Bank and GOK
were well informed and aware of the science education issues and needs. Staff time spent
on supervision missions was efficiently used and relatively low (28 staff weeks)
compared with other Bank-financed projects.
21.   Although the project was rated satisfactory, it was found that this project did not
have an adequate set of monitorable performance indicators. 2/  Fortunately, the
2/   ibid.



6
questionnaire prepared by the ICR preparation team and GOK's evaluation summary
gave enough quantitative indicators to measure realistic outputs and impacts of the
project. There was one implementation problem at the beginning of the project namely
the exclusion of two eligible categories under the Schedule 6 of the Loan Agreement.
The appropriate action was taken and corrections quickly made. The good working
relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was not affected, and therefore there was
no adverse effect on the development outcomes of the project.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
22.   Overall implementation of the Borrower performance was satisfactory despite the
earlier difficulties stated above. The project implementation staff were found to be both
dedicated and skilled. Furthermore, the PIU was supported by the efficient procurement
services of SAROK. This organization has had a long history of successful equipment
procurement for Bank-financed projects. Throughout the duration of the project, the only
procurement-related issue that arose was when a two-stage procurement procedure was
used by SAROK without the consent of the Bank. This problem was quickly addressed
when it was discovered.
23.   The Government provided adequate counterpart funds throughout the project
years for the first two components. There was an initial shortage of budget for the library
network system, however, a sufficient budget was provided after the third year by the
Ministry of Education.
24.   Covenant compliance was highly satisfactory. Submissions of audit reports were
always on time. Equipment procurement was also generally satisfactory. ICB procedures
were used for more than 95% of the equipment procurement. Reasonable prices were
secured for highly specialized mainframe computers and other science centers equipment,
and all contracts were awarded to the lowest evaluated bids. All equipment was
delivered, installed and fully utilized. Training was given on time for administrative staff
and technicians. They were no evidence of any maintenance problems, shortage of spare
parts or lack of consumables.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
25.   The project outcomes were rated highly satisfaction by the last supervision report.
The science centers of the secondary schools have raised the quality of their graduates.
Graduates from these centers were able to either find employment or continue their
education programs through universities/colleges. Equipment has been well maintained
and utilization rate has been high.
26.   Joint science centers have been established in each of the colleges of natural
science in the national universities. The joint usage of these centers has helped to raise
the efficiency of O&M of the high-cost sophisticated equipment and the heavy demand
for using these expensive equipment. The quality of university degrees in science



7
education has been raised, relevant to the rapidly changing technology demand of the
workplaces.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
27.   After Korea's graduation from the borrower status in June 1995, there was no
expectation of any future Bank operations in Korea. However, due to the recent financial
crisis in the East Asia Region, the Government has asked for some structural adjustment
loans.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
28.   Given the complexity of the computer world and its ever changing technological
development, sufficient project preparation time should be given to clearly understand the
fundamental compatabilities of software languages, operating systems and equipment,
and a range of supporting network systems.



8
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial        Partial        Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies                       El              E                 E-
Sector Policies                                      E                 El 0l
Financial Objectives                [                 0                E                 [
Institutional Development            0               [                 0                  0
Physical Objectives                                  El                E                 El
Poverty Reduction                    El              E                 0l
Gender Issues                        E               El                E                 Ix
Other Social Objectives              E               El                El                [
Environmental Objectives             El              E                 El7
Public Sector Management             E               [3J               E                 E
Other - Private Sector
Development                         E                El               El
B. Project Sustainability               Likely                  Unlikely                   Uncertain
(()  (t)  (e)
((Continued)



/                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
Highly
C. Bank Performance                    satisfactory          Satisfactory              Deficient
(9')                    (9')                      (9')
Identification                                              L                         E I
Preparation                        =%..
Appraisal                           3                        g                         g
Supervision                       El                       FE
Higl
D. Borrower Performance                      satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                                 P7I
Implementation                                              [               iii
Covenant Compliance                                         L               Li
Operation (if applicable)                    Ei
Highly 
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
(X')           (9)              (v)               (9)
O~L                            iL



10
TABLE 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title          Purpose                       Year of approval         Status
Preceding operations
1. First Education      Expansion of vocational high             1969         Completed 09/76
( Cr 15 1 -KO)       schools, junior technical colleges and
(Cr. 151 -KO)        teacher training
2. Second Education     Improvements of vocational high          1973          Completed 12/79
| Ln. 906ICr. 394-KO)  schools, junior technical colleges and
(Ln. 906/Cr. 3 94-KO)  science, engineering and education
colleges
3. Third Education      Expansion and quality improvement        1975          Completed 11/81
(ln. 1096-KO)        in vocational high schools, junior
i  (Ln. 1096-KO)     colleges and vocational training
institutes (VTIs)
4. Vocational Training    Further expansion of VTIs and          1978          Completed 06/83
expansion and improvement of
1  (Ln. 1474-KO)     instructor training
5. Sector Program on    Improving technical colleges and         1980          Completed 02/86
Higher Technical        colleges of engineering and
Education               management through supply of
(ln. 1800-KO)        equipment, staff development,
(Ln. 1 800-KO)      manpower planning, equipment
maintenance and academic
accreditation
6. Program for Science    Raising quality of science and         1984          Completed 06/89
and Technology          technology education to standards
Education               required by a more skill- and
(ln. 2427-KO)        knowledge-intensive industrial
l  (Ln. 2427-KO)      system through planned policy and
institutional change
7. Technology           Strengthening the development of         1989          Completed 12/31/93
Advancement             SMIs in Technology-intensive
(ln. 3037-KO)        sectors, improving the quality of
l (Ln. 3037-KO)      education in a center of excellence in
science and engineering education
and enhancing the capacity of
selected R&D institutions to provide
technical support for SMIs.
8. Second Technology    Improving the research capacity of       1990          Completed 06/30/94
Advancement             one leading graduate school in
(ln. 3202-KO)         science and engineering and
(Ln. 3202-KO)         enhancing R&D capacities in the
areas of biotechnology, basic and
industrial standards, and energy and



11
resource utilization
9. Science and         Enhancing basic research programs       1990         Completed 12/31/95
Technology Research    in selected universities in priority
(Ln. 3203-KO)   fields in science and technology and
(Ln. 3203-KO)        improving science teacher training
10. Vocational        Upgrading the skill training provided   1991         Completed 06/30/96
Education              in selected vocational high schools
(Ln. 3314-KO)meeting the increasing complex skill
l1eeigtenri(Ln.33 4-KO)  requirements of industry, commerce,
agriculture and fisheries
11. Third Technology  Improving the quality of research       1991         Completed 06/30/94
Advancement            programs for developing advanced
(ln. 3315-KO)        technologies, increasing opportunity
l (Ln. 33 15-KO)     forjoint basic science research
activities through common research
facilities; and enhancing the
development and application of
industrial standards
12. Vocational Schools   Continuing with the objectives in Ln.  1992        Completed 12/31/97
Development            3314-KO to upgrade skill training in
(ln. 3469-KO)        selected vocational high schools
l   (Ln.3469-KO)     (VHS) and strengthening VHS
system through five studies in five
agreed areas
Following operations
13. Environmental      Upgrading the capacity of selected      1993         To be completed
Research and Education   agricultural and veterinary colleges                12/31/98
(ln. 3612-KO)        to undertake research into key
l(Ln. 3612-KO)       environmental problems, reinforcing
the environmental aspects of basic
science programs in the colleges and
establishing appropriate
arrangements for improving
environmental research and training
program
14. Science and        Improving science and technical         1994         To be completed
Technical Education    education and research through                        12/31/99
(ln. 3693-KO)        implementation of an agreed policies
(Ln. 3693-KO)        and actions program and the
provision of specialized equipment
15. Environmental      Strengthening: (a) selected national    1994         To be completed
Technology             research institutes to identify and                  09/30/98
Development            adequately address environmental
issues and to undertake
(Ln. 3694-KO)        environmental R&D activities; and
(b) the Ministry of Environment's
policy and planning role



12
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned        Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)    03/91       03/03-03/14/91
Preparation                             07/91             07/21-08/10/91
Appraisal                               11/11/91          11/10-11/27/91
Negotiations                            01/92             03/16/92
Board Presentation                      03/26/92          05/12/92
Signing                                 6/92              06/19/92
Effectiveness                           09/92             09/09/92
Project Completion                      06/30/97          12/31/97!'
Loan Closing                            12/31/97          12/31/97
Last Disbursement                      [_04/30/98         05/07/98
Cancellation of Remaining Funds         04/30/98          05/07/98
1/ Source: MOE submission dated February 13, 1998.



13
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Cumulative Disbursements     FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
Appraisal Estimate            4.0   14.0   32.0   45.0   49.0   50.0
Actual                        0.0   04.0   17.1   33.5   46.8   48.8
Actual as % of Estimate       0%      8%     34%    67%    94%    98%
Date of Final Disbursement - May 7, 1998



14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in the SARiPresident's Report
In 1992           By 1998
estimated          actual
(a)   Loan proceeds by components (in million) -l
Science Education Centers       $05.0               $05.0
Undergraduate Science Education   $25.0             $23.7
Library Network                 $20.0               $20.0
Total                           $50.0               $ 48.82'
(b)   Training
1/ Expenditures on training are financed by the Government of Korea.
2/ Figures do not add up due to rounding.



15
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not Applicable
Note: Project Operation was satisfactory in past education projects in Korea. No operation
indicators were considered necessary.



16
Table 7: Training Included in Project
The library network system was designed to be user friendly, with only a little
orientation necessary for students who would want to use the system. No student training
was financed by the project. There was some training provided for administrative staff
and laboratory technicians, but this training was provided, for the most part, by vendors
of the equipment purchased for the system. The cost for this training was therefore
factored into the overall contract costs. GOK's ICR submission did not include any
detailed information on this subject.



17
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)    Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)"'
Local     Foreign    Total     Local      Foreign        Total
Item           Costs     Costs                Costs       Costs
1. Equipment         -      58.1       58.1         -        56.9        56.9
2. Equipment       3.1       0.5        3.6       3.1         0.5          3.6
transportation and
installation
3. Operationsand    8.9      0.9        9.8       8.9         0.9          9.8
maintenance
4. Consumable      8.9       0.9        9.8       8.9         0.9          9.8
materials_
5. Training        0.3       0.1        0.4       0.3         0.1          0.4
6. TOTAL          21.2      60.5       81.7      21.2        59.3         80.5
/1 Partial information was provided by the Government submission, February 13, 1998.



18
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)     Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)-3
Local   Foreign     Total    Local    Foreign    Total
Source               Costs     Costs                Costs    Costs
IBRD                       -      50.0       50.0             48.8       48.8
Domestic Contribution   21.2      10.5       31.7   21.2       10.5      31.7
TOTAL                  21.2      60.5       81.7   21.2      59.3       80.5
/1 Based on MOE's partial submission dated February 13, 1998.



19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable



20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement     Section    Covenant Present  Original   Revised        Description of          Comments
type    status  fulfillment fulfillment    covenant
date       date
Ln 3468-KO  3.03          5         C      Undated   NA          Develop practical science Fulfilled
courses in the science
education center and
procure course-related
equipment in accordance
with Bank-approved
guidelines
4.01          1        C       6/30 of               Furnish to the Bank audit Fulfilled
each year            reports including
separate opinions on
SOEs, not later than June
30 of each year
5.01          10       C                             Manage project with   Fulfilled
adequate staff
Notes: (a) Covenant type (only for those used in this table)
5 Management aspects
I Accounts/audit
10 Implementation
(b) Status (only for those used in this table)
C Complied with



21
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No evidence of non-compliance with applicable Bank manual statements observed.



22
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of             Planned             Revised              Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks   US$(000)   Weeks  US$(000)  Weeks US$(000)
Through Appraisal    -         -                              16.4     48.7
Appraisal                      -                               3.8      11.6
Negotiations through   -       -         -         -           1.0       3.0
Board approval
Supervision         -          -         14.9      70.0       26.2     96.5
Completion          -          -          4.5      19.3        2.6      7.7
TOTAL                         -                              50.0    167.5
Note: No or incomplete MIS or COS data for the planned or revised in staff-weeks and in dollars.



23
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                Specialized     Implemen    Develop-
Stage of              Month/    of           Days in    Staff Skills      tation      ment    Types of
Project Cycle         Year        Persons    Field      Represented       Status    Objective   Problems
s
Through Appraisal     03/03-      2           11        Econ./Tech
03/14/91                         Educ.
07/21-     6          60         Econ./Tech
08/10/91                         Educ./Impl.
Spec./Sci.
Educ./Info
Sys.Spec
Appraisal through      11/10-     5           39        Econ./Tech.
Board approval        27/91 -                           Educ./Ilmpl.
05/12/92                         Sepc.lSci.
EducAlnfo Sys.
Spec.
Supervision            11-12/92    2          16        Tech. Educ.l        1           1
Info Sys. Spec.
06-07/93    2          8         Tech. Educ.         I
10-11/93    2         8          Tech. Educ.l        I           I
Info Sys Spec.
06-07/94    2         8          Tech. Educ.        HS          HS
11-12/94    3         22         Tech. Educ.l       HS          HS
Info Sys. Spec.
06-07/95    2         6          Tech. Educ.        HS          HS
11-12/95    3         22         Tech. Educ.l       HS          HS
Info Sys. Spec.
05-06/96    2          6         Tech. Educ.        HS          HS
10-11/96    3         22         Tech. Educ.l       HS          HS
Info Sys. Spec.
09-10/97    3         3          Tech. Educ.l       HS          HS
I_I                    Ops. Off.
Completion             09-10/97    3          13        Tech. Educ./       HS          HS
Ops. Of
Ratings: I - very satisfactory, 2 - satisfactory, HS - highly satisfactory



ANNEX A
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
SCIENCE EDUCATION AND LIBRARIES COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3468-KO)
IBRD Progress Review iMtission and Project Completion Mission
September 28 - October 18. 1997
Aide MIemoire '
1.      The IBRD mission2 visited Korea from September 2S, 1997 to October 1s,
1997 to review the implementation progress of three World Bank financed projects
under Loans 3468-KO, 3169-KO and 3694-KO, and also to reach agreements with the
MIinistry of Education (MOE) on preparing the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) for Loans 3468-KO and 3469-KO, of which the Closing Dates are December
3 1, 1997 for both projects. This Aide Memoire is for Loan 3468-KO only. There are
separare Aide MIemoires for the other twvo projects.
2.      For Loan 3468-KO, the rrission visited the Mvlinistry of Finance and
Economy (%[OFE), MOE, the Supply Administration, Republic of Korea (SAROK),
and two National Universities and two Joint Science Centers at Kwangju and Pusan,
respectively. Their kind assistance, cooperation and hospitality is deeply appreciated.
Progress Review
3.       Procurement and Disbursements (Annex 1).  The current status of
procurement and disbursements is generally satisfactory. Annex I summarizes the
updated procurement and disbursements status for all four MIOE projects still under
implementation. Disbursements reached 95% of the total loan proceeds for the whole
project - 93% for the University Science and Engineering Education and High School
Science Components, and 97% for the Library Computerization Component.
Procurement reached 94% of the loan.3 The mission advised %MOE to utilize the
shopping procurement procedure, where appropriate, to reduce the procurement lead
time (as compared to the use of the ICB procedure). The mission also advised NIOE
to make use of the direct payment to suppliers disbursement procedure instead of the
other two, replenishment of the special account and special commitment. The use
of the special commitment procedure takes a much longer time and there may be less
than adequate funds remainina in the special account due to the ongoing Bank
recovery procedure which occurs during the last few months of the loan period. These
procedures (shopping procurement procedure and direct payment to supplier
disbursement procedure) should be particularly useful if MOE is planning to fully
disburse the $50 rnillion loan proceeds.  Also, at this final stage of project
This aide memoire is subject to review and modification by Bank Mfanagement.
;. ~ The mission comprised of MessrsJ.Ms. Robert L. McGough, Task Tcam Leader, Carol Ball.
-- . - ~~Operations Anlalvst. EASED, and Sing Zak Sung, Consultant.
This figure which is 1% lower than the 95% for disbursements is due to the remaining fund in
the Special Account, counted for disbursements but not for procurement.



2
implementation, there should be some degree of fungability between funds in different
categories in Schedule I of the Loan Agreement, as it would be undesirable to amend
the Loan Agreement for minor deviations in Schedule I at a time near the Closing
Date.
4.      Project Related Documentation. The Special Account for this project is
well managed. A sample review on the supporting vouchers for 25% of the line entries
into the Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) during, this review period (May to October,
1997) revealed no irregularities. A review of the bid evaluation reports at the Supply
Administration, Republic of Korea (SAROK) for about 15% of the 133 contracts
awarded during this review period also revealed no irregularities.        -
5.      Covenant Compliance. All covenants are in full compliance, including the
subrmission to the Ban}; of the audit report for Korea FY1996 together with a separate
opinion on SOEs before June 30, 1997.  The mnission reminded MOE that the
subrnission to the Bank of the audit report for Korea FY1997 together with a separate
opinion on SOEs would be necessary before June 30, 1998 as there are eligible
expenditures disbursements from this loan in 1997.
Project Completion and ICR4 Preparation
6.      Project Closing Date. The mission and NIOE agreed that this loan will be
closed on December 31, 1997 as stipulated in the Loan Agreement. Any unused
balance of the loan proceeds would be canceled after the closing of the loan account.
The Bank will inform the Ministry of Finance and Economy of the amount of
cancellation. An extension of the Closing Date is unnecessary, given the timely and
satisfactory implementation of all three components of the project (ref. Paragraph 3
above on the three components). There is no tirne overrun.
7.      Grace Period. A four month grace period for disbursements of elisible
exoenditures after the Closing Date has been requested by iVIOE.  The mission
supports this request and will recommend that the Bank agree to the request. The
mission explained that expenditures for goods and services delivered after the Closing
Date could not be counted as eligible expenditures.
S.      Recovery of Funds in the Special Account. The Special Account should
have a zero balance after the full recovery of funds in the Special Account.
9.      Data Collection for ICR Preparation (Annex 2) and Time Schedule
(Annex 3). The mission and MOE reached agreement on the data to be collected from
the participating universities in the Library Automation Network (LAN), participating
universities in the Science and Engineering Education Component and the Joint
Science Centers in the High School Science Component. Annex 2 gives the details.
MOE has agreed to consolidate the information and pass it to the Bank. The agreed
upon steps and timing are presented in Annex 3. MOE also agreed to send to the
. '   4 ICR  ImplemenLation Completion Report. The previous name was PCR. Project Completion
Report. The Annex B 'The Borrower's Evaluation Summary' now in the ICR replaces the Part
11 'Projcct Performance from the Borrower's Perspective' of the previous PCR.



3
Bank the following:
(i) Project cost table,
(i) Project finance table,
(iii) Project components starting and completion dates;
(iv) Consolidated information for Loan 3468-KO;
(v) A new organizational chart for the management of the LAN and its terms-of-
reference; and
(vi) A plan for fiuture operations and future policies which mav ensure project
sustainability.
The time schedule for the preparation oL the ICR is outlined in Annex 3.
MIajor Findings from Field Trips
10.     Science and Engineering Education Component (S25 million).  The
participating colleges have been positivelv affected by this project. MIore than half of
the equipment acquired by the colleges during the project's implementation period was
purchased from loan proceeds. Research fields have been broadened and there is
evidence of greater depth in the collection of data. Publications have increased.
Professors' morale has been lifted. Srudent theses are considered to be of higher
qualityv.
II.     Library  Computerization Component (S20 million).  The national
network has been completed.  Cataloging in libraries has been computerized.
Conversion of the software from Tandem to the Unix operatin, system has been
completecL and the Korean language software problems have been effiectively
addressed. The quantity and quality of the mainfraame computers and PCs are now
adequate. More than 5000 PCs have been installed at the Kwangu National University
and more than 4400 PCs have been installed at Pusan National University. There have
been no significant Linkage problems. Professors and students are now using the
system and the utilization rate is high. Management for the network has been moved
from the SNTJ library to MOE. The rrmission supports this move as it is a more logical
approach to the management of the network. The mission found no evidence of
shortages in local funds to support the effective use and maintenance of the hardware
and softvare. As a whole, this component also seems to have been quite successful.
12.     High School Science Component (S5 million). The Joint Science Centers
(JSCs) are functioning as planned. They are providing in-service training to high
school science teachers; raising the science level of gifted high school students;
providing general science education to the public through exhibitions; and the
production of specific science teaching materials. The JSCs are well equipped, with
about two thirds of their equipment being procured by loan proceeds. Laboratory
management and utilization rates are satisfactory. All laboratories are individually
provided with a laboratory assistant.  The mnission is also satisfied with the
implementation of this component.



CC List
Name                                  Fax Number
Ministry of Finance and Economy       82-2-503-9282
MIr. Han, Hoon
Deputy Director, Treasury Division
Treasury Bureau
NMirnistry of Education               82-2-730-6068
Mr. Chang, Oh-Hyun
Assistant MEinister for Higher Education
Hi2her Education Office
NLr. Hwang, Ji-Hyun                   82-2-730-6068
Director
Higher Education Faciities Division
Higher Education Office
Dr. Lee, Won-Joon                     82-2-739-0690
Deputy Director
Education Information Management Bureau
Supply Administration, Republic of Korea   82-2-533-0711
Mr. Lee, Seong-Sil
Assistant Director
Foreign Procurement Division II



1(OR EA
I'roc:irc:esilct andtl Disbuirscnement Status ill LoiAn Ptro.jects Orf IOE
(Oclober 1997)
!.oan! No.  i              1.o0105                       Pi vaz1lsirwir (1 iS sarilitones)                   t)is!tt' i'iltl8 rrcitl II$ tltwmiI:)                        limit-khs
Amounit            iltlcests     lIo lIle     ( ontracits     I'ci cit         D)eposited                1'er  it
(liSS millions)       Sent tfi        Sent         An ais iau d    f 1.A'an        Into Special             of L.an
(A)              OSllOI;                        (11)         (lIVA)            Accouints_.
3468-1;0                               50.0                                   47.2           9.1%               47.4                    95%            E\pccted to be nenrly folly disbursed.
(a)                      30.0      32.3            0            27.9           93%
for Basic Scienco
Developntent
(b)                      20.0      20.3            0            19.3           978
for Library
Computerization
3469-KO                                30.0      29.2            0            29.2           97%6               28.8                    96            lxpected to have a small amount of loan
proceeds ($0.6 million) to e cauiccilcd.
3612-KO /1                             60.0                                                                     33.2                    55o           Iotpiovcd faomn 42% of tlas report.
(n)                      34.7                                                                     17.2                   50% 4/
Colleges of Agri.
(b)                      13.0                                                                     7.3                    56o
Colleges of Vet.
(c)                      12.3                                                                     8.7                    71%
NICI.M
3693-KO1/1                            190.0      158.5          31.5          108.4          57%               104.7                    55%            About 4% bottcr iiua lasi report.
(a)                     170.0     140.8          29.2           92.6           54%               91.5                    54%
for MOE
(h)                      20.0      17.7           2.3           15.8           79o              13.1                    67o
for KIISI /2
Sourcc:      Latest Sltais Rcpolx
/1 1ibso Iwo pr:cjccts wcre nolt includld as poiects to Ie revie%%ed ty  tbis inissior. hIdt hlc distruiscuicnit figuuies WeIC iiupdutced.
/2 libis portion is not tnder MO)l.
x



5
Annex 2
REPU-BLIC OF KOREA
SCIEENCE EDUCATION A.ND LIBRARIES COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
(Loan 3468-KO)
Questionnaire For The Preparation Of ICR
I.    Library Computerization Component (S20 million)
A. Quantitative Achievements
1.    (i)    How many uriversities covered by the Loan?
(ii)    What is the total number of universities in Republic of Korea?
(iii)   What is the percentage of the Loan's coverage?
2.    (i)    How many mainframes and workstation level computers purchased and
their costs during the project years, and the percentage of the Loan's financing?
(ii)    How many pieces of other hardware excluding mainframes and personal
computers (PCs) purchased and their costs during the project years, and the
percentage of the Loan's financing?
3.    (i)    How many PCs purchased and their costs during the project years, and the
percentage of the Loan's financing?
(ii)    What is the average number of personal computers for each participating
university?
4.    (i)    Auny expenditure on civil works for housing the equipment?
(ii)   If yes, what is the total cost?
(iii)   By whom? By NIOE or by the universities?
5.    (i)    How many private universities included in the network?
(ii)    What is the total number of universities included in the network?
(iii)   What is the private universities' percentage included in the network?
6.    (i)    How many universities already linked?
(ii)    What is its link percentage?
7.    (i)    What are the rates of network established by level of network? i.e. by level
of library, by level of campus, and by level of intemet?



6
B. Utilization Indicators
1.    How many number of PCs in use for general purpose and for official use?
2.    (i)    How many expected users?
(ii)    How many users per PC? By teaching staf, by students, and by
administrative staff?
3.    Please give comrnments on adequacy and future plan.
C. Performance Indicators
1.    Is the computerization conversion of the library catalog system completed?
2.    (i)    If not, what is the conversion percentage? i.e. number of completed
universities versus the total number of universities in the network.
(ii)    When will the conversion complete and finance by whom?
3.    (i)    What is the status of the .finctioning module, i.e. searching, cataLoging,
periodicals, etc.? software in the computing system of university libraries.
4.    Is the Korean language software work-ing well?
Note: For A, B, and C above, it is not necessary to give names of universities. We need
to know the success and failure, if any, of the component. Any comments of the above
are welcomed.
D.    NManagement
(i)   Is the present management arrangement (by a Comnittee located at
Advanced Acadernic Inforrmation Center) functioning adequately for the network?
(ii)   Please submit an organization chart and its terrms-of-reference.
E.    Finance (related to A above)
(i)   Is the hardware budget adequate? Both mainframes and PCs?
(ii)   Is the software budget adequate?
(iii)  Is the recurrent budget adequate?
Note: D and E are questions concerning sustainability.



7
El. University Science Education Component (S25 million)
A. Quantitative Achievements
The followin, table may show the achivements at a glance:
Allocation of Loan Proceeds (TJS$  million)                 l
Actual           MOE           SAR
| Defrayment      Allocation    Allocation    Remarks
Science        |__                                      _
Total          |                                             .
(i)    What is the percentage of Bank-financed equipment as compared to the total
amount of equipment purchased, regardless of financing sources, within the same time
period.
(ii)   How many topics of research work were carried out (even partially) with the
equipment added by the project?
(iii) What percentage is that in terms of the total number of research topics done in the
universities concerned during the same time period.
B. Output Indicators
Enrollment of students                    1993     1997   ] Rates of Increase
(i) No. of new entrants
(ii) No. of graduates
(iii) No. of employed graduates
(iv) No of graduates advanced to graduate
courses
Teachinz Staff
(i) No. of students per professor
(ii) No. of professor with doctor's degree
(iii) Workload of professors
(iv) Research articles published
Equipment                                         .
(i) Type of provided equipment
(ii) No. of units
(iii) Total costs



8
m. Joint Science Centers (S5 million)
A. Quantitative Achievements
Joint Science Centers  High School Students  Experiments
No. of Joint Science   No. of  Total      No. of       Total       Rate  Remarks
Centers (JSCs) in    high     number of  experiments  number of
Korea equipped from   school   high school  that were    experiment
the Loan             students students in  carried out   s required
served   Korea      by JSCs      in the high
school
science
curricula   I
B. Utilization Indicators
No. of operating    No. of hours (on   Utilization Rate    Remarks
hours possible in a    average) in actual
JSC per week        operation per week
C. Management & Finance (regarding A above)
Item                      Opinion                   Plan for rectifving the
problems
(i) Degree of cooperation
between user high school
and JSC
(ii) Any staff shortaze  |
(iii) Any lab-technician
shorta2e                   _.      _I
(iv) Any shortage on
consumables|
(v) Any repair and
maintenance problems                      .
(vi) Any recurrent budget l
shortace                                           l



KOREA
Lo,n;n 3468-KO
ICl Prcpairnlio.i'I'asble
IBaiik Sitlc                                                     I                           MOE Sitlo
|Step) Name                    Date                               |                          SICl} Nanie                           Da;le
(a) riTme Schedule - Steps and Dates
Project Compietion Mission     I lcid already in Scpt./Oct.97                                Dula Collection                       I O/ l 8;97 - 121 V897
)octititcuts & Tblsits to cacti lutilk  by 01/30/98
ICR Dra0ilig                   01/30i98 - 03i05/98                                           lreparation olEvaluation Sumlmaiy     I0/l I97 -03/05/98
Evahiation Summary to icacil Bank    03/16!98
Drall ICR to MOE               03/20/98                                                      Commcnts onl) D all ICR              03/31i98 - 0,1/30/98
Gray Cover ICR 1'reparation    03/20/98 - 05/15/98
ICR to Bank's Board            06/30/98
(b)  IJst otDocuments and Tables to be sent to the' Bank frii MOEm
(i) Tbc Evaluation Summary to be anncxcd lo tile ICR             (sec sIeps 3 and 4)
(ii) Documents and Tabics:                                       (se stleps I and 2)
Project cost lable
Project finance table
Project components stanting and completion date tabics
Consolidated information for Ln. 3468-KO
(refcrcnice: Annex 2 in Aide Memoire dated October 1997)
Plan fbr futurc operation, as evidenice of sustairiabilily
(iii) Comments on draft ICR                                      (see step 5)
(c)  The Documents to be sent by Bank to MOI
(i) Draft ICR                                                    (sec Bank side sicp 3)
(ii) Final ICR (after Banl;'s Board approval)                    (sec 1lank side step 5)
0



ANTNEX B
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
SEOUL 110-760, REPUBLIC OF KOREA
TEL: (2)-720-4979, fax; (2)-730-6068
February 13, 1998
Mr. Robert L. McGough
Senior Technical Educator,
Education Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
The World Bank
Washington, D.C., U. S. A.
Dear Mr. McGough,
Subject: Evaluation Summary on the Project Performance of the IBRD Loan,
No. 3468-KO
Thlle captioned Evaluation Summary is forwarded enclosed herewith to the Bank.
Best regards,
Yours very truly,
Hwang, Ji-Hyun
Director,
Higher Education Facilities Bureau
I-ligher Education Office
I'ncl:  Evaluation Summary   1.



Summary of Evaluation on the Project Perfornance
of
the IBRD Loan, No. 3468-KO
February 13, 1998
Ministry of Education
Republic of Korea



Evaluation Summary
on the Science Education and University Libraries Computerization Project,
IBRD Loan No. 3468-KO
The purpose of the Project was to upgrade quality of the science education in the
colleges of natural sciences in the national universities, secondary schools, and
develop computer network and exchange of information among university libraries,
especially among national university libraries.
The relevant Loan Agreement was signed on June 19, 1992 and the Project was
completed. on December 31, 1997. For evaluation of the purposes achieved in the
Project, the Ministry of Education, and the World Bank mission visiting Korea in
October 1997 for preparing ICR of the Project, agreed to evaluate performance of the
Project through visits to project institutions and correspondence questionnaires with
them.
T'he evaluation was aimed at presenting figures for an objective evaluation to the
possible extent, and information of the completed project was collected around
November '97 in the Ministry mainly from project institutions according to the forms
agreed upon with the above mission.
In the project part for computerization of university libraries, the purposes of the
p)roject seemed to be achieved through providing the related equipment and
establishing a substantial network among national university libraries. In the project
part for upgrading quality of basic science education of undergraduate courses and
the local science education centers established for providing in-service training to
secondary science teachers, the general trend, also, seemed to be successful though
thc evaluation could not be presented with substantial figures.
1. Introduction of the loan
'I'he loan application of the Ministry was officially presented to the World Bank
through Ministry of Finance and Economy together with other loan applications of
the govcrnment in package in November 1990.
'I'he Bank's mission visited Korea twice, during July to August and in November
1991, made identification and evaluation of the applied project, and recommended the
loan to the board of the World Bank.



The Loan Agreement of US$ 50 million equivalent was signed on June 19, 1992 and
its effectiveness was notified to the Government from the Bank on September 9,
1992. In March 1993, the MOE Special Account, the operational fund of the project,
was opened with the Korea Exchange Bank and conditions were made ready for the
Project to be implemented.
The project fund of the loan by project part was as follows:
(a) Science Education Centers for the secondary science education (15 centers):
US$ 5 raillion.
(b) Undergraduate science education (18 universities): US$ 25 million.
(c) University libraries computerization (45 institutions): US$ 20 million.
The local fund for the Project was estimated to be about US$21.2 million equivalent
for local land transportation, installation, operation and maintenance, and consumables
for the equipment to be procured by the loan.
2. Selection of the participating institutions in the Project
T'he project was originally designed and introduced on the basis of the performed
results of the previous similar project, The Science and Technical Education Project,
completed about ten years before from  the Bank loan, No. 2427-KO for a further
clevelopment of the same field. Selection of the participating universities, therefore,
was rather simple for the project part of the undergraduate science courses.
Designing of the project for this part was aimed at upgrading quality of the basic
sciences education in national and public universities.
'I'hc sclected were 18 national universities with colleges of natural sciences, and 15
locally positioned science education centers. The latter were so selected as their
establishment was particularly aimed at providing in-service training to the secondary
science teachers and developing and distributing specific instructional materials. In the
secondary  science education, upgrading    quality  of the  science  teachers was
considered to be one of the most effective factor in strengthening the basis of
science education.
For the project part of the university libraries computerization, the selected to directly
participate in the project were 45 institutions, i. e. national universities expected to
work as the central center and as local centers for the library network, other various
national institutions including those of teacher-training and the Korea Education
Dcvelopment Institute.



3. Procurement of the Experimental and Laboratory Equipment
In the Ministry, the item lists of basic equipment for procurement from the loan were
collected at the time of loan application from universities for their evaluation and
allocation of the loan. These lists were also reviewed by the Bank mission when
they identified and evaluated the applied project loan.
Therefore, the participating institutions began to program procurement schedules, at
the beginning of the project implementation, made adjustments to the equipment lists
and the related specifications according to changes made in curricula, educational
contents, and models on the suppliers' side, and requests for procurement were made
to Supply Administration, Republic of Korea (SAROK).
In SAROK, technical review of the procurement requests, advertisement for
intcrnational competitive bidding, and contract awarding were made taking about 70
days in total. The contract items of equipment were supplied to the related
educational sites through maritime or air-borne transportation according to types of
the equipment and conditions of the contract, taking about 50 days at the most when
the longest maritime forwarding  was made.   The equipment supplied to the
dcsignated sites was installed or placed, and strict operational tests were made
aICcordinlg to their types and usage. Users of the equipment were trained according
to the type of cquipment, and technicians were trained on high-cost sophisticated
equipment.
C-1 Implementation of the Project was as follows:
3- - I (Part A) Processing for procurement of the experimental and laboratory
equipment for the 15 science education centers was made by the related supervising
Office of Education in the municipal provinces and cities under their responsibility.
As their related staff experienced several times in the similar job in previous loan
i)rojects for supplying similar equipment to their vocational high schools, there was
;lmost no problems reported, and the project was carried out as originally planned
without any overrun in the project period and thc project fund. Laboratory work
conducted in the Centers using equipment provided under the loan were reported as
follows:



<Laboratory Work in the Science Education Centers>
Science Education High School Students                Laboratory work
Centers (SEC)
Students
SECs supplied    used  loan Total high   Number of Total  experiments Percentage
wth equip' t    equip' t * school students experiments defined in curricula
I
15         243,948      1,892        136            168            81%
Note: * Figures in column "Students used loan equip' t" are man-days.
3-1-2 (Part B) Procurement of the loan equipment for upgrading quality of science
education in the colleges of natural sciences in the 18 national universities was
processed by the universities' staff under their responsibility. The staff working on
procurement of educational equipment had experienced in the similar work under the
two previous World Bank projects, Loan Nos. 1800-KO and 2427-KO. Therefore,
there was no problems reported in processing all the related procurement, and their
part of the project also was completed without any overrun in the project period and
the project fund. The quantitative figures of the equipment procur d for this part of
the project were as follows:
<Procurement of Equipment for Experimental and Practice Training>
Project                  Project equip' t procured
: ~~~~~~~~~~~Initial allocation
institutions      TI ypes          Units           Amount
18 universities     1,846            3,674       US$ 23,668,497   US$ 25,000,000
:3-1-3  (Part C)   Outline of this part of the project was to: (a) establish  an
inter-library network through, inter alia, the provision of 11 mainframe computers to
link the libraries of the main center at Seoul National University to the Korean
Elducational Development Institute and to the nine local university library centers; (b)
provide computer systems for inter-library network participation and local library
automation in 15 universities and 11 teachers' colleges within the inter-library
network; and (c) provide training for library staff in computer skils and technology
for the purpose of operating the inter-library network.
Biefore the Project, some universities of the project, including Seoul National, had
begun to computerize their libraries and developed computerizing programs. Therefore,
in the beginning stage of the project, they needed some period for adjustment and
coordination in the   contents and schedule of the plan for the national setup of
computerization and network among universities of the project. The project itself
including procurement of the related equipment was delayed for sorrTie time.



The overall responsibility for establishing the national computerization and network
among the university libraries lay with the Committee for University Library
Automation (CULA), which consisted of the directors of the ten university libraries
who were on two-year appointments. Operating under the direction of the CULA
was the Working Group for University Library Automation which comprised the ten
chief librarians of the project universities, and special subcommittees for handling
major technical issues.
The CULA responsible on implementing the project was rather excessively
emphasized with their professionalism, and their administrative and coordinative
aspect was somewhat neglected among the nation-wide local centers and universities.
In one or two universities of the project, students and professors had to wait for
some time to use their computerized system of the high-cost equipment due to
shortage of library terminals.
In the third year of the Project (1996), there was a reorganization of the Ministry,
and Bureau of Educational Information Management was established. Implementation
of this part of the project was transferred to the Ministry, and the delayed
implementation was recovered as scheduled in the plan under improved budgetary
conditions.
The university libraries computerization part of the project, successfully completed,
would be very much contributive to the industrial fields as well as to the fields of
eCLucaItion and researches, accompanied by the fast expanding programs of the
iiiternet, in the rapidly developing and changing  informational age.  Professional
libraries in colleges of various fields also would be utilized more smoothly among
themselves. The performed status of the computerized network among the Project
institutions was as follows:
<Implementation Status of the Library Computerization>
Main frames &
I ota       Project    workstation level PCs    GNetwork status
I~ ~ unv                                          Loan  fusNetor  tau
univs   Total PCs  Loan  fund Total PCs  Loan  fund
Libraries: 90%
184        44        57         45%       1,515      15%    Campus: 70%
._ _ _  _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _    Internet:   64%



4. Use Status of the Equipment Procured from the Loan
4-1 Project part of the Science Education Centers
The Science Education Centers had been established for improving education of the
fast-developing scientific knowledges to: (a) provide in-service training to the
secondary science teachers; (b) develop, produce, and distribute specific educational
materials, etc. for use of the secondary schools.
Therefore, the equipment supplied to these centers were different in using times and
in users, to some extent. The equipment provided to these centers were used, in the
case for giving in-service training to science teachers, during summer and winter
vacations. The science teachers had been trained most regularly in the changed
contents of the science curricula adjusted every five years. They were dispatched to
the centers in turn and trained for weeks staying there together.
Some items of equipment . supplied to the centers were installed for demonstrational
show or display in a hall for effective cultivation of scientific knowledge for the
elementary and the secondary students and the general public.
<Operation of the Science Education Centers>
Available hrs per week       Actual hrs per week           Use rate
30hrs(6days x 5hrs)         24hrs(6days x 4hrs)            80%
4-2 Use status of the equipment provided from the loan
The universities participating in the project had prepared the equipment lists for the
project when they applied for the project, and the specifications were also prepared
during the preparation stage of the project before signing on the loan. As the related
staff of the participating universities had experiences on the similar work of the
Science and Technology Education Project, Loan No. 2427-KO with US$75 million for
'84 to 88, there was no problems reported on implementation of the project, and no
overrun in the fund and the period of the project.
Rtegarding use of the equipment provided in the project, their utilization rate appeared
to be high according to logbooks in laboratories of the project universities, and
research papers published in the academic periodicals, international as well as local,
using the provided equipment in the project were in the increasing trends during and



after the project. The research plans carried out during the project period using the
equipment supplied in the project were 3,508 in total number and their rate occupying
in the total researches including that conducted from other fund sources reached 42.1 %.
Project indicators of students and professors during the project period are as follows:
<Project Indicators of Students and Professors>
1993            1997        Increase rate(Y)
Students
(i) Entrants                           7,693           8,032               4.4
(ii) Graduates                         6,053           6,374               5.3
(iii) Employed                         2,323           2,753              18.5
(iv) Those advanced to grad schs        833            1,204              44.5
Teaching staff
(i) Students per professor              25.0            22.3            L10.8
(ii) Percent of doctorate holders       88.5            93.4               5.5
(iii) Work load                         12.5            13.3               6.4
(iv) Papers published                 3,217            3,586              11.4
Sl)ecial remarks to be made in connection with this project is that a central joint use
laboratory building had been established in each of the colleges of natural sciences in
the national universities. This new system considerably helped raising efficiency of
the operation and maintenance of the high-cost sophisticated equipment and their
contribution would be substantial to meeting the heavy load of the high-costs of
laboratory equipment increasing rapidly these days.
1-3 Usc of the completed university library computerization part of the project
Ilhc computerized network had been established among the university libraries, and
students, teaching staff, and administrative staff also were making full use of it. In
the l'roject institutions, their utilization indicators were as follows:
<Use of the Terminal PCs>
Unit; person
Admin  staff per
'l'otal PCs      Users per PC     Professors per PC Students per PC  PC
2-1,918  PCs  for
general use             10               07                22               0.5
37,379  PCs  for
office use                        I                I                                  I



5. Benefit of the Project
The project was designed and formulated on the base of the achievement from the
preceding  loan in the same field, loan No. 2427-KO, the Science and Technical
Education Project. As the results of the project, R & D activities for the industrial
technology would be reinforced. For the while, industries had made large advances in
technical development, especially in the information-oriented trends, and the university
library computerization project was planned to cope with the new stream. The results
of the project seemed to be producing its effect and benefits in the related industrial
and social fields. As shown in the above tables, the individual's scope of intellectual
activities appeared to be expanding rapidly, and the results of the project was not
only meeting globalization of the industrial fields as well as almost every field of
activities in Korea, but also they were expected to lead such fields in future.
As we see in the trace of economic development in Korea in the latest four decades,
Koreans, without much natural resources, had to rely on the development of technical
manpower and maximize their productivity and increase the value of the imported
raw or processed materials and get the margin of the related export out of them for
[Korea's development.  Looking forward in the near future when the national
boundary will be diminishing rapidly in the economic activitie:3, and the world
changing to be more and more knowledge intensive and information-oriented one
socicty, thc Project is expected to benefit the future development of Korea.



