/-Al 3 V6 '-k
Doctunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10190-KO   Type: (SAR)                       ReprtNo.  10190-K(
REES, W.  / X81210 / E9 033/ ASTPH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
SCIENCE EDUCATION AND LIBRARIES COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
MARCH 20, 1992
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Korean Won (W)
US$1.00 - W730
(November 1991)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
March - February
ABBREVIATIONS
BE        - Board of Education
CULA      - Committee for University Library Automation
EFB       - Education Facilities Bureau
ELPD      - Education Loan Projects Division
EMD       - Equipment Maintenance Division
GHS       - General High School
ICB       - International Competitive Bidding
KCUE      - Korea Council for University Education
KEDI      - Korea Educational Development Institute
KIST        Korea Institute of Science and Technology
MOE       - Ministry of Education
O&M       - Operations and Maintenance
OSROK     - Office of Supply, Republic of .<orea
PCC       - Project Coordinating Committee
PCR       - Project Completion Report
PPAR      - Project Performance Audit Report
R&D       - Research & Development
SEC       - Science Education Center
SNU       - Seoul National University
STEB      - Science and Technology Education Bureau
SOE       - Statements of Expenditure
TAP       - Technology Advancement Project
TRC       - Technical Repair Center
UEO       - University Education Office
VHS       - Vocational High School
VTI       - Vocational Training Institute



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
KOREA
SCIENCE EDUCATION AND LIBRARIES COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .iii
I.  SCIENCE EDUCATION IN KOREA  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
A.    Introduction   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .1
B. Science Education at the Secondary Level . . . . . .               2
C. Science Education at the University Level  . . . . .               5
D. Library Network  ....  .    i .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  8
E. Bank's Experience in Education . . . . . . . . . . .               9
II. THE PROJEC..                                            .    12
A.  Origin of the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             12
B.  Project Rationale, Objectives and Scope  . . . . . .             12
C.  Project Design and Description . . . . . . . . . . .             13
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION  ... . . . .             15
A.  Costs.  ....  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  15
B.  Financing  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ... .  17
C.  Project Management and Implementation  . . . . . . .             18
D.  Environmental Impact ....  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  22
E.  Impact on Women  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  22
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  22
A.    Benefits   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  22
B.  Risks  ....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  23
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ... .     .  .  .  .    .     23
The report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission which visited
Korea during July-August 1991 and an appraisal mission consisting of Mr.
W.E. Rees (mission leader), Ms. I.B. Travis (computer specialist) and Messrs.
S.Z. Sung and V.G. Desa (consultants), which visited Korea during November
1991. Peer reviewers were Messrs. A. Aime (EA3PH) and E. Thulstrup (PHREE).
The documents were reviewed by Messrs. Bradley 0. Babson, Chief, EAlPH, and
Callisto Madavo, Director, EAl.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
TABLES IN TEXT
3.1  Summary of Project Costs by Component  . . . . . . . .            15
3.2  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure  .            16
3.3  Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            17
3.4  Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements . . . . .            20
ANNEXES
1. Chart - Organization of the Ministry of Education
2. Detailed Project Costs
3. Project Expenditure by Year and Recipient
4. Implementation Schedule
5. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
6. Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAP



-tiii
SCIENCE EDUCQTION AND LIBRARIES COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
Loan and ProJect Summary
: Republic of Korea
Beneficiary        : Not applicable
Amount             : US$50 million equivalent
TeMs                  Repayable in 15 years including 5 years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project
Descliption      : The overall objective of the project is to assist in
improving the quality of basic science education and to
provide a more effective flow of information between
university libraries which service teaching and research.
The project would include specialized equipment to be
financed by the Bank (US$50.0 million excluding
contingencies) to be allocated to support: (a) secondary
science education centers (US$5.0 million); (b)
undergraduate science education (US$25.0 million); and
(c) a university library network (US$20.0 million). The
Government would finance complementary inputs related to
making the equipment operational and maintaining it
thereafter, namely local transportation and installation
costs, O&M and consumables. The Government would also
finance staff training connected with libraries'
computerization.
Benefits and
Pisks            : The project would result in strengthened science programs
in the secondary schools and universities. This would
improve the quality of training of scientists and
engineers which in turn would help to strengthen Korea's
policy of high-technology industrialization. The project
would also assist in improving information flows in the
universities thereby increasing the effectiveness of
teaching and research. A possible project risk concerns
the ability of local authorities to design and implement
the innovative library network component. This risk
would be reduced through the operation of appropriate
coordinating and technical bodies.



iv-
Proiect Costs:
Local     Foreign      Total
-(US$ million)-----
Science Education Centers                     1.7         5.2        6.9
Undergraduate Science Education               8.7        26.0        34.7
Library Network                               7.3        20.8       28.1
Baseline Cost                                17.7        52.0       69.7
Contingencies
Physical                                    0.9        2.6         3.5
Er..ee increase                             2.6         5.9        8.5
Subtotal                                3.5         8.5        12.0
Total Project Cost  a                          21 2        60.5        81.7
Financing Plan:                               Local      Foreign     Total
-------(US$ million)-------
Government                                   21.2        10.5       31.7
IBRD                                          -         50.0        50.0
Total                                     21.2       60.5        81.7
Estimated Disbursements:
1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998
Bnk_k
Annual                              4.0   10.0   18.0   13.0    4.0    1.0
Cumulative                          4.0   14.0   32.0   45.0   49.0   50.0
/a, Does not include duties, taxes and fees estimated at US$4.3 million.
Economic Rate
of Return:         Not applicable.
Map:   IBRD No. 23475



KOREA
SCIENCE EDUCATION AND LIBRARIES COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
I. SCIENCE EDUCATION IN KOREA
A. Introduction
1.1       Underlying Korea's successful industrial growth in recent years has
been the continuous restructuring of industry towards high technology-
intensive production. Fundamental to this shift has been the rapid growth of
an industrial research and development (R&D) capacity, and the expansion of
training of scientists and engineers. Expenditures on R&D have increased
rapidly over the last two decades through expansion of the network of public
sector research institutes, the growth of university research facilities and
the establishment of private sector research institutes in response to
government-provided financial incentives. R&D expenditures, which were 0.7%
of national income in 1977, had risen to 2.4% by 1989. It is planned that
these proportions will increase to 3% by 1991 and 5% by 2001. Underlying
these trends in R&D expenditures has been the expansion of training of
scientists and engineers in the universities. Particular emphasis was given
to expanding graduate programs in recognition of the rapidly rising technology
intensiveness of industry in the 1980s. In this period, enrollments in
graduate programs tripled and the output of graduates increased 4.6 times. At
the undergraduate level, the 1980s saw a moderating of rapid enrollment
increases as more emphasis was placed on quality improvements (pa:a. 1.12).
1.2       Although the current level of Korea's R&D expenditures as a
proportion of national income compares favorably with the industrialized
countries, its endowment of R&D personnel lags well behind these countries.
In spite of the rapid expansion of graduates from science and technology
programs in recent years, the number of Korean researchers per ten thousand
population is little more than one-third the number in Japan and the United
States. The Government plans to.raise the ratio of scientists and engineers
from 13 per 10,000 population in 1986 to 30 per 10,000 by 2001, a level
comparable to the US and Japan in 1985. To achieve this goal, Korea will need
to employ about 150,000 scientists and engineers by 2001 compared with 56,000
in employment in 1988. Of these about 10% or 15,000 will have doctorates and
will be expected to provide leadership in advanced R&D activities. Given
current output trends from science and engineering programs, the target is
feasible.
1.3       The foregoing makes clear that Korea has embarked on an ambitious
path to expanded R&D capacity and the training of the necessary scientists and
engineers to support this expansion. However, this represents only the apex
of the science education pyramid. A rapidly modernizing country such as Korea
needs a broad base of scientific literacy within the population in order to
cope with a constantly changing technological environment. This requires the
introduction of science courses early in the educational process and adequate
opportunities for those who wish to specialize in science subjects as they
progress through the education system. In Korea, science is taught as a



-2-
general subject in the primary and middle schools (grades 1-9). In high
school (grades 10-12) science is taught in four subjects (physics, chemistry,
biology and earth science) and the amount of science education received by
each individual student will depend upon the major being pursued (para, 1.5).
In the universities, undergraduate courses are available in a wide range of
subjects in the four fields of natural science. Students may major in
science, take a minor or pursue the requisite foundation science courses
necessary for an engineering degree.
B. Science Education at the Secondary Level
1.4       Secondary education in Korea comprises two streams - general and
vocational - both of three years' duration (grades 10-12). General high
schools (GHSs) are academically oriented and aim largely at preparation for
higher education. Vocational high schools (VHSs) aim at continuing general
education to grade 12 while at the same time providing sufficient vocational
education to permit graduates to find employment in their fields of
specialization. In 1990, enrollments in general high schools were about
1,473,000 and in the vocational high schools, around 811,000.1/ Entry to
both streams is based on scholastic record in middle school, interviews and
the results of entry tests.
1.5       Curriculum.  The first year (grade 10) of the GHS curriculum is
common to all students and is built around a core of language, social studies,
mathematics and science. In grade 11, students select one of three majors -
humanities, science or vocational - the latter being aimed largely at entry to
the two-year post-secondary vocational colleges.2/ Science is taught as
part of all three majors but with different levels of emphasis. Science
majors study physics, chemistry and either biology or earth science and
together these subjects account for about 20% of the curriculum. Humanities
and vocational majors study science as an integrated subject which accounts
for about 8% of the curriculum. Science courses are available at two levels,
general and advanced. The latter are mandatory for students intending to
study science or engineering at the university level.
1.6       The science curriculum is divided into 30% practical work and 70%
theory. In the past, the theory part was criticized as bearing little
relevance to students' everyday lives. Subsequent curriculum revisions in the
1980s introduced many new topics such as pollution, energy conservation,
1/ There were also 6 science high schools with total enrollments of 744
providing education for scientifically gifted students.
2.! There is a considerable difference in the balance between general and
vocational subjects within the curricula of the VHS and the vocational
major in the GHS. In the former the subject allocations are: general
35%, vocational 65%; in the CHSs the figures are reversed i.e. general
65%, vocational 35%. The structure of enrollments by major is:
humanities 54%, science 42% and vocational 4%.



preservation of natural habitats etc. The teaching of the practical aspects
of the curriculum also suffered from problems related to lack of equipment,
shortage of teachers resulting in classes too large to involve students in
meaningful experimentation, and the nature of university entrance exams. The
latter emphasized rote learning of facts and principles and pursuing practical
work had little relevance to success in university entrance exams. The result
was neglect of practi^al, experimental work. The above situation has improved
considerably over the past decade. Equipment provision has improved (assiste&
under Ln. 2427-KO), the supply of science teachers has increased substantially
2/ and reform of university entrance requirements has reduced the importance
of the entrance exam and broadened selection criteria to include high school
grades and performance in personal interviews,
1.7       Curriculum revision and the publication of textbooks conforming to
the revised curriculum are closely coordinated by MOE. The curriculum for the
general high schools is revised periodically (roughly every 5-7 years) and the
latest revision (including science) was completed in 1990. Direct
responsibility fLor curriculum revision lies with two types of committees - one
concerned with course content and the other with the structure of the
curriculum in terms of the numbers of mandatory and elective subjects, number
of weekly class periods assigned to each, etc. The committee on curriculum
structure comprises 20-30 members, mainly teachers and university academics,
with strong representation from the local boards of education (BEs). This
committee's work is scheduled for completion before work on course content
begins. There is a course content committee for each subject and each
committee comprises 20-30 teachers and academics who are experts in parricular
subject areas. The actual drafting of curriculum revisions is delegated to a
subcommittee of 5 members which takes into account the views of a broad sample
of teachers and employers. For science subjects, specific experiments are
prescribed and the minimum percentage of time to be allocated to laboratory
experiments is mandated, currently about 15-30% of total course time.
Curriculum review is spread over about 3 years followed by two years of
testing the proposed changes in selected schools. The final curriculum is
introduced after about 5 years and is mandatory in all schools. Textbooks
reflecting curriculum changes are prepared by private publishers under the
general guidance of MOE.
1.8       EguiRment.  Each science subject has a standard equipment list which
specifies the numbers and types of equipment necessary to teach the curriculum
for each subject. The lists are revised periodically to reflect changes in
the curricula. These revisions were, until recently, the responsibility of
the Equipment Management Division (EMD) within the Education Facilities Bureau
(EFB) of MOE. The EMD organized committees of 5-10 science teachers and
academics to review and update the standard lists. However, following the
1990 curriculum revision, responsibility for reviewing standard lists was
given to the Korea Education Development Institute (KEDI). The same committee
approach is being followed by KEDI. Responsibility for procuring the
laboratory equipment specified in the standard lists lies with the local BEs.
.i/ The stock of science teachers increased by nearly 90% during 1982-90.



-4
The level of equipment provision varies considerably between schools but in
general, provision falls well below standard requirement. It is estimated
that the average level of provision nationally is only about 50%. To augment
funds available for equipment purchases, MOE has recently established the
Science Promotion Fund to secure donations from private corporations. The
Fund's goal was Won 5 billion and this has been achieved. Routine repair and
maintenance ot science equipment is the responsibility of science teachers.
They receive 60 hours of instruction in equipment maintenance and repair as
mandated by the EMD. The latter also issues guidelines and regulations on
repair and maintenance including the requirement for semi-annual inventories
of equipment.  These reports pinpoint equipment in need of repair.   More
complex repairs are carried out in the science education centers while
equipment requiring major repair is sent to Seoul Industrial University.
1.9       Teachers.  There were nearly 6,850 teachers of science in the
general high schools in 1990 specLalizing in biology (29%), chemistry (26%),
physics (24%) and earth science (2i').  All science teachers are graduates of
colleges of education or departments of education in universities and are
licensed on graduation as grade 2 teachers. After 5 years of teaching
experience, teachers are allowed to enroll in in-service training programs.
After completing 180 hours of such training, teachers are promoted to grade 1,
the highest non-administrative grade for teachers. In addition to training
for promotion, science teachers undergo 60 hours of training in relation to
curriculum revision to become acquainted with the changes and to master any
new experiments required by the curriculum. Both types of training are
provided for science teachers in the science education centers (SECs) and in
colleges and universities. Because of the requirements for promotion and
curriculum revision, in-service training programs are substantial. The 34,000
general high school teachers undertook an average of nearly two in-service
training programs per person ii. 1990. Although separate data a,.e not
available for science teachers, it can be assumed that they gained
substantially from in-service txaining.
1.10      Student Assessment.  Student progress in science subjects is
monitored regularly through written tests and exams. Students take written
tests monthly in core subjects and sit for two major examinations each
semester. The latter form part of the students' records. Although the
monthly tests may be of a multiple choice type, the exams take the problem
solving approach. A national university entrance exam is held in January each
year for high school seniors. In the past, student monitoring in science
courses tended to neglect the testing of experimental knowledge largely
because the university entrance exams were oriented towards theoretical
knowledge. However, with the change in the structure of university entrance
exams (supported under Ln. 2427-KO), to include, inter alia, more emphasis on
students' high school records and greater prominence for experimental
knowledge, high school science teaching is becoming more focused on
experimental work. Hence the need for better equipped science laboratories
and the need to strengthen the role of the science education centers in
improving their capacity to raise the quality of experimental courses in high
school science.



-5v
1.11      kscince Education Centgra. A science education center has been
established under each of the 15 local boards of education to support the
teaching of science education. The focus of the SECs is mainly at the
secondary level although some support is also given to primary science
education. In support of secondary science teaching, the SECs provide in-
service training for high school science teachers and experimental courses for
senior secondary students, in areas where such courses are more efficiently
undertaken in centralized locations rather than in individual high schools.
The SECs are also responsible for the preparation of teaching materials. The
SECs are well-endowed with teaching staff but equipment provision is
inadequate to teach the full range of laboratory courses required by the
science curriculum. The level of equipment provision at present is only about
60% of the standard requirement in tha SECs. The SECs are funded entirely by
MOE but are under the operational control of the local boards of education.
The BEs are responsible for appointing the directors and other staff of the
SECs. The directors are usually former high school principals with science
majors. To ensure that SEC directors are kept up-to-date on new teaching
materials and other issues, they meet annually in conference under the
auspices of MOE. During 1990, 16,300 individual in-service training sessions
were held in the SECs. About 220,000 science students passed through
experimental and laboratory courses in the SECs while 43,000 attended computer
training. In the field of teaching materials development, the SECs produced
32,000 experimental guidebooks and over 11,000 sets of science materials.
C. Sc!.Lce Education at the University Level
1.12      Enrollment.  Enrollment in undergraduate programs in the natural
sciences i/ in Korea's 107 universities and colleges was around 420,000 in
1990 or about 40% of total undergraduate enrollment. The pattern of
enrollment in recent years reflects changing policies regarding the
development of the university system. In the seventies and early eighties
enrollment in natural science programs expanded rapidly as Korea sought to
enlarge its stock of scientific and technological manpower to support the
shift to technology-intensive industry. During this period, undergraduate
enrollment in natural science programs increased at 29% p.a. However, this
rapid expansion was achieved at the expense of some loss of quality and the
eighties saw a reduction in enrollment growth and a shift to emphasizing
higher standards. Enrollments in natural science programs increased at only
about 3% p.a. during 1982-90. Within this trend, enrollment in basic sciences
(being assisted under the proposed project) showed a similar pattern. A
growth rate of around 26% p.a. through the seventies was reduced to about 6%
p.a. in the eighties as quality improvement took priority over quantitative
expansion.
b/   The natural sciences comprise the basic sciences (mathematics, physics,
chemistry, biology, earth science), engineering, agriculture, forestry,
fisheries and health.



-6-
1.13      Women are under-reprisented in natural science programs in Korean
universities.  In 1990, women accounted f- 19% of enrollments in natural
science and this proportion reflects the * .-'tional reluctance of women to
enroll in science-related programs.,./ No cuiriminatory practices exist
which would discourage women from enrolling in science programs and the
present enrollment pattern is largely the result of the exercise of individual
preferences. However, if engineering (where female enrollment is only 6%) is
excluded, women account for about 36% of other science programs. Moreover,
present trends favor a continued increase in the proportion of women in
science programs. Whereas male enrollment increased at less than 2% p.a.
during 1982-90, the female enrollment rate rose at over 6% p.a. in the same
period. In the 18 national universities to be assisted under the proposed
project, female enrollment in natural science programs is 45%.
1.14      Academic Staffing.  One of the consequences of the rapid expansion
of enrollments in natural sciences in the seventies and early eighties was a
rising student/staff ratio as enrollments outran the supply of qualified
faculty. The situation improved in the eighties as enrollments slowed and
faculty recruitment expanded in line with the priority for quality
improvement. This has led to an improving student/staff ratio although the
present figure is still high by most university standards. The overall ratio
in the natural sciences in 1990 was 26:1, an improvement over the 36:1
recorded in 1982. The ratios vary considerably between fields of
specialization from 8:1 in the health sciences to 44:1 in engineering. The
ratio for basic science was 23:1 in 1990. An improvement in the quality of
faculty, at least in terms of the numbers holding doctorates, is also evident.
Currently about 70% of faculty have a doctorate compared with 29% in 1982.
The expansion of faculty has also reduced teaching loads with contact hours
now averaging about 11 hours per week.
1.15      Evaluation of Science Programs.  The shift towards emphasis on
quality improvement in recent years has reinforced the need for sound
evaluation of programs to ensure increasing standards in undergraduate science
programs. Consistent with the self-governing nature of the universities,
evaluation of programs has relied heavily on internal self-evaluation.
However to strengthen this process and to make it more systematic among the
107 universities and colleges, the Korea Council for University Education
(KCUE) has been given a major role in evaluation. The KCUE's University
Evaluation Project calls for a five year cycle of evaluation and
implementation. The first year will be for self-evaluation by individual
institutions followed by on-site visits from KCUE evaluation teams. The
followitng three years will be devoted to reviewing evaluation priorities and
implementing the necessary actions. Self-evaluation is already well advanced
and has already been completed in 92 universities. KCUE on-site teams are
focussing on academic program evaluation and have completed reports for
nursing, librarianship, computer engineering and physics. The evaluation
process has been strengthened by the preparation of high-quality evaluation
l/ Women accounted for 28% of total undergraduate enrollment in 1990. In
humanities the proportion was 47%.



-7-
manuals and guidebooks which focus on the self-evaluation of key areas such as
curriculum, student enrollments, faculty, administration and finance,
facilities and equipment. In the longer term, when a sound basis of
institutional evaluation has been established, it will help to strengthen the
accreditation system established under Ln. 2427-KO.
1.16      Student Assessment.  The academic progress of students in science
programs is assessed during each semester of study and on completion of the
course requirements for the award of a bachelor of science degree. There is a
great deal of departmental autonomy practiced in the semester assessments.
The majority of universities hold two examinations per semester, one at mid-
term and the other at the end of the semester. Examinations may be either
essay type, multiple choice or a combination of both. They are graded by the
faculty teaching the course. Success in laboratory sessions and practical
training is usually assessed on the basis of performance in actual
experimental or practical tasks. The requirements for the award of a
bachelor's degree are defined by law.  Candidates must have successfully
completed 140 academic credits and pass the prescribed examinations. The
examination requirement can be met through the submission of a dissertation, a
report on a practical experiment or by passing a comprehensive graduate
examination. The examination and the requirements for obtaining a pass are
set out in detail under a ministerial decree. The approach to student
assessment varies widely between and within universities. Within
universities, semester assessment may vary between departments and/or between
years. For example, at Pusan National University, freshmen have mixed
(essay/multiple choice) assessments while juniors are subject only to essay-
type assessments. In Seoul National University, the physics department uses
the essay and the mathematics department the mixed assessment. For graduation
at Pusan, geology students are assessed on a dissertation while physics
students must complete a comprehensive examination. This eclectic approach
has the advantage of flexibility which allows assessment procedures to be
matched against the particular needs of departments and programs. However the
approach does raise the question of how to maintain some degree of uniformity
of examination standards. This issue has been recognized and is being
addressed as part of KCUE's evaluation activity.
1.17      Eguipment.  The Ministry of Education maintains specialist
committees which identify the laboratory equipment required for each of the
undergraduate laboratory courses in the university departments of natural
science. MOE publishes standard equipment lists for each course which are
revised as curricula change. The latest revisions were completed in lS87 but
prices of equipment items are updated annually. Each department maintains a
list of equipment holdings, including the cost of items and the source of
acquisition. Identification of equipment needs is based on a comparison of
acquisitions with standard lists. Routine equipment repairs are carried out
by laboratory staff while equipment requiring major repairs is handled by the
Seoul Industrial University.
D. Library Network
1.18      The growth of Korea's universities in recent years has been
accompanied by a similar expansion of information requirements to service



teaching, research and administration. The major repositories of such
information are the university libraries. Tne 107 universities and colleges
have 159 libraries with a total collection of around 23.5 million items. The
collection is increasing at nearly lOX p.a. and as an indicator of the scale
of activity, nearly 17.9 million book loans were made in 1989. The size of,
and level of activity in, the university libraries are such that automation
through the introduction of computers has become an urgent requirement. No
university has a computer dedicated to library use and only four universities
are using their mainframe computers for library work. Such automated activity
(mainly cataloguing) that exists is handled by personal computers V/. There
is therefore a priority need for a computerized library network to strengthen
and integrate cooperative efforts between libraries. These include shared
cataloguing, inter-library loans, improved access to research databases, etc..
Regarding the latter, a computerized network would provide a link between the
universities and the science and technology database maintained by KIST.
1.19      In response to the above situation, the Government plans to link all
the university and college libraries with a computerized network. The first
stage of the network's development will be built around ten leading national
universities and the Social Science Information Center of KEDI. The lead
institution will be Seoul National University (SNU), which will establish a
main center linked to local centers at KEDI and at nine national universities
in the provinces.Z/ SNU would eventually maintain a union catalogue of the
holdings of all the university libraries in Korea and make available selected
foreign scientific and technical databases. The collections of the 11
libraries number 4.7 million items and serve 18,500 staff and 175,000
students. Total professional library staff is 551. Software for the network
is being developed through a joint effort between SNU and a local private firm
at a cost of about US$1.0 million. SNU carried out an extensive study of
university library software in the United States, Canada and Japan and
concluded that they could not buy an off-the-shelf package that would suit
their needs primarily because of the difficulties in accommodating the Chinese
(Han) character set. Consequently, SNU entered into a joint venture to
i/   More advanced automation exists elsewhere.  There is an automated network
of scientific and technical institute libraries with administrative
headquarters at the Korea Institute for Science and Technology (KIST) and
a computing center in the Taejon area. The Medical Library Association
publishes a union catalog of serials and has a strong interlibrary
lending program, while the Central National Library provides a database
of all Korean publications, which they are preparing to make available
online nationwide, both through a network for public libraries under the
Ministry of Culture and through the university library network when it is
established.
2/   All the other university and college libraries will ultimately be linked
through the nine local centers. In the first stage 15 public
universities and 11 teachers' colleges will be linked to the local
centers. Thus the first stage will cover 37 institutions.



9 -
produce the software following local competitive bidding to secure a partner.
The software is based on an existing Canadian system and is designed to be
utilized with Tandem hardware.
1.20      Overall responsibility for network development lies with the
Committee for University Library Automation. The CULA is made up of the
directors of the 10 university libraries who are senior academics on two-year
appointments. CULA is responsible for formulating the long-term plan for
network development and also for the annual plans. It is also responsible for
evaluating achievements under the annual plans and for procuring financing for
the plans.  Operating under the direction of CULA is the Working Group for
University Library Automation which comprises the 10 chief librarians of the
university libraries. The Working Group is responsible for the execution of
the annual plans and for addressing technical issues in network development.
Special subcommittees will be established to handle major technical issues. A
subcommittee on cataloguing was recently established and has begun work on
interlibrary cataloguing issues. In combination, these bodies provide overall
policy and planning capacity together with technical expertise in implementa-
tion. They will ensure that long-term plans for completing network
development are achieved in a technically sound manner. In view of the rapid
change in technology, they will also ensure that the network is kept
technically up-to-date.
E. Bank's Experience in Education
1.21      The Bank has assisted Korea's technology development efforts through
substantial support for the development of technical and scientific education
and research.D./ Bank lending has been consistent with Korea's needs and
priorities in education and has closely paralleled the increasing sophistica-
tion of Korean industry. It was recognized that the restructuring of industry
towards more skill-intensive, high-technology production would require the
continuous expansion and upgrading of technical skills. Thus as industry
developed towards greater skill-intensiveness, Bank assistance to education
moved from support for craftsman and technician training through professional
engineering education to graduate engineering programs and associated research
activities.
1.22      The Bank's initial involvement in the sector under four loans/
credits, focused on the development of vocational and technical education at
the secondary and post-secondary levels to strengthen the base of the system
for producing technical personnel. Project performance audit reports (PPARs)
for these projects concluded that they were in general well-conceived and
successfully implemented. The first education project in Korea (Cr. 151-KO)
supported the expansion of vocational high schools, junior technical colleges
and teacher training. It'also financed technical assistance and fellowships
i/  The Bank has also provided major support to technology development
through directly financing R&D programs, strengthening intermediaries
which finance R&D and providing credit for industrial development in
general.



- 10 -
to strengthen the planning and administration of vocational and technical
education. The PPAR for the credit (Report No. 1801-KO, November 22, 1977)
concluded that physical implementation was satisfactory but that some delays
were experienced in recruiting and utilizing the experts under the technical
assistance component. The latter could have been overcome by more careful
scheduling and a clearer definition of the experts' functions.
1.23      The second education project (Ln. 906/Cr. 394-KO) financed equipment
for vocational high schools, junior technical colleges and undergraduate
programs in science, engineering and education. The PPAR for the project
(Report No. 4509, May 24, 1983) concluded that the project was implemented
substantially as planned but with some delays due to over-optimistic schedul-
ing. The third education project (Ln. 1096-KO) continued to support expansion
and quality improvement in vocational high schools and junior colleges and for
vocational training institutes (VTIs) under the Ministry of Labor. The
project was implemented successfully and demonstrated the growing experience
and competence of local project staff. The fourth education project (Ln.
1474-KO) supported a further expansion of VTIs and expansion and improvement
of instructor training. The project completion report (PCR) for the project
(Report No. 5516, March 8, 1985) concluded that the project was well designed,
implemented efficiently and judged the project to be an excellent example of
Bank/Borrower cooperation. It is reasonable to conclude that the first four
projects demonstrated that the increased competence of local authorities led
to improved project design and implementation. Project experience also
demonstrated that there was a need to take a broader view of sectoral policies
and issues after the implementation of four conventional projects. This was
taken up in the two subsequent operations which were policy-oriented sector
loans.
1.24      The first education sector loan (Ln. 1800-KO) concentrated on
upgrading junior technical colleges and university colleges of engineering and
management through the supply of equipment, staff development and institu-
tional improvements n curriculum development, manpower planning, equipment
maintenance and academic accreditation.  The PPAR for the loan (Report No.
7252, May 24, 1988) indicates that the major lessons learned were: (a) a
stable and responsible sector management agency was the key to successful
implementation of the sector program; (b) the sector approach led to a quicker
and more sustainable development of institutional capabilities; and (c) the
additional time required for preparation was repaid in terms of more efficient
implementation. 2/
1.25      The second education sector loan (Ln. 2427-KO), which incorporated
these lessons, assisted in supporting improvements in graduate education in
science and engineering, upgrading secondary school and college science
programs, expanding gxaduate research programs, improving sector management
2/   The Bank's positive role in Korea's education sector under the first five
lending operations is documented in the OED report titled Review of the
ImRact of World Bank Lending for Educational Development in Korea (Report
No. 5950; December 4, 1985).



and manpower monitoring and strengthening the financial base of private
educational institutions. Implementation of the loan was satisfactory and it
closed on schedule on June 30, 1989. The PCR for the loan concludes that its
objectives were largely met. Policy and institutional improvements of
particular relevance to science education were introduced in relation to
accreditation of colleges of natural science and science education depart-
ments, upgrading and expanding staffing of these institutions and the planning
of facilities and equipment; at the secondary level, a new experimentation-
oriented science curriculum was introduced, a system to monitor student
achievement in science developed, new examination and college admission
procedures introduced and science teachers upgraded through in-service
training.
1.26      Following these education projects the Bank turned its attention to
supporting research activities in the universities and in the national
research institutes under three Technology Advancement Projects (TAPs) and the
Universities Science and Technology Research Project. However, the first two
TAPs also contained a component assisting science and engineering education.
Ln. 3037-K0 assisted in improving the quality of science and engineering
education at the Korea Institute of Technology, a center of excellence for the
under-graduate teaching of gifted students in science and mathematics. Ln.
3202-K0 supported quality improvement at the Korea Advanced Institute of
Science and Technology, the leading graduate school in science and
engineering. The Universities Science and Technology Research Project (Ln.
3203-K0), although focusing exclusively on research will, nevertheless, have
an indirect impact on teaching because of the close link between the research
undertaken by faculty and their teaching responsibilities. In the recently-
approved Vocational Education Project (Ln. 3314-K0), the Bank is reverting to
assistance to vocational training in recognition of the continuing need for
craftsman training to keep pace with the increasingly complex skill require-
ments of the labor market.



- 12 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Proiect
2.1       The Government included the project in its CY91 list of projects
suitable for external financing and formally asked the Bank for assistance in
November 1990. Most of the preparation work was completed by the Government
according to guidelines formulated by the Bank. The project was preappraised
in July-August 1991 and appraised in November 1991.
B. Project Rationale. Objectives and Scope
2.2       Improving the quality of basic science education is directly linked
to the quality of scientists and engineers produced by Korea's universities
and colleges. The impact is cumulative. Improved science education in the
secondary schools leads to higher quality science education in the foundation
science programs in the early years of college. This in turn strengthens the
quality of science degrees and also engineering degrees, which are built on a
foundation of basic science. The proposed project provides the opportunity
for the Bank to continue its work in strengthening basic science education in
Korea, introduced under Ln. 2427-KO. Furthermore, the project was designed
within a sound policy framework for science education which was strengthened
under Ln. 2427-KO.
2.3            The rapid growth of enrollments in science and engineering
programs and the upgrading of these, accompanied by similar trends in all
major fields of study in Korea's universities, have led to an information
explosion which is beyond the capacity of the present university library
system to handle. Quicker and broader access to information is urgently
needed to handle the rapidly growing demands of students, faculty and
researchers. A long-term plan for the interlinking of university libraries in
Korea has been prepared and the Government has requested the Bank to assist in
the implementation of the first stage. The proposed project, which would
finance the supply of computer and related hardware, has also provided an
opportunity for the Bank to bring value added to network development. As part
of project design, the Bank has provided expertise to review the adequacy of
the first stage plan and also to review hardware requirements and the
appropriateness of associated software. The Bank has also reviewed network
design to ensure that it is technically sound and that institutional arrange-
ments for long-term network development are appropriate. The latter include
advice on the development of criteria to monitor progress in long-term network
development. Bank supervision of the project would provide expertise to
review regularly the technical and institutional aspects of network develop-
ment.
2.4       The broad aim of the project is to assist in improving the quality
of basic science education and to provide a more effective flow of information
between university libraries which service teaching and research. More
specifically, the project would assist in: (a) raising the quality of science
programs offered in the secondary schools and in the basic science programs in
the universities in order to strengthen the quality of science and engineering



13 -
degrees and improving scientific literacy in general; and (b) establishing an
interlibrary network linking 37 institutions to enhance the access to
information of students, faculty and researchers.
C. Project Design and DescriRtion
2.5       The project would finance equipment estimated to cost US$50.0
million, excluding contingencies. This amount has already been determined by
the Government and is fixed within the foreign borrowing program. Bank-
financed equipment would be allocated to the science education centers (US$5.0
million, excluding contingencies), undergraduate science education (US$25.0
million) and the library network (US$20.0 million). The equipment forms the
core of the project but in order to ensure that it is utilized effectively,
complementary inputs (US$19.4 million, excluding contingencies) must also be
supplied. These would be financed by the Government and cover local
transportation and installation of equipment, O&N and consumable materials.
The Government would finance all contingencies related to these components and
to the equipment and also finance computer training related to the establish-
ment of the library network (US$0.3 million excluding contingencies).
2.6       Equipment to be procured under the project in support of improving
the quality of secondary science education (US$5.0 million, excluding
contingencies) would be located in 13 science education centers which have
permanent facilities and in two centers with such facilities under develop-
ment. Each existing SEC has partially equipped science laboratories and
therefore, at present, cannot carry out the full range of experimental courses
required by the science curriculum. The equipment to be provided under the
project, would permit a range of new experimental courses to be offered for
grades 10 and 11 thus fulfilling curriculum requirements.iQ/  The director
of each SEC would develop the courses in consultation with the principals of
the high schools within his municipality or province. The duration of each
course and the number of times each course would be offered per week would be
determined by each SEC director. Directors would send to the board of
education and MOE for approval, a brief description of the content of each
proposed course together with information on duration and frequency and a list
of required equipment. All items of equipment for the courses offered in the
SECs to be financed under the proposed project, together with their specifica-
tions, would be taken from the standard equipment lists for high school
science education courses already prepared by MOE. Loan funds would be
allocated to each SEC on the basis of agreed criteria which would include:
(a) the number of grade 10 and grade 11 natural science majors in the
municipality or province; (b) the availability and condition of existing
equipment in each SEC; and (c) the quality of proposed courses and relevance
to the science curriculum. Guidelines have been agreed for the development of
the practical science courses in the SECs and the identification and supply of
1Q/ It is estimated that equipment provision in the SECs is at present around
60X of the standard list requirements. The proposed project would raise
this proportion to about 80Z.



- 14 -
associated equipment. During negotiations, the Government agreed that the
development of the courses and procurement of related equipment would be in
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank.
2.7       Equipment to be procured under the project in support of improving
undergraduate science education (US$25.0 million, excluding contingencies)
would be allocated to the 18 national universities with colleges of natural
science. Of this amount, US$15.0 million would be utilized to raise the
provision of departmental undergraduate equipment to at least 70% of MOE
standards. To ensure that the focus of equipment procurement is on
undergraduate science education rather than on the equipment requirements of
research programs, the Government would be asked, during negotiations, to
agree to a maximum unit price of equipment of US$50,000 unless otherwise
agreed with the Bank. An amount of US$7.0 million would be allocated to
support the introduction of advanced laboratory courses in the senior year of
undergraduate studies. Most of the equipment would be located in joint
equipment centers and institutes of basic science supplementing the highly
expensive equipment being procured under Ln. 3203-KO. To ensure that there is
no dIuplication of expensive equipment items, the Government agreed, during
negotiations, to a maximum unit price of equipment of US$100,000 unless
otherwise agreed with the Bank. The remaining US$3.0 million would be
allocated for the supply of equipment to encourage full-time lecturers and
assistant professors to remain on the teaching faculties. At least two
faculty members from each of the participating universities would benefit from
this program. This would encourage more junior faculty members to remain in
teaching rather than move to industry where there is strong demand for
science/technology graduates.
2.8       Equipment to be procured to assist in the development of the library
network would include 11 mainframe computers (1 x 128 mb and 10 x 32 mb) and
peripherals to link the libraries of the main center at SNU to KEDI and to the
nine local university library centers. This equipment (estimated cost US$8.0
million, excluding contingencies) would permit each library center to keep a
master copy of the records of its members to facilitate such functions as
shared cataloguing and interlibrary loans. The centers would also make
available scientific and technical databases and support other automated
library functions such as circulation and serials check-in. Equipment
(estimated cost US$12.0 million, excluding contingencies) would also be
procured to provide smaller computer systems for network participation and
local library automation in the 15 other universities and 11 teachers'
colleges in the network. The allocation of loan funds among the several types
of institution would be as follows: main center (US$6.3 million), 10 local
centers (US$8.9 million), 15 provincial universities (US$4.4 million) and 11
teachers' colleges (US$0.4 million). Computer-related staff training
(estimated cost US$0.3 million, excluding contingencies) would be included in
the project and financed by the Government. Technical oversight of long-term
network development would be undertaken by the Committee for University
Library Automation which is operating under terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank.



- 15 -
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs
3.1       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$81.7 million equi-
valent net of duties and taxes. The estimated cost by project component is
summarized in Table 3.1 and by category of expenditure in Table 3.2. Detailed
costs by component and category are given in Annex 2 and project expenditure
by year and recipient in Annex 3.
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Foreign
Won Billion             US$ Million        as % of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Total
Science Education        1.3     3.8     5.1      1.7      5.2    6.9    75
Centers
Undergraduate Science   6.4    19.0    25.4       8.7     26.0   34.7    75
Education
Library Network          5.3    15.2    20.5      7.3     20.8   28.1    74
Baseline cost           13.0    38.0    51.0    17.7      52.0   69.7    75
Contingencies
Physical              0.6      1.9     2.5     0.9       2.6    3.5    74
Price increase         1.9     4.3     6.2     2.6       5.9    8.5    69
Subtotal            2.5      LI      8.7     3.5       8.5   12.0    71
Total Prolect Cost ka  15.5    44.2    59.7    21.2       60.5   81.7    74
_ Does not include duties, taxes and fees estimated at US$4.3 million.



- 16 -
Table 3.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Foreign
Won Billion              US$ Million        as % of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Total
Equipment               -        36,5    36.5      -       50.0   50.0    100
Equipment trans-
portation and
installation           2.0      0.2      2.2     2.7       0.3    3.0      10
Operations and
maintenance            5.4       0.6     6.0      7.4      0.8    8.2      10
Consumable materials   5.4        0.6     6.0      7.4      0.8    8.2      10
Training                0.2       0.1     0.3      0.2      0.1    0.3      33
Baseline cost        13.0     38.0    51.0    17.7       52.0   69.7      75
Contingencies
Physical              0.6       1.9     2.5     0.9       2.6    3.5      74
Price increase        1.9      4.3      6.2      2.6      5.9    8.5      69
Subtotal              2.5      6.2      8-..Z    3.5      8.5   12.0      71
Total project cost    15.5       44.2    59.7    21.2      60,5   81.7      74
3.2       Base costs are estimated at November 1991 prices.  Equipment costs
are estimated on the basis of master lists already drawn up and recent
catalogue prices. Transporuation and installation costs, the initial supply
of consumables and the costs of operations and maintenance are based on recent
experience in project institutions. Duties and taxes, allowing for
exemptions, are estimated at US$4.3 million.
3.3       The contingency allowance of US$12.0 million (about 17% of baseline
costs) includes contingencies for unforeseen physical conditions and for esti-
mated price increases.  Physical contingencies were estimated at 5% of base-
line costs for training, equipment, transportation and installation of
equipment, consumable materials and O&M expenditures. Price increase
contingencies were calculated for both local and foreign costs in accordance
with the following expected annual average price increase percentages:
foreign cost, 3.9% in FY93 and thereafter and local cost, 5% p.a. throughout.
Accordingly, aggregated price increases are estimated at about 12% of baseline
costs plus physical contingencies.



* 17 -
3.4       The foreign exchange component of US$60.5 million (about 74% of
total estimated project costs) has been calculated on the basis of the
following foreign exchange percentages: equipment - 100%, transportation and
installation - 10%, consumables - 10%, O&N - 10%, and training - 20%.
B. Financing
3.5       The proposed loan of US$50.0 million equivalent would finance about
83% of the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project or about 61% of
total project costs net of duties and taxes. The Government would be respon-
sible for the remaining 39% or US$31.7 million equivalent. The loan amount is
limited to US$50.0 million by the foreign borrowing program and is therefore
less than the foreign exchange cost of the project. The loan would finance
100% of the baseline cost of equipment with all contingencies to be financed
by the government. The loan amount would be allocated as follows: science
education centers, US$5.0 million; undergraduate science education, US$25.0
million; and the library network, US$20.0 million.
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
Category of Expenditure                Government       IBRD         Total
------------US$ million-----------
Equipment                                  -            50.0         50.0
Equipment transportation
and installation                         3.0           -            3.0
Operations and maintenance                 8.2           -            8.2
Consumable materials                       8.2           -            8.2
Training                                   0.3           -            0.3
Contingencies                             12.0           -           12.0
Iotal                                 31.7         _50.          81.7
Recurrent Expenditures
3.6       When fully operational, the project would generate educational
recurrent costs for consumable materials and O&M estimated at US$2.7 million
p.a. This would be spread over 31 institutions thus averaging about US$87,000
per institution. These additional expenditures could be accommodated by the
institutions without difficulty. Consumable materials and O&H costs related



- 18 -
to equipment for the library network are estimated to be about US$2.3 million
p.a. and could be accommodated by the 37 component institutions of the library
network.
C. Ploject Management and Implementation
3.7       Overall responsibility for project implementation would lie with the
Education Facilities Bureau of MOE - an agency that has gained considerable
experience in implementing Bank projects through its responsibility for
earlier Bank operations. Physical aspects of the project would be handled
within EFB by the Education Loan Projects Division (ELPD) including relations
with the Office of Supply, Republic of Korea (OSROK) for equipment
procurement. Educational aspects at the undergraduate level would be handled
by the University Education Office (UEO) of MOE and at the secondary level by
the Science and Technology Education Bureau (STEB) of MOE. The University
Education Administration Division of UEO would provide the administrative
linkage with the universities. The Science Education Division of STEB would
provide similar linkage with the secondary science centers through the local
boards of education. The Project Coordinating Committee (PCC), established
for the Universities Science and Technology Research Project (Ln. 3203-KO)
would also be responsible for general oversight of this project. The PCC
would assist in coordination between participating bodies, provide policy
advice on project-related matters and resolve major problems which might arise
during project implementation. The libraries' computerization component would
be the responsibility of UEO assisted by the Committee for University Library
Automation, with the SNU Library as the primary focus of responsibility. CULA
would oversee the design of the university library network, including
determining overall needs for hardware and software, development of
appropriate software, specifications of hardware and its compatibility with
software, initial operation of library automation and maintenance of the
system within the budget allowed by UOE. The project implementation schedule
is shown in Annex 4.
3.8       The Education Loan Projects Division would be responsible for
routine correspondence and reporting to the Bank, and for financial and dis-
bursement matters. ELPD has played this role in previous Bank projects and is
staffed with experienced personnel. The bulk of the work in equipment
procurement would be undertaken by OSROK, which is highly experienced in
procuring equipment under the Bank's international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures. On the basis of equipment lists and specifications provided by
project institutions through ELPD, OSROK would prepare bidding documents,
invite bids, evaluate them in conjunction with ELPD and the institutions and
make contract awards with the agreement of the institutions. The institutions
would be responsible for installation, initial testing and operation of the
equipment, unless specified in the equipment contract that the supplier would
perform these tasks. The institutions would also be responsible for
maintenance and repair of the equipment including acquisition of spare parts,
accessories and consumables, beyond the items and services initially supplied
under the contract. The Bank would supervise the project twice yearly around
March and September coinciding as far as possible with the preparation of the
semi-annual progress reports (para. 3.15). Regional average coefficients
would be applied for allocating resources to project supervision. Overall



- 19 -
implementation issues would be handled by the task manager with technical
aspects being the responsibility of a technical educator. A specialist in
library network development would assist in supervision as required.
Status of ProJect PreRaration
3.9       The advanced stage of project preparation would allow implementation
to commence immediately after loan signing. Project institutions have been
identified and equipment lists and specifications prepared. Project
management authorities have been identified and competent staff are available
to handle implementation activities. Implementation arrangements, including
those for coordination between project agencies, have been agreed.
Procurement
3.10      Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 3.4.  About 85% of the.
equipment, including all contracts for mainframe computers, would be procured
on the basis of ICB procedures in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Equipment items in contracts valued at less than US$300,000 may be procured up
to an aggregate limit of US$7.5 million through shopping procedures allowing
for the comparison of quotations from at least three suppliers. Local
equipment manufacturers would be extended a 15% preference margin, or the
prevailing customs duties, whichever is the lower, on bid evaluation under
ICB. Local transportation, operations and maintenance costs on equipment
would be financed by the Government under local procedures. Installation
costs and costs of consumables, if not included in the equipment contracts,
would also be financed by the Government. Training would be financed by the
Government under local procedures.



- 20 -
Table 3.4: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Total cost
Procurement Method                 including
Category of expenditure      ICB       LCB    Other         NBF   contingencies
...------------ (US$ million) --
Equipment                   49.4        *      8.7          -          58.1
(42.5)             (7.5)                  (50.0)
Equipment transportation
and installation           -          -      -            3.6         3.6
(0.0)       (0.0)
Operations and maintenance   -          -       -           9.8         9.8
(0.0)       (0.0)
Consumable materials         -          -       -           9.8         9.8
(0.0)       (0.0)
Training                     -          -       -           0.4         0.4
(0.0)       (0.0)
Total                  49.4               8.7        236          81.7
(42.5)       -     (7.5)       (0.0)      (50.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
loan.
NBF:   Not Bank-Financed.
3.11      Hardware for the library network would be divided into two groups:
(a)  computers that would run the library network software along with the
peripherals that are dependant upon the computer selected, such as
disk drives; and
(b)  hardware such as PCs, laser printers, multiplexers etc. that are not
dependent, or at least much less so.
The latter items would be procured under ICB if the estimated cost of the
contract is US$300,000 equivalent or more. Equipment under this category
would be packaged, as far as possible, in contracts of US$300,000 equivalent
or more. Contracts costing less than US$300,000 equivalent would be procured
through shopping procedures allowing for the comparison of quotations from at
least three suppliers. Hardware for the library network would be procured
under ICB. Network software is being developed by SNU Library in partnership
with a private firm under a contract awarded following LCB procedures. In
order to ensure that equipment procurement is not restricted to the hardware



- 21 -
specified in the software currently under -velopment, the invitation to bid
for computer hardware under (a) above would allow bidders to offer one or both
of the following options:
(i)   hardware to support the existing network software, including the
cost of porting it to the vendor's own hardware, if necessary; and
(ii) the vendor can propose alternative software that meets network
software specifications and the hardware to run it.
Vendors for equipment under category (a) would be subject to prequalification.
3.12       In accordance with successful practices for procurement under IOB
used in recent education and technology advancement projects in Korea, OSROK,
with one exception, would not be required to refer equipment contracts to the
Bank for prior review before making contract awards. However, complete
bidding documents including commercial terms, schedules of requirements and
technical specifications would be sent to the Bank before each invitation to
bid. Bid evaluation reports, documents and contracts would be retained by
OSROK for ex-post review by Bank missions. The exception applies to contracts
for mainframe computers for the library network component. In this case,
draft bidding documents including specifications and bid evaluation reports
would be submitted for prior review by the Bank before inviting bids and
awarding contracts respectively. This is necessary because of the complexity
of the interface between library network software and hardware specifications
and the sensitivity relating to ICB for major computer procurement. During
negotiations, the Government agreed to submit to the Bank for prior review,
the bidding-related documents mentioned above.
DisbuEsements
3.13       The proposed loan of US$50.0 million would be disbursed over a
period of 5.5 years (Annex 5). This corresponds to the standard disbursement
profile for education projects in Korea which is 5.5 years. The completion
date of the project would be June 30, 1997 and the closing date December 31,
1997. Disbursements would be made on the basis of (a) 100X of foreign
expenditures for imported equipment or, 100X of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) for locally manufactured equipment; and (b) 65X of local expenditures
for other equipment items procured locally. Reimbursement for each equipment
contract of US$300,000 equivalent or more, would be fully documented.
Reimbursement for each contract of less than US$300,000, would be made against
statements of expenditure for which full supporting documentation would be
retained in MOE, for review as requested, by visiting Bank missions. Adminis-
trative and accounting capability in HOE is adequate to support the SOE
procedure.
3.14       To facilitate disbursements, a special account, maintained in US
dollars, would be set up at the Korea Exchange Bank in an amount of US$4.0
million, to cover the estimated average amount required to finance project
expenditures for the next four months. Applications for replenishment of the



- 22 -
special account would be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis or
whenever the amount requested exceeds 50X of the initial deposit, whichever
comes first.
Accounts. Audits and Reporting
3.15       MOE would maintain project accounts in accordance with sound
accounting practices. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances
that audited accounts, including the special account and statements of
expenditure (SOE) would be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of
the financial year. Audit reports would include a separate opinion for
expenditures under SOE procedures. The Government would submit semi-annual
progress reports to the Bank in about March and September and provide status
reports for visiting missions.
D. Environmental Impact
3.16       The project would not have any negative impact on the environment.
The equipment to be supplied under the project would be located in properly
designed facilities which operate under standard safety procedures. To the
extent that the project assists in strengthening the teaching of science
curricula, environmental education will also be strengthened. Following
criticism of high school science curricula in the early 1980s as bearing
little relevance to students' daily lives, subsequent curriculum revisions
placed greater emphasis on environmental issues especially the negative
aspects of scienne and techn logy development such as pollution.  All the
departments of natural sciences in the participating universities offer a
range of courses in environment-related fields. These will benefit from the
supply of equipment under the project.
E. Impact on Women
3.17       Women are overcoming their traditional reluctance to enroll in
natural science programs as indicated in rising enrollment trends (para.
1.13). To the extent that the project would assist in improving the quality
of science education in the high schools and universities, better-qualified
women scientists would become available for entry to higher education and
employment.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1        The project would assist in strengthening science programs in the
secondary schools and universities and this in turn would lead to higher
quality graduates in science and engineering. The long-term result would be a
stronger science and technology infrastructure which would underpin Korea's
priority for high-technology industrialization. The project would also
support the introduction of an innovation in the form of an automated library
network which would improve information flows in the universities thereby



- 23 -
increasing the effectiveness of teaching and research. The technical feasi-
bility of the network and the arrangements for its long-term implementation,
have been strengthened through technical assistance provided by the Bank
during project preparation.
B. Risks
4.2        The only risk associated with the project relates to the ability of
local authorities to design and implement the libraries computerization
component. This is an innovative activity which would require the utilization
and coordination of relevant technical expertise drawn from a number of
institutions. This would be achieved through the operation of an appropriate
policy body (CULA) to handle broad design and implementation issues, supported
by technical groups to handle detailed design activities.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1        The Government has agreed to the following:
(a)   the development of practical science courses in the science
education centers and procurement of related equipment, would be in
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.6);
(b)   the maximum unit price of equipment items would be US$50,000 for
equipment procured in support of undergraduiate science departments
and US$100,000 for equipment items procured for the joint equipment
centers and institutes of basic science, unless otherwise agreed
with the Bank (para. 2.7);
(c)   with respect to contracts for mainframe computers, draft bidding
documents including specifications and bid evaluation reports would
be submitted for prior review by the Bank before inviting bids and
awarding contracts respectively (para. 3.12); and
(d)   audit reports would be submitted by the Government to the Bank
within six months of the end of each financial year (para. 3.14).
5.2        Subject to the above conditions, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$50 million equivalent to the Republic of Korea for
a term of 15 years, including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.



KOREA
SCIENCE EDUCATION AND UBRARIES COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
Organizaton of the Mlnlstry of Education
~~~ tn ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~imd
I~~~~Etlo MnWu                     r10wr
______Inloltilon                               Sf ud*d Fkca Scienc  Fd_al                                               W
_________________ ICompueosy                               Juinbr Colege           Equlpment
Emw=  Aftitrealon     EfelAslon
Ohibn                             n    OMour~~~~~~~~11*01  ahulson                                          crow,o
EducaaB Buriuin   j       Ouldon       j
I                    Sc,-nc I -'c.I            I                      II Unh      lon
I                      .                                                                                               Fhu Dvoln I"
|~~~~                                fldC-    |xoI |  S u || 0= ||aq   F'ep rch  |                  r              Non-Foima  l      _______
|  Cr   | I    Pm  Olileer   | 2   born H an                                                         u IDtin  |hn |    A
I    n                                      EarlyCINI hoodo         Ac Iem A |        IIvrsE                                 cidon I
ISi Shhlhs OonoI                             __*
Om"              ng complialloI EMOr                                                                       Educallo              S budethf_o
ioISImUbNd      _         _bio
Legat Mu  ~  ~     dude                  Txdoo              CId SUPerM4e for       TInSerAtio ahrs          Non-Formal
Offier  t'ogm Ofice       fo HmienfleelIUbOlO                           EdOdOf DM100              m~It Omion        AcaeEduuee.rA
_________                                                            Eduaon PPrwcmoUo RomOloniMon
AdmIrAdn"          rVcnOfice           Sicut tiuIlmSudn Olddice                        mleIonea           EN ton Dwvmeonh
for Soalel ScimiosWV__E_____E_____on_S____A___
seio coordioalf horwnoa
for SeO" Scienos



KOREA
SCIENCE EDUCATION AND LIBRARIES COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
Detailed Project Costs
(Won million)
Equipment
Transportation                           Consumable                               Total Cost
Equipment                and Instellation            0 & N          Materfals         Training         Won N            USS N
Science Education Centers             3,650                          211                    606                606            -              5,073             6.9
Undergraduate Science
Education                           18,250                        1,095                  2,986              2,986            -             25,317            34.7
Library Network                      14,600                          876                  2,380              2,380           256            20,492            28.1
Baseline Cost                 36.500                        2.182                  5.972              5.972           256           50.882             69.7
Contingencies
Physical                       1,825                          109                    299                299            13             2,545             3.5
Price Increase                 4,152                          315                    860                860            38            6,225              8.5
Subtotal Contingenci-s         5.977                          424                  1.159              1.159            51            A.770             12.0
Total Project Cost
Won million            42.477                        2.606                  7.131             7.131            307           59.652
USS million              58.1                          3.6                    9.8               9.8            0.4                              81.7



KOREA
SCIENCE EDUCATION AND LIBRARIES COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
Project Expenditure by Year and Recipient
Base Costs (Von million)                                           Total Cost
92/3          93/4           94/5           95/6           96/7           97/8           Von N            USSM
Science Education Centers              409          1,219          1,920          1.007            409            109            5,073            6.9
Undergraduate Science
Education                           1,723          5,877          9,417          5.263          2,336            701           25,317           34.7
Library Network                      1,044          3,110          8,140          6,110          1,548            540           20,492           28.1
Baseline Cost                 3.176         10.20          19477          12.380          4.Z93          1.350           50 882           69.7
Contingencies
Physical                        159            510            974            619            215             68            2,545            3.5
Price Increase                   70            682          2,209          2,007            915            342            6,225            8.5
Total Project Cost            3.405         11.398         22.660         15.006          5.423          1760                             81.7
Foreign Exchange              2.522          8,446         16,830         11,113          3,980          1,272           44,164           60.5



KOREA
SCIENCE EDUCATION AND LIBRARIES COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
Schedule of Implementation
CY          1992        I        1993                 1994                1995        I        1995                 1997        I1998
Bank lY     92              9 3                  94I                 95          I        96         I          798
OuarterC    I   2 13    4    1    2    3    4         1    2    3    4    1   2    3    4    1    2    3]  4   7J j72           jj3j4 j1 j2
Egulpment Procurement for
(a)   rme compters of3MB
Lists & spesprepared for Banks      A
prior revie
Approved for IFB announcement               A
Oid evaluation reports for prior
review
Contracis slgning
IDeUvey. Intstaallaton & testing
Waffanty perlod
Ulsts &specs prpard-                                                                   
Revised and approved- 
Biddng doctuments prepared
Invitation for bids
EvaluatiOn and contracts Signig"                                                                   
DeIlvery Instalation and testing--
Wafranty perifod
PM ZN CM~ad Genra
Negotatios                       A
Board presetation                   A
Loan signing                          A
Effectiveness                              A
Genetal procurement notice             A
Project cWopleion date
Closin date
ProlectComipletlon Report Due Date



ANNEX 5
KOREA
SCIENCE EDUCATION AND LIBRARIES COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
Disbursements
Disbursements
Disbursements                              Profile /a
IBRD Fiscal Year          Semester        Cumulative       as % of             (%)
and Semester            -- ----US$-----s------            Total
1993
1                  4.0 /b           4.0           8.0                 1
2                  0.0              4.0           8.0                  3
1994
1                  4.0              8.0          16.0                 5
2                  6.0             14.0          28.0                10
1|995-
1                  9.0             23.0          46.0                23
2                  9.0             32.0          64.0                44
1996
1                  8.0             40.0          80.0                70
2                  5.0             45.0          90.0                81
1997
1                  2.0             47.0          94.0                92
2                  2.0             49.0          96.0                97
1998
1                  1.0             50.0         100.0               100
La Standard disbursement profile for education projects in Korea.
/b Initial deposit in Special Account.



ANNEX 6
SCIENCE EDUCATIQN AND LIBRARIES COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Pro3ect File
A.   Reports and Studies Related to the Sector/Subsector
A-1  Problems and Issues in Science Education in Korea, Han Jong-Ha, KEDI,
September 1986.
A-2  The Cognitive Development of Secondary School Students in the Republic of
Korea, Han Jong-Ha, KEDI, September 1986.
A-3  Education in Korea 1989-90, MOE.
A-4  Korea Higher Education - Its Development, Aspects and Prospects, KCUE,
1990.
B.   Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-1  Operation of the Student Science Centers, MOE, undated.
B-2  University Science Education Part, MOE, undated.
R-3  Computerization Project of Universities and Libraries, MOE (ELPD),
February 25, 1991.
B-4  Automation Project of Seoul National University Library, SNU Library,
March 6, 1991.
B-5  The Progressive Plan of Interim Evaluation Criteria for the Network
Effects, MOE, November 12, 1991.
B-6  Materials Related with S/W System Development of SNU Library, MOE,
November 12, 1991.
8-7  Recent Events of College and University Libraries Computerization, MOE,
November 12, 1991.
B-8  Material for IBRD Mission on Secondary Science Education, MOE/ELP,
November 18, 1991.
B-9  The Introduction Plan for Facilities of University Library Computer
Network, CNCULD, November 25, 1991.



_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _IBRD     23475
127                                                                        ISV
/ .,   _._ I     DEMOCRATIC  PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC                    I \
C H INA           /                              OF  KOREA
KOI1~A  ~                ,Penmunjom Y w   G   StSDO.i   CIiijfoD
~  PACU~C(AY M                            nts  ea7
37.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7W
, * ,oUNG~~~~~(Chong,lu <,> t@_ ndon,_ y~~~~~koh
3;13
Yellwh)e
~~    ~   4$Z7?  DO                       Mu.~D
;~~    ~~~ oJbt N~/ {,Nk                      REPUBUIC OF KOCREA
, .PA j                                SCIENCE EDUCATIONAND LIBRARIES
<34 t Vt49Wg>n) (@CsOMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
df  ft  -  Primairy Racds
~~~~~ s >^~~~~~~~~~~~-----'                          Railroads ,.
34.                                            -s                                          ----'--  Railroads Under Consdruction
CHEJUCHO
t WmSii niM  d                                                      t'   A~~~~~~KYNGitvr
DO                q    2 4060           8.190.t.140DO
o* 0. ccnmtnit d .t  riporh
13'  i26 n5'' inPo ine  0udire
Yello ~    ~         %      W                                   , Se   2, onj              ^4 i1
2S  12*                  127-                     124-                       12*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARLl



