OFFIICIL        LOAN NUMBER 1895 BR
OCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS DO SUL DO BRASIL S.A.
- ELETROSUL
and
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A.
- ELETROBRAS
Dated                             , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1895 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated (DCtl4  k   6, 1980 between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank) and CENTRAIS ELETRICAS DO SUL DO BRASIL S.A. -
ELETROSUL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and CENTRAIS
ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. - ELETROBRAS (hereinafter called
ELETROBRAS).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to secure additional external
financing (directly, or with the agreement of the Bank through
ELETROBRAS) in an amount equivalent to about sixty-five million
dollars ($65,000,000) by March 31, 1981 (hereinafter called the
Private Bank Loan) for purposes, inter alia, of assisting in
financing the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "ELETROBRAS" means Centrais El6tricas Brasileiras
S.A. - ELETROBRAS, a sociedade de economia mista, organized
under the laws of the Guarantor, which is the holder of the
majority of the Borrower's shares, or any successor thereto;
(b) "Global Guarantee Fund" means the Reserva Global de
Garantia of the Guarantor, established by Decreto-Lei No. 1383
of December 26, 1974 of the Guarantor, and regulated by Portaria
No. 365 of March 25, 1975, and by Portaria No. 1,032 of August 2,
1977, both of the Guarantor's Minister of Mines and Energy, to
supplement, when necessary, the revenues obtained by the electric
power companies in Brazil from the sale of electricity, in order
to ensure the economic and financial equilibrium of such com-
panies;
(c) "Prior Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement
(ELETROSUL Transmission Project) dated February 23, .1977, between
the Bank and the Borrower for Loan No. 1343 BR;
(d) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement (ELETROSUL Transmission Project) dated February 23,
1977, between the Borrower, ELETROBRAS and the Bank for Loan
No. 1343 BR; and
(e) "Investment Program" means the Borrower's program for
the expansion of its power generation and transmission system
during the years 1980 through 1986, as set forth in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
twenty-five million dollars ($125,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expend-
itures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable costs of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section  2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and one-quarter per cent (8.25%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate engineering, financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower: (i) in carry-
ing out engineering for the Project; (ii) in high voltage systems
planning and design; and (iii) in the preparation of final designs
for the Ilha Grande project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be 3atisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan


﻿against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan for the Project to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall promptly furnish to the
Bank, upon request, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire all such land and


﻿-5-
rights in respect of land as shall be required for the con-
struction (and operation) of the facilities included in the
Project and, upon the request of the Bank, shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights. in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all reasonable measures to ensure that the Project is carried out
with due regard to ecological and environmental factors.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times maintain its
corporate existence and right to carry on its operations, and
shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, powers, privileges, concessions and franchises which are
necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall operate and maintain its
plants, equipment and property, and from time to time make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering and public utility practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall .at all times carry on its
operations, manage its affairs, maintain its financial position,
and plan the future expansion of its electric power system, all in
accordance with appropriate business, financial and public utility
practices and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition.


﻿-6-
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank,
not later than three months after the end of each fiscal year, its
statement of income and expenses for that year together with its
forecasted statement of income and expenses for the following
year; (ii) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (iii) furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for
any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank or
stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank may
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (i) obtain title to all goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan free and clear of all encumbrances; and (ii)
not sell or otherwise dispose of, or permit the sale or disposal


﻿-7-
of, any of the property or assets which shall be required for the
efficient carrying on of its business and undertaking, including
the Project, unless the Borrower shall first pay, or make adequate
provision satisfactory to the Bank for payment of, all of the Loan
which shall then be outstanding and unpaid; provided, however,
that the Borrower may sell or otherwise dispose of, or permit the
sale or disposal of, any property which shall have become obso-
lete, worn-out or unnecessary for use in its plant.
Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not, until the Project shall have been completed,
undertake, or permit to be undertaken on its behalf, any major
expansion project, other than the Investment Program, unless it
has first furnished to the Bank evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that: (i) such expansion project is economically justified; (ii)
the Borrower will have adequate financial resources for the
carrying out of such expansion project; and (iii) such expan-
sion project, in the case of a power generation or transmission
project, is in accordance with plans for power generation and
transmission approved by ELETROBRAS for the South and South-
east regions of Brazil.
For the purposes of this Section, a "major expansion project"
shall be deemed to be a project or acquisition of new assets the
aggregate cost of which is estimated to be in excess of the
equivalent of two per cent (2%) of gross fixed assets in operation
plus work-in-progress of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank re-
garding any proposed increase or reduction by 15% or more of its
forecasted expenditures in any one year for the Ilha Grande
hydroelectric project, adjusted to take due account of inflation
in Brazil.
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
(a) The Borrower shall take all such action (including, in
such cases where automatic rate adjustments are not permitted,
action with respect to the filing, within a period of not more
than five months after the end of every calendar year, of appro-
priate applications in respect of rates) as shall be necessary or
advisable: (i) to cause the Borrower's rates for the sale of
electricity to be set and maintained at such levels as will
produce revenues, as provided by the legislation of the Guarantor
in effect on the date of this Agreement, sufficient to ensure the


﻿-8-
continued operation of the Borrower's business in accordance with
appropriate financial and public utility practices, using
straight-line depreciation which shall be not less than that based
on the useful lives of depreciable assets in operation; and (ii)
to enable the agency or agencies of the Guarantor responsible for
the setting and adjustment of such rates to act promptly in
respect thereof;
(b) the Borrower shall, as provided by the legislation of
the Guarantor in effect on the date of this Agreement, revalue its
assets at least once every calendar year and apply for the corres-
ponding rate adjustments; and
(c) whenever it shall be necessary or advisable for the
Borrower to receive transfers of funds from the Global Guarantee
Fund to supplement its revenues in order to achieve the objective
set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
take all necessary steps to maintain its eligibility to such
transfers of funds.
Section 5.07. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt: (i) if after the incurrence of
such debt, the debt of the Borrower shall exceed 66.7% of the
value of its total fixed assets; and (ii) with an original term of
less than eight years if at the time of such incurrence the total
outstanding principal of such debt (including the debt proposed to
be incurred but excluding any debt to be repaid out of the pro-
ceeds thereof) shall exceed 5% of the Borrower's total fixed
assets.
For the purposes of this Section:
(1) the term "debt" means any outstanding debt maturing
by its terms after one year from the date on which
it is incurred;
(2) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan agreement (including the Loan Agreement)
on the date and to the extent the amount of the
loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such
loan agreement, and (B) under a guarantee agree-
ment, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;


﻿-9-
(3)  the term "total fixed assets" means gross fixed
assets in operation less the reserves for depreci-
ation and amortization, plus the cost of construc-
tion work-in-progress, all such items to be reval-
ued on the basis of the latest applicable official
revaluation coefficients; and
(4) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the
currency of the Guarantor debt payable in another
currency such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the rate of exchange at which such other cur-
rency is obtainable by the Borrower, at the time
such valuation is made, for the purposes of servic-
ing such debt, or, if such other currency is not so
obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will
reasonably be determined by the Bank.
Section 5.08. The Borrower shall, if necessary in order to
enable ELETROBRAS to comply with the provisions of Section 6.04 of
this Agreement, take all appropriate action to permit ELETROBRAS
to convert promptly into an equity contribution to the Borrower's
capital such amount of the Borrower's debt service requirements
on, or outstanding principal balance of, debt of the Borrower held
by ELETROBRAS as shall be required for the purpose of compliance
therewith.
ARTICLE VI
Covenants of ELETROBRAS
Section 6.01. Without .any limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under this Agreement, ELETROBRAS shall
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provisions of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable the Borrower to perform its obligations
under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
ELETROBRAS shall, during the execution of the Investment Program,
promptly re-invest in equity of the Borrower an amount equivalent
to the amount of dividends received from the Borrower during such
period.
Section 6.03. (a) ELETROBRAS shall, until the completion of
the Ilha Grande project, annually by February 15 of each year,


﻿- 10 -
inform the Bank of the investment amount authorized for the Ilha
Grande project for such year, and furnish to the Bank an appro-
priate financing plan for the Ilha Grande project for such year.
(b) ELETROBRAS shall inform the Bank from time to time of
any proposed increase or reduction by 15% or more of the Bor-
rower's forecasted expenditures in any one year for the Ilha
Grande hydroelectric project, adjusted to take due account of
inflation in Brazil, sufficiently in advance of the time a final
decision on such proposed increase or reduction is to be made, to
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views there-
on.
Section 6.04. ELETROBRAS shall convert into an equity
contribution to the Borrower's capital such amount of the Bor-
rower's debt service requirements on, or outstanding principal
balance of, debt of the Borrower held by ELETROBRAS, as shall
be required to enable the Borrower to maintain the ratio of its
annual net rev...nues to its total annual debt service requirements
at a level of not less than 1.5 during each calendar year until
completion of the Project.
For purposes of this Section:
(1) the term "net revenues" means gross revenues from all
sources less all expenses of operation and maintenance
in connection with the generation, transmission and
distribution of electricity, administration and taxes,
if any, but before deduction of provisions for deprecia-
tion and amortization of assets, interest and other
charges on debt;
(2) the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments,
if any) of, and interest (excluding interest financed by
loans) and other charges on, debt; and
(3) the term "debt" means any debt as defined in Section
5.07.
ARTICLE VII
Amendment to Prior Loan Agreement
and Subsidiary Loan Agreement
Section 7.01. (a) The Prior Loan Agreement is hereby amended
as follows:


﻿- 11 -
(i) Delete Section 5.07 thereof and substitute therefor
Section 5.07 of this Agreement; and
(ii) Delete Section 5.08 thereof and substitute therefor
Section 5.08 of this Agreement.
(b) The Subsidiary Loan Agreement is hereby amended as
follows:
Delete Section 4.04 thereof and substitute therefor Section
6.04 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 8.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) a substantial change in the Borrower's Estatutos shall
have been made without the agreement of the Bank;
(b) an event shall have occurred or any action shall have
been taken, including any- action by the Guarantor, which shall
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project,
the carrying on of the Borrower's business or the setting or
adjustment of the Borrower's rates for the sale of electricity at
such levels as shall be necessary to provide the Borrower with
revenues sufficient to ensure the continued operation of its
business in accordance with appropriate financial and public
utility practices; provided, however, that to the extent that such
revenues shall not be sufficient for the purpose, transfers of
funds from the Global Guarantee Fund may be made by the Guarantor
to the Borrower in order to supplement such revenues;
(c) the agreement or agreements providing for the Private
Bank Loan, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, have
not been entered into by March 31, 1981 or such other date as may
be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower, or the right of the
Borrower to utilize the Private Bank Loan shall have been sus-
pended or cancelled in whole or in part pursuant to the terms
thereof or any part of the principal amount of the Private Bank
Loan has become due and payable in advance of maturity pursuant to
the terms thereof;


﻿- 12 -
(d) ELETROBRAS shall have failed to perform any of its
covenants, agreements or obligations under this Agreement; and
(e) any political subdivision of the Guarantor, or any
agency of such subdivision, shall have taken any action which
shall materially and adversely affect the performance by the
Borrower or ELETROBRAS of any of their obligations under this
Agreement.
Section 8.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) or (d) or
(e) of Section 8.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) the Private Bank Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to its agreed maturity in accordance with the terms thereof.
ARTICLE IX
Effective Date; Termination
Section 9.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions; namely
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco Central
do Brasil.
Section 9.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil; and
(b) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be
performed or given by the Guarantor, its political subdivisions or
agencies, or otherwise to be performed or given in.order to
authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the
Borrower and ELETROBRAS to perform all of their obligations
in this Agreement contained (including the obligations thereof
relating to procurement of goods for the Project) together with
all necessary powers and rights in connections therewith, have


﻿- 13 -
been duly and validly performed or given and that no oth6r such
acts, consents or approvals are required in order to authorize
the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower and
ELETROBRAS to perform all of their obligations in this Agreement
contained.
Section 9.03. The date      0 4A        I   ' is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Sec   on 12.04 o  the General Conditions.
AR2ICLE X
Addresses
Section 10.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Centrais E16tricas do Sul
do Brasil S.A. - ELETROSUL
Deputado Antonio Edu Vieira
88000 Pantanal Florian6polis, S.C.
Brazil
Cable address:                       Telex:
ELETROSUL                           0482-164
Florian6polis
Brazil


﻿- 14 -
For ELETROBRAS:
Centrats Elitricas Brasileiras S.A. -
ELETROBRAS
Av. Presidente Vargas 642/10
Caixa lostal 1639-2C-00
20079 Rio de Janeiro
Brazil
Cable address:
ELETROBRAS                          2122395 CELB or
Rio de Janeiro                      2122034 CELB
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin    rica and the Caribbean
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS DO SUL
DO BRASIL S.A. - ELETROSUL
By               ~tn
Authorized   presentative
By
Authorized Representative
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS
S.A. - ELETROBRAS
By
Authorized    rentiv


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment and
materials:
(a) procured              92,700,000        100% of foreign
following                              expenditures
international                          and 100% of ex-
competitive                            factory price
bidding                                of domestically
manufactured
goods
(b) procured by            1,000,000        100% of foreign
direct purchases                       expenditures
(c) procured               1,200,000        100% of foreign
through                                expenditures and
international                          100% of ex-
shopping                               factory price of
domestically
manufactured
goods
(2) Consultants'                  900,000        100% of foreign
services                                    expenditures
(3) Training                      800,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(4) Equipment                     400,000        100% of foreign
fabrication                                 expenditures
inspections
(5) Unallocated                28,000,000
Total
125,000,000


﻿- 16 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payment for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of -any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion,represents the amount of
such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program for the expan-
sion of its high voltage transmission system during the years 1980
through 1984.   It includes the high voltage transmission facil-
ities which comprise the third stage expansion of its 500 kV
system and related investments, as follows:
(a) Transmission Lines:
Construction of about 950 circuit-km of lines at 500 kV and
about 90 circuit-km of tie lines at 230 kV;
(b) Substations:
Installation of about 1,600 MVA (525/230 kV) of additional
transformer capacity in four new, and in the expansion of seven
existing substations, and about 1,000 MVRA (525 kV) in reactors
and other substation apparatus;
(c) Auxiliary Facilities:
Installation of carrier-wave communications equipment for
Project lines and procurement of additional computer equipment for
central office data processing; and
(d) System Planning and Equipment Fabrication Supervision
(i) High voltage system planning and design and final
designs of the Ilha Grande hydroelectric project by
the provision of about 35 staff-months of consul-
tants' services; and
(ii) Equipment fabrication supervision by the provision
of about 105 staff-months of on-the-job training
outside Brazil and of high voltage system planning
and operation by the provision of about 200 staff-
months of on-the-job training outside Brazil.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 1984
through March 15, 1995                      5,210,000
On September 15, 1995                            5,170,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Condtions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                            1.65%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                   3.30%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                            6.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                            7.15%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                            8.25%


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender made by the Borrower or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general pro-
curement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 21 -
Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following two groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Brazil if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
such goods contain components manufactured in
Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of
the complete goods.
(2) Group B: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes (including merchant fleet renewal and port improvement
taxes) on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding: (i) to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group B bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (a) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group
B bid; or (b) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said
customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price; and (ii) to the
evaluated bid price of the domestically supplied goods offered in
each group B bid an amount equal to: (a) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which would be levied on such goods
if they originated from the same foreign country as the goods


﻿- 22 -
involved in a group B bid which enjoy the lowest customs duties
and other import taxes; or (b) 15% of the ex-factory price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group B
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Special metering and electrical laboratory equipment and
selected computer data processing equipment may be procured
through direct purchase, provided that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the aggregate amount of items so procured
does not exceed $1,000,000 equivalent.
2.   Carrier-wave and HV conductor hardware, coaxial cables
and other similar items may be procured through international
shopping, provided that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the aggregate amount of items s3 procured does not exceed
$1,200,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for materials and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.   Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall


﻿- 23 -
reasonably request.   The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request.  The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension of
the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issuing
any change order under such contract (except in cases of extreme
urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by more
than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform the Bank
of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order
and the reasons therefor.   The Bank, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, proml .ly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
The Borrower's Investment Program (1980-1986)
1.   Ongoing Works
(a) Generation:    (i) Installation of the last two gener-
-    ating units--175 MW, each--of the
Salto Osorio hydro plant (1980)*
(ii) Completion of the Jorge Lacerda
coal-fired thermal plant--482 MW--
(1980)*
(iii) Completion of the Salto Santiago
hydro plant-2,000 MW (1981)*
(b) Transmission: (i) First stage of the 500 kV system
(1980)*
(ii) Santa Catarina lines, various at
69 kV and 138 kV (1980)*
(iii) Interconnections at 230 kV (1980)*
(iv) Second stage of the 500 kV system
(1982)*
(v) System expansions at 230 kV (1982)*
2.   Future Works
(a) Generation:    (i) Improvements on the Charqueadas
thermal plant (1981)*
(ii) Conversion of the Alegrete oil-fired
plant to coal (1982)*
(iii) Construction of the Ilha Grande
hydroelectric plant--2,400 MW--
(1986)*
(iv) Construction of the Machadinho
hydroelectric plant--1,060 MW--
(1988)*
*    Year of expected completion of the work.


﻿25 -
(b) Transmission: (i) Third stage of the 500 kV system
(1984)*
(ii) Fourth stage of the 500 kV system
(1986)*
(c) Other:         (i) Various construction, transportation
and office equipment and facilities
(ii) Studies
(iii) Telecommunications
*    Year of expected completion of the work.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of      ,198 o.
FOR SECRETARY


