OFFIC~I LOAN NUMBER 1895 BR
Guarantee Agreement
(ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1895 BR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      ,Ietb&L)         '            , 1980,
between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP-
MENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Centrais E16tricas do Sul do Brasil S.A. - ELETROSUL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras S.A. - ELETROBRAS (hereinafter called ELETROBRAS)
the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred twenty-five million dollars
($125,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower and ELETROBRAS in
respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower and ELETROBRAS,
has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower and
ELETROBRAS, and to undertake the obligations hereinafter
provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unles.s the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual
performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower and
ELETROBRAS, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement;
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause
to believe that the funds available to the Borr.ower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower
to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such
expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, specific security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be


﻿-3-
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in .the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. (a) The Guarantor covenants that it will not
take, or cause or permit any of its agencies to take, any action
which would prevent or interfere with the performance by the
Borrower or ELETROBRAS of their obligations contained in the Loan
Agreement and will take or cause to be taken all reasonable action
necessary or appropriate to enable the Borrower and ELETROBRAS to
perform such obligations.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Guarantor shall: (i) cause
the agency or agencies of the Guarantor responsible for the
setting and adjustment of the Borrower's rates for the sale
of electricty and for transfer of funds from the Global Guarantee
Fund to act in respect of any application of the Borrower (1) for
the setting and adjustment of such rates within a period of not
more than 30 days after receipt of such application, and (2) for
any such transfer of funds at such time as may be required to
supplement the revenues of the Borrower, provided that the Bor-
rower complies with the Guarantor's requirements therefor under
the legislation in effect on the date of this Agreement; and (ii)
take, or cause to be taken, upon request, all reasonable action
required for the prompt issuance to the Borrower of such import
and other permits and licenses as shall be necessary for the


﻿-4-
acquisition and importation of goods and services required for
the carrying out of the Project in accordance with the provisions
of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro da Fazenda of the Guarantor
is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministfrio da Fazenda
Ediffcio Ministgrio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministfrios
Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFAZ                            NR 31442
Brasilia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-5-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By   b   /I                   lot
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin erica and the Caribbean


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of ID     , 1980
FOR SECRETARY


