Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15982-AM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 27, 1996
Enterprise and Finance Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 21, 1996)
Currency Unit  =  Dram
Dram I   =  US$0.0023
US$1   =  Dram 433.83
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Dram per US$1
1995              June 1996            August 1996           October 1996
406.4               409.82                417.00                418.14
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAU  - Banking Advisory Unit
CBA  - Central Bank of Armenia
EBRD  - European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EDIPA  -  Enterprise Development and Foreign Investment Promotion Agency
ESAF  -  Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
ESF  -  Enterprise Support Fund
FACC  -  Foreign Aid Coordination Center
FSU  -  Former Soviet Union
GAC  - Grant Approval Committee
IAS  -  International Accounting Standards
IDA (ITF) -  International Development Association (Interim Trust Fund)
IF  -  Investment Fund
KFW   -  Kreditanstalt ftir Wiederaufbau
LOC  - Line of Credit
MOE  - Ministry of Economy
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
NBFI - Non Bank Financial Institution
NGO  - Non-governmental Organization
PFI -  Participating Financial Institution
PHRD  -  Population and Human Resources Development
PIFCA  -  Private Investment Finance Corporation of Armenia
PMU  -  Project Management Unit
SA  -  Special Account
SAC  -  Structural Adjustment Credit
SMS  - Securities Market Supervision Unit
SRO  - Self-regulating Organization
YSE  - Yerevan Stock Exchange
ARMENIA - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Director:      Basil G. Kavalsky, EC4DR
Division Chief:  Paul J. Siegelbaum, EC4EF
Task Manager:  David A. Phillips, EC4EF



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..............................                                                i-ii
PART I. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND .I
Country Background .
Recent Economic Developments .I
Stabilization and Structural Adjustment ...................................................................3
The Project Background .................................................................3
PART II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR                                              .4
The Current Situation.4
The Role of the Proposed Project in Financial Sector
Institution-Building and Reform                             .7
The Capital Market.7
The Role of the Proposed Project in Capital Market Reform    ,..9
PART III. PRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT .10
State Enterprise Privatization .10
Private Enterprise Development .11
Export Potential.12
The Role of the Proposed Project in Enterprise Development .13
The Enterprise Legal Framework .13
The Demand for Investment Finance .15
PART IV. THE PROJECT .17
Objectives and Scope .17
Summary Project Description and Design Features .17
Survey of Project Demand .18
The Rationale for Bank (IDA) Involvement .18
Bank Group Experience in Credit Lines and Lessons Leared .19
A. Institution Building Component .20
The Project Management Unit (PMU) .20
The Enterprise Support Fund (ESF) .20
Business Advice .22
Financial Institutions and Capital Markets Assistance .22
The Banks and the PIFCA .22
Capital Market Assistance .23
B. The Credit Line Component .24
Overview.24
Participating Financial Institutions .24
The Domestic Commercial Banks .24
The PIFCA.26
Project Costs and Finance .27



PART V.        PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION .............................................. 30
Institutional Arrangements .............................................. 30
The Project Management Unit ..............................................                        30
Enterprise Development and Foreign Investment Promotion Agency .............................................. 30
Grant Approval Committee (GAC) .............................................. 31
Supervision ..............................................                                        3 1
Procurement ..............................................                                        3 1
Disbursements .............................................. 33
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting ............................................ 34
PART VI.    BENEFITS, RISKS AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .........................................                       36
Environmental Review ......................................... 36
Economic Analysis ......................................... 36
Project Benefits ......................................... 38
Project Risks and Risk Management ......................................3.......... 39
Monitoring and Evaluation ......................................                                  39
PART VII.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...................................... 41
Actions to be Taken ......................................                                        41
ANNEXES
1.  PMU Terns of Reference
2.  ESF Description, OPP
3.  Bank Profiles
4.  LOC for Domestic Banks
5.  Eligibility Conditions (Banks)
6.  Project Implementation Plan
7.  Supervision Plan
8.  Procurement Plan
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Statistics: Banking
ESF Terms of Reference
EDIPA Charter
BAU Terms Of Reference
Capital Market Assistance: Terms of Reference
PIFCA Business Plan
Sub-Loan Agreement
Environmental Checklist
Private Sector Assessment Synopsis
Credit Demand Study
Business Adviser: Terms of Reference



TABLES
Table I -  Major Economic Indicators
Table 2 -  Reserves and non-performing loans
Table 3 -  Loans and Reserves in former state banks
Table 4 -  Privatization process - enterprises under Ministry of Industry
Table 5 -  Company Registrations
Table 6 -  Projection of Credit Demand
Table 7 -  Project cost and financing plan
Table 8 -  Equipment Budget
Table 9 -  Financing plan
Table 10 - Summary of procurement methods
Table 11 - Estimated IDA (ITF) disbursements
FIGURES
Figure I - Deposits and Credits
Figure 2 - Structure of the EDP
MAP       IBRD23943RI






- i -
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                   Republic of Armenia
Implementing Agencies:      Ministry of Economy, EDIPA, Banks, PIFCA
Beneficiaries:              Private Enterprises, Banks, PIFCA, EDIPA, SMS, Capital market Institutions
Poverty Category:           Not applicable
Amount:                     SDR 11.6 million (US$16.75 million equivalent)
Terms:                      IDA terms, payable in thirty-five years, including ten years of grace with 0.75%
service charge.
Commitment Fee:             0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver.
Onlending Terms:            The proceeds of the IDA (ITF) Credit would be passed on by the Government
in foreign currency through the Ministry of Economy--Foreign Aid
Coordination Center, Project Management Unit (PMU). The PMU would
receive a spread of 0.5% on the amount onlent under the investment financing
component to the PFIs, to cover its administration costs. The credit would be
onlent on the following terms: for investment financing; to eligible financial
institutions including the PIFCA and the domestic banks as a subsidiary loan
repayable over ten years at a rate of LIBOR plus 2%; for technical assistance;
to the EDIPA as a grant, and to the PIFCA for institutional support as a loan at
IDA borrowing cost plus 1.25%. The PIFCA and the domestic banks would
onlend to subborrower private enterprises at market-determined interest rates
and margins, with subloan maturities of up to seven years. The subborrowers
would take the exchange risk and the financial intermediaries would take the
credit risk. The difference between the cost of the IDA (ITF) credit and the
interest rate on subsidiary loans under the credit lines, less an administrative fee
for the PMU, would be retained by the Government.
Project Costs                                  US$ million equivalent
Component                                      Local    Foreign       Total
Financing (Banks, PIFCA)                        7.00      25.00       32.00
Project Mgt. Unit                               0.10       0.27        0.37
Enterprise Support Fund                         1.05       3.50        4.55 k
Business Adviser                                0.03       0.29        0.32
Banks, capital market                           0.40       2.69        3.
TOTAL                                           8.58      31.75       40-33



- ii -
Financing Plan            US$ million equivalent
Local        Foreign      T.T.l
IDA (ITF)            0.00           16.75       .... ...7.
USAID                0.00            1.00       ....... ..
EBRD                 0.00            7.00     ........7 00
KfW                  0.00            5.00        5 00
Private Investors    5.00            2.00        7 00
Other cofinancing     1.00           0.00          00
Government           0.58            0.00        0 58.
Local Banks          2.00            0.00         ..
TOTAL          ....:....-'-"" '.5  3L7 :--''' -''''   $
Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ million equivalent)
FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99  FY2000   FY2001  TOTAL
Line Of Credit (Banks, PIFCA)       0.00     1.65     2.75      3.50      2.20      0.90     11.00
PMU                                 0.05     0.22     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.27
ESF/Business. Adviser               0.07     0.96     1.44      1.33      0.00      0.00     3.79 
Banks/ Capital Market               0.00     0.76     0.76      0.17      0.00      0.00      1.691
TOTAL0400000040000000000000000000000t000000000 00. 9.12  3.58  4.95  5.00  2.20    0.90      16.75
CUM. TOTL                           0.12     3.70     8.66    13.65      15.85     16.5 
Financial/Economic
Return to Project:           Subprojects financed under the line of credit would earn an expected
financial rate of return above their cost of borrowing from the PFIs (PIFCA
and the commercial banks). At current rates and spread to the PFIs this rate
of return would be at least 15%. Subprojects would assume exchange risk,
which would generally necessitate competitive production at world prices.
They would produce mainly tradable goods under relatively low prevailing
levels of import protection. Economic returns would therefore approximate
financial returns. The technical assistance to the banks, the PIFCA, the
capital market and the ESF would be expected to earn a satisfactory economic
rate of return taking into account likely external benefits associated with
creating new markets.
Project ID Number:           AM-PA-8279



REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
Country Background
1.1.  Armenia is a landlocked country of 3.7 million people bordered by Azerbaijan, Georgia, Iran and
Turkey. It declared its independence formally on September 23, 1991. The Government of President
Ter-Petrossian, which has been in power since that time, has been able to create a level of continuity
essential to recovery. With few natural resources, Armenia depends for its economic growth on its
highly educated population and strong entrepreneurial traditions. While regional political tensions are
gradually easing, current economic prospects remain constrained by the legacy of Soviet central
planning. Production has been highly dependent on trade with the rest of the Former Soviet Union
(FSU) (exports and imports represented over 50% of GDP during the 1980s) and on industry (which
constituted about 60% of Net Material Product). In the absence of raw materials and primary
processing facilities, Armenia has had to rely heavily on imports of semi-finished goods and critical
inputs into domestic industry, particularly of primary energy resources. Armenia was also the location
of a disproportionate share of the Soviet military-industrial complex. This high degree of integration
into the FSU economy induced economic collapse in Armenia when the intra-FSU trade, payments and
financial system broke down. More fundamentally, the elimination of non-market pricing in trade
between FSU states imposed a severe terms of trade shock on Armenia, particularly due to the sharp rise
in energy import prices. The lack of comparative advantage of significant parts of Armenia's productive
base was exposed.
1.2. Progress on reorienting government in the transition to the market economy has accelerated with
the improvement in the regional political situation.  There have been several recent positive
developments in Armenia's relations with its neighbors. The reduction in regional tension has allowed
the Govermnent to move away from management of a siege economy under an oil embargo, towards the
implementation of a comprehensive stabilization and structural reform program.
Recent Economic Developments
1.3.  The hyperinflation and major fiscal deficit of 1993, resulting from massive net lending to
enterprises and an inflow of rubles withdrawn from circulation elsewhere in the FSU, have been
substantially eliminated with the help of currency reform and vigorous measures to bring inflation under
control. Public expenditure has been limited to priority items and revenue collection increased, while
interest rates on central bank refinancing of commercial bank credit have been allowed to become
highly positive in real terms to further restrain monetary growth. Fiscal and monetary restraint was
enhanced by abolition of the bread subsidy in 1995. The fiscal deficit declined from 48.2% of GDP in
1993 to 16.4% in 1994, and 8.7% in 1995. For 1996 it is projected to reach 8.2% of GDP. Inflation has
fallen sharply, to 1.1% per month in October 1996 compared to 46% per month at its peak in 1994, prior
to the stabilization program. This has been accompanied by broad stability in the nominal exchange rate
since the Spring of 1994, which has enhanced confidence in the new currency.



-2 -
Table 1: Major Economic Indicators
Real (~rawth Rite.%..............7                                    1.4.   After an estimated
............ M l_  m       _       60%  decline in GDP  in
GtW  ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ +9 6~~~~.....7 .                 1991-93,  a  growth  of
,,''..',.'.,','P,'""v;..''.'..........
Pnvat~~~.... ...                                                       5.4%        and       6.9%
t   t--  -...... tt.; - .  .....         . t. .............  respectively   was   recorded
.-lnflatat ero)                                [2      Ž4f     I3i        . in 1994, and 1995. This
lnt~o*~ (~)A9C........... -  -g )9                                    -    was  largely  from   the
services            sector,
.......                         ... ...  .. .................               particularly   trading,  but
In~rts (Me ~hand~se)                           22            M   . .       enterprise   survey   data
............ -r !1!1  tl i!   1 11 show  that industry  has
As %~~~~~~~~~DP ~~~~also  begun  diversifying
..........           ....          ttt"    ll|                   * lS9into  new  markets.
1996.t~ This hsbeacmaebynac uti....i                                       Investment is beginning to
.....  ..........                                        ~~~~~~~revive   from    near-zero
encouraging,it~  is clear that the level of the current account deficit and th levels,   although   most
..........                                       investment is still in the
1.5.    Export trends.are.e    r . 1                                          public   sector,  largely
A                                ......................~~:A .5  .................................   i a c db   o o
of 1994,(and 196 expors are prjected o be 165% abovethose o  1995).Anted  bym     don,exort
.........agorcsi.     Te eo                      resources.    The   1995
.Tformation, a                                                                 current  account  deficit,
.nvoluntary unpaid leave or redud..                                       excluding           official
...................... Tyemutransfers, declined  from
~~         4~~~~2    6~......   3 .%in 1994 to 33.5%
conssten  wit balnce  f pamens v.biliy anlowinfltio.   From                of GDP in 1995, and is
projected at 22.8% in
1996. This has been accompanied by an accumulation of foreign exchange reserves equivalent to 1.5
months of imports, twice the 1994 level. The current account deficit and reserve accumulation have
been financed primarily by IMF and concessional donor resources. Although the direction of change is
encouraging, it is clear that the level of the current account deficit and the associated exteral financing
is still unsustainable over the medium term.
1.5.   Export trends are encouraging. 1995 exports of goods and factor services were 22% above those
of 1994, (and 1996 exports are projected to be 16.5% above those of 1995). At the same time, export
data show some diversification into non-traditional markets; 1995 exports to non-FSU countries were
some 78% higher than in 1994 (from 3 1% of total exports to 46%) while exports to FSU countries fell
by 7%. Future export growth is expected to come primarily from light industry and services and, to a
lesser extent, from  agroprocessing.  The export improvement is supported by enterprise survey
information, as is the recorded export diversification. In addition, foreign direct investment is beginning
to pick up as privatization accelerates. However, these achievements in GDP growth and external
adjustment remain fragile. Poverty has become pervasive in Armenia since 1991, particularly in urban
areas. Recorded unemployment is 5% of the labor force but a further 15 to 30% are estimated to be on
involuntary unpaid leave or reduced pay for shortened working hours.
1.6.   The recovery of the Armenian economy will be sustainable only if it is accompanied by
significant investment in productive capacity, infrastructure, and human resource development that is
consistent with balance of payments viability and low inflation. From 1996 aggregate investment is
expected to increase steadily as a percentage of GDP. Foreign private flows, whether through loans or
direct investment, can be expected to become substantial once the economic recovery is more advanced,
regional stability secured, and the financial sector more capable of playing an effective role in
intermediating savings and investment. There are now the first indications of longer term investment



interest from the Armenian Diaspora and other sources which the present project is designed to tap.
Foreign investment increased from a minute $2.6 million in 1994 to $19.1 million in 1995 and is
projected to rise in 1996 to $34.0 million, taking a steadily increasing share of overall investment.
Stabilization and Structural Adjustment
1.7.  The stabilization program was initiated in 1994, and a Systemic Transformation Facility (STF)
was approved by the Fund in December 1994, followed in June 1995 by the approval of a Stand-By
Arrangement (SBA). An Extended Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF), approved in February 1996,
is intended to achieve greater integration of stabilization and structural reform policies over 1996-98.
The structural reform program was initiated at independence. Prices of most goods and services were
liberalized in January 1992. The collective farm system was quickly broken up and land was privatized
to small holders (87% of agricultural land is now privately owned and available for sale). In parallel,
privatization of small enterprises began: 335 enterprises, mainly shops, had been privatized by mid-
1992, although the legal basis for this was not yet fully developed. In January 1994, Parliament adopted
a privatization program, which began to be implemented in the fall of 1994. Subsidies to enterprises
and directed credit were both curtailed sharply during the year; and a liberal import regime was put in
place.  A Rehabilitation Credit was approved in February 1995 to support privatization, price
liberalization and regulatory reform; enhanced financial discipline for enterprises and banks; and the
social safety net. Implementation during 1995 was strong, with major achievements in the privatization
of small-scale enterprises and of housing, the elimination of consumer subsidies, and establishment of a
legal framework to support private sector development. As a result, a Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC) was approved by the Board on February 28, 1996. Implementation of structural reforms under
the SAC has continued to be strong. Major steps have been taken to tighten financial discipline,
especially in the energy sector. This has been accompanied by accelerated progress in privatization and
financial sector reform.
The Project Background
1.8.   The economic reform program supported by the Bank and Fund has made substantial progress
in the establishment of a business environment supportive of enterprise, but the successful rehabilitation
of the economy depends critically on institution building and new investment in productive assets. Up
to now, the combination of domestic dissaving, macro-instability, and the blockade has effectively
eliminated investment, other than that financed by humanitarian aid such as for earthquake
rehabilitation. However, improvement in all the above areas has now started to attract foreign
investors. In order to provide a catalyst to such investor interest, the proposed project is designed to
provide assistance to strengthen the enterprise sector, financial institutions, and the client companies of
the financial sector. Complementing institutional development, long-term financing is expected to be
made available through the domestic banking system and through a specialized investment company.
The proposed project will thereby build on the reforms launched under the Rehabilitation Credit and the
SAC.



II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
The Current Situation in the Financial Sector
2.1.   Structural Change. Since the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991, the Armenian financial
sector has developed rapidly in terms of number of institutions. Through 1993, a liberal approach to
new entry with very low minimum capital requirements resulted in the establishment of almost 60 new
banks, some with significant foreign ownership stakes. Many banks have closed since March 1994,
partly because of increases in minimum capital requirements, and the number now licensed by the CBA
is 35, of which one is foreign owned. Fewer banks than at present would be likely to be operating in the
future Armenian banking system. The new prudential regulations that have been already introduced
will force at least five of the smallest banks toward mergers or liquidation. According to the CBA, for
the moment seven "main" banks (excepting Midland-Armenia), including the four former State banks,
account for 79% of total bank assets; the "medium" banks (twelve) account for 9.6%, and the small
banks (15) account for 3.8%. The fifth bank which remains from the Soviet period - the Savings Bank -
is small in asset terms but still accounts for the majority of the branch network. The Midland-Armenia
bank opened in March 1996. The Midland, because of its superior capital and management practices,
and clean portfolio, will become an early competitive threat to the longer-established banks. With the
assistance of EU-TACIS in collaboration with Credit Agricole an Agricultural Cooperative Bank also
opened in March 1996.
2.2.  Money and Credit. The positive developments in the sector are still overshadowed by the
problems of Armenia's fragile economic situation. From 1991 to early 1995, de-monetization of the
economy occurred as the monetary holdings were either degraded by inflation or reduced as people
moved savings into foreign currencies and other inflation hedges. This de-monetization was reflected in
a decline in the broad money supply from over 100% to the equivalent of only 13% of GDP by 1994.
The deposit component of total money declined from the equivalent of 98% of GDP in 1991 to only 7%
of GDP by 1994. This decline in the volume of deposit resources available to banks, in tum, led to a
serious drop in the supply of credit relative to real economic activity. Total bank credit outstanding fell
from 67% of GDP in 1991 to less than 10% of GDP by 1993. Because of high inflation the limited
credit available was lent on very short maturities - typically one to three months. The situation
regarding the deposit and credit aggregates is shown in Figure 1.
2.3.  Interest Rates. Interest rates (in dollars and Drans) moved strongly into positive territory
during 1994 as a result of liberalization and monetary restraint. As the stabilization program has taken
hold, nominal interest rates on both bank loans and bank deposits have since fallen significantly with the
decline of inflation through 1995 and 1996. The 6-month dram lending rate declined from 24% per
month in October 1994, to 6-9% during the early part of 1996. Dollar lending rates for 6-month loans
declined from about 8% to 3% per month during the same period. This decline has been associated with
a narrowing of bank margins when liquidity has been tight, with margins on 6-month business declining
steadily over 1995-96.



- 5 -
Figure 1: Dram and Dollar Deposits and Credits (% GDP)
100
90
60
70                                                          C
50 '      .
40-
3020-           Deposibt\
199S1            1992             1993              1994
70 T
60\
50 ^ 
40                     \CT 2edie to Enerons n
30               -\redittoRHouseholdsi
20 [               Credits                                                                    2
1991             1992              1993              1994
Table 2: Lending and Interest Rates (% per annum)
-     ..::   : - .  .  ::   .  -    : .:   ...  :::: .:  -  :       :::, ::.   . : . , -::  I.  : ,     :.    :-::: :.:, .   x
..     .  .  .  .                                                                   . :.  : .  :::. .. ' 
.  -...   -.- .     .     .  .....  . ..  ...  . . ..: : '   - ..... ..... . . :    ~::  , -  -   ,   -:j  - ... ...--. ..:
: : :,:  ::- j -- . .,                                                .    .......,:  -
-   s-  -       d                                 33
.   -   ~~~. : .-          - .  --.4  ; .,- .-   
2.4.     Because there is presently almost no lending in Armenia for maturities of more than six
months, the rates shown in Table 2 provide only limited guidance about the rates at which banks would
on-lend the funds available from the credit line. Short term rates are high and reflect specific market
conditions including monetary restraint, and uncertainty about inflation. The banks will need to lend at
well below the current short-term rates if they are to find viable projects and clients for the longer
maturity loans. Fortunately, the evidence from recent months is that the banks are beginning to adapt to
an environment of lower rates and margins.
2.5.     Bank Regulation and Supervision. The CBA  has over the past three years made substantial
progress in developing a sound system of regulation and supervision for the banks, governed by a CBA
resolution of April 1995. Regulations have set minimum statutory capital levels, equity ratios, liquidity
ratios, required reserves in the CBA, and loan exposure limits to single borrowers. Banks are also



- 6 -
required to provision fully on all new loans and to phase in provisions on old loans over a two year
period. It is estimated that by the end of 1996 more than half of all doubtful loans will have been
provisioned. Loans are classified according to international standards, on the basis of their delinquency
status, number of extensions, and collateral. A provisioning range in most cases allows discretion in
recognizing risk.
2.6.   Supervision of the banks is the responsibility of the departnent of bank supervision, regulation
and licensing in the CBA. The department is also responsible for supervising other banking transactions
such as the foreign exchange activities of nonbanking institutions.  Licensing and Supervision
departments have been combined, allowing information sharing between on-site and off-site
supervision, and substantial progress has taken place on supervision programs, with the assistance of the
IMF.
2.7.   Until recently, banking law was inadequate in its definition of the powers of supervisors,
sanctions and enforcement measures and the handling of failed banks. However, a new Banking Law
which addresses these problems was passed by Parliament on June 30, 1996. Together with the parallel
legal arrangements contained in the new law on the Central Bank itself and the new Law on Bank
Insolvency, the authorities are now in a much stronger position to exert regulatory authority over the
banking system.
2.8.   Bank Financial Performance. A serious development has been the deterioration in the quality
of bank loan portfolios reflecting the decline in output and the increasing reliance of many enterprises
on distress borrowing. This rise in non-performing loans and the associated decapitalization of major
banks has been part of the cost of keeping financially distressed State-owned enterprises alive. The
1996 situation, following a portfolio review exercise, is summarized in Table 3.
Table 3: Bank Reserves and Non-Performing Loans, 1996 (Dram million)
Substandard   Doubtful   Loss       Total     Required    Actual   Reserves
loans        loans    loans   classified    Reserves  reserves    gap
Former State         935.7      1107.2    5216.7    7259.6      5810.7    1455.4    4355.3
Banks (4)
Other Banks          577.6      2199.7      575.1    3352.4     1620.6      871.7     748.9
Total               1513.3      3306.9    5791000   10611200O   7431.3    2327.1     5104.2
TqtalUS$ mn         3.603        7.873    I3.790    25.266:0:   17.>693    5.540    124153
2.9.   Table 3 shows that the shortfall of reserves ($12 million) was in July 1996 equal to just over
twice the actual reserves of the banks. This problem has been exacerbated by the high real interest rates
which have applied in the period since 1994 as the authorities have fought a successful battle against
inflation. The former State banks (Table 3) faced particular difficulties and were technically insolvent,
although Armimpexbank has better prospects because of an expected capital injection.
2.10.  The capital of the newly established banks is very small. In 1996 the largest amount of total
capital in any one bank outside the group of former state banks (with the exception of Midland-
Armenia) was about US$400,000, with most of the smaller banks having capital below US$200,000
even before loss provisions required by IAS. Adjustment for loan losses without additional capital
would eliminate a number of the poorer banks and, with the increase in statutory capital required as of
January 1997, a number of mergers are likely.
2.11.  In short, during the first half of the 1990s, the banking system was marginalized as a source of
finance to real economic activity. Its marginalization is reflected most obviously in the increased



importance of non-bank financing (e.g. through inter-enterprise arrears). The sector as it now exists is
generally poorly equipped to support the recovery of the real economy and so represents a constraint on
that recovery. However, despite the generally adverse picture, some of the new banks have greater
potential to develop enterprise financing capacity. A group of Western bank examiners carried out a
portfolio audit of approximately 30 banks, as part of project preparation, to determine the extent of non-
performing loans, the legal obstacles to enforcement of collateral claims, and the improvements needed.
The banks were analyzed on the CAMEL (Capital Adequacy, Asset Quality, Managerial Assessment,
Earnings Analysis, and Liquidity Analysis) system and were rated on a scale of I (worst) to 5 (best).
Seven banks had ratings close to or above 4.01. These banks (excluding the Midland Armenia) had
total capital ranging from $150,000 to US$300,000 million equivalent, and total assets ranging from
$300,000 to $500,000 equivalent. On capital adequacy criteria alone, ratings of 4 to 5 were deemed
indicators of solvency in the banks, and on this assumption, there were 15 banks qualified. The small
current size of these banks (with the exception of Midland-Armenia) however would limit access to a
credit line.
The Role of the Proposed Project in Financial Sector Institution-Building and Reform
2.12.  The challenge for banking reform programn is to establish a small group of stronger banks able
both to mobilize savings and provide investment and other credits and financial services to local
enterprises in the post-privatization era.  The guiding principle of this reform strategy is that it should
strengthen the best banks while those with little or no potential should be closed, merged or
substantially restructured. Continuing regulatory reforms are also needed, especially in on-site bank
supervision, although, as stated, considerable progress has been made. This will create pressure for
better quality banking from above through the CBA, while individual banks are encouraged, inter alia
through the proposed operation, to strengthen their own performance. On the basis of the audits it is
expected that, in a number of banks, financial performance is adequate, and that capital positions and
banking capacity would be strengthened further. This would take place with the help of a pilot loan
work-out program under way for two of the larger banks under the SAC TA operation, and with
broader institution building support under the proposed project, channeled through a banking advisory
unit.
2.13.  This operation would include a credit line which would provide an incentive to banks to
upgrade their operations, while the accreditation conditions would ensure that banks that qualify will
have the ability to make relatively sound credit decisions. Banks which have received positive audit
reports will have access to early support from the technical assistance component of the project to
achieve accreditation. The incentive of future access to the credit line should encourage other local
banks to take advantage of the technical assistance support, which has been designed to provide both
necessary up-front diagnostics and sustained support to banks through the proposed banking advisory
unit. The results of the portfolio audits and other inspection visits suggest that early accreditation could
be achieved by at least two commercial banks. Apart from support to the banks, the project would also
strengthen the financial sector through capacity building and provision of a line of credit through an
investment corporation (the PIFCA) designed to mobilize foreign investment for small to medium scale
private enterprises.
The Capital Market
2.14.  Market Architecture. The capital market in Armenia is at present in an early stage of
development. It consists primarily of commercial banks and two stock and currency exchanges at
I      The better banks were Midland Armenia, Gladzor, Prometheus, Echo, Metz, Converse and Lend.
2      The Banking Sector Policy Note (October 1995) proposed a strategy which was agreed with the
Government, it is in the process of being implemented, with Bank support including this present project.



- 8 -
Yerevan and Gyumri, which deal mostly in foreign currency spot (and futures) contracts and short term
government securities. Both Yerevan Stock Exchange (YSE) and Gyumri Stock Exchange (GSE) are
Self Regulating Organizations, and have their own internal regulations and listing requirements. In
addition, there is a Yerevan Commodities exchange ("Adamand"). There are approximately 40
stockbrokers employed at the banks, about 17 individual broker seats at the YSE, and another 10-15
licensed brokerage companies. In addition, an investment fund has also been formed, managed by a
licensed management firm.
2.15.  The capital market is largely concerned at this stage with providing the infrastructure for the
trading of privatization vouchers. A centralized share registry has been established and regulations were
passed in April 1996. Companies are not, however, obliged to register centrally and few have so far,
creating a potentially disorderly situation. There is no provision as yet for clearing and settlement, nor
arrangements for linking a depository with registration. Regulation and licensing of privately owned
share depositories is also expected to take place in 1996. Although the three stock and commodity
exchanges are currently authorized to operate, only three companies (other than YSE's own shares)
have yet been listed.
2.16.  Once the share registry and depository are established, the next major requirement is the
provision of regulations regarding market transactions. Though the stock exchanges have tried to set up
temporary regulations for their members, these are not comprehensive and lack the force of law. A
securities market supervision unit in the MOF (the SMS) presently licenses only brokerage firms, while
individual brokers and managers of investment funds are licensed by a separate autonomous agency
which, however, has no secretariat and no other regulatory responsibilities. There is a need for a single
securities regulatory body with adequate resources, authority and responsibility to develop and
administer the securities regulations in the country effectively. The commissioners should be drawn
from state agencies (e.g. CBA), the stock exchanges, and other private intermediaries.
2.17.  Trading and Transactions. The major impetus in secondary trading in equities is expected to
come from the privatization process, whereby a number of private individuals now own shares in about
800 medium to large companies. Shares are increasingly in private hands, but the market is constrained,
inter alia, by lack of information sources to facilitate trading. As a result, secondary trading will only
emerge slowly. The only primary trading outside the mass privatization program up to now has been
the public offer of shares in three banks. There is at present no trading in corporate loan or equity
securities, and bonds are confined to Government issues. The CBA has been the primary dealer for
these bonds and only banks could directly purchase them. The first Treasury bill auction took place in
September 1995.
2.18.  Commercial banks currently do not require special licenses to operate in the securities market,
and are mainly regulated by the CBA. They are not allowed to borrow to purchase securities but can act
as intermediaries or invest profits. However, they are active in trading in privatization vouchers, and,
given the weak state of their balance sheets, there is a need for control over these trading activities.
Trade in vouchers is supposed to take place through special investment funds (IFs). However, only one
IF has so far been established, for reasons mentioned below.
2.19.  The lack of trading information is compounded by lack of requirements for financial disclosure,
and by accounting information which is based on the late Soviet model. This is exacerbated by the non-
market-based initial valuations of companies in the privatization program. This information problem
affects the secondary market and also initial lenders who will find difficulty in evaluating existing
companies. Given that the traditional management has retained control of many companies, it is also
important for outside shareholders to have access to company information through appropriate
shareholder rights regulations. These issues have been addressed in a revised companies law.



- 9 -
2.20.  Regulatory infrastructure. A law on circulation of securities was approved in 1993, and the
SMS was created in 1995, with responsibility for regulation of brokers, dealers, depositories, IFs, and
financial consultants. The Government has issued regulations on the share registry and the IFs. As
mentioned, there is a need to reconstitute the present SMS into an autonomous commission with a
clearly defined regulatory mandate, and the authority to enforce market regulations. Besides the
regulatory framework to govern the role and responsibility of this Commission, further regulations need
to be drafted governing the securities transactions, financial disclosures, shareholder rights, accounting
and auditing standards, and documentation required at various stages of transactions. The Law on
Circulation of Securities and the regulations for the securities industry would therefore need to be
amended.
2.21.  A decree on investment funds was adopted in September, 1994, and recently revised and
presented to the Government for final approval. IFs must be closed-end, using vouchers or cash. A
management company and a depository for IFs have been licensed and a draft of accounting standards
for IFs has been prepared. Problems have arisen over the value of vouchers entered into the IF accounts
and their tax implications, and amendments to the licensing regulations are needed to address these
issues. The Regulations regarding licensing and operating procedures governing the operations of Share
Depositories are under preparation currently and would be submitted to parliament at the end of 1996.
2.22.  The MOF is currently preparing a Non-Bank Financial Institutions Law (NBFI) to regulate all
non bank financial and capital market institutions. This law would define the types of such institutions,
their role, prudential requirements and responsibilities. The institutions covered under this law would
include insurance companies, trust companies, investment funds, investment companies, securities
brokerage companies, and other non bank financial institutions. Supplementary regulations governing
their activities will need to be developed for each of the above categories of institutions.
The Role of the Proposed Project in Capital Market Reform
2.23.  The project aims to follow up on the SAC TA project, with a limited program of initiatives in
institution and capacity-building. The SAC supported the establishment of a central share registry, and
a depository is to be implemented during 1996. Following the set up of these basic facilities, it is
proposed, under the project, to provide the appropriate consultancy and training technical assistance to
the SMS, the stock exchange and other securities market professionals, in order to facilitate: (i) the
drafting of appropriate regulations, terms of reference, a charter and to provide equipment for a
reconstituted securities regulatory body, (ii) training of the proposed group of initial commissioners, (iii)
drafting and upgrading of broader securities market regulations, including those on investment funds,
(iv) training of a key group of senior securities market principals, and, (v) development of more
widespread training programs for a larger securities market audience. In addition (vi) the project
includes a small provision for setting up a public information program to educate the public on areas
such as share ownership. While not part of this project, accounting reform is a key requirement for the
development of IAS standards of disclosure in the banks, capital market institutions, and enterprises. A
long-term program to convert accounts, and to establish a framework of regulations and laws has been
initiated by USAID.



- 10-
III. PRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT
State Enterprise Privatization
3.1.   The enterprise sector in 1992 consisted of some 2,000 enterprises at the medium-large scale and
some 5,000 at the small scale level, largely in trading. The privatization program adopted in January
1994 envisaged that privatization of State enterprises would take three years, with one third of state-
owned productive assets being privatized each year, although this has proved to be overambitious, and
the program is not likely to be completed before 1998. All enterprises, barring certain public utilities,
are slated for privatization. This is seen by the Government as essential to reducing the pressure for
subsidies, and is a key factor in the growth of the private sector. Privatization of small-scale enterprises
is well underway - by September 1996, a total of 4108 small enterprises (80%) were privatized, and all
remaining small-scale enterprises are planned to be privatized in 1996. Privatization of medium- to
large-scale enterprises is also well underway, through the mass privatization program, with 800 (40%)
offered for sale by September 1996. A cumulative target range of 1,200 to 1,500 (60 to 75%) was
planned to be offered for sale by the end of 1996. About 600 construction sites are also planned to be
sold in 1996. The rate of progress so far is below that required to meet the ambitious targets for
medium to large scale enterprise privatization in 1996, but the rate of transactions has accelerated
recently and the overall achievement may be regarded as impressive.
3.2.   Most privatizations have taken place through public subscriptions in which cash or vouchers
can be used, and in which the Government offers all of the shares which it currently owns. 64% of
those shares are offered to the public by subscription and 20% given free to the employees, who also get
a preferential price on a further 16% if they wish to purchase. The minimum subscription to validate a
sale is for 25% of shares, and all but 35 out of the 800 enterprises have met or exceeded this level. In
addition, certain enterprises will be sold by tender or by closed subscription to employees (primarily
ones that are currently leased to the employees), or by auction of packages of shares. In addition,
twelve enterprises have been selected for sale by tender to strategic investors through the services of an
investment bank.
3.3.   The Privatization Law of 1992 has been refined to include: a time limit for initiation of
liquidation proceedings if an enterprise has failed to be sold in the auction process; Government
discretion in the method used in complex privatizations, and; provision to allow enterprises to be sold to
strategic investors for cash (i.e. to exclude the use of vouchers). This latter amendment is viewed by the
Government as essential to the promotion of the role of foreign investors in the privatization process.
To accelerate enterprise restructuring, a program of turnaround, or liquidation and bankruptcy, was also
initiated under the SAC for eleven key financially distressed enterprises. This program was meant to
relieve the Government of a significant fiscal or quasi-fiscal burden, and to provide a model for action
by creditors and by the judicial system. The process will be assisted in the future by a revised
bankruptcy law, allowing for company reorganizations and a clearer judicial process.
3.4.   Table 4 shows the rate of progress of the privatization program from 1994 as it affected
enterprises initially under the control of the Ministry of Industry. 20% privatization represented the first
stage of assigning shares to the enterprise workers. By 1996, the privatization of state enterprises has
begun in 601 (79%) of the total number of enterprises under the Ministry of Industry, of which 187
(24%) have been fully privatized through the Mass Privatization Program. Light industry in particular
have been largely privatized.



-1I1I-
Table 4: Privatization process: Enterprises under the Ministry of Industry
~~.........
.............                                     stte      2~~v
d~~wnkal                 37          18                       4           18              13 6.........
.....7..  ...7....2
mn~~~~~h~~~*y       45        6~~~~~~~~  . . ..22...
39  28~~~~~~~2
TOTAL               764         161          448         1$5         163             414....  1..7
Private Enterprise Development~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
3.5.  An initial private sector assessment (PSA)  was undertaken as part of the preparation for . ..the
project. The study shows that business registrations increased extremely rapidly (partly because...of.re
registration) betwen  1994 and  1995,  rom  4,533  to  17,98, or 300%.  Of thes, private.startup
acone. fr9%.ndpiaiedetrrie.contdfrte  eane.   Trdn  services..                                       were...the
single most imortant subsectr, accounting  or over.50%.ofregistrations
Tale5  Copn  Rgsrain, 949
Subsec~~~~~~~ti~~~~r           To*al               N~~~~~~~~~sw Pr l~~~~~~~~st#  ?rlvatIrM~~~~~~~~~i
X                        ........ ...  ......19   X                       199          1995199
A~~rioialtun & Fi~~~~~~1tin~~  231       1~~~S~~     251        993            0         87~~~
vioea          41 .        64     .     40       157~~~~ii'i,- 
Ethioatit~~~~n, 1t~~al......&...                                                                    .......
Other Proth~~~~~~4on1...S..r..... r       12         479..   ...    3       ..4..3.....
TOTAL   ~       ~       ~      ~       ~           17,9W         4,249    16,............284.
3.. Th.at.     boeidiae.h.crelto.btee.riaizto   and the rate. ofgrwh.f.h
priat  sctr n   rmnia  epeialyinth  mining,.manufacturing   an.neg.ecos.Hwvr,ee
in thelattersectorthe prdominat numbr (80%   of reistere  firmsare orginall.privae.or nw-star
private enterprises~~....em.o.ubrso.nerrssitsestattemindnmc.ssatusrte
than privtizations alhoghasetsi.ofs.ro   sae.ntrpiss.a b.ipotat
Armenia: assessment of the...private.sector. January.199



- 12 -
3.7.   A number of surveys have identified the principal constraints facing private business. Power
shortages, lack of finance and reduced domestic demand figured as the most important perceived
constraints in studies carried out in 1992 and 1994. Exchange rate instability was also cited as a
problem, but this would no longer apply as of 1995. In the case of a survey of 30 private and privatized
firms, at varying scales of production, carried out for this project, covering manufacturing and services,
the principal problems were identified as shortage of working capital and term finance, and inadequate
financial management. The privatized firms were in poorer condition than those that had started out as
private, with weaker capitalization and poorer planning capacity, especially the planning of investment.
Monthly reports where they exist were production reports and financial and market forecasting was not
regarded by management as a critical concern. However, unlike enterprises in some other FSU
economies, enterprises were not producing regardless of market demand, since final goods inventory
rarely exceeded two weeks. Lack of term finance was evident in liquidity problems and in the age of
plant, which in 80% of firms averaged 15 years or more. At the same time, capacity was frequently
well in excess of domestic market needs, with utilization ranging from 10% in older (privatized) firms,
and 25-40% in smaller private companies.
3.8.   The study cited an onerous tax system facing enterprises, which includes taxes on profits at
30%, value-added at 20%, excess wages at 30% (but only applicable to state enterprises), social security
(payroll) at 37%, and assets at 0.2% on building structures. Apart from the bias against employment,
the principal problem was the application of taxes. Firstly, according to the study, there appear to be
misunderstandings in how taxes are calculated, implying lack of sufficient inspectors, and resultant
inequity in application. In addition, the requirement for advance payment of profits taxes on a quarterly
basis with no allowance for loss carry forward creates cash problems for companies, and may result in
inflated tax payments. Also, the inability to take deductions for a number of expenses such as research
and development, marketing, training, and interest payments on long term loans (over I year), results in
inflated estimates of taxable profits. The reform of enterprise taxation needs a comprehensive analysis
(to be undertaken through an upcoming Private Sector Development study).
Export Potential
3.9.   Given  the collapse in domestic and FSU market demand, rapid export growth, especially
outside the FSU, is central to Armenia's development strategy. Exports are projected to increase from
21% of GDP over the next five years. At present, 70% of Armenia's exports are to FSU countries,
mainly to Russia and Turkmenistan, and the main exports are mineral products, metal products, and
jewelry. Armenian firms need to diversify into non-FSU exports through improving competitiveness to
meet world standards. At present, most Armenian firms cannot meet the price, quality, and delivery
requirements of overseas buyers in industrialized markets. Even in the traditional FSU markets,
increased competition threatens to erode existing market share.
3.10.  Armenian enterprises possess strong competencies in areas such as engineering. Many existing
firms possess sophisticated equipment (much of which is underutilized). The work-force is well-
educated. A network of private traders, currently engaged in import trade, is emerging. This will
improve delivery of raw materials and finished goods, and probably strengthen trade finance to
exporters. The infrastructure for quality assurance is also good. Under the Department of Standards, a
skilled group of engineers manage reasonably well-equipped testing laboratories.  However, the
orientation would have to change from FSU standards to international standards, such as the ISO 9000
series. The legacy of central planning has left most firms ill-equipped to deal with the requirements of
foreign buyers and compete with exporters from other countries. Firms have little experience in
marketing, market research, product costing and pricing, merchandising, and delivery. Finally, as
stated, most firms are desperately short of cash, making production planning and marketing difficult,
and damaging the credibility of Armenian firms as reliable suppliers.



- 13 -
3.11.  Despite the adverse situation mentioned above, a 1996 survey4 of Armenian firms suggests that
some are beginning to take steps to address these deficiencies. They are attempting to diversify
markets, improve product quality, modify production lines and initiate contacts with new buyers outside
the FSU region. For example, a manufacturer of electric motors has entered into a joint venture with a
Chinese firm to make floor-mounted electric fans; a software firm has established contacts with Western
firms to design and manufacture multi-media software programs.
3.12.  Exports will be assisted because the Government's commitment to a low level of protection for
domestic industry will insure that domestic costs will not be inflated vis-a-vis world prices. The new
import tariff introduced in 1996 incorporates only two rates: zero and 10%. The Government is
committed to early accession to the World Trade organization and intends to bind its tariff at 15%.
Nevertheless the common denominator among surveyed companies remains lack of experience and
exposure to the international marketplace. Export services remain very rudimentary. Firms do not
know where to obtain the right expertise and they cannot afford to hire foreign expertise. Limited
financial resources also constrain them from undertaking business promotion travel, product launch,
advertising, product adaptation, and staff training activities.
The Role of the Proposed Project in Enterprise Development
3.13.  The easing of the financing constraint on enterprises is a principal concern of the proposed
project, and is addressed through a line of credit to the PIFCA and domestic banks. To facilitate access
to the line of credit and assist businesses in general, the project would also finance business advisory
capacity. In addition, to assist technological upgrading, and to enhance competitiveness and
diversification of Armenian firms into exports, the proposed project would support a number of
additional areas of assistance: an enterprise support fund to create "matchmaking" contacts between
Armenian and foreign companies, in order to set up investment, technology and trade deals, and to
develop the export capacity of competitive Armenian; a business advisory service, and; assistance to
develop the securities market and secondary share trading, thereby facilitating raising of finance by
enterprises. Finally, a program to convert bank and enterprise accounts to IAS standards is underway
through USAID.
The Enterprise Legal Framework
3.14.  Considerable progress has been made on the development of the corporate legal framework,
including laws on banking, lending security, and companies.
3.15.  Company law. An enterprise law was passed in 1992, followed by laws on sole proprietors
(1993), enterprise registration (1993), and bankruptcy and insolvency (1995). The enterprise law
covered different types of business organizations, including sole proprietorships, cooperatives, joint
stock companies, limited liability partnerships, state enterprises and non-profit organizations. The law
encompassed a broad range of issues but was general and was superseded by a new Law on Joint Stock
Companies adopted in March 1996. The new law provides more detailed regulations referring to
subscription of share capital, disposition of shares, share buybacks, shareholders' rights, duties and
liabilities. Provisions relating to the corporate governance structure form an important part of the law,
defining the structure and composition of the governing bodies, division of responsibilities between the
shareholders' meeting and board of directors, duties and liabilities of the directors and conflict of interest
issue. The law also contains reporting requirements for joint stock companies, including publishing
their annual reports on financial and economic activities, balances and information on profit distribution.
4      The 1996 survey confirmed the results of a 1995 survey, carried out in preparation for the SAC



- 14 -
3.16.  Bankruptcy Law. In order to promote the process of enterprise restructuring, a bankruptcy
law  was adopted by parliament in June 1995.  However, it did not adequately provide for
reorganizations, nor the location of judicial authority to administer the law sufficiently clear.
Furthermore, claims provisions (e.g. for shareholders) needed clarification. Amendments to the existing
bankruptcy law were approved in November 1996. Even if the legislative framework for bankruptcy is
improved, however, the judiciary has little experience in commercial law, and the necessary institution
building to implement the law will take some time. Moreover, after a long history of state control,
creditors may be reluctant to initiate proceedings under the bankruptcy law without a clear signal from
Government that bankruptcies are acceptable. There is, therefore, an education task both in the
Government and in the judiciary.
3.17.  Laws on Banking and investment funds. Initial legislation consisted of the Law on Banks
and Banking Activity (1993), the Central Bank (1993), Investment Funds (1994), Registration and
Licensing of Banks (1995) and numerous regulations issued by the Government and the Central Bank
pertaining to various aspects of banking activities. The initial banking laws were inadequate in the
definition of the powers of supervisors, sanctions and enforcement measures and the handling of failed
banks, connected lending and many other matters. To address these deficiencies, revised laws
governing the Central Bank and commercial banks were adopted, along with a Law on Bank
Insolvency, in 1996, as conditions of the IMF ESAF and the Bank's Structural Adjustment Credit. A
Law on Non-Bank Financial Institutions, which will cover a broad range of financial institutions
including investment funds and companies, is being developed.
3.18.  Lending Security; Collateral. The Law on Collateral was passed in 1995, extending the
relevant provisions of the Civil Code on the subject. The law applies to movable and immovable
property, rights and securities. The law requires registration of all types of collateral with a local notary
office or another authorized agency. Although the law establishes basic principles for using collateral in
commercial transactions, it needs to be strengthened. Several provisions make general reference to
other applicable legislation whereas, in order to promote lending, it would be preferable for this law to
be self contained; i.e. it should specify completely the rights of the parties in secured transactions.
Among its apparent deficiencies, the law fails to set up an efficient mechanism for foreclosure on and
sale of the secured property. It also needs more clarity on multiple-pledging, the proportion of a loan
that has to be collateralized, and the method of enforcing collateral rights. E.g. whereas the law
establishes a rule that the claims on collateral have to be brought to a court or an arbitration court (which
is itself unnecessary), commercial banks are exempt from this rule. To remedy these problems, given
the lack of legislative drafting capacity within the judiciary, it would be advisable to adopt a revised law
based on the model law on secured transactions published by the EBRD in 1995.
3.19.  Foreign Investment. The foreign investment law was passed in 1994. The law contains a
number of measures aimed at protecting foreign investors from the Government's discretion: i.e. the
law prohibits nationalization without compensation, and allows confiscation of foreign investor's
property only in cases of emergency upon payment of full compensation. Any damage caused by the
State or its agents has to be adequately compensated. Furthermore, an investor may enjoy a favorable
status granted to him by the previous laws for a period of five years where they have been changed to
the investor's disadvantage. Net profits are freely repatriatable and are not subject to a withholding tax.
Tax privileges on equipment import were reduced in 1995, and remain applicable only to investments
over a minimum threshold ($40,000). Some weaknesses include the lack of detailed mechanisms to
uphold the principles (e.g. if property is confiscated without a court order, the investor has to apply to
the courts for redress). Further, double taxation has yet to be addressed properly, and double taxation
treaties have so far only been signed with Bulgaria and Romania, outside the CIS.
3.20.  Land Law. The Land Code and the Law on Farms and Collectives were passed in 1991.
Agricultural land has already been fully privatized, but permanent registration of land is proceeding
slowly (with 25,000 certificates issued out of 315,000 privatized farms). USAID is supporting the



- 15 -
development of a cadastral system. In the absence of title registration, transactions involving land are
not secure. For example, village councils still have rights to confiscate land which is "improperly used".
A new Law on Real Property was adopted in 1995. The law which covers land and other immovable
property, significantly clarifies the legal framework for private property sales. Unlike the Land Code,
the law on Real Property allows foreign legal entities to own real property, although it is still prohibited
for foreign citizens. The current Law on Collateral applies to secured transactions involving land and
other immovable property. However, adoption of a separate Law on Mortgage is expected in near
future.
3.21.  Enforcement of legal provisions. Improvements in judicial and administrative enforcement
are as important as the enactment of laws. Presently, there are courts of general jurisdiction in Armenia
which do not handle commercial disputes between legal entities, and one arbitration court in Yerevan
which has jurisdiction over commercial cases. The judges in both types of courts need extensive
training in commercial law which has undergone significant changes over the past several years. The
lack of efficient enforcement mechanisms undermines implementation of many newly enacted laws and
regulations in the areas of bankruptcy, anti-monopoly, collateral and property law. The Government has
started working on a comprehensive judicial reform program.
3.22.  The role of the project in the development of the legal framework for enterprises.
Considerable progress in the adoption of key legislation has been made by the Government during the
period under which this project has been prepared, and the development of the legal framework is
continuing. Under this operation preparation of selected legislation and regulations for the securities
market and investment fund licensing is being supported through technical assistance.
The Demand for Investment Finance
3.23   In order to estimate the potential demand for loan finance, a credit demand study surveyed
forty-seven companies interested in receiving loans. Estimated current loan demand by the surveyed
companies was between $5 million and $8 million. Thirty of the proposals were considered to be
viable, based upon assessments of their business structure, markets, collateral, and level of development;
and they were prepared to borrow in hard currency, and two thirds of the firms interviewed expressed
strong need for financing facilities on the terms likely to be available. The companies surveyed
included agriculture, food, non-food manufacturing, energy, service, and communications. A five-year
projection using a sectoral breakdown of credit demand showed that 50% of loan demand would come
from non-food manufacturing, 19% from food manufacturing, 4% from the energy sector, 18% from the
service sector, 4% from agriculture, and 5% from communications. Based on the survey midpoint
estimate of $6.5 million, a five year projection of credit demand is
indicated in Table 6.
Table 6: Projections of
Credit Demand          3.24.  This projection made conservative assumptions that (i)
US$ million          10% of the enterprise proposals from the 1996 survey were viable
1997      15.60         (US$0.65 million of investment), (ii) the 47 enterprises represent
1998      18.70         5% of the population of enterprises seeking financing; the total
1999      22.50         seeking financing would therefore be 940 out of  18,000
2000      27.00         enterprises registered), and; (iii) the annual growth rate is 20%
2001      32.40         based on calculations of the 1995 nominal GDP, the GDP growth
rate, and the current and estimated private sector percentage of
GDP.
3.25.  In addition to the above projections, the initial private sector study made estimates of a pipeline
of investment proposals to both the banks and the proposed PIFCA. Seventeen companies were visited
under the study, of which 12 were deemed 'probable' candidates for investment, while the remaining 5
were deemed 'possible', ranging from spirits and wine production to software development to shoe



- 16-
making. The study found little recorded demand for longer term financing within the banks at present,
largely due to the unwillingness of the banks to lend beyond 12 months, combined with very high
interest rates and collateral requirements. A number of small financing companies are also operating,
including the National Financial Investment Corporation, the Armenian Business Corporation and a
scheme funded by the Eurasia foundation. These entities financed about 12 enterprises over 1994 to
1995, with average subloan sizes of around US$50,000. A variety of investment proposals have also
been submitted by the Armenian Business Corporation, and the Armimpex Bank. Proposed projects
and interested enterprises ranged in diversity from copper ore production to cattle breeding to poultry
production. The various studies and sources of information that have been tapped, show satisfactory
potential demand for loan finance at the terms and conditions expected to be available under the
proposed operation, though detailed work would be needed to arrive at more definitive estimates. A
study of agroprocessing enterprise credit demand, showing considerable potential, is also under way as
part of a parallel Bank/IDA project.
3.26.  At the macro level, over the next ten years projections indicate that private foreign investment
and net long-term loans will replace private transfers and official grants to fill Armenia's resource gap.
As official grants are projected to decrease from $237 million in 1994 to $25 million in 2005, private
transfers and foreign investment are projected to increase from $36 million to $101 million and from
$2.6 million to $125 million respectively. Total private investment is projected to reach about US$300
million by 2001, implying a major increase in the requirement for financing.



- 17-
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Scope
4.1.   This project is designed to complement and follow on from the Structural Adjustment Credit by
focusing on the post-privatization environment, financial and enterprise institution building, and the
expansion of private enterprise. The project will benefit the Government, the financial intermediaries,
the EDIPA, financial sector professionals, and beneficiary enterprises. The design of the operation was
discussed extensively with the Government, banks, potential investors, and other donor agencies,
including NGOs.
4.2.   After several difficult years, indications are that the economy has started to recover, the
banking sector is slowly strengthening, and the uncertainties surrounding investment in Armenia have
begun to ease. The continued stability of the exchange rate has also reduced the risk exposure of
enterprises borrowing in hard currency. These factors have created an opportunity for a major initiative
to channel much needed investment finance, both equity and debt, to the private sector, and to
strengthen financial institutions and enterprises. The objectives of the project are, on the demand side,
to increase the viability and bankability of Armenian companies through improved planning, and
development of export links and joint venture deals to enhance investment, imports, exports and
technology, and, on the supply side to strengthen the lending capacity of the banking system,
especially for export oriented projects, and to provide term finance for investment by private
enterprises. The project's objectives are: (i) to assist in financing such productive facilities and
resources in the Republic of Armenia as will contribute to the economic and social development
of the country, (ii) to strengthen commercial banks and other financial institutions and the capital
market, and (iii) to strengthen the investment and export market development capacity of private
enterprises.
Summary Project Description and Design features
4.3.   The project consists of an IDA (ITF) credit to the Government (borrower of record) for SDRs
11.6 million (US$16.75 million equivalent) available over 35 years maturity, 10-year grace period, and
0% interest rate and 0.75% annual service fee. It would consist of assistance to project management
through the PMU, plus the following components;
(i) Institution Building in Enterprises, Banks, and Capital Market
- Enterprise Support Fund and business adviser
- Advisory services to the banks and PIFCA
- Capital Markets assistance
(ii) Line of Credit
- To accredited Domestic banks
- To the PIFCA, when accredited
A schematic diagram of the project management structure is shown in Figure 2.



- 18-
FIGURE 2. STRUCTURE OF THE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1j.20$i0k..0  .;i..)XtS..00..;.   ...........S0kA;AtfAAt,..  GACt0
At      0ji00f;f.W0tAff   S00 dy i0.S A.gt0   EDIM U:;j
FOREIGN AID COORDINATION
Cash flows and information
............ Information
Survey of Project Demand
4.4.    To assess the level of demand for this type of operation, a survey of the perceived need for the
principal components of the project was carried out prior to project preparation, in 60 local enterprises
in both the State and private sector. Using a rating scale of I to 5, two thirds or more of respondents
rated the need for the project as satisfactory or high (3 to 5). The ESF also received 25% of responses
stating moderate to low interest (I to 2); among the overall responses on the ESF, the matchmaking
support drew a good response while, largely due to lack of experience of exporting, some enterprises
visited, mainly in the State sector, did not see a need for the export assistance fund. The overall result
was however quite satisfactory, and the design developed accordingly.
The Rationale for IDA Involvement
4.5.   Institution building. Bank/IDA involvement in direct enterprise strengthening through the
enterprise support fund is particularly timely as the Armenian private sector, including both newly
privatized and newly formed private companies, is at a take-off point, and public sector support is likely
to yield important externalities through the dissemination of international market knowledge and
business skills, which would be reflected in faster growth. This intervention would also be a critical
complement to the enhancement of lending capacity through boosting demand for finance by viable
(e.g. export-oriented) enterprises. IDA assistance in the area of financial institutions and capital
market development is similarly justified because of the incipient and fragile state of the financial
markets, and the accompanying level of uncertainty and perception of risk facing both savers and
investors which a public intervention could mitigate, thereby encouraging growth of the market.
Support to financial institutions would be an essential complement to the project's financing component
as it would directly strengthen both bank and non-bank institutions.



- 19 -
4.6.   Credit line. Despite the progress that has taken place, Armenia is still perceived as a high risk
environment in which up to now private sector fund inflows have been almost exclusively humanitarian;
the large Armenian Diaspora is currently looking to the international financial institutions to take the
lead on funding for investment.  The presence of  the IDA as a lender to domestic financial
intermediaries at this stage is regarded as important by the Government because it would be a logical
step from adjustment lending to targeted investment lending.
4.7.   In the case of the domestic banks, the IDA Line of Credit would be one of the first major
external financing initiatives in Armenia, and would initiate medium to long-term loan financing by the
banks. The credit, supported by technical assistance, is particularly important because it provides an
incentive to the domestic banks to build their capacity by achieving sufficient expertise to be accredited,
thereby ensuring that the project impacts on domestic financial sector development and reform. The
IDA has a critical role to play also in mitigating the uncertainties faced by potential enterprise-level
investors, and, by bringing eligible commercial banks actively into an investment project, the banking
policy dialogue would also be enhanced.
4.8.   A part of the Credit Line is expected to go to the PIFCA if it is established and accredited. The
PIFCA would be the first vehicle in Armenia mobilizing significant diversified foreign investment
resources including both equity and loans; it would come at an opportune moment as the economy
stabilizes and net inflows of foreign investment become feasible. The Bank (IDA)'s expected
involvement has helped to reduce perceived risk, thus encouraging private investors to come forward.
Support to the PIFCA would be developmental because it is effectively a pilot fund within an
embryonic financial market. The existence of the PIFCA would also be justified because of the limited
current capacity of the domestic banks to absorb significant investment credits, and the need to provide
a channel for investment finance over the next few years. IDA (ITF) funding for a credit line would be
complemented by institutional development support. IFC, with whom the credit was discussed, would
support the Bank's involvement at the early stage of market development, and would consider
participation later.
Bank Group Experience in Credit lines, and Lessons Learned
4.9.   The principal lessons relevant to this operation from other credit lines to support private
enterprises in the FSU and Eastern Europe have been as follows:
*  credit demand - the extent of demand on the terms that would be available from the PFIs has to be
clearly established, and an indicative pipeline developed; initial credits should be small, allowing
flexibility.
*  working capital - the provision of (short maturity) working capital loans, in addition to fixed
investment lending, is important to allow loan product flexibility, and to change the risk profile of
the banks' lending. To allow adequate working capital financing there should be no minimum
subloan maturity period.
*  streamlining of procurement - procurement procedures need to be as liberal as possible in the
prevailing market environment; this implies the use of "private commercial practices" to the
greatest extent possible.   Provided that prevailing procurement practices are sufficiently
competitive, private commercial practices should apply to contracts for goods and services.
*  technical assistance for banks and enterprises - to ensure a flow of bankable investment
proposals, and the capacity of the banks to handle them, technical support should be available to the
borrower enterprises and the participating banks in areas such as business plan preparation.



- 20 -
A. Institution Building Component
The Project Management Unit (PMU)
4.10.  The PMU is responsible for the overall implementation and management of the project (See
Chapter V). A total of US$0.37 million would be allocated to the PMU, of which US$0.27 million
would be from IDA (ITF), to finance an advisor for the line of credit for up to 18 months, training of
Armenian staff, and equipment.
The Enterprise Support Fund (ESF)
4.11.  Level of Support. The total cost of the ESF is estimated at US$4.55 million including
cofinancing from USAID and local contribution. Of this, US$ 3.50 million of IDA (ITF) funds would
be allocated to cover consulting services, staffing and operations, over a 26 month commitment period.
Of this, US$3.0 million would be to assist Armenian firms on a cost sharing grant basis to develop
export market plans and to establish joint-venture links with foreign firms; and US$0.5 million would be
to meet the administrative costs of the program. In addition, preparation costs of US$0.19 million
incurred or to be incurred prior to project launch have been met from PHRD Grant Funds.
4.12.  Purpose. The aims and method of operation of the ESF will be set out in its operational
manual. The ESF aims to enhance the competitiveness of private Armenian firms. The objectives are
to assist actual and potential private Armenian exporters search for, enter, and maintain export markets
and locate prospective joint-venture and contractual partners. The ESF is designed to overcome two
key problems: (a) poor export market focus due to lack of market development strategies to develop
existing and potential competitive advantages, and (b) inability to search out prospective foreign joint-
venture partners who could provide managerial and technical know-how and access to international
markets. The ESF would assist Armenian firms address these two problems by providing grant
financing to firms to partially meet their costs of contracting specialized consulting services in: (i)
export assistance, and (ii) interfirm matchmaking. Under normal circumstances, banks are reluctant to
lend for exports since risks are greater in comparison to lending for domestic sales. This is particularly
true for new exporters and start-ups. However, if the firm has gone through a systematic process of
analyzing and developing its competitive potential and/or has alliances with successful foreign firms,
then bank loans may be more forthcoming especially if banks have been involved in the support
program.
4.13.  The design of the proposed ESF is based on experience acquired from similar programs in other
countries, including India and Kenya. Some of the key lessons have been that, because the needs and
problems of each firm are unique and vary, enterprise support services must be tailored to the specific
competitive circumstances of individual firms. Therefore, the support must focus on assisting firms to
connect with and utilize experts who can provide the appropriate specialized services. Finally, strong
ownership and commitment by firms is ensured if they share part of the costs of the program. Annex 2
provides a draft Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures for the ESF Program.
4.14.  Fund Administration. The ESF would be located in the EDIPA. The EDIPA was established
in December 1995 as an agency under the Ministry of Economy. It has no regulatory role and its
mission is to provide fee-based advisory services to private Armenian enterprises and foreign investors.
The ESF would be administered by an Executive Director with support from an internationally recruited
Fund Manager. EDIPA would report to a Grant Approval Committee (GAC) to be established by the
Ministry of Economy which would be responsible for approving grants in excess of US$ 25,000 and
grants where the ESF cannot reach a decision (grant amounts below US$ 25,000 would normally be
jointly approved by the Executive Director of EDIPA and the Fund Manager), and supervising the
operations of the Fund. The GAC would be chaired by the Minister of Economy and would consist of
one representative each from the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Finance, and the National Bank of



- 21 -
Armenia, and three representatives from the private sector including at least one representative from the
commercial banking sector. The Chairman would have the authority to convene meetings or to simply
ask for no-objections from members. All decisions would be communicated to the PMU.
4.15.  ESF Staffing. For the first two years of operations, the ESF would be managed by the
international Fund manager who would assist the Director of EDIPA. However, in order to reduce costs
and create local capacity, program management responsibilities would be transferred to locally based
personnel during the third year of fund operations. Thus, two local fund managers would be recruited
and would be trained by the foreign fund manager. The ESF would also recruit, locally, two marketing
officers. Accounting and administrative services would be provided by EDIPA. The salary costs of the
Executive Director of EDIPA, the Fund Managers, Marketing Officers and the Accounting and
administrative staff would be financed over three years under the project.
4.16.  Eligibility Criteria. Only privately owned manufacturing, trading and service firms registered
in Armenia would be eligible. Privatized state-owned enterprises would be eligible provided they are
majority privately owned. For export market development, the ESF would assist exports from all
subsectors of the economy including service exports such as computer software and tourism. Grant
support would be given to target export markets where export proceeds would be realized in convertible
currencies. Export development and marketing activities aimed at barter transactions would not be
eligible for support. For matchmaking activities all sectors of the economy would be eligible as long as
the ultimate aim is to achieve a net inflow of resources in the form capital., technical know-how, or
revenue earnings.
4.17.  Eligible Activities. While the manager of the ESF would be the ultimate judge of the
eligibility of any specific activity for grant support, the broad eligibility criteria are as follows. Export
market development activities eligible for grant support would include the establishment of marketing
departments, overseas market research, travel to Armenia by potential buyers, minor product adaptation,
quality certification and assurance programs, product launch, sales or market promotion-related overseas
travel, test marketing, initial sales promotion, acquisition of blueprints and technical drawings, and
training. ESF grant finance would be extended for a range of non-investment activities that enable firms
to invest profitably for export production. Finance for working capital and machinery would not
however be provided except for minor tools, jigs and fixtures; testing and quality control equipment;
blueprints and drawings; and office equipment.
4.18.  ESF support for matchmaking activities would be given to secure foreign partnerships or
consultancy services for: (a) contract manufacturing; under this arrangement the technical partner
provides working capital in the form of raw materials or cash, and purchases output, while paying the
enterprise for its value-added; (b) technology transfer, where the foreign partner puts in equipment or
working capital and receives a share of the equity, profits, or production in return; (c) capital
investment, to upgrade and rehabilitate existing plant to bring it up to foreign market requirements, and;
(d) plant completion, where the foreign partner completes an unfinished plant at some fraction of the
greenfield cost and then operates it as an owner or shareholder to benefit from the resulting higher
returns. Contracts would be designed to ensure that the Armenian firm was safeguarded against
inadequate inputs by the intermediaries.
4.19.  Size of Grants and Cost Sharing. For export market development, the ESF would finance a
percent (up to 60% or a maximum of US$100,000) of the cost of eligible activities, to be determined in
the ESF operating manual. Financing would be on a grant basis with no repayment obligations.
Armenian firms would have to meet the remaining cost of eligible activities from their own resources.
In the case of matchmaking activities, because of the expected larger average cost per transaction, the
amount of assistance would be graduated to the size of the fees charged by the intermediary
matchmaker, on a basis to be determined in the operating manual of the ESF.



- 22 -
4.20.  Arrangements for Grant Approvals. The GAC would delegate to the Executive Director and
the Fund Manager powers to jointly approve individual grant support up to US$25,000 per applicant
under the ESF (if disagreements occur the GAC would also approve grants below US$25,000).
Proposals in excess of US$25,000 of ESF support, would normally be approved by the GAC at the
recommendation of the Fund Manager.
Business Advice
4.21.  Level of Support. US$0.29 million would be provided out of the IDA (ITF) Credit to support
the provision of an experienced adviser specializing in SME operations and finance, assisted by short
term foreign and local specialist consultants, and local staff, plus office equipment, over eighteen
months. The expert would establish an office within the EDIPA, reporting to the director.
4.22.  Purpose and Type of Support. Surveys have shown that planning capacity in enterprises is
critically lacking. The support to businesses in planning and analysis would complement the credit line
by assisting businesses to apply for loans by developing feasibility studies and business plans. In
addition the facility would provide general business advice, especially in planning, accounting, finance,
marketing and management.
4.23.  Fees and Administration for Business Advisory Assistance. Services would be provided to
the enterprise in return for a payment to the EDIPA to be passed on to an account in the PMU; the
payment would be calculated as a daily fee which would be a proportion of actual costs of the service
(about 20% subject to finalized operating procedures). Services would be provided on a first come-first
served basis, subject to payment of the fee according to an agreed payment plan. The administration of
the unit would be handled by the adviser in conjunction with the director of the EDIPA. The adviser
would with the EDIPA director develop the procedures for operations and fee payment.
Financial Institutions and Capital Markets Assistance
4.24   Level of Support. A total of US$3.09 million would support consultancy service, training and
equipment under this component of the project. Of this, US$1.69 million would be IDA (ITF) funded,
while the remainder would be financed by USAID, and by local sources. Of the total project amount,
support to the banks would total US$2.05 million. Support to the PIFCA would amount to US$0.25
million. Support for capital market development would be US$0.79 million.
Assistance to the Banks and the PIFCA
4.25.  Purpose. For the credit line to the domestic banks to be effective it is essential to ensure that
the banks' capacity is enhanced in credit management and appraisal, that they have made a start on
restructuring through portfolio audits and debt workouts, and that they have the capability for strategic
planning. In addition, assistance is needed to ensure that the PIFCA achieves early operational viability.
It is proposed that the bank assistance program be managed partly through a Banking Advisory Unit
(BAU). The USAID-financed Bankers Training Center (BTC) would operate alongside the BAU, with
the BAU responsible mainly for consultancy assistance and the BTC for training.
4.26.  Type of Support. The project would assist: (i) the commercial banks through training and
hands-on consultancy inputs in all institution-building areas, but particularly those connected with
accreditation for the line of credit, and; (ii) the PIFCA, to cover part of its local staff development costs.
The immediate need in the banks is for relatively intensive assistance to the management and staff of
certain commercial banks to help them achieve accreditation under the LOC. The advisory assistance
would involve intensive field visits over a period of several weeks designed to set up management
systems and strengthen specific departments, such as credit analysis. Special attention would be given



-23 -
to SME credit administration. For the PIFCA, assistance would meet part of local staff training,
development costs over the first two years.
4.27.  Eligibility Criteria for Bank Assistance and Eligible Activities. All banks would be eligible
for advisory support, provided that they made the appropriate copayments. There would thus be an
element of self-selection. However, special attention would be given by the advisers to those banks
which had the greatest potential for participation under the line of credit. Eligible activities would
include improvement of term credit capacity, payments systems, accounting reforrn, portfolio
restructuring, debt workout, asset-liability management, and strategic planning. After the initial period
of preparing banks for participation in the line of credit, it would be expected that the program would
take on a more regular and longer term range of advisory and training work. The PIFCA would be
eligible for a technical assistance loan after accreditation. Eligible activities would include the costs of
recruitment of local trainee managers, and training of local management recruits (travel,
administration, and accommodation) over the first two years.
4.28.  Fees and Administration for Bank Assistance. Banking advisory services would be provided
on a grant basis to the recipient bank; the recipient bank would make a copayment to the PMU,
calculated as a daily fee which would be a proportion of actual costs (about 20%). The administration
of the BAU would be handled by the advisers themselves. In the case of the PIFCA, on accreditation,
technical assistance funds would be onlent by the govemment through the PMU at its IDA borrowing
cost plus a margin of 1.25%, making 2% in total. Maturity of the subsidiary loan would be ten years.
Capital Market Assistance
4.29.  Purpose.  Assistance is required to develop capital market infrastructure to facilitate
investments, the raising of capital, and the transfer of enterprise assets and securities (e.g. shares
acquired under the mass privatization program). This requires establishment of market agencies, skilled
personnel for those agencies, and the regulations that govern transactions by those agencies.
4.30.  Type of Support. Assistance would be provided to develop the regulations governing the role
and responsibilities of the SMS and securities market trading activity, and to provide initial training to
the regulators and participants in the market. The specific assistance required is for: (i) proposals and
recommendations for creation of a single, properly constituted securities regulatory body with a clearly
defined role, authority, and responsibilities; (ii) drafting and promulgation of basic major regulations
and guidelines governing securities transactions, (iii) training of a critical mass of regulators, traders and
brokers to provide the foundations of an efficient functioning capital market, and (iv) a public
information program. The training needs have been addressed by making a provision for short term
foreign intemships for both regulators and market participants, and for sustained on-the-ground training
in Armenia by foreign specialists in close coordination with the local stock exchanges.
Communications and computer equipment would be provided to the SMS.



- 24 -
B. The Credit Line Component
Overview
4.31.  The line of credit to PFIs would amount to US$11.0 million; this would be available to the
domestic banks and the proposed PIFCA, as soon as they are accredited. The subsidiary loan agreement
with the PFIs would provide for a prior allocation of funds to a PFI in return for payment of a
commitment fee, which would take the form of a reimbursable up-front payment of 0.5% of the
committed amount, reimbursed in proportion with the amount of the credit drawn down. The deadline
for applications under the line of credit would be January 1, 2002.
4.32.  In order to cover its operating costs, the MOE (PMU) would charge an administration fee of
0.5% to be added to the interest rate to subborrowers. The net spread to the Government would consist
of the difference between the borrowing cost of IDA (ITF) funds and the LIBOR-based onlending rate
on the Government's subsidiary loan to the financial institutions, net of the PMU fee. At a subsidiary
loan rate of 6-month US Dollar LIBOR plus 2%, the total net spread to the Government would currently
be about 6.5 to 7.0%. The net spread would provide funds to cover the Government's credit risk and
would provide resources to the central Budget.
Participating Financial Institutions
The Domestic Commercial Banks
4.33.  The Credit Line to The Commercial Banks. Conditions of participation would reflect the
need to strengthen banking and conform with CBA regulations. The credit would be available to any
accredited bank. The amount of the total line of credit accessed by the banks is expected to be about
US$5 million over the project life. Subloans using IDA (ITF) resources would be available for
financing subproject expenditures such as the procurement of machinery and equipment, spare parts, the
construction or purchase of plant, building or storage facilities associated with start-up or expansion
projects, and cost-effective investments in technology improvements and waste minimization which
would have environmental benefits. Permanent working capital would also be financed provided that
the subloan met the eligibility criteria specified in paragraph 4.39. The maximum credit available to
each commercial bank would be two times its capital and reserves, measured according to international
accounting standards. The line of credit would be targeted to private-sector small- and medium-size
companies registered and operating in Armenia and engaged in mining, manufacturing, agri-business,
energy services, commercial services, transport, communications, trade, and construction.
4.34.  The PFI onlending margin over borrowing cost would be determined by market conditions.
The funds received by the commercial banks from the servicing of subloans would be retained by the
banks for a maximum period of 10 years, and would be available for further lending within that period.
To prevent commercial banks deriving excess rents from access to relatively low cost foreign funds, a
review of onlending terms would be carried out at mid-term. If appropriate, and based on discussions
between IDA and the Government, a credit auction system could be introduced.



- 25 -
4.35.   Procedures, terms and conditions of Sub-Loans.  Sub-loans would be appraised and
approved by the participating commercial bank. Discussions with the banks have emphasized that there
would be no Government role in subloan decisions. In the case of the first three sub-loans of each
participating bank using the proceeds of the line of credit, and all sub-loans above a free limit of
US$150,000, subject to review at supervision, a prior "no objection" would need to be obtained from
IDA, based upon a recommendation from the commercial bank. Subloan evaluation guidelines would be
drawn up, acceptable to IDA, and approvals would be closely monitored through supervision visits to
ensure compliance with objective subloan criteria. Maximum subloan maturity would generally be
seven years, with 2 years grace period. Maximum subloan size would be limited by the bank's capital
base but would in any case be not more than US$0.5 million. The interest rate on each subloan would
be according to prevailing market conditions. Subborrowers would bear the exchange risk while the
lending PFI would bear the credit risk.
4.36.  Eligibility of Participating Banks. A set of eligibility criteria would be used to determine the
suitability of Armenian banks for participation in the credit line, taking account of the need to ensure
that the banks achieve adequate financial strength. These criteria are set out in full in Annex 5, and in
abbreviated form below. To qualify, a bank must be licensed by the CBA, and must: (a) have an
acceptable audit report in accordance with IAS; (b) have been in existence and produced
operating results for a minimum of two years except in the case of mergers of two or more
banks; (c) have a capital adequacy ratio as defined under IAS, incorporating a BIS risk-weighted
ratio of at least 4%, by January 1, 1997; (d) have a valid banking license and be in compliance
with all relevant banking laws and regulations of the Borrower; (e) have exposure to any one
borrower of no more than 30 percent of its IAS capital; (f) have aggregate exposure to insiders of
no more than 100 percent of IAS capital; (g) have adopted prudent policies and procedures with
respect to credit administration, loan servicing, and other key areas of banking practice; (h) have
established capacity for credit, accounting, environmental assessment and other functions
necessary to manage investment lending for enterprises. In addition, the PFI should have a
strategic corporate plan to fully convert its accounts to IAS as of January 1, 1998, increase its
capital adequacy ratio, as defined under IAS, beyond the minimum of 4 percent, and to
strengthen its arrangements for credit, accounting, environmental assessment.
4.37.  Eligibility of subborrowers. Clients of participating banks eligible for borrowing under the
line of credit facility would be expected to meet the following key criteria:
*  they must be in the private sector, with at least 51% of the voting shares being held by private legal
or physical persons, engaged in manufacturing, agribusiness, commercial services, trade,
construction, mining, energy services, transport and communications;
*  they must have a maximum debt-equity ratio of 3:1 with the proposed subloan.
*  they must be able to provide audited financial statements - including balance sheets and income
statements - for at least the past year.
4.38.  In addition, potential subborrowers would provide information as required by the PFI; these
would be expected to include data on major customers and suppliers, shareholders and Board members,
creditors and loan servicing status.
4.39.  Eligibility Criteria for Sub-Loans. Applications for sub-loans to the PFIs would be made in
accordance with the PFI's lending rules. It would be expected that they would be accompanied by
information on the enterprise, the appraisal of the subproject, and the proposed terms and conditions of
the subloan. In addition:
* the purpose of the loan must be directly related to the type of business in which the sub-borrower is
engaged.



- 26 -
*  the subproject must be technically financially and commercially viable.
*  the purpose of the sub-loan and the sub-borrower's activities must meet IDA criteria for
environmental soundness.
The PIFCA
4.40.  Governance and Establishment. If it is accredited, the PIFCA is expected to be the largest
intermediating PFI. Under its provisional business plan, its initial paid-in capital is expected to be about
US$3 million (of which EBRD would take 33%, and the remainder would come from the Midland Bank
(UK) and a private investor, W. A. Manoukian), contributed in installments. It is expected to be
established under the Companies Law, pending the adoption of an appropriate law relating to
investment corporations, which is under preparation. It would be governed by a Board of Directors
appointed by the shareholders, and would engage in borrowing, lending, equity investments, guarantees,
leasing, trading and issuance of securities and currency, and underwriting. However it would not accept
deposits or issue checking accounts. It would make medium to long term loans and equity investments,
and a range of subordinated loans and quasi-equity inputs. It would seek positions on investee company
boards in which it makes equity investments
4.41.  The PIFCA is expected to adhere to norms established in its corporate charter on loan,
contingent loan and investment exposure, including maximum size of investments and loans, connected
financing, and sectoral exposure limits, in relation to its total liabilities and its paid in capital. Subject to
shareholder agreement, individual loans and equity investments are likely to be limited to a maximum of
10% of its paid-in capital and reserves. An internationally recognized auditing firm would be
appointed, and the PIFCA would maintain accounts audited in accordance with Armenian law and
internationally accepted standards, reviewed by the general meeting of shareholders and approved by
the Board of Directors.
4.42.  It is intended that the founding investors would take long-term positions, but could in the future
sell their holdings, most likely through private sales. Additional investors, both foreign and local,
would be sought, privately or possibly through a public share offering, when the PIFCA has established
a stable level of business.
4.43.  The IDA (ITF) Credit Line to the PIFCA. On accreditation of the PIFCA, the credit onlent
by the Government would be provided to the PIFCA along with the loans from KfW and the EBRD for
use in enterprise finance. The PIFCA is expected to require over the project life IDA (ITF) credit
facilities of about US$6 million. Total lending to the PIFCA would be about US$17 million. In
addition, equity capital from the EBRD and private investors would total about US$3 million. The IDA
(ITF) credit expected to be used would therefore comprise about 36% of lending and about 30% of total
financing of the PIFCA.
4.44.  A subsidiary loan would be made from the MOE (PMU) to the PIFCA, and subloans or
investments would be made by the PIFCA to subborrower enterprises. A subsidiary loan from the
Government to the PIFCA is expected to carry a maximum maturity of 10 years at an interest rate of
LIBOR + 2%. Subloans would be granted at market rates with maturities of up to seven years, and
grace periods according to PIFCA investment policy as agreed by its shareholders.
4.45.  Subloans from the PIFCA using IDA (ITF) resources would be available for financing
subproject expenditures similar to those of the banks, including machinery and equipment, spare parts,
building or storage facilities, technology improvements and waste minimization, and permanent
working capital, subject to meeting eligibility conditions. Subloans would be granted subject to
conformance with the prudential guidelines set out in the PIFCA shareholders agreement and
appropriate Government regulations on loan exposure set out in upcoming legislation on investment
companies.



-27 -
4.46.  PIFCA Eligibility Criteria. The PIFCA would have eligibility conditions distinct from those
of the commercial banks, applicable to a non-bank financial institution under international management,
namely that:
*  a corporate Charter has been adopted by the shareholders, acceptable to IDA
*  an institutional development plan (business plan) has been adopted, acceptable to IDA, by the
shareholders or Board of Directors.
*  capital structure, management, and prudential operating guidelines including capital adequacy,
accounting, investment and provisioning policy have been defined either in the business plan or the
charter.
*  the PIFCA has been registered in Armenia and its initial equity paid up.
4.47.  Subproject Eligibility. The management of the PIFCA would assess subloan applicants
according to internationally accepted norms. Existing sub-borrower enterprises would be expected to
provide past audited financial statements and evidence of solvency and profitability. Existing and new
subborrowers would be expected to provide detailed feasibility studies with projected financial
statements. The purpose of sub-loans financed by IDA (ITF) resources, and the sub-borrower's
activities, must meet IDA criteria for environmental soundness.
4.48.  Procedure, Terms and Conditions of Subloans. Subloans would be appraised by PIFCA
staff and approved by the Board of Directors, subject to the provisions of the PIFCA Policy Statement.
There would be no Government involvement in subloan or investment decisions. In the case of
subloans proposing to use the proceeds of the IDA (ITF) credit, approvals of subloans above a free limit
of US$300,000 and the first three approvals would require prior no-objection from the IDA. Maximum
and minimum subloan sizes would be determined as in the PIFCA investment policy statement.
Subloans would be granted at competitive interest rates prevailing in the market. Maturity and grace
periods would be the same as for the banks. Subborrowers would bear the exchange risk, while PIFCA
would bear the credit risk.
Project Costs and Finance
4.49.  Tables 7 and 8 summarize the overall project costs, including cofinancing, broken down by
major components.



- 28 -
TABLE 7: PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
(Excluding start-up costs prior to credit effectiveness)
COMPONENT                          LOCAL  IDA(ITF)  COFIN   TOTAL %TOM..
A. FINANCING
(Banks, PIFCA)                          7.00      11.00    14.00     32.00 1W 34%
B. INSTITUTION BUILDING
Bl. PROJECT MANA GEMENT UNIT
Credit Adviser                          0.00       0.25     0.00      0.25
Accounts manager                        0.05       0.00     0.00      0.05
Administrative Assts (3)                0.05       0.00     0.00      0.05...,. 
Equipment                               0.00       0.02     0.00      0.02      . -  .. ....
TOTAL: PMU                              0.10       0.27     0.00      0.37   'kL 92%
B2. ENTERPRISE SUPPORT FUND                                                      ..........
Advisory services                       0.80       3.00     0.00      3.80        .......
Fund manager                            0.10       0.31     0.00      0.41
Local staff                             0.05       0.10     0.00      0.15
Operating Costs, travel, eqpt           0.10       0.09     0.00      0.19
TOTAL: ESF                              1.05       3.50     0.00      4.55    11.29%
B3. BUSINESS ADVISER
Consultant Services                     0.00       0.28     0.00      0.28 
Equipment and Operations                0.03       0.01     0.00      0.04-
TOTAL: BUSINESS ADVISER                 0.03       0.29     0.00      0.32    *.79%
B4. BANKADVISORYAND TRAINING
Consultancy services                    0.20       0.54     0.00      0.74  
Training and prof. services             0.10       0.00     1.00       1.10:   -
Travel and Operations                   0.00       0.14     0.00      0.140
Equipment                               0.00       0.07     0.00      0.07
Total Banking                           0.30       0.75     1.00      2.05
BS. CAPITAL MARKET'DEVELOPMENT
Intemships                              0.05       0.20     0.00      0.25        -
Consultants (commission, regs)          0.05       0.34     0.00      0.39           -
Training                                0.00       0.10     0.00      0.10           -
Equipment                               0.00       0.05     0.00      0.05-
Total Capital Market                    0.10       0.69     0.00      0.79:11 1-11
B6. PIFCA INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
Management Development                  0.00       0.25     0.00      0.25
TOTAL FIN INST, CAP MKT                 0.40       1.69      1.00     3.09   ...7.66%.
GlRAN)TEOTAL                            8.&58     16.75  ~15.00   1-40.33~ I0(L



- 29 -
Table 8: Equipment Budget (US$ equivalent)
tSES...'. .;;.,i..... ,'"!! ''''"' ' ''  ......   '      t
this: C430y
......  ...........S
:   . .,   ................     , .  . -, . . . , - . ,, , . .  .............  .  ... -
.... ~ ~ ~ ~  ..  .. .jB  ..M - ,, ..... ..................  .   ......
TTL                 i                      UINL
4.50.  The total project cost would be US$40.33 million, and the foreign exchange portion
US$31.75million, of which the IDA (ITF) component would be US$16.75 million. Local costs would
be US$8.58 million. It is assumed that the consulting fees paid to foreign consultants and import of
equipment would be exempt from taxes and duties.
4.51.  Under the Financing Component, the PIFCA would be expected to be financed to the extent
of about US$20.0 million in equity capital and loans, including the IDA (ITF) amount of about $6.0
million. Combined with estimated local financing by Armenian investors of $6.0 million, the total for
PIFCA would represent about 65% of project cost. The expected financing of the local banks would
be about US$5.0 million, with an additional amount of about US$1.0 million provided by the local
enterprises or banks. This would represent a total of 15% of project cost. The cost of the ESF is
estimated at US$4.55 million with an IDA (ITF) component of US$3.50 million. The cost of a Business
Adviser in EDIPA would be US$0.29 million. The Financial Institutions and Capital Market
program is estimated to cost US$3.09 million, of which IDA (ITF) would provide US$1.69 million; of
this, US$0.75 million would be allocated to the banking program handled by the BAU, US$0.69 million
to capital markets development, and US$0.25 million for the PIFCA. USAID would provide US$1.0
million through its proposed BTC.
4.52.  Table 9 below gives the summary of the financing plan by expected financing source.
Table 9: Financing Plan             US$ million equivalent
Local      Foreign
IDA (ITF)                         0.00         16.75     :6...
USAID                             0.00          1.00        .00
EBRD                              0.00          7.00
KfW                               0.00          5.00     -  00
Private Investors                 5.00         2.00         .0:
Other cofinancing                 1.00         0.00        .00
Government                        0.58         0.00
Local Banks                       2.00         0.00        .$  .
WA,,i   .      ,.,,  ,   , ,, :: .., ,,- :-: -  -:



- 30 -
V. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Institutional Arrangements
5.1.   A number of options were considered in deciding on the management structure for the project.
The final structure was influenced by the need to simplify management of the various components as far
as possible. Thus the operation will be managed centrally through the PMU, established as part of the
Foreign Aid Coordination Center under the Ministry of the Economy.
The Project Management Unit
5.2.   The MOE (PMU) would facilitate the project in the following ways (refer also to the
organizational diagram on page 18): (i)for institution building: for the ESF and business advice service
the PMU would enter into an exchange of letters with the Enterprise Development and Foreign
Investment Agency (EDIPA). The PMU would provide grants through the EDIPA on behalf of the ESF
to beneficiary enterprises, and there would be copayments from the beneficiaries. Under the financial
institutions and capital market assistance program, the PMU would exchange letters with the CBA
which would accommodate the BAU, and through the SMS, would administer consultancy and training
for the capital market. The MOE(PMU) would enter into a subsidiary financing agreement on
applicable terms and conditions with the PIFCA after it is accredited, to provide a loan for the training
and local management costs during the startup period; (ii)for the line of credit: the MOE (PMU) would
enter into subsidiary loan agreements with the participating financial institutions (PFIs) (the eligible
domestic banks and the PIFCA) on the applicable terms and conditions.
5.3.   The PMU would be responsible for accounting (including management of the special account),
reporting, auditing, disbursement, procurement, environmental and compliance reviews for both the line
of credit and the institution building program. In the case of the LOC, the PMU would also cooperate
with the CBA who would, with IDA representatives, monitor the eligibility compliance of the
participating banks.
5.4.   The staffing of the PMU would be as follows: I line of credit adviser (expatriate); 1
manager/accountant (Armenian) who would assume responsibility for management of the LOC after I
year, and; 3 administrative assistants (covering both the line of credit and the technical assistance
components of the project). The adviser would work in conjunction with the director of the FACC and
would report to the MOE. (Terms of Reference, staffing and budget of the PMU are shown as Annex 1).
Enterprise Development and Foreign Investment Promotion Agency
5.5.   The ESF and the business adviser would be located in EDIPA. EDIPA was established in
December 1995 as an autonomous agency under the Ministry of Economy. It has no regulatory role,
and its mission is to provide fee-based advisory services to private Armenian enterprises and foreign
investors. The EDIPA is also supposed to coordinate all enterprise development technical assistance
programs supported by multilateral and bilateral aid agencies. The EDIPA has been established as a
non-profit, non-budgetary govemment agency which would be free to generate revenues and accept
private sector donations, and use the proceeds for its own operations with a view to eventually
becoming financially self supporting. Its charter provides for private participation in both management
and financing of operations. Preparation has started to hire management, draft operating procedures,
prepare lists of intermediary firms and a public relations program. The proposed organizational
structure for the ESF is given in Annex 3.



- 31 -
The ESF Grant Approval Committee (GAC)
5.6.   The Executive Director of EDIPA would report to a GAC to be established by the Ministry of
Economy under this project. The GAC would be responsible for setting the policies of the ESF on
grants, approving grants in excess of US$25,000 (grant amounts below US$25,000 will be jointly
approved by the Executive Director of EDIPA and the Fund Manager), and supervising the operations
of the Fund. The GAC would be chaired by the Minister of Economy, or equivalent of Ministerial rank,
and would consist of one representative each from the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Finance, and
the CBA. It would also have three representatives from the private sector including at least one
representative from the commercial banking sector. The chairman would have the power to convene
meetings of the GAC or to ask for no-objections from members.
5.7.   BAU and SMS. The banking assistance program would be administered by the PMU through
the BAU, and the capital market program through the MOF (SMS). Some contracts may be handled
initially by the PMU directly. The work program would be subject to agreement with the CBA and the
Commercial Bankers Association. The BAU would have a consultancy or hands-on assistance function,
available to all financial institutions on a fee basis of a percentage of total costs. The BAU would be
housed within the CBA, alongside the Bankers Training Center which is being established under the
auspices of USAID in collaboration with the Commercial Bankers Association.
Supervision
5.8.   For all components of the project, supervisions would be carried out about three times a year.
Annual reviews would be undertaken to review progress, assess performance against the
implementation plan and monitorable indicators, discuss emerging needs, and decide on necessary
adjustments. Special concems would be the performance of the PMU in relation to its terms of
reference; in addition, for the PIFCA: (i) continuing accreditation compliance, (ii) eligibility
compliance of subborrower enterprises, and (iii) rate of disbursement; for the local banks, (i)
accreditation fulfillment and compliance of the banks, (ii) audit reporting, and (iii) rate of disbursement;
for the ESF, (i) performance of the EDIPA; (ii) rate of disbursement; (iii) adherence to and
effectiveness of policies and procedures; (iv) effectiveness of consultancy assistance. For the financial
institutions and capital market program, effectiveness of consultancy assistance would be the focus.
5.9.   A project supervision plan is included as Annex 7. A first supervision combined with a project
launch would be expected to take place in January 1997. A midterm review would take place in about
October 1999.
Procurement
5.10.  Procurement of goods and works will be govemed under the Bank/lDA's Procurement
Guidelines dated January 1995, revised January and August 1996, and the Guidelines: Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). Since
the project will be financed out of the Interim Trust Fund, the countries that are ineligible to borrow
from the IBRD or IDA and that do not participate in financing of the ITF will be ineligible sources for
the purposes of procurement. The Country Procurement Assessment Review for Armenia is under
preparation and is likely to be finalized before the end of 1996. A GPN will be published in November
1996. The project launch workshop will be organized in January 1997.
5.11.  Prior Review: The Bank/IDA's prior review would apply to all contracts for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$500,000 or more, according to the procedures set out in
Appendix I of the Procurement Guidelines.



- 32 -
5.12.  ICB: All contracts of above US$500,000 for goods and works will be awarded on the basis of
ICB and will be subject to the Bank/IDA's prior review. Local suppliers and contractors will be eligible
for domestic preference margins in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. The Borrower will use
standard bidding documents for ICB contracts. This category will amount to about US$1.0 million.
5.13.  International shopping: Goods and equipment estimated to cost US$0.5 million or less will be
procured through international shopping on the basis of three price quotations from two different
countries. This category will amount to about US$5.0 million
5.14.  Commercial Practices: Goods estimated to cost US$100,000 or less may be procured on the
basis of sound commercial practices including multiple quotations. This category will amount to about
US$3.0 million. The acceptance of commercial practices in Armenia for private sector procurement is
based on surveys of local companies and a liberal import regime which permits international
competition.
5.15.  National Competitive Bidding: Contracts for works estimated to cost below US$0.5 million
would be procured on the basis of NCB and the Borrower would use the Bank/IDA's sample bidding
documents dated August 1995. The Bank/IDA would preview the first three NCB contracts. This
category will amount to about US$1.5 million
5.16.  National Shopping - Small Works: Smaller contracts estimated to cost below US$100,000
would be procured under lumpsum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations from three
qualified domestic contractors in response to written invitation. This category will amount to about
US$0.5 million.
5.17.  TA and Consultants' Services: Annex 8 provides details of the various TA and consulting
services and proposed selection methods. All major packages will be procured on the basis of
shortlisting of firms. There will however be direct contracting for the training for the local staff and
management of the PIFCA, for the ESF fund manager, and for some other smaller contracts. The terms
of reference for each consulting assignment will be previewed and approved by the IDA. IDA will also
preview consultants contracts above US$100,000 in the case of firms, and US$50,000 in the case of
individuals. Competitive contracting will apply to contracts worth about US$4.5 million, and individual
contracting will apply to contracts worth about US$1.0 million.
5.18.  Implementationj  Implementation, including procurement, will be the responsibility of the
PMU. Procurement-related TA will be provided to the PMU to ensure compliance with the Bank/IDA's
guidelines and procedures. The PMU will submit quarterly progress reports which will include
procurement activities.



- 33 -
Table 10    Summary of  Procuregitt
US$        million
Compbinent                          ICB    Other    NBF    TOTAL
Financing                            1.00    10.00   21.00     32.00
(10.00)  (0.00)    (11.00)
ESF/Bus. Adviser TA                 0.00     3.79    1.08       4.87
(3.79)  (0.00)    (3.79)
Banks, Capital Mkt. TA              0.00      1.69    1.40      3o09
(1.69)  (0.00)    (1.69)
PMU                                 0.00     0.27    0.10       0.37
(0.27)  (0.00)    (0.27)
TOTAL                                1.00    15.75   23.58     40.33
(1.00)  (15.75)  (0.00)    (16.75)
1. Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA(ITF) credit
2. Other" procurement arrangements are expected to include goods and works procured under direct
contracting, NCB, NS and IS, and consultancy services procured under the standard Guidelines for Use
of Consultants.
Disbursements
5.19.  Special Account (SA).  To facilitate project implementation, the PMU would open and
maintain a Special Account in a major commercial banks under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA
to cover the IDA (ITF) share of expenditures. The Special Account would be used to disburse IDA
(ITF) funds under all components. The Special Account would have a maximum authorized allocation
of US$1.6 million, representing about four months of average expenditures made through the special
account. During the early stages of the project the initial allocation to the Special Account would be
limited to US$1.0 million. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the Credit have reached
the level of US$5.0 million the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of
US$1.6 million by submitting the relevant application for withdrawal. Applications for replenishment
of the special Account would be submitted monthly or when one third of the amount has been
withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. The withdrawal application would follow the standard IDA
procedure supported by appropriate documentation as described in the Disbursement Handbook, chapter
6. The SA would be opened in the name of the Government and administered by the PMU which will
send requests to IDA for replenishment. These requests would be accompanied by detailed monthly
bank statements of the SA which have been reconciled by the borrower.
DISBURSEMENT AMOUNTS
Category                      % of Expenditures
to be Financed
Goods                  100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 80% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
Works                              80%
Consulting services and
training                           100%
Operating Costs                        100%
5.20.   Line of Credit. Funds would be disbursed against certification of investment expenditure
using the proceeds of the Credit. Disbursement would either reimburse the PFI's expenditure or would



- 34-
be made directly to suppliers from the credit account. Disbursements would generally occur against
proof of payment in accordance with the approved contract. Expenditures for individual goods and
works contracts valued at under US$0.5 million, financed by subloans, would be disbursed from the
loan account against statements of expenditure certified by the PMU. Expenditures of above US$0.5
million would be made out of fully documented withdrawal applications. The PMU would ensure that
the documentation was available for inspection at supervision. Expenditures for equipment for the
PMU would be disbursed according to statements of expenditure.
5.21.  Under the ESF, business advisory and bank advisory programs, enterprises will make
copayments at the time of disbursement of IDA (ITF) funds on activities financed, through a separate
PMU account into which the beneficiary's share of payment will be deposited. Applications for
payment would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure for goods of less than $0.5 million,
for consulting services of below US$100,000 equivalent for firms, and below US$50,000 equivalent for
individuals. At the time of approving each grant proposal under the ESF, EDIPA would notify the
PMU. When payments for goods and services have to be made under an approved grant proposal,
EDIPA would request the PMU to make the necessary disbursements. At the time of making this
request, EDIPA would ensure that the enterprise receiving the grant has deposited its copayment. The
PMU would draw on the Special Account for up to the amount eligible for funding under the ESF, and
the balance would be drawn from the copayment account.
5.22.  Retroactive financing for subprojects procured according to the Guidelines after November 1,
1996 is proposed up to a limit of US$1.6 million equivalent, equal to about 10% of the amount of the
loan.
5.23.  The Project would be implemented over five years, with a completion target date of January 1,
2002. The credit closing date would be July 1, 2002, with last date for drawdown being six months
after the date of credit closing. The ESF would be expected to disburse within three years.
Table 11: Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ million equivalent)
FY96  FY97   FY98         FY99  FY2000   FY2001 :]TOTAL
Line Of Credit (Banks, PIFCA)      0.00    1.65    2.75      3.50     2.20      0.90::: 11.00
PMU                                0.05    0.22    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00  :-.A027
ESF/Business. Adviser              0.07    0.96    1.44      1.33     0.00      0.00       3.79
Banks/Capital Market               0.00    0.76    0.76      0.17     0.00      0.00  V:19
TOTAL                    ~~~~~~~~0.12    3.58    4.95  5.    2.21.0 6V
1IJM. TOTAL                        0.12    3270    8.66 13.65 15       .8     5 16.15
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
5.24.  Accounting. The Goverrment will have the responsibility for the appropriate accounting for
the funds provided by the IDA (ITF) under the credit, for reporting on the use of these funds and for
ensuring that financial statements or reports are submitted. The PMU manager will establish an
appropriate accounting system for receipt and use of funds in accordance with the credit agreement.
5.25.  Auditing and Reporting.  For each component of the project the managing intermediaries
would establish and maintain separate project related accounts in a format acceptable to IDA. These
accounts, and the special account, would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA. The audited accounts would be submitted to the PMU not later than three months from the end of
each fiscal year, and the PMU would forward the accounts to IDA. The auditors selected must be (a)



- 35 -
impartial and independent of the entity to be audited, (b) well established and reputable, (c) experienced
in the type of assignment to be undertaken, and (d) able to fulfill the terms of reference required within
the specific timetable.
5.26.  IDA would require reports on a quarterly basis. For the Line of Credit, reporting would
include regular quarterly reports of, inter alia, subloan commitments and disbursements financed by the
IDA (ITF) credit, sub-borrower debt service, and other information required for effective monitoring,
and an annual audit by an auditor acceptable to IDA (ITF). IDA quarterly supervision missions, carried
out in conjunction with the Government, would require access to regular and other reports, and access to
subprojects for site visits. For the Banking and Capital Markets program, quarterly reports would be
provided by the BAU and by the SMS and provided to the PMU. The PIFCA management would
submit to the PMU quarterly reports on the progress of the management training program. For the ESF,
reports would include a summary of all grants disbursed below and above the free limit, and the
justification for the award. EDIPA would submit monthly progress reports, in a format acceptable to
IDA, to the GAC for review and approval. After approval by the GAC, EDIPA would forward these
reports to the PMU who in turn would forward them to IDA. EDIPA would also submit quarterly
reports to the PMU on the work of the Business Advisor.



- 36 -
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS, BENEFITS AND RISKS
Environmental Review
6.1.   The character of the subprojects under the line of credit is not known in advance, although they
will be limited in scale. However, to allow for the possibility that some subprojects (such as food
processing, chemicals and metals) may have significant environmental impacts, the project is classified
as category B.
6.2.   The Republic of Armenia has an environmental regulatory system in place, largely inherited
from the former Soviet Union, that the Government is now attempting to adapt to changing
circumstances.  An IDF grant has been approved to assist in the development of appropriate
environmental policy and regulations. A Law on Environmental Assessment was adopted in January
1996. The Government has also requested Bank assistance in revising current environmental laws, and
using national resource fee systems and economic instruments in place of the largely ineffective Soviet
system. A National Environmental Action Plan will be in place by 1997.
6.3.   As part of the eligibility conditions for PFIs, a capability to undertake environmental
assessments is required, and for each subloans an environmental impact statement would be required.
The procedures will be agreed with IDA prior to effectiveness. Environmental screening procedures
would specify a negative list of activities with known hazardous impacts which would not be financed.
An investors guidebook for environment, health, and safety is being prepared in conjunction with the
Bank/IDA and the EBRD to provide background to potential investors on applicable environmental
regulations, licensing, land use codes and the like. A model environmental assessment manual for
subprojects has been provided to the Government.
Economic Analysis
6.4.   Link to CAS. This operation is an integral part of the country strategy. It marks the transition
from the rehabilitation and macroeconomic adjustment phase of IDA support to Armenia, to
intervention at the post-privatization and sectoral restructuring level. This operation focuses on the
rationalization and recovery of production within the newly forming private sector by addressing key
bottlenecks in enterprise financing, business skills and institutional development.
6.5.   Policy Environment. Armenia is one of the most successful countries of the FSU in its
macroeconomic stabilization program. Its budget deficit was reduced very substantially over 1994 to
1995, while the monthly inflation rate has fallen to a low level. Liberalization and stabilization of the
domestic currency vis-a-vis the US dollar has started to stimulate capital inflows. Export taxes and
quantitative import restrictions have been removed, and the maximum import tariff reduced to 10%.
Price distortions have been largely eliminated. Interest rates are determined at auction and part of total
credit is made available through CBA refinancing auctions to banks able to offer acceptable collateral.
The remainder is offered at the auction-determined monthly interest rate, which has been positive in real
terms for the past year. The interest rate on subsidiary loans under the project would be dollar-
denominated and positive in real terms.
6.6.   Core Economic Objective. The main objective of the project is to support a market-driven
private sector investment and production response to the economic adjustment process. The resumption
of economic growth in Armenia, the increase in capacity utilization, and the fast rate of privatization
will create a good basis for the rapid growth of private business. The Project aims to start to mobilize
external investment, which has been unavailable since the break up of the FSU, to stimulate the exports
and foreign investment that are essential to economic recovery, and to mobilize local savings by
strengthening the capacity of the banks and capital market.



- 37 -
6.7.   Achievement of Core Economic Objective. Technical assistance will address weaknesses in
the banking system, such as portfolio management, credit management, and loan appraisal, thereby
moving the financial reform process forward, and will build capacity in capital market institutions. The
Project, combined with the perceived improvement in the economy and supported by the Bank/Fund
dialogue, has already succeeded in mobilizing investor interest internationally and domestic enterprise
and banking interest. By addressing key deficiencies in competencies of firms that impact on credit and
project risks, the ESF will also improve the bankability of projects to be financed under the Line of
Credit, through promoting international marketing, technological and trade contacts with Armenian
companies. The provision of investment finance through the domestic banks and the PIFCA would
provide the resources to fund the establishment, or expansion, of efficient private sector investment
projects in a range of production and services, thereby financing growth of production. Finance will
also create incentives for the strengthening of the banking system to mobilize savings for investment.
6.8.   Institutional Capacity and Regulatory Framework. The Project will strengthen the capacity
of an important and needed local institution - the EDIPA, which will coordinate enterprise-related
foreign assistance in Armenia, and it will also establish a banking advisory service as part of a Bankers
Training Center, which will provide assistance through training and consultancy to build capacity in the
banks. The project will also assist the creation of an autonomous securities regulatory body and
strengthen professional expertise in institutions such as the SMS, and will also strengthen the financial
sector regulatory framework.
6.9.   Fiscal Impact. The line of credit will provide budgetary resources to the Govermment through
the spread between the cost of IDA (ITF) funds, and the onlending rate of the subsidiary loan (10 years
at LIBOR plus 2%) from the Government to the participating financial institutions, less the cost of
administering the PMU. Part of the spread to the Government should also be seen as coverage for its
credit risk in the event of default by a PFI. The direct net budgetary benefit will depend on the rate of
disbursement of the credit line. Based on a 7% net spread to Government, the present value at 10% of
the net fiscal benefit accruing to the Government from the line of credit would be about US$2 million
over the 6 year life of the credit line. The ESF consultancy funds, along with the funding of the
associated administrative costs, are expected to be passed on a grant basis to the EDIPA.  The
Government would therefore bear a fiscal cost amounting to the cost of funds (0.75% per annum) and
its own share of the operating cost of the EDIPA. This would be offset by the copayments by recipient
banks averaging about 25% of costs. The net present worth of the net fiscal expense associated with
the financial provision for the ESF would be about US$100,000. In the case of PIFCA institutional
support, funds are expected to be onlent by the Government at IDA borrowing cost plus a margin for
administration, with a zero net budgetary impact. Copayments for assistance from the BAU and the
Business Adviser would result in a small net positive budgetary impact.
6.10.  The positive direct fiscal impact would be enhanced by indirect fiscal benefits from the creation
of new productive capacity. The technical assistance should therefore be seen as an investment yielding
an enhanced stream of future fiscal inflows. The successful implementation of the line of credit and
technical assistance will result in the broadening of the tax base through new businesses and
employment.
6.11.  Analysis of Alternatives. During project preparation, a number of alternative approaches were
considered for the project. The main considerations were on the one hand the weakness of the financial
sector and on the other hand the critical need for investment finance. The former suggested either
waiting for additional reforms to take effect or focusing on a technical assistance operation alone to
strengthen the banks and enterprise borrowers. However, the latter implied strongly the need to find a
viable and effective channel to mobilize investment finance. Mobilization of investment through a
guarantee operation was initially considered, but the progress of preparation of the PIFCA suggested
that the PIFCA would be an appropriate alternative. The participation of the domestic banking sector
has also now become feasible as a result of strengthening of the financial positions of several banks over



- 38 -
the past year, as shown through portfolio audits. Access to the line of credit is also expected to provide
a strong incentive effect on the banks to fulfill accreditation criteria. The final design of the project
combined institution building with a line of credit accessible to both the banks and the PIFCA.
6.12.  Cost-benefit Analysis. There is little evidence currently of rates of return that are being
achieved by long-term investors in Armenia. However, the credit demand study showed considerable
interest from potential investors in borrowing at the rates for foreign currency loans which would
prevail under the proposed credit (the subsidiary loan rate plus a margin of about 5%). Such enterprises
would therefore be expecting financial rates of return of at least 15%.
6.13.  Analysis of the sensitivity of the estimated rates of return to possible policy changes and
sovereign risks can only be tentative. However, the continuing progress in improving the policy
environment and implementing strict macroeconomic measures, and the growing geopolitical
stabilization, strongly indicate that the number of opportunities for profitable business will grow. The
proposed line of credit, which is modest in scale, can easily be topped up if it proves successful.
6.14.  The residual effects of the blockade, especially on oil supply, would have the effect of
increasing cross-border transport costs, thereby lowering real export FOB prices, and increasing import
CIF prices. Thus the alleviation of the blockade will allow export prices to rise and import prices to fall.
Economic analysis of subprojects would have to take account of these movements in estimating future
border prices. Aside from this complication, the absence of major distortions, as described above,
means that financial rates of return on subprojects would tend to reflect economic rates; and the stability
of the reform process means that a divergence is relatively unlikely to occur in the future, so that
financial rates of return will continue to approximate real rates.
Project Benefits
6.15.  Line of Credit. Given the shortage of domestic savings and lack of investment finance
available on prevailing terms, the benefits of the LOC are expected to be provided through the easing of
the financing constraint, and the development of capacity in the banking system inter alia to develop and
appraise projects. A total of about 30 to 50 subprojects (at US$120,000 to US$200,000 per subproject)
are expected to be financed under credit to the PIFCA when it is accredited, and 40 to 80 subprojects (at
about US$50,000 to 100,000 per subproject) through credit to the domestic banks.
6.16.  Enterprise Support Fund. The ESF would contribute to exports by: (a) assisting 80 to 100
private Armenian firms increase their shares in international markets. Experience elsewhere suggests
that export support programs of this type could yield incremental export revenue of a multiple of at least
ten times the cost of assistance; (b) assisting Armenian firms internalize marketing skills and thus make
them more bankable; (c) assisting about 50 to 60 Armenian firms establish international contacts and
close deals in trade, technology and investment. Based on fees of around 3-5% of the transaction value
and an average copayment rate of up to 50%, a $1 million aggregate intervention could result in an
aggregate inflow of as much as $40 million in direct foreign investment of various forms; (d)
developing domestic private sector capacity in provision of export consulting services; and (e) assisting
EDIPA develop capacity in delivery of enterprise support services.
6.17.  Banks and Capital Market. This program is expected to yield direct benefits through skill
enhancement within the banks, the securities regulatory agency (SMS) and the main securities
marketing entities, and development of the regulatory environment. PIFCA. Institutional support is
expected to yield benefits through localization of management by year 3 of operations.



- 39 -
Project Risks and Risk Management
6.18.  GeneraL The reform progress of the past few years suggests that the risk of policy reversals or
loss of reform momentum in Armenia is low. An IDA investment in such an environment may
therefore be regarded a being an acceptable risk.
6.19.  The Enterprise Support Fund faces three particular risks:  (i) the environment may be
constrained by underdeveloped legal and institutional structures that discourage foreign firms from
entering into long-term relationships with Armenian firms; (ii) working capital and investment finance
constraints may prevent firms from implementing export, import, or technological upgrading plans, and;
(iii) EDIPA is a new institution with limited experience in delivering enterprise support services that are
valued by firms. The first risk is being addressed since, with IDA assistance, the Government is rapidly
implementing laws and establishing institutions for a well-functioning market economy. In the second,
with IDA assistance, the Government is implementing reforms aimed at improving the financial
viability of the banking system and in the interim the IDA is providing financial resources through the
Line of Credit. The third risk is being addressed by providing EDIPA with the services of an
experienced international manager to implement the ESF program and by providing local staff with
overseas and on-the-job training. For the Banks and Capital Market, and for the Business Adviser, the
main risk is failure to deliver effectively the know-how to the banks and securities agencies. A risk
facing the BAU is that it will not be able to deliver advisory services soon enough for timely bank
accreditation. These risks will be mitigated through careful design of the program, and include cost-
sharing provisions in order to ensure adequate commitment by the agencies involved, and in the case of
the BAU by accelerated procurement which is under way.
6.20.  The Line of Credit faces three main risks. These are: (i) risk of a deterioration of the political
situation leading to an increase in cross-border trade disruption; (ii) bank systemic risk - the risk of
bank failures or inability to achieve accreditation standards which prevents the credit being disbursed,
and; (iii) risk of inadequate demand by eligible subborrowers or inadequate project preparation skills.
The first of these risks is partly outside Armenia's control, but is mitigated because of the progress in
international negotiations; the second is mitigated because of the tight control of the CBA, the support
of the BAU, and the likely participation of the PIFCA, which would be well capitalized, managed by a
reputable international investor, and is expected to be able to absorb a major part of the credit line. The
third risk has been addressed through a credit demand study. Satisfactory demand for loans from viable
borrowers at the terms and conditions offered has been projected over the next few years, and project
preparation skills would be developed through the BAU, the Business Advisory Service, and a number
of donor projects supporting enterprises.
Monitoring And Evaluation
Performance Indicators
6.21.  Performance indicators have been designed to allow the effective monitoring of the progress of
the project. The monitoring and reporting on the performance of the project will be the responsibility of
the PMU, which would supply to supervision missions the latest information in the following areas.
For the Line Of Credit:
Implementation indicators:
number of banks accredited
commitment of subloans
disbursement of subloans



- 40 -
Output/Ilmpact indicators:
*      number of enterprises receiving subloans
*      number of people employed by financed subprojects
*      debt service compliance: overdues and defaults,
For the Enterprise Support Fund:
Implementation indicators:
*      number of grant requests received and approved
*      number of business plans for implementation
*      percent of funds disbursed
OutputlImpact indicators:
*      increase in exports by beneficiary firms
*      impact ofjoint-venture relationships established
For the Bank and Capital Market assistance:
Implementation indicators:
*      number of banks receiving TA
*      number of trainees trained in securities market, banking area
Output/Impact indicators:
*      progress on preparation of market regulations
*      progress on PIFCA management training
*      impact of BAU advice to banks



- 41 -
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements and Actions taken
7.1.   Policy actions taken. A number of important measures relevant to the proposed operation
were taken by the Government during the processing phase of this project, relating to the legal and
regulating framework for the private sector and the banks:
*  a law on real property was passed in 1995;
*  a revised joint stock companies law was passed in 1996;
*  a revised bankruptcy law has been submitted to parliament in 1996;
*  amended laws on central banking and the commercial banks, bank insolvency and bank secrecy;
have been submitted to parliament or adopted during 1996;
*  tax deductible bank loan loss provisioning has been introduced according to CBA guidelines;
*  new IAS reporting forms have been introduced in the commercial banks;
*  portfolio audits have been completed in all banks; and
*  amendments to the existing collateral law are under consideration, to be submitted to Parliament in
early 1997, to include flexible provisions on: the amount of required collateral cover in relation to
asset value, out-of-court execution of collateral claims, and the rights of multiple parties to specific
collateral.
Actions Taken By Negotiations
-  the PMU is established and local procurement and disbursement staff are in post; and
*  the EDIPA has been established and a foreign fund manager and local counterparts for the ESF are
in post.
Actions Taken by Presentation of the Credit for Approval
*  a contract has been signed for the line of credit adviser to the PMU, and the local counterpart
accountant/manager is in post;
*  the Grant Approval Committee has been established; and
*  a draft operations manual for the ESF has been prepared.
Disbursement Conditions
*  for the line of credit: at least two PFIs would have been accredited, and a subsidiary loan
agreement, acceptable to IDA, signed between the PMU (MOE) and each accredited PFI.
*  for the technical assistance to PIFCA: a subsidiary financing agreement acceptable to IDA would
have been signed between the MOE and PIFCA.



Annex 1
Page 1 of 3
ARMENIA
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference
PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
(Foreign Aid Coordination Center)
L. FUNCTIONS OF THE PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT (PMU)
The functions of the PMU are to:
a.    Develop and maintain the database, accounting systems and other
information systems for managing and reporting on the Line Of Credit
(LOC), the ESF, Business advice office, and the Banking and Capital
Market technical assistance services;
b.    Develop and maintain an information and reporting system for the PIFCA;
c.    Open a special account in a bank acceptable to IDA, maintain the project
accounting records, and arrange for regular audits of the project accounts
and the special account;
d.    Forward to the Bank, sub-project feasibility studies and business plans as
appropriate, including summary sub-project descriptions based on
standard formats;
e.    Implement or advise on the disbursement and procurement procedures and
arrangements for the LOC, and technical assistance, ensuring compliance
with IDA (ITF) rules, and provide project disbursement and procurement
reports to IDA based on agreed schedules;
f.    Confirm that all requests for disbursement are complete and show that the
sub-loans under the LOC comply with the agreed eligibility criteria;
g.    With Bank concurrence and consultation with the CBA, after agreement
on accreditation, issue on behalf of MOE letters of accreditation and sign
subsidiary loan agreements with PFIs; enter agreements with the EDIPA
and with the other designated managing agencies for the technical
assistance, if appropriate;
h.    Check the ongoing eligibility of the participating domestic banks, in
collaboration with the CBA Supervision Department and, in the event of
breaches of the eligibility criteria, seek from IDA and the CBA
instructions to remedy non-compliance, including de-accreditation in
appropriate cases;



Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
Conduct ex post reviews and reports, according to specific agreements, on
the participating domestic banks accounting of sub-loans and the
utilization of the line of credit and matching grant funds; and
k.    Ensure that all other compliance requirements under the LOC are met.
II. ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE AND STAFFING
The PMU will be established in the Foreign Aid Coordination Center (FACC),
an autonomous Government agency under the supervision of the Ministry of
Economy (MOE). It will act as an agent of the Government of Armenia, i.e. able
to disburse and collect IDA (ITF) credit funds, sign contracts, and manage donor
special accounts. The PMU, through the FACC, will also be authorized to hold
and conduct transactions in foreign exchange. The PMU will be operational
throughout the term of the project.
The PMU will be staffed by a full time team and will have the authority,
through the FACC, to deal directly with the PFIs, the Bank, and other providers of
assistance. It is proposed that the PMU will have five local staff excluding the
Head of FACC who will act as the Head of the PMU. The other staff would be an
accountant/manager, who would assume responsibility for management of the
LOC after one year, one administrative assistant for the LOC, and two additional
administrative assistants for procurement and disbursement who would be
responsible for activities under all other parts of the project. An expatriate credit
management advisor would be appointed to assist in management of the LOC over
the initial period. The duties and responsibilities of the principal local and foreign
staff involved in managing the project are the following:
a. The Head of the PMU (FACC) will have overall administrative responsibility
for the efficient operations of the PMU, providing direction for its activities,
and coordinating the PMU's program. The head of the PMU will also be
responsible for ensuring effective coordination with the MOE, the Grant
Approval Committee, and for acting as the link between the Government and
the financing agencies. The head of the PMU will open the special account
and will also be responsible for providing to the Bank appropriate information
on the project and forwarding of sub-projects for approval by the Bank.
b. The Line of Credit Advisor (expatriate) will be responsible for:
-  Assisting the Head of the PMU and the staff of the PMU, as
appropriate, to implement its overall work program;
-  Developing and implementing databases for subsidiary and sub-loan
disbursement, servicing, monitoring and reporting, and sub-project
information;
-  Developing standardized summary sub-project feasibility study and business
plan formats for use in submission of appropriate sub-projects on behalf of



Aunex 1
Page 3 of 3
the participating domestic banks and the PIFCA for Bank review and no
objection;
- Liaising with the CBA in the compliance reviews of the PFIs, subject to
maintaining confidentiality of information;
- Checking sub-loan eligibility;
- Monitoring environrnental impacts of sub-projects to ensure compliance with
environmental guidelines;
- Assisting in the approval and implementation of disbursements;
- Providing information and guidance, and organizing training seminars
on disbursement procedures;
- Ensuring compliance with Bank disbursement rules and procedures for
sub-loans;
- Monitoring and reporting on LOC activities, with respect to disbursement and
repayment of funds from/to the PMU;
- Carrying out ex post sub-project investment and portfolio performance
reviews.
c. The Accounting Manager (local) will be responsible for:
- Assisting the head of the PMU and working with the credit adviser on all
aspects of PMU operations with respect to the LOC; the manager would
assist in inter alia:
- Setting up the project accounts, accounting system and related documentation
controls;
- Recommending to the head of the PMU disbursements from the special
account based on replenishment needs;
-  Arranging for disbursement of sub-loans after verification of the forms
requesting disbursement;
- Arranging for the audit under international accounting standards of the special
account and all related project accounts by an acceptable international audit
firm;
-  Developing repayment schedules, collecting and monitoring repayments from
the participating domestic banks;
- Reporting on credit disbursement and collection performance.
Key:
PFI   Participating Financial Institution
LOC   Line Of Credit
PMU  Project Management Unit
ESF   Enterprise Support Fund
FACC Foreign Aid Coordination Center
ITF   Interim Trust Fund



Annex 2
Page 1 of 7
ARMENIA
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Enterprise Support Fund
Draft Policies and Operating Procedures
Objectives
1.    The aim of the Enterprise Support Fund (ESF) is to: (a) increase the competitiveness of
Armenian exports and to assist actual and potential exporters to search, enter and maintain export
markets and (b) assist enterprises to locate prospective joint-venture partners. The ESF will
overcome two key constraints faced by enterprises: (a) poor market focus and lack of systematic
export market development strategies that exploit the existing and potential comparative
advantages of Armenian enterprises and (b) inability to tap into trade and investment networks.
The specific objective of the ESF is to motivate and assist individual private Armenian firms
in the preparation and implementation of cost-effective export expansion plans and in locating
foreign joint-venture partners with the help of consultants specializing in marketing, design,
packaging, quality, finance, engineering and investment brokering. A subsidiary objective of the
ESF is to also strengthen local capabilities in delivery of specialized exporter support services.
In order to achieve these objectives the ESF will provide grant assistance to Armenian
enterprises to partially finance the cost of achieving the aforementioned objectives.
Resources
2.    Resources. During a three year commitment period, the ESF will be supplied with
US$3.5 million (of which US$3.0 million will be for consulting services to firms) of IDA (ITT)
funds to finance, on a matching-grant basis, eligible activities undertaken by private Armenian
firms. US$0.5 million will be for the start-up and operating costs of the ESF. Total payments,
including local payments and enterprise co-payments, will amount to a total of about US$ 4.55
million.
Eligibility Criteria
Eligible Firms
3.    To be eligible Armenian firms must be in the private sector. A firm will deemed to be
private if at least 51 percent of outstanding shares are held by private individuals or where
management control is in private hands. In addition, privatized state-owned enterprises will also
be eligible. All manufacturing, trading and service establishments that meet these definitions
will be eligible.
Eligible Sectors
4.     Support under the ESF will be open generally to all sectors of the economy, subject to
review.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 7
Eligible Activities
5.     The ESF will support two broad categories of activities: (A) activities aimed at
preparing Export Marketing Plans (Export Market Development), and (B) activities aimed at
establishing joint-venture links with foreign partners (Match Making). The activities eligible to
be financed under each category are as follows:
A. Export Market Development
6.     Eligible Export Markets. Grant support will be given only for those target markets in
which export sales are realized in convertible currencies. Priority will be given for export
development plans aimed at industrialized markets. Export development and marketing
activities aimed at protocol trade or barter transactions will not be eligible for support.
7.     Eligible Activities. The aim of the ESF is to encourage a strategic perspective on export
markets based on stable buyer-seller relationships. Such relationships are necessary for
sustaining and increasing exports in the medium to long-term. Hence, under the ESF grant,
fimance will be provided for all activities that prepare firms to enter into long-term buyer-seller
links. However, working capital requirements will not be supported. Further, the ESF will not
finance acquisition of plant and machinery with the exception of items such as minor tools, jigs
and fixtures; testing and quality control equipment; blueprints and drawings; and office
equipment. A number of market development activities can qualify for support. Ultimately, the
Manager of the ESF, in conjunction with the fund manager, will have to make a judgment
regarding the eligibility of any proposed activity. However, for the purposes of illustration and
guidance a typical list of eligible activities would include the following:
* Desk Research. This activity aims at assisting the firm in undertaking a preliminary analysis
of most promising export prospects, internal capabilities of the firms, and analysis of
competition. This activity is based on information available on site and may be undertaken
in collaboration with the Fund Manager. The quality of desk research is often an important
indicator of the firms willingness to enter export markets. This activity is the initial step in
the development of an export marketing strategy.
* Overseas Field Market Research. This activity provides the main inputs into the formulation
of an export marketing strategy. It aims to answer basic questions relating to products, target
markets, target buyers, buyer requirements, purchasing decisions, distribution channels,
competition, and main factors effecting demand for the firm's products. Typically, this
activity is undertaken in collaboration with consultants who have detailed knowledge about
specific products and markets.
* Minor Product Adaptation. This activity aims at making Armenian products more
acceptable to overseas buyers. Under this activity support will be given for advisory and
technical services relating to process, product and packaging redesign.
* Overseas TraveL During the process of developing an export marketing strategy, company
executives may need to travel abroad for identifying buyers and suppliers and for obtaining
information about standards, distribution channels, competition and other market/buver
specific information. Travel may also be necessary for negotiating agreements with buyers



Annex 2
Page 3 of 7
and suppliers or participating in trade fairs. Such export market development related
activities will be eligible for support under the ESF.
* Travel to Armenia by Potential Buyers. Before forming long-termn relationships with
Armenian exporters, overseas buyers will wish to inspect the production facilities/supply
sources in Armenia in order to gain first-hand knowledge about the Armenian firms. In most
instances it will be in the interest of Armenian firms to arrange such visits. If necessary,
under the ESF, assistance will be provided for meeting the cost of such visits.
* Product Certifi cation. In many cases, before placing orders overseas buyers will wish to
establish the quality of the products or the manufacturing process. Buyers may also wish to
ascertain in advance quality assurance procedures employed by Armenian firms. Armenian
firms can employ a number of strategies for assuring overseas buyers about product quality.
These can range from product certification by international inspection agencies, certification
under ISO 9000 standards, certification under specific national standards, certification by
buyer's inspection and quality assurance unit, etc. The Fund will provide financial
assistance to Armenian firms in hiring specialized help in developing and implementing
quality assurance and product certification strategies including purchase of testing
equipment.
Productivity Enhancement. In order to compete effectively, many Armenian firms may need
to reduce costs and improve quality. This may require specialized support aimed at
identifying and eliminating production and process deficiencies, equipment and raw material
bottlenecks, material wastage's, storage and handling problems etc. The ESF will assist
firms in utilizing expert diagnostic services and advice with a view to reducing costs of
production, packaging, transportation and distribution.
* Product Launch and Promotion. In many instances firms will have to test-market their
products. Armenian firms may also have to incur advertising and publicity costs.
Establishing distribution channels may also entail start-up costs. The Fund will support
Armenian firms in meeting the start-up costs associated with product launch and initial
product promotion.
* Training. Most Armenian enterprises have limited experience in organizing for exports. In-
house experience and capacity to undertake export market analysis, prepare and develop
marketing strategies, and undertake actual marketing and selling is limited. The fund will
provide assistance to firms in training their executives in market research and marketing,
organizing export marketing departments and training staff working in these departments.
Such training will also include training in accounting, costing and financial management.
* Development of Domestic Consulting Industry and Supply Services. A number of potential
domestic suppliers of information and specialized consulting services are emerging.
However, their capabilities are limited and weak. The Department of standards is also
attempting to strengthen the MSTQ (Metrology, Standards, Testing and Quality)
infrastructure. Strengthening domestic capabilities in these areas is vital for bringing down
the costs of exporter support services and in making them more readily accessible.
Therefore, the ESF will assist private Armenian firms who wish to become suppliers of
specialized export support services. In addition, the Fund could also provide assistance to
the Department of Standards in collecting and disseminating information on standards and



Annex 2
Page 4 of 7
quality assurance, in providing calibration services, in accrediting private testing and
certification laboratories and in developing their legal metrology functions relating to health,
safety and environment. In all instances assistance will be based on well structured plans.
B. Match Making
8.    Under the Match Making assistance, enterprises would receive grant support in hiring
international brokers for locating strategic partners for the following purposes:
*  Contract Manufacturing where the foreign partner provides working capital in the form
of raw materials and sometimes cash and off takes the production while paying the
enterprise for the manufacturing time.
*  Technology Transfer where the foreign partner put in equipment or technology and
sometimes working capital and receives a share of the equity, profits, or production in
return.
e  Fixed Capital Investment to upgrade and rehabilitate existing plant to bring it into
compliance with foreign market needs so as to enable the partner to obtain a return
through sales of the upgraded product for its own uses or in its own markets.
e Plant Completion and Buyouts where the foreign partner would complete an unfinished
plant at some fraction of the greenfield cost and then operate it as an owner or
shareholder to benefit from the resulting higher returns. There are numerous such
opportunities in Armenia where with the dissolution of the FSU many modern plant
constructions came to a halt.
9.     The term investment is used to denote all of these different types of fixed and working
capital investments as well as the more conventional direct foreign investment generally
associated with greenfield projects or joint ventures.
10.   The matchmaking services needed would include not only the search for appropriate
opportunistic and strategic investment partners but also assistance in properly presenting the
Armenian investment opportunities in order to attract the potential foreign investors to Armenia.
This would involve preparing a project proposal or offering document for the enterprise and then
trying to find strategic or other investors who might be interested in the opportunity presented by
the enterprise. Once the potential partner has been located, they would have to be brought
together with the enterprise and kept together until the deal is consummated. Thus the services
of the intermediaries would also include assistance in the negotiation and contract process,
keeping the deal together during the due diligence process all the way to closing and subsequent
follow up during the implementation phase.
Level of Grant Support
11.   The level of grant support to be extended under the ESF would be as follows:
(a) Export Market Development: The ESF would finance up to 80% or a maximum of
US$ 100,000, of the cost of eligible export market development activities. ESF assistance to
Armenian enterprises would be on a grant basis with no repayment obligations. However, the



Annex 2
Page 5 of 7
firms would have to meet the remaining percent cost of eligible activities from their own
resources, which would be payable to the ESF for onward transmission to the Project
Management Unit. The percentage co-payment by the beneficiary enterprises would be laid out
in the operating manual of the ESF.
(b) Match Making: Subject to the upper limit of $100,000, the amount of assistance
under the ESF would be graduated to the size of the fees charged by the intermediary match
maker, in the range 40 to 80%, as laid down in the operating manual of the ESF.
12.   Authority to Approve Grants. Grants less than US$25,000 will be jointly approved by
the Executive Director, EDIPA and the Fund Manager. In the event of disagreement the
approval would be referred to the Grant Approval Committee (GAC). Grants in excess of
US$25,000 will be approved by the GAC.
Management of the Fund
13.   The ESF would be supervised by the GAC, to be established by the Ministry of
Economy. The fund would be located in the Enterprise Development and Foreign Investment
Promotion Agency (EDIPA) and would be under the control of the Director, EDIPA. EDIPA
would provide the necessary administrative services to the ESF. The day-to-day management of
the fimd would be through a Fund Manager who would report to the Director, EDIPA.
14.   Grants Approval Committee (GAC). This would be a supervisory committee established
by the Ministry of Economy to monitor the implementation of the ESF Program. This
committee would be chaired by the Minister of Economy or equivalent of ministerial rank, and
would consist of one representative each from the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Finance and
the National Bank of Armenia. It would also have three representatives from the private sector
with at least one representative from the commercial banks. The chairman would have the power
to convene meetings or alternatively ask for no-objections from members. The GAC would have
the following functions: (a) approval of ESF Program Policies and Procedures; (b) overall
supervision of the ESF program; and (c) approval of grants in excess of US$25,000. Grants
below US$25,000 would normally be jointly approved by the Executive Director of EDIPA and
the Fund Manager; in the case of disagreements these would also be referred to the GAC, along
with all other applications. The first three grants submitted for approval to the GAC would be
forwarded to IDA for prior clearance.
15.   Staffing. Successful program implementation would require specialized knowledge,
about overseas markets, buyer needs, the consulting profession and experience in dealing with
firms, consultants and international brokers. For the first two years of the Fund's operations,
EDIPA would recruit, internationally, a Fund Manager to administer the Fund. The Fund
Manager would market the ESF facility, develop detailed eligibility criteria, process grant
requests from firms, recommend and approve grant requests, assist firms in preparing grant
proposals, identify the specialized services required by firms, monitor activities financed under
the ESF, and evaluate outcomes under the ESF program. The Fund manager would report to the
Director, EDIPA. To ensure sustainability of the exporter support program, two local fund
managers would also be hired to work along with the Foreign Fund Manager. One Local Fund
Manager would be responsible for the export market development program and the other would
be responsible for the Match Making Facility. The Foreign Fund Manager would train the local
Fund Managers so that management of the ESF could be handed over to these Local Fund



Annex 2
Page 6 of 7
Managers during the third year of project implementation. (In the last year of the Fund's
operations the Foreign Fund Manager would function as a part-time advisor with a total time
commitment of 60 days spread throughout the year). In addition, two Marketing Officers would
be locally recruited to assist in management of the ESF. To ensure effective launch of the
Matchmaking Program, EDIPA would also utilize three short term consultants to assist in the
preparation of the facility, drafting the policies and procedures for the matchmaking program,
preparing a list of intermediaries by country, sector and specialization, and preparing the
program contracts to be used by Armenian enterprises while entering into agreements with the
matchmaking intermediaries. The terms of reference for the Director, EDIPA; Foreign Fund
Manager, Local Fund Managers, and specialist consultants are available in the project files.
Implementation Arrangements
16.   Implementation Plan and Manual. Before commencement of operations, EDIPA would
prepare an implementation plan and a manual that would include administrative and operating
budgets, marketing and communication strategy for the ESF, identification of prospective
beneficiaries and service suppliers, procedures for processing grant requests including
standardization of application forms, reporting format, monitoring procedures, payment
procedures, and safeguards for maintaining the confidentiality of all information supplied by
firms and consultants. The implementation plan and manual would be approved by the GAC
before program launch.
17.   Procurement Procedures. Procurement will be handled by the Project Management Unit
(PMU) in the Ministry of Economy. EDIPA will prepare all procurement requests for goods and
services and forward them to PMU. The value of goods proposed to be financed under each
grant proposal would be small. Hence, these would be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of sound commercial practices. Consulting services would be procured in accordance with
the Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers.
18.   Disbursements. Disbursements under the ESF would be handled by the Project
Management Unit. PMU would open and maintain a Special Account that would be used to
disburse IDA (ITF) funds under the ESF Program. Since enterprises will make co-payments on
activities financed under the ESF, the PMU will also open a local account into which the
enterprise's beneficiary's share of payment will be deposited by the EDIPA. At the time of
approving each grant proposal, EDIPA would notify the PMU. When payments for goods and
services have to be made under an approved grant proposal, EDIPA would request the PMU to
make the necessary disbursements. At the time of making this request, EDIPA would transfer
the enterprise's share of the payment to the PMU. PMU will make payments by drawing on the
Special Account for up to the amount eligible for funding under the ESF and the balance will be
drawn from the Local Currency Account.
19.   Accounting, Auditing and Reporting. EDIPA would establish and maintain separate
ESF project related accounts. These accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audited accounts would be submitted to the PMU not later
than three months from the end of each fiscal year. PMU would forward the accounts to the
Bank. EDIPA would submit monthly progress reports to the GAC for review and approval.
After approval by the GAC, EDIPA would forward these reports to PMU who in turn would
forward them to the Bank.



Annex 2
Page 7 of 7
20.   Monitoring and Supervision. EDIPA would receive and assist Bank supervision
missions and would provide all information sought by the Bank. Annual joint review of the
program would be undertaken with the Bank. At the end of the program, EDIPA would prepare
a project completion report for the Bank.



Annex 3
Page I of 6
ARMENIA
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Analysis of Bank Profiles
1.    Annex A (attached) summarizes the situation in all Armenian banks which were in
operation in August 1995. Even though the data are based on accounts which are unadjusted
for the distortions of Soviet-style accounting and are also un-audited, they broadly confirm the
small size of most of the banks both in terms of capital, total loans, and total assets.
2.    Audits of 30 of the banks conducted between April and July 1996 as part of the
preparation for this project indicate that some of these, with appropriate technical
strengthening could have prospects of growing into sound banks with the potential for
channeling significant volumes of credit.
3.    The audit reports have been evaluated according to the eligibility requirements for
banks under the credit line component of the project. The main requirements are:
*  compliance with the CBA minimum capital requirement ($350,000 by January 1, 1997);
* proper loan-loss provisioning in accordance with international standards;
*  a minimum 4 % BIS risk-weighted capital adequacy ratio;
*  exposure to any one entity of no more than 30% of equity capital and aggregate
exposure to insiders of no more than 100% of equity capital by January 1, 1997.
4.    The five banks closest to complying with all of the requirements on the basis of the
information so far available are Gladzor, Prometheus, Midland Armenia, Converse, and
David.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 6
Table 1: Risk Based Capital: Assets
Name of the Bank           Modified Risk-Based Capital   All of these banks have BIS risk
Measure                     weighted capital adequacy
Erebuni                    142.55%                     indicators well above the 4%
Litsk                      109.92%                      required. (Annex Table 2). In
Anelik                     100.66%                     terms of the minimum capital
Sevan                       99.59%                      adequacy requirement, all five
Menatep                     95.40%                      banks also comply with the
Prometheus                  94.16%                      present requirement of $150,000
Orion                       82.22%                      but only Midland Armenia also
Converse                    80.55%                      complies already with the new
Adana                       79.80%                      higher requirement of $350,000
Midland                     77.81%                      which takes affect in January
Milandzo                    77.841%                     1997 (Annex Table3).
Gladzor                     74.43%
David                       56.77%
Table 3: The Capital Adequacy Requirement
Name of the Bank  Total Capital'OQQ US $$  Additional Capital  Gladzor, David, Prometheus
Needed by Jan. 1, 1997    and Converse will have to
Midland          $ 2,874.11            $ 0                     accumulate additional sums of
Mellat           $ 1,480               $ 0                     $66,000; $105,000, $171,000,
ArmEcono         $ 632.36              $ 0                     and $196,000 respectively in
Ineco            $ 558.66              $ O                     order to achieve compliance.
ArnAvia          $ 552.33              $ O                     However, as basically sound
Gladzor          $ 283.65              $ 66.35                 banks with as reasonable
David            $ 244.69              $ 105.31                earnings there is no reason to
Prometheus       $ 17835               $ 171.65                doubt their ability to do this.
Converse         $ 153.54              $ 196.46
Table 3: Loan Loss Provisions
Name of the Bank      Bad Loan Reserves/Required Loan Loss     In terms of loan loss
Provisioning                             provisions, the formal CBA
Hrazdan               202.25%                                  requirement on banks began
ArmKap                 69.37%                                  only in February 1996 and
Converse               57.07%                                  banks are allowed a three year
Echo                   49.08%                                  lead-in period to fully
Prometheus             47.03%                                  provision the loans made
Gladzor                35.12%                                  prior to 1996. So almost all
David                  32.54%                                  banks in the system still need
ArmEcono               22.62%                                  to increase their provisions
Midland                N/A                                     relative to present levels.



Annex 3
Page 3 of 6
Converse, Prometheus, Gladzor and David are among the best banks in the system from this
point of view having already achieved 57%, 47%, 35%, and 33% respectively of the total
provisions they will need at the end of the three year transition period. Midland Armenia as a
very new bank presently has almost no classified loans and so has little need for provisions.
The average bank has achieved about 25% of the required total provisioning while the worse
performers in this regard have achieved only I or 2 % of the requirement. Bank supervisors
expect that the average figure will rise to 50 percent by end-1996.
On other matters, the audit report on Gladzor Bank indicates that the bank needs to
accumulate additional capital and also to improve loan quality. The management team is fairly
good except the need to improve lending procedures. The bank is wholly owned by a small
number of private shareholders and has a loan portfolio which has now grown to over
$300,000 spread over some 50 borrowers in diversified sectors such as construction, textiles,
agrobusinesss, and trade. This compares with total assets of about $500,000. The bank is
tightly managed with a small staff and no branch network. Its pipeline is quite small but it
could probably double the existing volume of outstanding loans with few difficulties provided
that the extra capital required could be raised.
The David Bank is a very similar size to Gladzor. Audit details are awaited on this bank.
The audit report on Prometheus Bank indicates that the bank's capital, asset quality, earnings
and liquidity are all relatively strong. Its total assets are in excess of $400,000 about half of
which is in the loan portfolio. The management of the bank is conservative but also needs to
make improvements in its procedures for loan approval and administration. The rate of return
on assets in the recent past has been low but this is accounted for by the conservative
provisioning policy adopted by management. The underlying earnings of the bank are good.
The bank is in good standing with prudential requirements except for the fact that one of its
largest loans - to a local shoe factory- marginally exceeds the maximum 35% of capital
allowed for a single exposure. This will be corrected readily enough when the bank increases
its capital.
The Lend Bank is a fourth wholly private bank. It is sponsored by some 16 individual
shareholders. It has total assets of about $1.3 million and loans outstanding of almost
$700,000. Its loans have gone to some 20 main customers with only about 10 percent of the
current outstandings being to state enterprises. The bank has three branches but two of these
are in Yerevan where the bank also operates a number of currency exchange offices which
yield a substantial non-interest income.
The Midland Armenia Bank which was established only ion March 1996, has moved rapidly
to attract a relatively large volume of deposits and is already larger than the multi-branched
Savings Bank from this point of view. As a very well capitalized bank with major support
from its London-based shareholders it clearly has the capacity and the management skills to
play a significant part in the channeling of the credit line should it choose to do so. However,
as a very new bank it so far has no track record in terms of lending activities and will be
cautious in building up its portfolio.



Annex 3
Page 4 of 6
The Converse Bank is much smaller than the other banks identified as leading contenders for
credit line participation. Its total assets amount to $300,000 with total loans outstanding of less
than $100,000. Again the detailed audit report is awaited.
Further analysis is likely to identify other banks with potential for participation in the credit
line. In particular, no audit report is yet available for Armimpexbank - one of the former
state-owned banks. However, the information available suggests that this bank is not only
larger than most of the other banks identified but also well on the way to upgrading its
management systems and overall financial strength.
Although this bank still has a GOA shareholding (16 percent) and some SOE shareholding, it
also has an influential foreign shareholder who currently accounts for 35% of the total capital.
With the financial strengthening which this external influence has encouraged, the bank has
already been able to raise its capital to $540,000 (October 1995) and expects a further increase
to $2.5 million by end- 1996. The bank of its own volition has commissioned an external (IAS)
diagnostic study and has begun to work on the management improvements which that study
has revealed as necessary. Although its existing portfolio is suspect with over 25% of loans
past due, and its activities still closely tied in with state enterprises, its management and
capacity to raise additional capital give it reasonable prospects for the longer term. It has also
provided the Bank with information on a pipeline of subprojects amounting in total to more
than $10 million of which a large part are in the private sector. It is already acting as the
channel for a $1 million of small scale lending (maximum project size, $50,000) from the
Eurasia Foundation.
Credit Yerevan is a second bank which still has links to state activity but which is nonetheless
a possible participant in the credit line. This bank has close ownership and business links with
the City of Yerevan. Five of its main shareholders are agencies of the city administration and
three other shareholders are state-owned enterprises. However, 64 percent of shares are owned
by individuals with the Chairman himself being a significant shareholder. Although the bank
appears to operate with a degree of independence from its state-owned shareholders, it is
dependent on these for a substantial part of its present resourcing. This renders it vulnerable to
political decisions which could relocate these balances. Year-end 1995 accounts indicate total
loans outstanding in excess of $1 million (a 170 percent reverse on 1994); and a total balance
sheet of $2.7 million). Shareholders equity including retained earnings amounted to $320,000.
However, the audit report on this bank indicates a number of problems which will need to be
resolved. In particular, the capital of the bank has proved insufficient to absorb recent losses
on trading in privatization certificates and loans, and the loan loss reserve is funded only to the
extent of 6% of classified loans. Earnings have been harmed by recent large investments in the
bank's own premises and are inadequate to assist the build up of capital. At the same time, the
positive earning ratios in past allow a possibility of internal recapitalization when non-
recurring expenses stop. The management of the bank seems to be progressive and fair,
though the lending procedures need improvement.



Annex 3
Page 5 of 6
At least one other of the former State banks, Ardshinbank, has indicated interest in credit line
participation. This is the largest bank in the system in terms of assets but is likely to be the
most severely impaired in terms of asset quality, because of its history of lending to state
enterprises. Hence more detailed analysis of the bank will be undertaken once audit reports are
available.
Finally, a new regional bank, Shirak Investments, was established in the earthquake zone of
Armenia in March 1996. Its sponsors anticipate that it will build up to have US$600,000 of
capital by 1997. This could be an additional serious contender for credit line participation.



Appendix A
1995 Unaudited
Bank Profiles, (US S 000)                  Annex 3
Share    Total   Total   Total        Page 6 of 6
Capital   Capital  Loans   Assets
Local Banks
Ardshinbank      580       3,215    20,061   35,757
Agrobank         526       1,579   6,268    8,687
Armeconombank  409         1,087   7,248    10,662
Armimpexbank    169        480     2,679   4,873
Adana            100       100     67       210
Akunk            100       110     450      507
Areg             99        73       100     130
Anelik           151       100      191     263
Gevorg           99        101      184     212
Gladzor          114       205     225      380
David            11        168     234      358
Delta            104       22      111      121
Echobank         99        105      135     163
Elita            110       59       142     228
Erebouni         119       129     95       137
Prometeus        114       127     75       171
Space            91        90      91       106
SpjuTk           100       100     376      403
Sevan            119       132     75       130
Lend             129       151     389      529
Spitak           122       122     97       130
Sipan            112       223     360      529
Ria              99        98      91       155
Litsk            106       113     92       129
Capital          109       119     424      462
B.RD.            100       128     205      693
Convers          102       117     30       175
Transbank        108       112     67       165
Credit-Yerevan    134      286     641      1,605
Credit-Service   122       122     0        122
Armaviabank      119       372     2,006   2,454
Arminvestbank    106       128     556      853
Armfoodbank      109       117     265      351
Armkar           108       144     205      778
Hrazdan          139       153     394      525
Mets             100       102     76       412
Orion            102       131      120     228
Felix            100       103     94       116
Noy              122       75       1,439   1,469
Subtotal         5,563     10,894  46,359  75,378
Foreign Banks
Inko             103       277      1,231    5,652
Mellat           1,140     1,074   433      4,101
Menatep          26        50      26       872
Subtotal         1,269     1,400    1,690    10,625
TOTAL            6.832     12.295  48.049  86.003



Annex 4
Page 1 of 5
ARMENIA
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Line of Credit to Commercial Banks
Draft Operating Policies and Procedures
The following procedures, to be incorporated in an operations manual, are to be followed
in granting credit:
-  The beneficiary enterprise(BE) will present the subproject and the respective financing
application to the participating financial institution (PFI) on the forms prepared by the
PFI which will analyze the project.
- If the financing application is approved by the PFI, and provided that the subproject
satisfies the evaluation criteria referred to in the Attachment, the PFI will submit the
following documents to the PMU:
-  an evaluation report prepared in accordance with the requirements in the
Attachment, accompanied by the file on the financing application presented by
the BE; and
-  a refinance request for the operation filed on the form established in the
Attachment.
- The PMU will determine whether the subproject presented is eligible, and, within a
reasonable period (which should not exceed 10 working days), whether all established
criteria have been met. The PMU will:
-  approve the refinance request submitted by the PFI, provided that the import
component of the investment project is equal to US$150,000 or less;
-  prepare a report on its determination regarding the documents presented,
provided that the subloan requirement for the investment project is equal to or
greater than US$150,000, and submit the file for a decision by the World Bank.
-  In addition, the first three subprojects presented by each PFI to the PMU must be
authorized by the World Bank, following presentation of the respective files, including
the appraisal report.
-  The PFI will enter a subloan agreement with the BE immediately after having been
informed by the PMU of the approval of the refinance request, and this will initiate
execution of the subproject.
-  The PFI must present-through the PMU-upon irrevocable refinance by the MOE, the
legal documentation relating to the debts owed by the BE, within a period of no more
than 10 days after the loan takes effect.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 5
II.    With regard to the procedures to be followed for utilization of the IDA (ITF) Line of
Credit for fnancing the investment project, the following steps are to be followed:
-  On behalf of the BE, the PFI will present to the PMU of the MOE, a request for payment
abroad or a transfer to the beneficiary of the funds delivered.
-  The PFI must certify that:
- the operation is provided for and approved in the respective subproject;
- applicable regulations were followed in the respective procurement; and
- all the elements necessary for execution of the order for payment or transfer are
included in the respective files.
- The request referred to must be accompanied by the following documents:
-   bill or proforma invoice, depending on whether the supplies have been
delivered or not;
- a statement of the number of the joint MOE/PFI account in which the entries are
made for expenditures of the operation and the amount of the payments abroad
or transfers of funds delivered.
-  The PMU will transmit to the PFI the records of entries and negotiating documents
regarding the execution of the operations, and the PFI must inform the BE for this
purpose, namely concerning the acquisition of merchandise and the signing of the
respective debt instruments, if any.
III.   The Line of Credit will finance the following expenses, according to the specific
disbursement guidelines set out under the project's Credit agreement:
-  expenditures in foreign exchange relating to the direct importation of equipment,
including assembly, and goods on the basis of the CIF price of the respective bill;
-  expenditures due to procurement for construction and rehabilitation of factory buildings,
warehouses and offices
-  procurement of goods and merchandise in the domestic market, and;
-  the cost of consultancy services relating to the subproject.
IV.   With regard to the methods of procurement of fixed assets and inventory, the PFI will be
responsible for instructing the BE in order to ensure that such procurement will be carried out at
the lowest cost and to obtain the best quality, according to the procurement guidelines
established under the project. It will be the responsibility of the PMU to be present at the
proceedings and to verify that these conditions are complied with.
V.    The following eligibility and evaluation criteria are hereby established:



Annex 4
Page 3 of 5
-  The PFI shall initiate evaluation of the financing requests relating to subprojects only if
the requests and the respective BEs qualify under the definitions set out in the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
-  On an exceptional basis, subprojects may be considered if they demonstrate a high
economic/ financial profitability and if, in compliance with the financing objectives of
the Credit, they do not significantly exceed the maximum amount referred to in the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The PFI, in its report submitted to the PMIJ, must duly set
forth the reasons that, in its opinion, may justify exceptional approval of the investment.
Total value of approvals under this exception cannot exceed 25% of the total credit.
-  Only those investment subprojects that satisfy the following conditions will be submitted
to the PMU:
- the BE demonstrates adequate financial capacity to meet the liabilities already
assumed as well as the liabilities arising from implementation of the subproject; and
- the subproject does not involve unacceptable environmental costs.
VI.   The PFI will monitor and financially supervise the subprojects. It will be the
responsibility of the PFI to carry out the following activities, among others:
- Determine whether the funds were duly utilized and take any measures necessary to
achieve this objective.
- Monitor the financial status of the project, until the BE's obligations relating to the loans
taken for financing the subproject have been fulfilled.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
ATTACHMENT
SUBPROJECT APPRAISAL SAMEPLE REPORT
FORM RELATING TO [Name of Firm]
GENERAL INFORMATION ON THE BENEFICIARY ENTERPRISE
- Name.
-  Headquarters address.
-  Location of the manufacturing installation (if other than headquarters).
-  Legal status (privately owned, limited liability, corporation, cooperative, state
intervention) and composition of capital.
-  Date firm established and date privatized.
-  Statement of the start up of operation and interruptions, if any, as well as the respective
reasons.
-  Economic activities performed and statement of the range of products.
-  Economic and financial situation of the firm:
-  this analysis must include the balance sheet and operating account for the most
recent full year and the balance sheet and operating account expected for the current
year (without taking into consideration the results of implementation of the
subproject);
-  the analysis must also include the following documents (actual data from the most
recent full operating year and projected for the next); value of sales; number of
workers and wage account; receivables and schedule for receipts; debts already
contracted, respective costs and reimbursement schedule; value of real estate, broken
down by uniform groups; stocks (amounts and values); expenses for raw materials,
energy and intermediate goods.
- Position of the firm in the domestic and export markets (over the last two full years and
future potential).
- Production determinants: specifically, the technological manufacturing process(es) used
and the main bottlenecks in the firm's normal activity.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 5
2. INFORMATION ON THE SUBPROJECT
- Objectives of the undertaking, stating the opportunity for reconversion, expansion or
replacement of equipment and factory installations and other projected actions that are
complementary to the subproject.
- Description of the Subproject: including its components and the investment schedule,
and the most significant economic and financial data of the subproject.
- Evaluation of the Subproject: the financial impact of the subproject (i.e. for all
subprojects, determine the internal rate of return and the number ofjobs created).
Sensitivity Analysis: i.e. an analysis of the effects on the subproject in the event of changes
of some of its variable factors.
3.   FIRM'S CAPACITY FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SUBPROJECT
- Financial Capacity of the Firm: evaluation of the firm's capacity to fulfill its existing
responsibilities to third parties, as contracted before or during implementation of the
subproject.
- Capacity of Management: evaluation of the experience and qualification of the firm's
technical staff.
4.    PROJECT APPRAISAL FRAMEWORK
Documents should include:
TABLE 1             Description of Project
TABLE2              Information on production, sales, employment and supplies
TABLE3              Record of subproject operation
TABLE4              Budget plan of subproject.
TABLE5              Financial rate of return of subproject
TABLE6              Repayment schedule
TABLE7              Financial plan after implementation
TABLE8              Environmental assessment



Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
ARMEENIA
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Accreditation Criteria and Procedures for Selection of
Participating Financial Institutions
A.    The Commercial Banks
1.    A subsidiary Loan Agreement may be entered into with a PFI on the condition that the
PFI:
(a)    has an acceptable audit report which: (i) covers the last year of operations; (ii)
incorporates a portfolio review; and (iii) is prepared by external auditors in accordance
with International Accounting Standards ("IAS");
(b)    has been in existence and has produced operating results for a minimum of two
years provided that in the case of mergers and reorganizations of two or more banks,
one bank has operated for two years;
(c)    has a capital adequacy ratio as defined under LAS, incorporating a BIS risk-
weighted ratio of at least 4%, by January 1, 1997;
(d)    has provided a certificate of compliance from CBA stating that: (i) it has a valid
banking license, and a specifying type and date of license; and (ii) the PFI is in general
compliance with all relevant banking laws and regulations of the Borrower;
(e)    has exposure to any one borrower as a percent of its IAS capital of no more
than 30 percent by January 1997 or the date of its accreditation as a PFI, whichever is
later;
(f)    has aggregate exposure to insiders (defined as council members, members of
the Management Board of such PFI, employees in a management position and
shareholders with voting rights in excess of 10 percent) of no more than 100 percent of
LAS capital as of the date of its accreditation as a PFI;
(g)    has adopted prudent policies and procedures with respect to credit
administration, loan servicing, and other key areas of banking practice;
(h)    has established capacity for credit, accounting, environmental assessment and
other functions necessary to manage investment lending for enterprises;
In addition, the Bank should have a strategic corporate plan acceptable to IDA
which will contain: (i) a program to fully convert its accounts to IAS as of January 1, 1998; (ii)
specific arrangements to increase its capital adequacy ratio, as defined under IAS, beyond the
minimum of 4 percent in a reasonable time; (iii) specific arrangements to strengthen its
arrangements for credit, accounting, environmental assessment, and other functions necessary
to manage investment lending for enterprises.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
B.    The PIFCA
For the purpose of enabling PIFCA to qualify as a Participating Financial Institution
under the Project, PIFCA shall:
(a)    adopt a corporate charter;
(b)    adopt an institutional development plan, acceptable to the Administrator;
(c)    define capital structure, management, and prudential operating guidelines
including capital adequacy, accounting, investment and provisionary policy
either in the charter or the institutional development plan;
(d)    register its charter in accordance with the Borrower's applicable laws; and
(e)    have its initial capital paid up.



Annex 6
Page I of 1
ARMENIA
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
1996          1997                1998
Q4   QI Q2  Q3  Q4  QI   Q2   Q3   Q4
PMU
Establish Unit                         X
Approve Operating Procedures               X
Hire Local Staff                       X
Hire LOC Advisor                          X
Provide Equipment                         X
PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
Accredit 2 financial institutions            X
Sign Subsidiary loan agreements              X
Approve first subloan                         X
ENTERPRISE SUPPORT FUND
Set up GAC                                X
EDIPA Charter                         X
EDIPA Management in place             X
ESF Fund Manager in place                X
ESF preparation: consultants hired    X
ESF Operational Manual Approved          X
First Grant Approved                        X
BUSINESS ADVISER
Adviser in post                              X
BANK ADVISORY UNIT
Complete Bank Audits                  X
Establish Unit
Recruit Advisers                           X
Advisers in Post                           X
CAPITAL MARKETS ASSISTANCE
Initiate Training Prograns                      X
Hire Advisory firm                           X
Initiate Internship Program                     X
Advisers in post                                x
PIFCA SUPPORT
Training funds begin disbursing                     x
PROJECT LAUNCH                                X



Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
ARMENIA
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
APPROXIMATE                                      STAFF
DATES                       ACTIVITIES           COMPOSITION
1/97                       Project Launch       Task Manager
ESF Specialist
Disbursement officer
Procurement analyst
4/97                        Supervision          Task Manager
Credit Specialist
8/97                        Supervision          Task Manager
Credit Specialist
ESF specialist
11/97                       Supervision         Task Manager
Procurement Specialist
Disbursement officer
3/98                        Supervision          Task Manager
Credit specialist
7/98                        Supervision          Task manager
ESF Specialist
Credit Specialist
11/98                       Supervision         Task manager
Credit specialist
3/99                        Supervision          Task manager
Credit Specialist
7/99                        Supervision          Task manager
Credit Specialist
10/99                       Mid-term Review     Task Manager
Credit Specialist
ESF Specialist
Procurement
Disbursement
2/2000                      Supervision          Task Manager
Credit Specialist



Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
5/2000                       Supervision           Task manager
Credit specialist
9/2000                       Supervision           Task manager
Credit Specialist
ESF Specialist
1/200 1                      Supervision           Task manager
Credit Specialist
5/2001                       Supervision           Task manager
Credit Specialists
Disbursement
8/2001                       Supervision           Task Manager
Credit specialist
11/2001                      Final Supervision     Task manager
Credit specialist
Disbursement



ARMENIA
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance: Estimated Costs, Financing Plan
and Procurement Methods (US$million)
Procurement Sub-Components                        USAID/KFW             Govt. of                                              IBRD                                              TOTAL
Arnenia and
Local
Procurenent Method
PMU
Credit Advisor (18 mm)                                                                  0.00               0.25        Direct Contracting                                                         0.25
Accounts Manager                                                                        0.05               0.00                                                                                   0.05
Admin Assistants                                                                        0.05               0.00        Bids from 3 suppliers                                                      0.05
Equipment                                                                               0.00               0.02                                                                                   0.02
EantesprIse Support Fund
Advisory Services (200 mm)                                                              0.80               3.00        Short list of 3-6 firms                                                    3.80
Fund Manager (26 mm)                                                                    0.10               0.31        Direct contracting                                                         0.41
Local Staff                                                                             0.05               0.10        Direct contracting                                                         0.15
Oper. Costs, travel, eqpt                                                               0.10               0.09        Direct contracting                                                         0.19
Businesa Advce
Consultant (20 mm)                                                                       0.03              0.28        Short List of 3-6 firms or direct contracting                               0.31
Equipment                                                                                0.00              0.01         Direct contracting                                                         0.01
Bank Advisory td Trailnng
Consulting: banking advisers (36 mm)                                   0 00             0.20               0.54        Short list of 3-6 firms                                                     0.74
Training and Prof Services                                             1.00             0.00               0.00                                                                                    1.00
Oper. costs, travel                                                    0.00             0.10               0.14        Direct contracting                                                          0.24
Equipment                                                              0.00             0.00               0.07        Bids from three suppliers                                                   0.07
Capita Market Development
Internships                                                            0.00             0.05               0.20        Short list of 3-6 finns                                                     0.25
Consultants (20 mm)                                                    0.00             0.05               0.30        Short list of 3-6 firms                                                     0.35
Training                                                               0.00             0.00               0.14        Short list of 3-6 firms                                                     0.14
Equipment                                                              0.00             0.00               0.05        Bids from three suppliers                                                   0.05
PIFCA Institutional Support
Management Development                                                 0.25             0.00               0.25        Direct contracting                                                          0.25
Total                                                                    1 00             1.58              5.75                                                                                    8 33             co



MAP SECTION






I                  ~~~~~~To ShoIove,i  .    bShykh!y Vt.,.                                                                                             BR  2343R
GEORGIA    4               TDoi                                                                             GEORGIA4                         4                                        4
~~~~~~~~To Dkokooo bii~ron             
AJordi0 
Gukosyon                                                              /
P                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41-
K.. < < =,   ,  ,/   v   ' ~            v       +     MINGECHAUrSKOYE
RESERVOIR
Ilibu                                             n  ItOAKN  hey    r    X
lbhKors   Moralik  ->                                  X           tGlkro n
T.K.nkh                                                                                                                            I               BOUNDARIES
rn        T                moSEANz                 °                                          RM     NI. 
To.                                                                                                  AZE RBAIJAN n  I's                        MILES               0
%>>A6if    9   \  )  / ~~~~~~~>¢>  FO Isesu          -SECONDARY ROADANUARS199
Byr                                             LAEEA                . Shh,AZERBAIJAN    I A\ 
>~~~~~~~ ~        ~~~~~~~           ~       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ -0- TON REUBI                                               V  ILAES    10 2             30 4
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~                  Art                                                                                  NAnrNA CAPI^\ \\ 0z   LMTArsoLo    0 3    0 5    O 7
4, eee,~~~~~~~~~~~sotoe RBAJA                                                                                                                                                  40h- T ogo
44- ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PRMR 45-OADS7-4
To lsft.    -  SECONDARY ROADS        ~     ~     ~    ~    ANURY  99









IMAGING
Report No:       15982 AM
Type: SAR



