Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25055
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IF-N0060; TF-29335)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRI 1.6 MILLION (US$16.75 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
FOR AN
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
12/18/2002
Financial and Private Sectors Development Unit
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 02/27/2002)
Currency Unit = Dram
554.1 ADR = US$ I
US$ I = 554.1 ADR
FISCAL YEAR
January I   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADA    -       Armenian Development Agency
AO     -       Administration and Operation
BAC    -       Banking Advisory Center
CAMEL-         Capital Adequacy, Asset Quality, Management Assessment,
Eamings Analysis, and Liquidity Analysis
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CBA    -       Central Bank of Armenia
CMB            Capital Markets Board
ECA    -       Europe and Central Europe
EDP    -       Enterprise Development Program
EDIPA -        Enterpnse Development and Invesment Promotion Agency
ESF    -       Enterprise Support Fund
ESW            Economic Sector Work
FDI    -       Foreign Direct Investment
FFPMC -        Foreign Financed Projects Management Center
FIEF   -       Foreign Investment and Export Facilitator
FMS    -       Financial Management System
FSU    -       Former Soviet Union
FY     -       Fiscal Year
GOA    -       Govemment of Armenia
IAS    -       Intemational Accounting Standards
ICB    -       Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICP    -       Implementation Completion Report
IDA    - -     Intemational Development Association
IFID           Department of Intemational Development
(of the United Kingdom)
IPR            Intellectual Property Rights
IRA    -       Institutional Renewal Account
IS     -       Intemational Shopping
ISP    -       Intemational Service Provider
IT     -       Information Technology
LAN    -       Local Area Networks
LIB            Limited Intemational Bidding
LIL    -       Leaming and Innovation Loan
LOC    -       Line of Credit
MTR    -       Mid-term Review
MOFE   -       Ministry of Finance and Economy
PFI    -       Private Financial Intermediary
PIFCA  -       Private Investment Financing Corporation of Armenia
PMU    -       Project Management Unit
QAG    -       Quality Assurance Group
SAC 4 -        Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit
SAC 5 -        Fifth Structural Adjustment Credit
SACTA -        Structural Adjustment Credit Technical Assistance
SAR    -       Staff Appraisal Report
SME    -       Small and Medium Enterprise
SMS    -       Secunties Marketing Supervisoin Unit
TP     -       Technoparlk
USAID -        United States Agency for Intemational Development
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Countiy Manager/Director:    D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:    Paul Siegelbaum
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Ramun Shojai



ARMENIA
Enterprise Development Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                   1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry        2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          11
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               21
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Infornation                                                       24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33






Project ID: P008279                                    'Proect Name: Enterprise Development
Team Leader: Ramin Shojai                                TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 18, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Enterprise Development                        L/C/TFNumber: IF-N0060; TF-29335
Country/Department: ARMENIA                                            Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (89%); Central
government administration (6%); Banking (5%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/lctual
PCD:   06/06/1995                            Effective: 04/21/1997         04/21/1997
Appraisal:  06/15/1996                              MTR: 10/29/1999            10/29/1999
Approval:  12/24/1996                             Closing: 07/01/2002         07/01/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMY
Other Partners:  Until July 31, 2001 the Foreign Financing Projects Management Unit of the
Ministry of Finance and Economy was advised by the Banking Advisory Centre
(BAC). This Centre was supported by funds from the British Know How Fund
and was run by Enterplan, an independent British consulting firm.
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                         Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                      Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:      Yasuo Izumi                              Paul J. Siegelbaum
Team Leader at ICR:  Ramin Shojai                             David A. Phillips
ICR Primary Author:  Rarnin Shojai; Lia Aghamyan; J.
Matthew Mitchell; Shoaib Raza
Naqvi
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L-=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1 According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the objectives of the Armenia Enterprise
Development Project (EDP) were to:
(i)   assist in financing such productive facilities and resources in the Republic of Armenia as
will contribute to the economic and social development of the country;
(ii)  strengthen commercial banks and other financial institutions and the capital market; and
(iii) strengthen the investment and export market development capacity of private enterprises.
3.1.2 Importance of the Objectives to the Country. The project's objectives responded to
Armenia's need for medium and long- term financing, combined with capacity building, to
transform the economy from decades of central planning to a market orientation. IDA viewed the
project as an integral part of its Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in Armenia, marking the
transition from the macroeconomic adjustment phase of assistance, to sector support for
restructuring of the economy and privatization of industry. Both the Borrower and IDA faced a
major task. Prior to Armenia's independence in 1991, the economy of this landlocked country of
3.7 million people, had depended heavily on the military industrial complex of the Former Soviet
Union (FSU). The country's high degree of integration into the FSU's economy had made it
extremely vulnerable to economic disruption following the FSU's dismantling. In particular,
Armenia had relied heavily on imports of semi-finished goods and critical industrial inputs,
especially energy resources, at non-market prices. This import reliance and limited export markets
were key constraints in development.
3.1.3 The introduction of market pricing in trade among FSU states had imposed a severe terms
of trade shock in Armenia, due in large measure to a sharp increase in energy prices. Furthermore,
political difficulties with neighboring countries had placed Armenia under an oil embargo. Just
two years after independence the combined effect of these factors had caused the country's GDP
to decline by about 60 percent. However, by the time of EDP's appraisal (1996), political
tensions had eased and the Government's focus had shifted from the management of a siege
economy to the implementation of a comprehensive stabilization and structural reform program.
These programs provided the foundation for EDP. In 1994 and 1995, the economy was showing
signs of recovery, with economic growth of 5.4 and 6.4 percent, respectively. However, the
successful, sustainable recovery of the economy depended critically on institution building and
new investment in productive assets.
3.1.4 With few natural resources, Armenia looked to base its economic growth on human
resources - a highly educated population with strong entrepreneurial traditions. Both IDA and the
Government viewed the export sector as the most promising source of growth. However,
Armenia faced the major task of diversifying its export markets and developing quality products
to meet international standards. At the time of project appraisal, exports to FSU countries, mainly
Russia and Turkmenistan, accounted for about 70 percent of total exports. Armenian
- 2-



enterprises had strong competencies in areas such as engineering, and the overall infrastructure
for quality assurance was good. However, after decades of central planning most firms were not
equipped to meet the requirements of western buyers and related international standards such as
ISO 9000. In particular, few firms had much experience in critical areas such as market research,
product costing, pricing merchandising, and other aspects of private sector operations.
3.1.5 A shortage of cash made production planning and marketing difficult for many enterprises.
At the beginning of the 1990s, the number of banks had grown from about 4 state banks to 60
private banks. However, by the time of project preparation (1995-96), due to bank failures
resulting from inadequate banking regulations and deteriorating portfolios, the total number of
banks had declined to about 30. Of this total only about seven banks had acceptable ratings
according to a portfolio audit of examiners using international standards that took place around
the time of project appraisal. None of these banks was meeting enterprise demand for medium
and long-term financing. Most of the lending was for short terms at high interest rates and with
substantial collateral requirements. For example, the SAR cited rates of 60-85 percent for 30- day
loans and 35-79 percent for 90 day loans during the first three quarters of 1996.
3.1.6 By the time of project appraisal, the banking sector was in desperate need of
rationalization and consolidation. Of approximately 30 banks in the sector there were 4 state
banks and the remainder were new private banks. The sector had high levels of non-performiing
loans and low levels of reserves. The state banks were technically insolvent and the capital of the
new private banks was very low, with the largest having total capital of only US$400,000 and
most of the smaller banks with capital below US$200,000. There were some small financing
companies operating in Armenia, including the National Investment Finance Corporation, the
Armenian Business Corporation and a scheme that the Eurasia Foundation was funding.
Altogether these entities had financed about 12 enterprises with an average loan size of
US$50,000.
3.1.7 Clarity and Realism of Objectives. The project's stated objectives in the SAR and the
Development Credit Agreement were clear and reflected the priorities in the enterprise and
banking sectors. They were general in nature, which was understandable for two reasons. First,
the project was to initiate medium and long-tern financing in a country that was in the very early
stages of developing a market- based economy. Despite the considerable preparation work for
the project, its components essentially were experimental. Second, the SAR characterized
support for the largest component of the project -- the Private Investment Financing Corporation
of Armenia (PIFCA), a new institution that the project was to create -- as "developmental"
because it was effectively a pilot fund within a financial market that was then embryonic. The
general wording of project objectives allowed for flexibility in modifying the project based on
developments during project implementation. Essentially the Bank and the Government looked to
EDP as a catalyst to promote sustainable recovery through export promotion. The presence of
IDA in the enterprise sector was to help attract other investors and co-financiers.
3.1.8 While the project's official statement of objectives was broad, the SAR, in sections
describing the role of the project in the framework of economic reform, further defined the
objectives and the relationship among them. Clearly the support of private enterprise
-3-



development through medium and long-term lending was the priority objective and the
strengthening objectives for enterprises and banks were supporting objectives to address the lack
of sufficient private sector capacity to prepare and monitor bankable investment projects.
3.1.9 The SAR stated that the principal concern of the project was easing the financial constraint
that enterprises faced in their development. The provision of external financing was necessary
because the capital base of the existing banks was small. There were effectively no medium and
long-term deposits and therefore no incentive for medium and long term lending using their own
funds. At the same time, most enterprises required assistance to create viable business plans for
investment financing and the establishment of export contacts and upgrading of their products to
international standards. In the banking sector, the need for accreditation in order to gain access to
the funds was to help upgrade the performance of the banking system and thus have some impact
on meeting the overall banking reform objective. IDA and the Borrower envisioned the eventual
establishment of a smaller group of stronger banks able to mobilize financial resources for local
enterprises in the post-privatization business environment. In the area of capital markets, the
project's objective was limited to capacity building, as a follow up to the SAC Technical
Assistance Project, mainly support for the creation of a regulatory structure for stock exchange
and securities market development.
3.1.10 Despite the early state of private sector development in Armenia, the project's broad
objectives were realistic given extensive research establishing the demand for credit funds and the
efforts in progress -- just prior to the project's appraisal or in parallel with it -- to create a
supportive business environment. IDA had approved a Rehabilitation Credit in 1995 to support
privatization, price stabilization, regulatory reform, and enhanced financial sector discipline for
enterprises and banks. Given major achievements in 1995 -- including the privatization of
small-scale enterprises and the establishment of a legal framework to support private sector
development-- the Bank approved a Structural Adjustment Credit in early 1996. By the time of
EDP's appraisal in late 1996, the Government of Armenia, with support from the Bank and Fund
programs, had made considerable progress in the establishment of a business environment
conducive to private enterprise development. According to current draft guidelines in the Europe
and Central Asia (ECA) region on the design of line of credit operations, most of the
recommended macroeconomic and sector framework elements were in place at the inception of
EDP.
3.1.11 Incorporation of Lessons Learned from Other Projects. In designing the project's
components, the Bank and Borrower incorporated several lessons learned from experience with
similar operations in the FSU and Eastern Europe. The first lesson was the importance of
establishing credit demand and an indicative pipeline of projects in order to determine the
appropriate size of the line of credit and ensure adequate disbursement performance. The second
lesson was the need for financing working capital to increase loan product flexibility and change
the risk profile of the banks' lending. The third lesson was the need to make procurement
procedures as liberal as possible in the prevailing market, using private commercial practices. The
fourth lesson was the provision of technical assistance to borrower enterprises and participating
banks, particularly in business plan preparation, to ensure a flow of bankable investment proposals
and the capacity of the banking system to handle them.
-4-



3.1.12 Alignment of Overall Project Design with Its Objectives. The project's components were
logical and in line with project objectives. Given the early stage of private sector development,
the original design focused on initiating actions in all key aspects of private enterprise and
financial sector development, including a large pilot component for a special investment/lending
facility. There was a reasonable integration among the various components and between the
integrated set of components and the project's key objectives. The line of credit component filled
a gap in financing needed to promote investments in productive facilities. These investments
were, in turn, to serve as a catalyst to further investment activity which ultimately would have a
significant impact on economic and social development. The institution-building components,
focused on strengthening both enterprises and financial institutions, were to support effective use
of the line of credit to private banks and assist in the development of the regulatory framework for
capital market development.
3.1.13 Line of Credit (LOC) Component. There was a considerable amount of preparatory
work in the design of the LOC regarding the demand for credit and the relative size of the LOC.
A credit demand study during project preparation surveyed 47 representative firms interested in
receiving loans. After evaluating the viability of proposals and using conservative assumptions
about the representative nature of the sample, the study projected credit demand in Armenia at
about US$116 million during 1997-2001. The project's line of credit, which originally
amounted to US$32 million, was to meet a little more than a third of this demand. Of this total,
the IDA credit was to provide US$ 11 million, which the Government of Armenia was to re-lend
to the participating banks and the proposed (PIFCA).
3.1.14 The PIFCA was to be the largest intermediating private financial institution (PFI) in the
project and a pilot operation depending on confirmation of co-financing. The rationale for this
component was that the existing banking system at the time of appraisal might not have sufficient
absorptive capacity to channel the line of credit funds. The establishment of the PIFCA was to
take place under company law pending an appropriate law for investment corporations which was
under preparation at the time of project appraisal. The PIFCA was to receive about US$17
million in loans plus equity participation making the total financing allocated to it about US$20
million. However, as noted in Section 3.4, this pilot component was deleted from the project due
to perceived changes in the banking sector and the availability of co-financing early in the project's
implementation.
3.1.15 The design of the LOC provided an incentive for interested PFIs to upgrade their
operations in line with accepted international banking standards. In order to qualify for the LOC
funds, the banks had to have a license from the Central Bank of Armenia (CBA) and meet a
number of criteria for acceptable prudential lending standards, concerning capital adequacy,
exposure levels, prudential policies, etc. Participating enterprises had to have at least 51 percent
private ownership and fulfill certain requirements, including: (a) a maximum debt/equity ratio of
3:1 with the LOC sub-loan; (b) audited financial statements; and (c) data on major customers and
suppliers, shareholders and Board members, creditors, loan servicing status, etc. The PFI margin
over borrowing cost from the Government was to depend on market conditions.
-5-



3.1.16 The participating banks were to receive the funds from the servicing of sub-loans and
retain them for a maximum period of 10 years before repaying the funds to the Government.
During this time, the funds were to be available for further term lending to enterprises. In the
original design of EDP, the rationale for delaying repayment for a long period was to provide the
PFIs with working capital and to allow them to revolve the funds. However, the design did not
account for the possibility of bank failures before the repayment of the loan to the Government.
Given difficulties that have emerged in the overall portfolios of the PFIs during the
implementation of the project, the Bank is now concerned with finding ways to reduce the
possibility of Government losses.
3.1.17 Institution-Building Component. There were essentially four parts to the
institution-building component -- two in support of enterprise development and another two in
support of financial sector development. The components in support of enterprise development
were: (a) the Enterprise Support Fund (ESF) for export promotion, and (b) Business Advisory
Services to help enterprises in business planning and analysis. In support of the financial sector,
the components were: (a) technical assistance from the Banking Advisory Unit to enhance the
management of the PFI's in credit management and appraisal; and (b) assistance to the
Government in developing a capital markets infrastructure. During project implementation the
name Bank Advisory Unit changed to Bank Advisory Centre (BAC) and retained that name
throughout the project.
3.1.18 The ESF sub-component essentially was to serve as an export promotion fund. With this
fund, the project was to provide technical assistance to help enterprises enter and maintain export
markets through joint ventures with foreign partners. This assistance was to address two key
problems: (a) poor export market focus because of a lack of market development strategies to
develop existing and potential competitive advantages; and (b) inability to search out prospective
foreign joint venture partners who could provide managerial and technical know-how and access
to international markets. Qualifying firms were to receive grant financing to partially meet their
costs of contracting specialized services for export assistance and matching foreign firms with
Armenian firms. The design of the ESF component derived from similar programs in other
countries, including India and Kenya. It incorporated two main lessons from these programs. The
first was the importance of tailoring the type of service to each enterprise. The second was that
requiring the beneficiary enterprise to share in the cost of the assistance results in stronger
ownership and commitment by firms receiving the assistance.
3.1.19 The ESF was to supply grant funding for up to 60 percent of the cost of export market
development up to a maximum ofUS$100,000. Only privately owned firms were to be eligible.
The Grant support was to focus on target export markets, notably where the export proceeds
would be realized in convertible foreign currencies. Among the eligible activities was the
establishment of marketing departments, overseas market research, and certification/assurance
programs.
-6-



3.1.20 The second sub-component supporting capacity-building for enterprises was the provision
of business advisory services for enterprises applying for sub-loans under the project. These
services were to help enterprises prepare viable investment projects. The rationale for this service
was that most banks had been reluctant to lend for exports, perceiving greater risks in comparison
to domestic sales, especially for new exporters and start-up companies. As a result, a bank was
likely to look more favorably on a firm that had gone through a systematic process of analyzing
and developing its competitive potential or had entered into a partnership with a successful
foreign firm.
3.1.21 In the financial sector, an important aspect of the project's design was technical assistance
for banking advisory services. These services were to review interested PFIs for accreditation to
receive funds from the LOC and also to provide them with assistance in credit appraisal and
management. All banks were to be eligible for advisory support provided they made appropriate
co-payments which were to amount to about 20 percent of the actual cost of services. However,
IDA assistance was to focus on the PFI's with the greatest potential for participation in the LOC.
Eligible activities were to include improvement in term credit capacity, payment systems,
accounting reform, portfolio restructuring, debt workouts, portfolio restructuring, etc. After the
initial period of preparing PFIs for participation in the LOC, the advisory services were to take on
more regular, long-term training work. The project's BAC was to operate alongside a USAID-
financed program focused on training activities for bankers.
3.1.22 For capital markets development, the project was to complement activities of the
Structural Adjustment Credit Technical Assistance (SAC TA) and ongoing assistance from
USAID. The SAC TA was providing assistance in establishing a share registry and depository.
USAID assistance was focused on a long term program to convert the accounts of financial
institutions to International Accounting Standards (IAS) and establish a framework of laws and -
regulations for capital markets development. EDP assistance was to focus on initial training to
the regulators and participants in the market. It was to cover the following: (a) proposals and
recommendations for creating a regulatory body; drafting and promulgation of basic major
regulations and guidelines governing securities transactions; (b) training of a critical mass of
regulators, traders and brokers to provide the foundations for an efficient capital market; and (c)
establishment of a public information program on capital markets. However, as noted in Section
3.4, this component was deleted from the project due to changes in the availability of financing for
capital markets development and the project's adoption, early in its implementation phase, of a
more selective approach towards enterprise development assistance.
3.1.23 Project Complexity and Risk Assessment. The original project design was reasonable in
terms of its linkage to project objectives and the CAS. However, early in the project's
implementation, the Bank and the Borrower shifted from a comprehensive approach to a selective
approach focused on the main project component, the LOC, which had the most detailed
preparation, and related technical assistance. Section 3.4 discusses the changes in project
components.
3.1.24 In terms of risk, Armenia's record in economic reform just prior to the project suggested
that the risk of policy reversals would be low. Based on the information at the time of appraisal,
-7-



IDA overall adequately evaluated the risks in institution-building and operation of the LOC
though some additional risks became apparent during the project implementation.
3.1.25 The project identified four risks concerning institution-building. The first was that
underdeveloped legal and administrative structures in Armenia might discourage foreign firms
from entering into long-term relationships with Armenian firms. IDA's response was that the
Government's rapid pace in developing the necessary legal framework and institutions for a
well-functioning market economy, with IDA assistance, would mitigate this risk. The second risk
was that working capital and investment finance constraints might prevent firms from
implementing plans for exports, imports, or technological upgrading. IDA's response was that
reforms in progress would eventually improve the financial viability of the banking system and
that, in the interim, IDA resources would be sufficient to meet the demand for investment needed
to enter into foreign partnerships. The third risk concemed the performance of the newly-created
Enterprise Development and Foreign Investment Promotion Agency (EDIPA), notably its limited
experience in delivering support services to enterprises applying for the ESF funding. IDA's
response was that the hiring of an intemational expert to manage the fund initially with training of
local staff to eventually take over EDIPA management minimized this risk. The main concem
about advisory services was that they would not be able to accredit the participating banks in time
to promote satisfactory utilization of the LOC.
3.1.26 For the operation of the LOC, the Bank identified three risks. The first risk was that
deterioration of the political situation would lead to disruption of cross-border trade. This risk
was partially outside of the country's control but the Bank pointed out that progress in
international negotiations had lessened the risk. The second risk was the lack of sufficient banks
obtaining accreditation and the related risk of low disbursements of the LOC. The Bank
considered this risk minimal for two reasons: (a) tight control of the banks by the CBA with
evaluation and monitoring support from the banking advisory services; and (b) the likely
participation of the PIFCA, which would be well capitalized and managed by a reputable
intemational investor. The third risk was inadequate demand for the LOC by qualified
sub-borrowers or inadequate project preparation skills. The Project's design was to minimize this
risk through: (a) studies that demonstrated substantial demand for credit funds; and (b) the
provision of business advisory services to assist enterprises in the preparation of investment plans.
3.1.27 With hindsight, given the project implementation experience, there were additional risks
that the Bank did not account for in the SAR. The first was that the Government might not
maintain its commitment to the institution-building components. As it turned out, the
Government was not fully convinced of the value of these services and during project
implementation indicated their reluctance to pay for technical assistance. Although there was
supposed to be a co-payment system for these services, the final project accounting shows no
indication that this system was in operation during the project. The second risk was the
possibility of bank failures before their loans to the Government became due. The third risk was
that the LOC funds would distort the financial system, creating a two-tiered portfolio for loan
performance and thus continued dependence on external financing for medium and long-term
lending. The fourth risk was that the banks would not revolve the repaid funds for continued
-8-



medium and long term lending after the completion of the project and use them for other
purposes. By the project's closing date, these additional risks became much more relevant to the
project's performance than those perceived at appraisal.
3.1.28 Implementation Capacity and Arrangements. The SAR indicates that the Bank and the
Borrower considered a number of options for project management and agreed on the need for a
structure that would consolidate and simplify management of the components. The designation of
a Project Management Unit to manage both project's line of credit and institution-building and
handling reporting responsibilities to IDA was reasonable and in line with lessons learned from
past projects.
3.1.29 For the institution-building component, the PMU was to enter into an exchange of letters
with the EDIPA for the management of the ESF and business advisory services. The PMU was to
provide grants through the EDIPA, on behalf of the ESF, to beneficiary enterprises and to collect
co-payments for these services from the beneficiaries. For the assistance to banking institutions
the PMU was to enter into an exchange of letters with the CBA, which would oversee the
banking advisory services and the consulting services the project was to provide for the Securities
Market Supervision Unit (SMS). Following the expected accreditation of the PIFCA, the PMU
was to enter into a subsidiary financing agreement with the new institution for training and local
management costs for the start-up period. For the LOC, the PMU was to enter into subsidiary
loan agreements with the participating financial institutions on the applicable terms and
conditions.
3.1.30 The ESF was to be located within the (EDIPA). This agency, established in 1995, was still
new at the time of project preparation and appraisal. The Ministry of Economy was to establish a
grant approval committee (GAC) responsible for approving grants in excess of US$25,000 and
grants where the ESF could not reach a decision. The Executive Director of the EDIPA and the
Fund Manager were to jointly approve grants below US$25,000. The Ministry of Economy was
to chair the GAC with one representative each from the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of
Finance, and the Central Bank of Armenia, three representatives from the private sector and at
least one representative from the commercial banking sector. The Chairman would have the
authority to either convene meetings or simply ask members for no-objections.
3.1.31 The design of the ESF contained a feature to gradually move from foreign-based
management to local management. An internationally recruited fund manager was to manage the
fund for the first two years, assisting the Director of EDIPA. To reduce costs and build in
country capacity, local personnel were to begin supervising the operations during the third year
after receiving training from the ESF manager. EDIPA was to provide accounting and
administrative services. For an initial period of three years the project was to finance the salaries
of the Executive Director of EDIPA, the Fund Managers, Marketing Officers, and the accounting
and administrative staff.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no revision of the project's objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
-9-



The project's original components, as stated in the SAR were as follows:
(i) Institution-Building in Enterprises, Banks and Capital Market
- Enterprise Support Fund and Business Advisory Services;
- Advisory services to the banks and the PIFCA;
- Capital markets assistance
(ii) Line of Credit
- to accredited domestic banks
- to the PIFCA, when accredited;
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1 In November 1998, the Bank and the Borrower modified the project, adopting a more
selective approach than originally envisaged due to changes in Government priorities and the
availability of financing from other sources. The principal changes were the downsizing of the
Enterprise Support Fund (ESF) from US$3.5 million to US$1.0 million and the deletion of the
Capital Markets component. These reallocations released funds to increase the EDP Credit Line
component from around US$11.0 million to US$13.5 million.
3.4.2 The reallocation of the funds from the ESF resulted from delays in its implementation due
mainly to the Government's hesitance in using loan funds for technical assistance. In mid-1998
the Government of Armenia and the Bank agreed to reduce the allocation for the component from
US$3.5 million to US$1.0 million. The ESF component, subsequently, began to disburse
satisfactorily.
3.4.3 The Capital Markets component remained undisbursed and it was soon realized that many
donor funds were available (mainly from the USAID) to support capital markets development
activities in the country. Furthermore, as in the case of the ESF component, the Government was
reluctant to pay for technical assistance. So the Bank and the Borrower decided to cancel the
component and focus the project more selectively on the LOC component and related technical
assistance components. Together these components, if successful, were to substantially increase
the supply of medium-term credit for viable enterprise development.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1 The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not exist at the time of project appraisal and
therefore there was no QAG assessment of quality at entry. The ICR has rated the quality at
entry as satisfactory given: (a) the clear alignment of project objectives Government priorities and
the CAS; ( b) the extensive preparatory work for the project, including substantial surveys and
studies of the enterprise and financial sectors; and (c) detailed incorporation of lessons learned
from other projects. Although the project's design turned out to be too complex, the Bank and
Borrower recognized this early into the project's implementation and amended the project to
focus on the line of credit component and key technical assistance supporting its successful
operation.
-10-



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1 Overall Outcome. The overall outcome of the project was satisfactory for several reasons.
First, its design essentially reflected a pilot operation to test the private enterprise demand for
medium and long term credit in Armenia and capability of the relatively new private banking
sector to meet this demand through the use of external funds and the upgrading of their
operational standards. In line with recent draft guidelines for pilot LOC operations, the Bank
took account of lessons learned early on in the project's implementation and modified the project
to a more streamlined, focused operation, building on successful components. At the time of
project completion, both the number of enterprises that the LOC supported and their profitability
were considerably higher than appraisal estimates. Second, the EDP loan portfolio of the PFIs is
performing well though several banks that have participated in EDP have experienced problems
with their non-EDP portfolio. Third, despite some indications of a declining trend in external
funds availability, there is a reasonable likelihood that the supply of medium and long- term
lending will be sustainable, given past trends in external funding and some possible sources that
have not yet been confirmed. In 1999, the Bank decided not to finance a second LOC operation
due to the availability of sufficient funds from other sources and instead, through adjustment
operations, focus on upgrading the capability of the PFIs to generate these funds on their own.
However, the Bank, in its sector work program, will continue to monitor the demand and supply
situation as part of its ongoing adjustment operations.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Contribution to Key Thematic Areas. The project contributed to three thematic areas of
concern to the Bank: support for macroeconomic policies; private sector development; and
achievement of key financial sector objectives. The project's support of private sector
development has been the expansion and modernization of enterprises and the creation of new
jobs. Although the contribution of project alone is not major in terms of macroeconomic
development, its focus on developing the export sector, a key economic objective, and the
demonstration effect of its success has the potential for a substantial impact. The project made a
substantial contribution to the development of the financial sector, by reducing the concentration
of assets in the former state banks, which have had significant performance problems, and
increasing the asset base of new private banks which overall have had a better performance record
during the project's implementation period.
4.2.2 Output of the Line of Credit Component. The LOC was the main vehicle to achieve the
project's main objective - to assist in financing productive activities for economic and social
development. The key output indicators, defined at appraisal, were: the number of enterprises
receiving sub-loans; number of jobs created; number of people employed by the sub-projects
financed; and debt service compliance of projects financed.
4.2.3 The project provided financing to 92 enterprises compared to 40-80 as estimated at
appraisal. The number of sub-loans (93) was higher than the number of projects because one
enterprise had two loans. In terms of the other two key indicators, latest estimates indicate that
EDP has created 2,220 jobs, compared to 1,300 anticipated and that debt service on the sub-loans
was satisfactory for most of the 92 EDP projects, though there were 17 projects in default and 8
- 1 1 -



with overdue payments.
Table 4.2.1
Sectoral Profile of Subloans Financed by EDP
Sector              Number of Subloans       Sector Share of Lending
(percent)
Industry                               66                        71
Services                               14                        15
Agriculture                            10                        11
Construction                           2                          2
Transport and Communications           1                          1
4II Sectors Combined                   93                        100
4.2.4 Out of the 92 enterprises that EDP supported, an estimated 50 were joint-stock companies
and 39 were limited liability companies. The average turnover of these enterprises was around
US$275,000 with an average capital of US$335,000. The average firm size was 55 employees.
About half of the enterprises that the project supported were located in the capital, Yerevan. As
indicated in Table 4.2.1, nearly three quarters of the subloans supported enterprises in the
industrial sector. The other sectors that received subloans, in descending order of their shares in
the total, were services, agriculture, construction, and transport/communications.
4.2.5 An overwhelming majority of the enterprises EDP financed (87%) were under full private
ownership by Armenians. Capital goods accounted for about 58 percent of the investment. The
remaining 42 percent of EDP loans supported the financing of working capital. Most of the
investment, about 74 percent, supported the expansion of existing facilities with 12 percent
supporting modernization of production methods. Of the investment in capital goods, about 70
percent was for machinery and equipment and 21 percent for buildings. The remaining 9 percent
was for investment in office equipment and in other categories of goods. The overall
geographical coverage of the sub-projects was wide but with most of the investment in the area of
the capital city: Yerevan: 49 percent; Armavir region: 12 percent; and Kotayk region: 8.7 percent.
4.2.6 The LOC component substantially increased the term of lending in Armenia under
considerably more favorable conditions than at the time of project appraisal. Table 4.2.2 provides
a profile of subloan conditions by participating banks. Prior to EDP, lending for more than six
months was rare and the interest rate on six-month loans was between 3-8 percentper month.
Under EDP, enterprises were able to borrow for terms of about two to four years at much lower
interest rates, about 14-20 percent on an annual basis. The size of loans provided ranged from
about US$100,000 - 500,000, with an average loan size of US$150,000. The suborrowers also
received grace periods ranging from about 4-17 months.
Table 4.2.2
-12-



Profile of Subloan Conditions by Participating Bank
Participating  Number of  Average Subloan Loan Term (in  Grace Period (in Interest Rate
Banks     Subloans     Amount        months)       months)       (percent)
4grobank            25          172,360        34.9         12.1          17.8
dnelikbank          10          101,502        37.2          8.0          18.0
4rdshinbank         2           250,000        37.5         16.0          15.0
d rmeconomban       4           74,469         26.3          4.0          18.0
k
dr,ninpexbank       2           138,000        28.0          14.0         18.3
Conversebank        9           180,635        54.9          16.9         14.2
Credit Yerevan      10          412,441        50.4          13.2         17.1
Gladzor Bank        11          124,674        35.8          14.5         18.0
Ineco Bank          9           97,058         24.4          3.6          19.7
Lend Bank           4           124,272        45.0          13.5          19.5
Shirakinvestban      3          149,667        47.0          14.0          15.0
k                                                                    I
Trust Bank          4           150,000        25.3          5.0          18.7
4.2.7 Output of the Institution-Building Components. At the end of the project, after the
reallocation of the IDA credit in 1998, there were two institution-building components: the ESF
support of private enterprises in developing export projects; and BAC support monitoring the
performance of participating banks according to project eligibility criteria.
4.2.8 For the ESF, the key implementation indicators in the SAR were: the number of grant
requests received and approved; the number of business plans prepared; and the percentage of
funds disbursed. The SAR provided no baseline data for comparison. The actual/latest estimates
indicate that the ESF received 164 requests and provided financing for 28 projects. An additional
10 enterprises have received funds repaid to the ESF. The ESF supported the preparation of 38
business plans and the project disbursed 100 percent of its US$1 million allocation for the ESF
following amendment to the Development Credit Agreement in 1998. The key output indicators
of the component, in the SAR, were: increase exports and impact of joint ventures. The SAR
provided no baseline criteria for these indicators and the report of the PMU at the end of the
project did not provide any actual data or latest estimate.
4.2.9 For the BAC, the key implementation indicators, as stated in the SAR, were: the number of
banks receiving technical assistance and the number of persons trained in banking. The project
provided assistance to all 12 qualifying participating banks and provided training in banking for 24
employees of commercial banks plus staff of the PMU. The SAR defined the output of the BAC
component as the impact of the BAC's advice on the participating banks. The SAR provided no
baseline data for comparison; however, the number of banks accredited and the status of the EDP
-13-



portfolio provide a reasonable indicator of the impact of this assistance. At the time of project
appraisal, of about 30 banks in Armenia, only half had ratings that indicated solvency and only
two seemed likely to achieve accreditation early in the project's implementation. Project
supervision reports and discussions with project staff indicate that the BAC has had a substantial
impact on the performance of the LOC. A total of 12 banks achieved accreditation status. At the
end of the project, 5 of these banks were not able to maintain this status because of a
deterioration in their portfolio due to factors outside the project. At project closing, the financial
rate of return (FRR) on enterprise investments was more than double the recommended FRR at
appraisal and about 60 percent of the EDP sub-loans already had been repaid.
4.2.10 Participating banks have indicated two reasons why their EDP portfolio had performed so
much better than the rest of their portfolio: (a) clear rules for donor lending; and (b) regular
monitoring of these loans. The initial program of the BAC assisted the commercial banks
through training and hands-on consultancy work in all institution-building areas, but particularly
those connected with accreditation for the line of credit. During the second phase, the BAC
provided institutional building to strengthen the internal management and operational capability of
the participating banks. The assistance covered the areas of loan management, corporate
planning, human resource development and training, and risk management.
4.2.11 Project supervision reports indicate that the PFIs that have closely followed the BAC's
guidance, particularly in loan management practices, have emerged as the most successful in terms
of EDP loan portfolio quality. Key indicators of quality are the reduction in arrears and defaults
combined with an increase in successful loan repayment. In summary, the technical assistance by
the BAC has demonstrated the benefits of a structured approach to bank management and has
established the foundation for participating banks to improve their portfolio and ultimately
establish medium and long-term lending to enterprise from their own resources.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1 The SAR estimated that based on the credit demand study during project preparation and
estimates of expected interest rates, the FFR of return for the sub-borrowers would be in the
order of 15 percent. The latest estimate of the FRR on sub-projects at the time of the projects
closing was considerable higher than the SAR estimate - about 42 percent.
4.4.2 The SAR indicated that the main benefit of the project was to be the easing of the financial
constraint on private enterprise development by financing 30-50 sub projects via the PIFCA in the
range of US$120,000 to US$200,000 each and 40-80 sub-projects, ranging from US$50,000 -
US$100,000 each. The project financed 93 sub-projects exceeding the high estimate at appraisal.
The estimates for PIFCA are not applicable to the project due to the cancellation of this
component.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1 The expected institutional impact of EDP was to be a stronger enterprise sector for export
promotion and a stronger financial sector for medium-term lending. The key indicators of this
- 14 -



strength show that the project had substantial institutional impact. The project exceeded the high
estimate in generating bankable investment projects with the LOC and project reports indicate the
rate of return on these projects is much greater than anticipated. Also since most of the
enterprises the project financed were up to date with their loan payments at the time of project
completion, there is a reasonable probability that these enterprises as a whole will yield positive
returns in the long term. The development of the Armenian Development Agency (ADA) during
the project's implementation has resulted in an experienced, self-financing advisory capacity for
export enterprise development that was not present in the sector at the time of project appraisal.
4.5.2 For the fnancial sector, the project's objective was the strengthening of the banking system
through the development of a capacity for medium- term lending, to be measured in terms of
increased lending, longer maturities, and improved portfolio quality. Compared to the project's
starting year of 1996, the amount of gross loans provided by the Armenian banking sector as of
end-200 1 increased by 129 percent. The share of loans with a maturity of more than one year
amounted to around 53 percent as opposed to 10 percent in 1996. The number of banks able to
meet accreditation standards under the project increased from only 2 at the time of appraisal tol2
during project implementation.
4.5.3 By the closing date of the project, 7 of the 12 participating banks had maintained their
accreditation status. The financial problems of the other five banks resulted from factors outside
the project. For example, one of the banks had a very large exposure to non-paying state energy
enterprises but since April 2002, this bank reached an agreement with these enterprises to begin
servicing their debt on a regular basis. Despite the deterioration in the overall portfolio quality of
these five banks, the EDP portfolio in nearly all of the 12 banks that participated in the project has
been performing well. Even with the Russian crisis and the problems with non-EDP portfolios,
compared to the status of the banking system at the time of appraisal, the portfolio quality has
improved. The shares of non-performing loans and loans overdue have decreased by 1 and 16
percent, respectively. Overall, the upgrading of the financial indicators of participating banks,
necessary for participation in EDP, and the technical assistance and training by the BAC have
helped to build, in the banking system, a sustainable project appraisal and monitoring capability
for medium-term lending.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1 The main external factor that affected the project was the impact of the drastic decline of
the Russian ruble on the Armenian banking system. This decline had an adverse impact on
Armenia's banking system in three ways. First, it led to a drastic drop in remittances from the
Armenian diaspora in Russia, affecting hard currency deposits. The banks most affected were
those specializing in these transactions, such as Anelik and Converse banks. Second, the demise
of some Russian banks had a direct impact on those banks that either lost funds or had their funds
frozen as a result of the crisis. Third, there was a decline of 40-50 percent in the Russian export
market. The result of this development was a deterioration of asset quality in many Armenian
banks. However, by the project's closing, there was no quantification of this impact on the
portfolio of the participating banks.
- 15 -



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1 There were three factors subject to government control that positively affected the project:
the pace of financial sector reform and private sector development; refraining from operation in
areas that were to be the domain of the private sector; and decisions on changes in the design of
the project. Project supervision reports indicate that concurrent implementation of the financial
sector assessment program made an important contribution to creating a viable operating
framework for the project. The licensing, minimum capital, and internal control requirements for
the commercial banks supported the project's advisory work in upgrading the banking system.
Despite some initial delays in the progress of the privatization program for small and medium
scale industries, there is no indication that this adversely affected the project's implementation.
The Government's decision to seek grant financing rather than using the IDA credit for technical
assistance resulted in some project delays. The main impact was on the implementation of the
BAC component. Until 1998, Bank funds financed the BAC. The Bank subsequently agreed to
the Govermnent's request to use grant funds from the British DFID to finance the advisory
services. However, as a result of this decision, the Bank lost some control over ensuring the
operation of the BAC and there was a period of about six months when the BAC was not
operating due to a lack of funds. However, Bank supervision staff indicated that to continue
adequate montitoring of the participating banks, the Bank increased the intensity of its
supervision, including analytical reports by consultant experts.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1 The main factors subject to the control of the implementing agency were the timely
processing of sub-loans on the line of credit and reporting to the Bank on progress in the project.
The PMU or the Apex Unit set up in the Foreign Financing Projects Management Center
(FFPMC) of the MOFE was instrumental in timely, proper, and successful implementation of the
project. Overall the FFMPC set up an efficient internal control, monitoring, and reporting system,
though there were some shortcomings in consistent monitoring of performance indicators and the
use of grant funds for the BAC component. The FFMPC processed the sub-loans within the free
limit efficiently. In addition it worked closely with the BAC to build up credit review expertise.
Furthermore, the FFPMC conducted events for entrepreneurs and bank loan officers to impart
expertise and to disseminate information about the sub-borrowers and their line of business.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1 The actual project costs amounted to about US$15.0 million, approximatly 38 percent of
the SAR estimate of US$40 million. The lower cost was due to the amendment of the project
that took place in 1998. The changes were the cancellation of the PIFCA component and related
donor funds for it (about US$21 million); the cancellation of the capital markets component; and
the reduction of the ESF component.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1 The ICR has rated the sustainability of the achievements under EDP as likely for several
reasons. First, project management has reported that the rates of return on investments by the
enterprises that have received the LOC funds and the number of enterprises the project financed
exceeded the SAR's estimates. Second, the portfolio of EDP projects in the PFIs is performing
well even in banks that are facing financial difficulties. Third, under EDP, the participating banks
- 16 -



upgraded their operations to international standards and this operational improvement combined
with Bank's sector work in the financial sector under Structural Adjustment Credits should help
banks develop medium and long-term lending from their own funds. In parallel with EDP,
USAID funded a program of assistance to the CBA and the commercial banks for the upgrading
of their operations to IAS. Fourth, although recent survey information has led to some concern
by the Bank about the level of term lending for enterprises over the next few years, there is a
reasonable prospect that the availability of funds will continue based on historical flows and some
funding sources that have indicated interest but have not yet confirmed programs.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1 At the time of project appraisal, the Bank and the Borrower envisaged EDP as an initial
operation to test the viability of medium and long-term financing in Armenia. Given Armenia's
fledgling market economy, it was likely that other LOC operations would follow. IDA viewed
these operations as a bridge to carry private banks from a position of no medium and long- term
lending due to the lack of financial resources, institutional capacity, and incentives, to a position
of engaging in this term lending with their own resources. After the mid-term review of the
project, it appeared that there were more than adequate external resources for medium term
lending and the Bank concentrated its resources on sector work to encourage the banking system
to upgrade its operations and use their own resources to meet demand for medium and long term
financing by private enterprises.
6.2.2 Based on the latest available reports, the LOC has been very successful with disbursements
exceeding appraisal estimates for the private banks and with US$7.7 of the US$13.1 million
already repaid by the sub-borrowers. There is some concern about the flow of funds for
continued medium-term lending by Armenian banks. At the end of the project, a Bank review of
the demand and supply of external line of credit funds indicated a possible financing gap for the
next few years, due to the scaling down of some donor programs. However, if past levels of LOC
funds are an indication of future levels, then it is likely that funds will become available. The Bank
is addressing the issue of the portfolio problems of the banking system under the Fourth
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 4) and will continue to monitor the demand and supply of
medium and long term credit.
6.2.3 In the context of SAC 4, IDA's strategy has been to support the banking system to use its
own resources and become the main source of quality lending to small businesses. This will
require operational changes such as enforcing proper regulations on collateral in order to reduce
the risk of lending to small business. The Government, with support from USAID, plans to
prepare an assessment of collateral registration and collection procedures, including
recommendations for further improvements. The CBA is determined to maintain a healthy
banking system and plans to conduct an assessment of: (a) the system's soundness and
vulnerability (b) the impact of removing insolvent banks from the banking system; and (c) the
benefits of banking consolidation. The proposed Fifth Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC5)
intends to support: (a) establishing an adequate regulatory and supervisory environment for
non-bank institutions; (b) preparing and implementing an action plan to establish due diligence for
all problem banks (including those in temporary administration); (c) implementing
recommendations of a diagnostic study of the banking system; (d) liquidating banks under
temporary administration of the CBA as of May 1, 2002; and (e) increasing the minimum capital
- 17 -



requirements for insurance companies.
6.2.4 On the demand side, the Government actions to stimulate private sector development should
generate demand for financing by sector enterprises. In the last few years, the Government has
succeeded in liberalizing trade and prices and establishing the basic legal framework. The
privatization program has made considerable progress -- most of the small and medium
enterprises are now under private ownership as well as 75 percent of the large public enterprises
and agricultural land. The Government also has refrained significantly from state intervention in
enterprises. Implementation of the Action Plan for Improving Business Environment has
facilitated the establishment of most of the legal and regulatory framework necessary for an
improved private sector environment.
6.2.5 The Action Plan's main elements include: (a) consolidating and reducing business
inspections; (b) enacting a new law on business registration to simplify registration procedures
and shorten registration time; (b) voiding old, unnecessary business regulations that have
hampered private sector development; and (c) adopting new accounting regulations for small and
medium enterprises. The implementation of the Action Plan has strengthened the private sector
environment and eliminated some of the impediments for expanding investment, creating jobs and
promoting exports. The Government also has strengthened its coordination mechanisms with the
private sector and established a high-level Business Council, with participation of the private and
public sectors and members of the Armenian National Assembly.
6.2.6 The Armenian Development Agency (ADA) has played an important role by organizing
meetings and maintaining regular contacts between the Government and the private sector. This
open and transparent dialogue has given encouraging signals to both domestic and foreign
investors. The World Bank is also supporting the Foreign Investment and Export Facilitation
(FIEF) through the Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) instrument. Its signing took place in
April 2002 and it is ready for implementation. The FIEF's main objective is to promote ADA's
capacity to provide information to potential investors and respond promptly and effectively to
private businesses inquiries regarding expanding domestic and foreign investmentlexport
opportunities. The FIEF supports establishing a high-quality, one-stop window to inform
prospective investors about the country's needs, resolve any outstanding issues, and help create a
conducive environment for investment expansion. The ADA also is continuing to operate the ESF
with its own resources.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
- 18 -



7.1.1 Project files and interviews with task managers for EDP indicate a substantial preparatory
effort for the project. This effort included a detailed survey of credit demand analysis and analysis
of the portfolios of most of the banks, based on international standards, using the CAMEL rating
system - Capital Adequacy, Asset Quality, Managerial Assessment, Earnings Analysis, and
Liquidity Analysis. The preparatory work also developed a pipeline of possible sub-projects. The
Bank considered a number of alternatives for project design, trying to balance the critical need for
investment finance with the weakness of the financial sector.
7.1.2 The SAR contained a detailed set of monitoring indicators for implementation performance
and output before the Bank had adopted the Project Appraisal Document in which this
information is standard.
7.1.3 There were a few shortcomings in the design: (a) the inclusion of the capital markets
component, which might have been better placed in another operation or with grant funds; (b) the
uncertainty of demand for the ESF; (c) the lack of baselines for some of the monitoring indicators;
and (d) with hindsight, the lack of a stipulation in the subsidiary loan agreements that the
repayments of LOC funds should be re-used for medium and long- term lending. Overall the ICR
has rated the Bank lending performance as satisfactory given the considerable amount of
preparation, the essentially pilot nature of the project's original design; the satisfactory
implementation of the main component (LOC operation); and the fact that early in project
implementation the Bank addressed some of these shortcomings and modified the project where
possible.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1 The bank supervised the project regularly and most of the mission reports were very
thorough. Also, the Bank showed considerable flexibility in trying to meet the needs of the
Borrower, taking account of the early stage of market development in Armenia and the
experimental nature of the project. The ICR has identified three phases in bank supervision that
indicate responsiveness to changing conditions.
7.2.2 The first phase, during 1997-98, was the change in project design due to the slow
disbursement of the LOC and delays in activity on the ESF. The project's redesign in 1998
essentially focused the project on financing and assistance to ensure quality medium and long term
financing to private enterprises, canceling the PIFCA component and the capital markets
component and reducing the ESF component.
7.2.3 During the second phase, 1999-2000, the Bank prepared a very thorough mid-term review,
which was both analytical and forward-looking. This review resulted in actions which
substantially accelerated disbursements on the LOC component and stressed the need to continue
Bank advisory services beyond the sub-loan review period to continue monitoring the PFIs and to
help them manage their loan portfolio.
7.2.4 By the third phase, which covers the period 2001-2002, the Bank had disbursed most of
the funds for the LOC component and the focus of supervision had shifted to monitoring the
portfolios of the PFIs, identifying banks with problems and surveying the supply and demand for
credit following the completion of EDP.
-19-



7.2.5 To accommodate the Government's desire to use grant funds instead of Bank loan funds
for technical assistance, the Government decided to fund the BAC with assistance from the United
Kingdom's Department for International Development (DFID) and grant funding from the
Know-How Fund. However, supervision reports and conversations with task managers indicate
two periods during which the BAC did not operate. The first period was between April and
August 2000, due to a funding gap. The second period was from July 2001 until the project's
closing in at the end of June 2002 due to the Government's lack of interest in extending the
assistance, despite the Bank's recommendation, during the mid-term review, that the assistance
continue even beyond the project's closing date. As a result, the Bank intensified its project
supervision with substantial consultant assistance, to ensure adequate monitoring of the
participating banks.
7.2.6 The ICR has rated overall supervision performance as satisfactory given: the substantial
supervision reporting, including the use of in-depth consultant reports when warranted; the
flexibility of the Bank in responding to the Government's needs; the early incorporation of lessons
learned in modifying the project during implementation; and the overall satisfactory outcome of
the project.
7.3 Overall Bankperfornance:
7.3.1 Despite some deficiencies in lending performance, the Bank's overall performance is
considered satisfactory since the extensive work done at appraisal was successful in estimating
credit demand and supervision performance was flexible in response to changing Government
priorities.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1 The Borrower's participation in the project's preparation was satisfactory. The
Government took a number of important measures to create a supportive legal and regulatory
framework for private enterprise and banking sector development. It passed the following
measures: (a) a law governing real property (1995); (b) a revised joint stock company law
(1996). The Government submitted the following for parliamentary approval: (a) a bankruptcy
law; and (b) amended laws on central banking and the commercial banks, bank insolvency and
bank secrecy. The Government introduced tax deductible bank loss provisioning and new
international accounting standards (IAS) reporting forms and completed portfolio audits of all
banks.
7.5 Government implementation perforrnance:
7.5.1 Throughout the project's implementation the Government maintained its commitment,
through actions and implementation of Bank sector work, to support a conducive environment for
private enterprise development and the upgrading of the banking system. This commitment is
likely to have been a key factor in the success of the project's LOC operation. However, there
were some shortcomings in the Government's performance, e.g. its commitment to the project's
technical assistance components wavered mainly due to a change in policy to seek grant funding
for capacity- building work rather than loan funds. Also, project files indicate that there were
times when the BAC staff felt they did not have sufficient independence of operation. However,
- 20 -



given the heavy weight attached to the Government's commitment to maintaining the agreed
business environment relative to a few shortcomings of its performance, the ICR has rated
Government's overall performance in implementation as satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1 The main implementing agency for the project was the Foreign Financed Projects
Management Center (FFPMC) located in the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MFE). Project
files indicate that the FFPMC's processing of sub-loan requests within the free limit was
satisfactory and timely. The FFPMC also was responsive in providing much of the information
required for the ICR. However, it is not clear why the FFPMC could provide no information on
the funding for the BAC. Initially there may have been some duplication of work between the
BAC and the FFPMC but subsequently the establishment of a terms of reference and a detailed
work program for each agency resolved this issue. At the beginning of the project the EDIPA
was to be the independent organization handling the ESF. However, there were problems with
this organization and during project implementation the autonomous Armenian Development
Agency (ADA) took over ESF operation. Under the ADA, the project disbursed all of the revised
allocation to the ESF and at the end of the project there was evidence that this fund would be
sustainable, with the ESF acquiring status as a registered nongovernmental organization. Also the
FFPMC has reported that the ESF has been generating funds on its own through payments by
enterprises for its services. Overall, implementing agency performance seems to have been
satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1 The overall performance was satisfactory based on the commitment to the maintaining the
supportive sector framework for the project and satisfactory implementation of the LOC
institution-building components, despite some shortcomings.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1 Lessons of Broad Applicability:
*     It is important to clearly define performance indicators and monitor them throughout the
project. If no quantitative indicators are available qualitative indicators should be used. The
indicators should be reviewed throughout the project to determine whether or not they remain
applicable.
*     There is a need for greater coordination with donors in the amount and terms of external
lines of credit. The design should try to ensure the availability of funds on a revolving basis and
take place within a broader framework of assistance that eventually will lead to build the capacity
of the participating banks to meet the demand for medium and long-term lending on their own.
*     The assessment of credit demand and the holding of town meetings with prospective
sub-borrowers are useful tools in assessing the size of the credit line component and contributed
to the success of EDP. An ongoing assessment of credit demand in relation to available supply
should be conducted during project implementation to assess the sustainability of meeting
economic and social objectives.
-21 -



*     An early assessment of lessons learned during project implementation combined with
flexibility in reallocation of the credit, and very thorough supervision can make a substantial
contribution to expanding the development impact of an initial investment operation with pilot
features.
*     Technical assistance seen as critical to the success of components that the Bank is
financing or the performance of the implementing agencies should have assurance of financing and
continuance throughout the project. If the Government is receiving grant flmds instead of Bank
financing it should demonstrate a clear commitment to maintain this assistance as long as the Bank
deems reasonable or alternatively demonstrate an the development of an adequate local capability.
8.2 Lessons of Applicability to Lines of Credit in Armenia
*     There is a substantial demand for medium-term credit by private enterprises in Armenia
and there is a potential for these enterprises to make a major contribution to economic and social
development by significant job creation and expansion of exports.
*     New private banks generally tended to performed better than state banks and there should
be some tailoring of the programs to meet the different needs and cultures of these former state
banks and new private banks.
*     A change in the "culture" of lending, from client relationships to analytical techniques of
the banking system may take more than one project and require a plan of support that will
gradually phase out external foreign assistance in coordination with sector work in the financial
sector.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
In accordance with the EDP the Republic of Armenia received loan in amount of 11,6 mln. SDR
(equivalent to about 15,3 mln. USD). The objectives of the EDP were: (i) to provide long and
medium term loans to such productive facilities and resources in the Republic of Armenia which
would contribute to the economic and social development of the country, (ii) strengthen
commercial banks, (iii) capital market development and (iv) the investment and export market
development capacity of private enterprises. However, as it is fairly reflected in the ICR the
support of private enterprise development through medium and long-term lending was the priority
objective and the strengthening objectives for enterprises and banks were supporting objectives.
Changes in the components during the project implementation and increase of the credit line were
explained by the shortage of cash during the transitional process from the planed to the market
economy. In particular, by the Borrower's suggestion and flexible strategy of the Bank in the area
of capital markets, the project's objective was limited, as there was a possibility to use grant
proceeds for these purposes; the Private Investment Financing Corporation of Armenia (PIFCA)-
the largest component of the project was not implemented because of exclusion from the
- 22 -



co-financed EBRD project; because of the slow implementation the Enterprise Support Fund
(ESF) component was reduced and its reallocated resources were directed to the Credit line.
As a result, the following components were implemented:
*      Line of Credit Component
92 sub-projects received 13,2 mln.USD financed through 12 participating banks. The
project financing involved all marzes of RA and mainly enterprises in the area of food
processing, agriculture and service.
*      Institution -Building Component
Includes: Banking Advisory Center (BAC)- operated from the beginning of the project
till the September 2001. At first the BAC was financed by the loan proceeds (764,400
USD), then from 1999 by the grant proceeds provided to the Government by the British
Know How Fund. The main operation of the BAC was directed to the technical assistance
to the banks: enhance the management of banks in credit management and appraisal,
develop strategy planning ability, develop and train the staff, manage risks and provide
other consulting services, referring the accreditation, implementation and supervision of
the Line of Credit.
*      The Enterprise Support Fund (ESF)
The Fund was to serve as an export promotion unit. With this fund, the project was to
provide assistance by the refundable grants to help local enterprises to find, enter and
maintain export markets through joint ventures with foreign partners to attract new capital
investments. The financing of the ESF under the project totaled to I mln. USD, grants
were provided by the ESF to 38 projects, from which 10 projects were financed by the
repaid amounts.
Under this component were carried out the following processes: annual project audits
(25,300 USD), initial audits of three participating banks (32,000 USD) and operational
expenses of Project Implementation Unit (294,000 USD). The latter ensured the financial
management of the Project, performed the review of sub-project and supervision of
implementation process, successfully implemented intemal control, monitoring and
reporting structure, participated jointly with the BAC in the training of credit officers.
Having summarized the whole project implementation process, the Borrower considers the
outcome of the overall performance of the project as well as the implementation of the separate
components as satisfactory, pointing out the importance of the results of the small and medium
enterprise development (suffice it to mention that the financing of recovery and expansion of such
areas as production of milk, meat, beverages and cannery, beer and wine helped to increase the
productivity and to raise the quality, enabled the local businessmen to recapture the local market
and extend the export, as well as to solve social problems by opening new working places and
reducing the unemployment) and Institutional building component implementation, their role and
importance, as well as assistance to the project, that successfully solved the key issues and
supported the satisfactory implementation of the Project.
- 23 -



The Borrower highly appreciates the presented ICR, which fairly describes the Project objectives
and the Project adaptation to the defined objectives, the shortcomings made during the Project
design and implementation and lessons learnt, having objectively analyzed achievements and
shortcomings for implementation of each component.
The Borrower expresses its gratefulness to the World Bank Staff and anticipates implementation
of similar projects in future, as it is very vital for the Republic of Armenia.
Q) Cofinanciers:
n/a
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n/a
10. Additional Information
-24-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix '.     - |  ,/!.  Projected in last P.SR,     |        ActualiLatest Estimate
Credi Une Component
1. No of banks accredited            Five out of the orignal 12 banks are either in  12 banks accredited initially. By project
the process of liquidation or under temporary dosing, loan pcrtfolios of 2 banks (one was
administration.                       liquidated, the other was under liquidation)
were transferred to the Ministry of Finance
and 3 more banks were under temporary
administration of the Central Bank.
2. Commitment of sub-projects         Not specified.                       Total number of subprojects is 93. Of this 92
enterprises, one enterprise received loans
from two banks.
3. Disbursement of sub-oans           US$13.1 mililion                     US$ 132 million
Enterprise Support Fund
1. No of grant requests received and  Not specified.                       163 requests received, of which 28 received
approved.                                                                  financing with project funds. An at addffional
10 companies have received financing from
intemally generated funds from co-payments
made by enterprises.
2. No of business plans               Not specDied.NA                      38
3. Percentage of funds disbursed      Not specified.                       100 percent disbursed (US$ I million), o/w
for grants US$770,000. Pkbs, at present,
US$ 158,520 from repayments
Bank Assistance
1. No. of banks receiving technical  All accredited banks                  All accredied banks
assistance
2. No. of trainees trained in the banidng area Not specified..             Around 24 employees of commercial banks
and PMU
Capital Market
1. No. of trainees trained in the securities  Not applicable. Component deleted from the  Not specified. Component deleted from the
market                                project                              project
NA
Output Indicators:
. .-,'  Indicator/Ma trix; |-  i"Prbjeted in last PSR         '   -     Actual/Latest Estimate
A. Line of Credit Component
1. No. of enterprises receiving sub-oans  Not Specified                    92
2. No. of people employed by subprojects  Not Specified                    2220 jobs created Number of jobs is
financed                                                                   estimated from subprojects's business plans
3. Debt Service Compliance            Not Specified                        Out of a total of 92 subprojects there were 17
in default status and 8 with overdue
payments.
B. Enterprise Support Fund Component
1. Increased exports by beneficiary firms  Not Specified                   Not Specified
2. Impact of joint ventures           Not Specified.                       Not Specified.
C. Banks/Capital Market Component
1. Progress in preparaton of market  Not Applicable. Component deleted.    Not Applicable. Component deleted.
regulabons
2. Progress on PIFCA management training  Not Applicable. Component deleted.  Not Applicable. Component deleted.
3. Impact of BAU advice on particpaUng  Not Specified.                     BAU assited the accredited oommercial
banks                                                                      banks In: (1) development of strategic plans;
(ii) establishment of long4erm credit
procedures, and (iii) training.
End of project
- 25 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million  US$ million
A. Line of Creit                                  32.00          13.18           41.2
B. Institutional Building
Project Management unit                            0.37           0.35            95
Enterprise Support Fund                            4.55           1.00            22
Business Advisory                                  0.32                            0
Bank Advisory and Training                         2.05           0.78            38
Capital Market Development                         0.79           0.00             0
Total Baseline Cost                               40.08          15.31
Total Project Costs            40.08         15.31
Total Financing Required            40.08          15.31
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         Other2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00        5.31         2.40         7.71
ESF Business Advisory      (0.00)        (0.00)       (5.31)      (2.40)       (7.71)
Bank/Capital Market
Advisory
4. Financing Component       1.00         0.00        10.00        21.00       32.00
(1.00)       (0.00)      (10.00)      (21.00)     (32.00)
5. Project Management Unit  0.00          0.00        0.27         0.10         0.37
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.27)       (0.10)      (0.37)
Total                     1.00         0.00         15.58       23.50        40.08
(1.00)       (0.00)      (15.58)      (23.50)      (40.08)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         Other2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
-26 -



3. Services                     0.00           0.00           1.78          0.00          1.78
ESF Business Advisory           (0.00)         (0.00)        (1.78)        (0.00)        (1.78)
Bank/Capital Market
Advisory
4. Financing Component           0.00          0.00          13.18          0.00          13.18
(0.00)         (0.00)        (13.18)        (0.00)       (13.18)
5. Project Management Unit       0.00          0.00           0.35          0.00          0.35
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.35)         (0.00)       (0.35)
Total                         0.00           0.00          15.31         0.00          15.31
(0.00)         (0.00)        (15.31)        (0.00)       (15.31)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
I~~~~~~~ Percentage of Appraisall
Component              Appraisal Estimate     |    Actual/Latest Estimate
IDA       Govt.     CoF.      IDA       Govt.     CoF.     IDA    Govt.  CoF.
1. Credit Lines          11.00      7.00     14.00     13.30                        120.9   0.0    0.0
2. Institution Building
2.1 PMlJ                 0.27       0.10      0.00      0.35                        129.6   0.0    0.0
2.2 Business Advisory    0.29       0.00                                             0.0    0.0
2.3 Bank Advisory        0.75       0.30      1.00      0.78                        104.0   0.0    0.0
2.4 Capital Markets      0.69       0.10      0.00      0.00                         0.0    0.0    0.0
2.5 PIFCA                0.25       0.00      0.00      0.00                         0.0    0.0    0.0
2.6 ESF                  3.05       1.05      0.00      1.00                         32.8   0.0    0.0
TOTAL                    16.75      8.58     15.00     15.31                         91.4   0.0    0.0
- 27 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Present Value of Flows
Economic Analysis                    Financial Analysis
Appraisal      Latest Estimates     Appraisal      Latest Estimates
CreditLine
Component
Benefts           NS*               NA*               NA*               NS*             X
Costs             NS*               NA*               NA*               NS*
Net Benefits      NS*               NA*               NS*               NS*
IRRIAPV           NS                NA*               IRR of at least 15  43.17 percent
percent for
subprojects
NS = not specified
NA = not applicable
*The Staff Appraisal Report does not specify costs and investments. However, it states the economic
returns would approximate financial returns because the subprojects financed would produce mnainly
tradable goods under relately low prevailing levels of import protection.
- 28 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle u  -         -   No. of Persons and Specialty-  ,-iE  . Performnance Rating,,
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation ' Development
MontWear, Count                Specialty     '                Progress   ','Objective
Identification/Preparation
03/95                        1   Senior Enterprise Specialist (
07/95*                       1   Mission Leader
10/95                        1   Senior Enterprise Specialist
3    Bank Staff (unspecified)
11/95                        3   Consultants
Appraisal/Negotiation
03-04/96                     1   Mission Leader
3    Financial Analsyst
11/96                        1   Senior Enterprise Specialist
I   Legal Counsel
1    Senior Financial Analyst
I   Procurement Officer
1   Country Officer
1   Disbursement Officer
I   Enterprise Specialist
I   Operations Analyst
Supervision
01/97                        1   Senior Enterprise Specialist
1   Enterprise Specialist
I   Operations Analyst
I   Financial Analyst
04/97                        1   Senior Enterprise Specialist        S
07/97                            Not Specified                       S
10/97                            Not Specified.
12/97                        1   Senior Enterprise Specialist        S
02-03/98                     1   Senior Enterprise Specialist        S
05/98                        1   Senior Enterprise Specialist        S
04-05/99                     1   Senior Enterprise Specialist        S
I   Consultant
I   Financial Analyst
10/99                        1   Senior Financial Analyst            S
1   Banking Consultant
I   Unspecified Bank Staff
08/00                        1   Senior Financial Analyst            S
06/01                        1   Consultant (Team Leader)            S
1   Consultant
04/02                        1   Senior Private Sector Specialist    S
I   Senior Financial Sector
Specialist
1   Consultant
- 29 -



ICR
10-11/02                    1    Consultant
(b) Staff:
Stage 6f Project Cycle  1 - -   - -     ActualLatest Estimate
-No. Staff weekgs            US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                                         351
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision                                                        462
ICR                                                                 27
Total                                                               840
-30-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                       O H *SUOM O N O NA
O Sector Policies                     OH *SUOM       ON O NA
El Physical                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Financial                           O H  OSUOM O N       O NA
OI Institutional Development          O H * SU O M O N     0 NA
OI Environmental                      O H  OSUOM     O N   * NA
Social
fO1 Poverty Reduction           O H OSUOM O N        * NA
OI Gender                       OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)        O H OSUOM       O N  * NA
Ol Private sector development         0 H O SU O M    0 N 0 NA
LI Public sector management           0 H  O SUO M 0 N     0 NA
LIOther (Please specify)              OH OSUOM ON          * NA
- 31-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
M Lending                                           OHS*S OLU OHU
M Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU    O HU
N Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
2 Preparation                                       OHS OS       0 U   O HU
X Government implementation performance             O HS OS      O  U  0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                 O HS OS      0 U   0 HU
IS Overall                                          OHS OS       O U   O HU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Project Preparation and Appraisal Documents:
Armenia: Possible Enterprise Development Guarantee Project (EDGP); Preliminary Identification
Mission; Major Issues and Back to Office Report, April 3, 1995.
Armenia: Proposed Enterprise Development Project: Back to Office Report of the Identification/
Preparation Mission, August 11, 1995.
Armenia: Enterprise Development Project, Staff Appraisal Report, Number 15982, November
27, 1996.
Project Mission Reports:
Armenia: Enterprise Development Project, Supervision Mission January 20-25 1997 ( Enterprise
Support Fund Component)
Armenia: Proposed Enterprise Development Project; Back-to-Office Report for the Project
Launch Mission, February 19, 1997.
Armenia: Enterprise Development Project, Supervision Mission, Back-to-Office Report, April 2,
1997.
Armenia: Enterprise Development Project, Supervision Mission, Back-to-Office Report, July 17,
1997.
Armenia: Enterprise Development Project, Aide Memoire of October 11, 1997.
Armenia: Enterprise Development Project, Aide Memoire of December 13, 1997.
Armenia: Enterprise Development Project, Supervision Report, March 6, 1998.
Armenia: Enterprise Development Project, Supervision Mission, Aide Memoire, May 1998.
Armenia: Enterprise Development Project, Supervision Report, Aide Memoire, September 1998.
Armenia: Enterprise Development Project, Supervision Report, Back-to-Office Report of
November 30, 1998
Armenia: Enterprise Development Project, Supervision Mission, Aide Memoire, June 8, 1999.
Armenia: Enterprise Development Project, Supervision Mission, Aide Memoire, November 29,
2000.
Armenia: Enterprise Development Project, Supervision Mission, Back-to-Office Report, July, 9
2001.
Armenia: Enterprise Development Project, Supervision Mission, Back-to-Office Report, April
16, 2002.
Audit reports for financial years including the final audit which was for 18 months -- January 2001
to August 2002.
Project Status Reports
Project Status Report of May 13, 1997
Project Status Report of June 19, 1997
Project Status Report of November 19, 1997
Project Status Report of February 10, 1998
Project Status Report of March 25, 1998
- 33 -



Project Status Report of January 25, 1999
Project Status Report of December 23, 1999
Project Status Report of June 23, 2000
Project Status Report of December 21, 2001
Project Status Report of June 17, 2002
Enterprise and Financial Sector Documents
Armenia: Private Sector Study: "Accelerating Private Sector Development," Main Mission
Back-to-Office Report, February 19,1997.
Armenia: Enterprise Development Project, Financial Sector and Private Sector Development
Back-to-Office Report of June 24, 1998.
Armenia: Enterprise Development Project, Financial Sector Review Mission: Impact of the
Russian Crisis on Armenian Real and Financial Sectors, December 14, 1998.
Armenia: Financial Sector Review Back-to-Office Report, Impact of Russian Crisis on Armenian
Real and Financial Sectors, May 1999.
Armenia: Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Privatization for Public Enterprises
Privatization/Liquidation, Draft Report, Jean-Pierre Thibaut, International Consultant, June/July
1999.
- 34-






Report No.:        25055
Type:    ICR



