Report No. PIC4092
Project Name                   Armenia-Enterprise Development Project
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Privatization
Project ID                     AMPA8279
Borrower                       Government of Armenia
Implementing Agency            Ministry of the Economy, Private
Investment Finance Company
and possibly local commercial banks
Date This PID Prepared         March 6, 1996
Date Initial PID Prepared      May 31, 1995
Projected Appraisal Date       April 1996
Projected Board Date           July 1996
Peer Reviewers                 Andrew Ewing (PSD), Richard Roulier (FSD),
and David Ferreira (FSD)
Country and Sector Background
1. Investment constraints. The Government of Armenia is undertaking an
ambitious economic recovery program supported by IDA under a SAC and by
the Fund under an ESAF, both approved in February 1996. The main
objectives of the program are to restore economic growth and to continue
reorienting the State away from the management of the economy. One of
the key constraints to recovery is the rate of investment, which has
been severely reduced, with significant dis-investment in some areas.
The low rate of investment is due to: (i) the collapse in domestic
production and demand from the FSU and domestic markets since the
breakup of the USSR, and; (ii) the effect of external trade disruption
particularly on oil supplies, resulting from a border disputes. These
factors have up until recently combined with remaining constraints on
local business to deter private investors and to make Armenia a high-
risk investment location.
2. Business Environment. The environment has started to improve as a
result of peace negotiations, steady re-establishment of trade links,
and the policy reforms already implemented by the Government.
Improvement will continue as the Government presses ahead with
privatization, a hard budget constraint on, and liquidation of,
insolvent state enterprises, the clearing of Government arrears to the
enterprise sector, strengthening of financial discipline in the banks,
and introduction of a broad range of legislation on company entry, exit
and governance, and on property rights. Following the hyperinflation of
1993, caused by loose fiscal policy (massive financing of state
enterprises and other subsidies) and an inflow of pre-1993 Rubles, the
Government has taken effective action to stabilize the economy. The most
recent figures show a reduction of inflation in 1995 to an average of 2t
per month, while GDP growth in 1994 and 1995 has exceeded 5t per annum.



Surveys of Armenian exporters show evidence of economic adjustment, and
a good potential demand for finance not currently satisfied by the
banking system. Business registrations rose strongly between 1994 and
1995, with 18,000 enterprises now registered, the majority of which are
either private or privatized, largely in consumer goods, trade and
services, employing about 150,000 workers, or about 10t of the labor
force. Private sector employment will increase rapidly as the medium
and larger scale State enterprises are privatized.
3.  Enterprise Privatization    The State enterprise sector, which in
1990 accounted for about 95t of nonagricultural output and employment,
is expected to be largely dissolved over the period 1996 to 1998, with
a total of about 7,000 enterprises out of a universe of about 9,000
approved for privatization, including about 5,000 small scale units in
distribution, services and construction, and about 2,000 larger
enterprises largely in manufacturing and processing. The Privatization
Program adopted in January 1994 envisaged one third of state-owned
productive assets being privatized each year. All commercial production
enterprises barring certain public utilities are slated for
privatization. Privatization of small-scale enterprises is well underway
- by the end of 1995, a total of 1800 small enterprises (35%) were
privatized, and all remaining enterprises should be privatized in 1996.
Privatization of medium- to large-scale enterprises is also well
underway, through the mass privatization program, with 355 (18%) offered
for sale by the end of 1995, and a cumulative total of 1,550 (77%)
planned to have been offered for sale by the end of 1996. About 600
construction sites are also planned to be sold in 1996. There is now
strong evidence that reforms are proving effective.
4. Despite the encouraging progress, Armenian enterprises continue to
face constraints. In particular, many years of centrally planned
production within protected markets have cut business off from trade,
technology, and investment exposure to non-FSU countries, and have
discouraged the development of essential business functions such as
financial planning and marketing. Accounting methods are also still
based on the FSU chart of accounts. These problems have reduced
international competitiveness, a situation exacerbated by the lack of
financial resources over the past few years to update plant and
equipment. The legal and regulatory system for business has been
steadily reformed, but significant measures still need to be taken in
the area of enterprise law. The proposed project is designed to address
these problems.
5. The banking sector. Since the break away from the Soviet Union in
1991, the Armenian financial sector has developed rapidly in terms of
number of institutions. The Central Bank (CBA) has defined its role and
has greatly strengthened its capacity to regulate and supervise the
banking system. Four of the five specialized banks which emerged from
the Soviet period (Ardshinbank, Armagrobank, Armeconombank, and
Armimpexbank) have also developed additional capacities and systems.
Through 1993, a liberal approach to new entry with very low minimum
capital requirements resulted in the establishment of aost 60 new banks,
some with significant foreign ownership stakes. Twenty six banks have
closed since March 1994, partly because of increases in minimum capital
requirements, and the number currently licensed by the CBA is 42, of
-2 -



which three are foreign owned. The sector is still dominated by the
four traditional specialized banks: together   they account for   65 % of
total bank assets and 70 % of total loans outstanding. The fifth    bank
which remains from the Soviet period - the Savings Bank - is small in
asset terms but still accounts for the majority of the branch network.
The private Midland-Armenia bank, which is opening for business in March
1996, will be an important force for improving banking practices.
Midland's $10 million of statutory capital will more than double the
size of the banking system's existing capital.
6. However, these generally positive developments in the sector are
still overshadowed by the problems of Armenia's fragile economy.
Hyperinflation resulted in total bank credit outstanding falling from
67 9 of GDP in 1991 to less than 10 % of GDP by 1993, and the limited
credit available was lent on very short maturities. During the first
half of the 1990s, the banking system has been downsized and
marginalized as a source of finance to real economic activity. Its
marginalization is reflected most obviously in the increased importance
of non-bank financing (e.g. through inter-enterprise arrears). At the
same time, many of the individual banks have seen their own financial
situations weaken very seriously and the size of their capital diminish
under the weight of bad loans. The consolidated financial position of
the banks is such that the shortfall of reserves is equal to about twice
the share capital of the banks. The capital positions of the former
state banks typify the situation. The largest, Ardshinbank, at end-
October 1995 had share capital and reserves of about US$1million against
a loan portfolio with overdues of US$6 million. The other banks also
have overdues significantly exceeding their capital, and are therefore
technically insolvent, although Armimpexbank is potentially in a better
position because of foreign investor commitments to boost its capital.
The capital of the non-State banks is very small even without correcting
for loan losses. Adjustment for loan losses would eliminate a number of
the poorer banks, leaving only a small group of about four banks,
including Midland-Armenia, with some potential to achieve in the near
future the accreditation standards required for a credit line.
7. The above review of the situation in the banking sector raises
concerns about the capacity of the system to participate in a Bank line
of credit. However, the availability of such a credit, of a limited size
and with appropriately stringent accreditation conditions for access,
along with institutional strengthening and policy reforms under the SAC,
is considered to be a powerful incentive for the banks to engage in an
effective dialogue and sustain the momentum of reform, and will also
permit domestic banks potentially to compete with foreign financing
institutions. At the same time technical assistance to support
institutional strengthening in the banks is needed to assist the banks
to move towards accreditation.
Objectives
8. Discussions with private businessmen have suggested that the Bank
could act as a catalyst to the considerable amount of credit resources
outside Armenia that would be prepared to consider lending in the right
conditions, while providing resources to strengthen capacity in the
banking system, and provide services to increase enterprise
- 3-



competitiveness. Accordingly, the major objectives of the project are
to: (i) finance longer-term lending for investment; (ii) strengthen the
capacity of the banking system to provide medium and long term credit,
especially for export oriented projects, and; (iii) build capacity to
develop international market links for Armenian companies to enhance
investment, imports, exports and technological levels, and enhance their
access to the capital market
Bank Strategy
9. The Bank's strategy is to support the adjustment of the Armenian
economy. The program has been developed through an Earthquake
Reconstruction Credit, an Institution Building Loan, and Power
Maintenance and Irrigation projects. A Rehabilitation Credit was
approved by the Board on February 28, 1995, a Social Investment Fund in
October 1995, and a SAC in February 1996. A priority for future
assistance is the rapid growth of private enterprise, through new starts
and privatizations. This requires an environment to attract and support
foreign and local private investment, and the strengthening of Armenia's
financial institutions. The proposed line of credit, and technical
assistance program are central to this strategy. However, the success of
this project is to some extent contingent on continuing progress on
reestablishment of normal trade links. The project requires IDA funding,
which is in short supply and constrains the scale of financing. IBRD
lending to Armenia depends on a favorable creditworthiness assessment,
which has yet to be made, and, following such an assessment, a
determination of the scale of lending.
Project Description
10. The components of this project are designed to address both the
supply and demand for finance, through firstly provision of credit lines
to the Private Investment Finance Corporation of Armenia (PIFCA) and
the domestic banks, and secondly through technical assistance to
increase enterprise bankability by enhancing international
competitiveness, and the strengthening of the banks and the capital
market. The proposed project is a priority for the Government and is
supported by a number of public agencies and private investors.
11. The project would have two main components: (i) financing ;a line
of credit of US$11 million; would be partially earmarked (by agreement
with the co-investors) for the PIFCA which the Government is setting up
in collaboration with EBRD and private investors as shareholders; this
component would be allocated US$6 million subject to disbursement within
three years; a further US$5 million would be available either for the
PIFCA or for eligible participating commercial banks, on a first-come -
first-served basis; (ii) capacity building technical assistance; (a) a
matching grant-based facility of about US$4 million would finance the
part of the services and overhead costs of an export support fund and an
enterprise match-making fund, and; (b) a technical assistance facility
of US$0.9 million would provide expertise in banking and capital market
development (see 1/). The PIFCA will be cofinanced by the EBRD, KFW and
private investors, in the amount of about US$18.5 million. Policy measures
following up those of the SAC to strengthen the regulatory regime for
banking, the capital market, and enterprise development would form part
- 4 -



of the project conditionality. These are detailed in paragraph 30.
12. The Line of Credit would be made available through a project
management unit (PMU) in the Ministry of Economy (MOE) to eligible
participating financial institutions who would sign subsidiary loan
agreements with the PMU. The proposed PIFCA would be pre-identified as
an eligible financial institution, subject to accreditation conditions,
including registration, licensing under a special regulation pending the
adoption of a law, adoption of a charter and business plan acceptable to
the Bank, and subscription of share capital by the private investors.
The commercial banks would be able to qualify subject to meeting a
separate set of accreditation conditions which assure their financial
positions measured against IAS norms, adequate management and credit
absorptive capacity, and adherence to banking regulations as stipulated
by the Central Bank of Armenia. The line of credit would finance fixed
investment and associated permanent working capital. Onlending terms and
conditions from the PMU to the commercial banks would be coordinated
with those of the parallel credit line to the PIFCA. Subsidiary loan
maturity would, subject to agreement at appraisal, be ten years, with an
interest rate linked to that charged by the EBRD, who would be the
leader in the incipient market for long-term foreign currency investment
resources.
13. The Export Support Fund (ESF) and Enterprise Match-Making Fund
(EMF) would provide matching grants to promote and support export and
import trade, investment and technology partnerships for specific
companies. Both instruments would be transaction-based and proactive,
and would be located in the Governmentes recently established Enterprise
Development and Foreign Investment Promotion Agency (EDIPA), an
autonomous public agency affiliated to the Ministry of Economy. The PMU
would enter into a grant agreement with EDIPA. The ESF would be under
the direction of a locally-based fund manager recruited internationally,
and would aim to provide ongoing specialist export assistance to
targeted companies throughout the export market research, identification
and transaction process, as needed. The EMF would be geared to
individual transactions between Armenian and Foreign companies, and
would be used to finance intermediaries to identify foreign partners and
follow through negotiations to closure of deals.
14. Technical Assistance to the Financial sector. This component would
consist of resources to support training and consultancy in the
commercial banks (to bring them towards standards of performance
required for accreditation to the line of credit) and capital market
institutions, including the Securities Marketing Supervision (SMS) and
the Yerevan Stock Exchange. The banking support would be provided
through a bankers training center (BTC) to be established by the
Government under USAID auspices, which will also finance an accounting
conversion program in the banks and enterprise sector. The capital
market assistance would finance training and consultancy to support
securities trading and regulations.
Demand for the Credit
15. A survey of 63 companies in the public and private sector revealed
a high level of interest in the various components of the project. A
- 5 -



majority of enterprises showed high or very high potential interest in
both the line of credit and the EMF. The interest in the ESF was also
good, although some doubts occurred largely because a number of
enterprises interviewed had no export experience or intentions. Lack of
recent term lending by the banks due to political uncertainties,
combined with high real interest rates and short maturities on deposits
and loans, make it difficult to determine with any more precision the
size of the potential pipeline of eligible subloan applicants. The
Midland (Armenia) Bank has carried out a survey as part of the business
plan for the PIFCA which reveals
Financing
16. The total project cost would be about US$50 million. The Bank
project is estimated to cost US$16.0 million. In addition, the EBRD,
KFW, and private investors are expected to provide US$18.5 million for
the PIFCA; cofinancing of about US$4.0 million has been provisionally
agreed with USAID to support accounting reform and bankers training, and
cofinancing may also be provided by Dutch Trust Funds. The local
contribution, from the Government, banks and private investors, would be
in the region of US$11.0 million over the project life. PHRD grant funds
have financed the bulk of the preparation costs of the project.
Implementation
17. It is expected that appraisal of the proposed project would take
place in April 1996; Board presentation would be approximately July
1996.
Sustainability
18. The project would mobilize foreign private investment in Armenia
which would be self-sustaining in the appropriate business environment
.which is now developing. The experience gained in term lending and
enterprise support (through exports and international company
collaboration) combined with the capacity building program in the
commercial banks and the securities market institutions would ensure
sustainability of the project, strengthen the capacity of the banking
system, and would yield long-term benefits.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations
19. Seven operations have been approved in Armenia, of which three have
substantial disbursements (the IBL, the Earthquake Reconstruction
Project and the Rehabilitation Credit). Useful experience has been built
up, and Bank project implementation has accelerated as physical and
political circumstances improve, and the reform effort renews momentum.
The capabilities of the existing Foreign Aid Coordination Center, which
will also house the PMU for this operation, are good. The experience
with lines of credit in the FSU area is mixed; the success of such an
operation depends on an adequately strong group of participating banks,
sufficient defined demand and clear procedures. Export support funds
have had a good record in terms of generation of incremental export
revenue in relation to costs of operation. Match-making operations have
a too-recent history in the Bank for conclusions yet to be drawn.
- 6 -



Economic Analysis
20. Policy Environment. Armenia is one of the most successful countries
of the FSU in its macroeconomic stabilization program. Its budget
deficit has been reduced to about 99 of GDP in 1995 (from 48% in 1993)
while the annual inflation rate is about 26%. Relative stabilization of
the domestic currency has substantially increased the transparency of
enterprise activities in the industrial sector as well as their
competitiveness in domestic and foreign markets. Export taxes and
quantitative import restrictions have been removed, and the maximum
import tariff is currently 10%. Budget subsidies to the industrial
sector have been largely eliminated.
21. Most prices have been liberalized, and those few that remain
administered have been raised to near cost-recovery levels. Interest
rates are determined at auction; over 80% of the credit is made
available through refinancing auctions and the remaining credit is
offered at the auction-determined monthly interest rate. The exchange
rate has been stabilized, and foreign exchange is purchased at regular
inter-bank auctions. Commodity prices in both domestic and foreign
trade have been liberalized with only a very few exceptions. The
elimination of distortions means that financial rates of return on
subprojects would reflect economic rates, and the stability of the
reform process means that a divergence is relatively unlikely to occur
in the future, so that financial rates of return will continue to
reflect real rates.
22. Core Economic Objective. The main objective of the project is to
stimulate a market-driven private sector investment and production
response to the stabilization and structural adjustment program. The
resumption of economic growth, increase in capacity utilization, and
rapid privatization will create a good basis for the growth of private
business. The Project would start to mobilize investment resources,
initially foreign, and to create international contacts for Armenian
private enterprises, in order to stimulate the exports that are
essential to economic recovery. The projectes capacity building role in
the banking sector will stimulate the future mobilization of savings for
investment.
23. Achievement of Core Economic Objective. The provision of financing
through the domestic banks and through a special financing institution
will provide the resources to fund the establishment or expansion of
efficient private sector investment projects in a range of production
and services, thereby financing growth of production. The provision of
finance will be supported by technical assistance targeted to promote
international marketing, technological and trade contacts with Armenian
companies, thereby promoting exports. Finance will also create the
necessary incentives for the strengthening of the banking system to
mobilize savings. Technical assistance will also be targeted to meet
critical weaknesses in the banking system, such as portfolio management,
credit management and loan appraisal, thereby moving the financial
reform process forward. The Project, combined with perceived improvement
in the economy, supported by the Bank/Fund dialogue, has already
succeeded in mobilizing investor interest internationally and domestic
enterprise and banking interest.
-7-



24. Institutional Capacity and Regulatory Framework. The Project will
support the establishment of two important and needed local
institutions - the EDIPA, which will coordinate enterprise-related
foreign assistance in Armenia, and the BTC, which will provide
assistance through training and consultancy to build capacity in the
banks. The project will also strengthen the SMS and professional
expertise in institutions such as the YSE. The SAC made major progress
on the regulatory framework, and this project is supporting through
conditionality some key next steps in legislative reform, including
regulations relating to lending security, taxation, and accounting.
25. Fiscal Impact. The line of credit will be provide budgetary resources
to the Government through the spread between the cost of IDA funds and
the onlending rate of the subsidiary loan (provisionally 10 years at
LIBOR plus a percentage rate) from the Government to the participating
financial institutions, less the cost of administering the PMU. Part of
the spread to the Government should also be seen as coverage for its
credit risk in the event of default by a PFI. The direct net budgetary
benefit will depend on the rate of disbursement of the credit line.
Fully disbursed, the maximum net fiscal benefit in any one year would be
around US$ 900,000. The present value at 10t   of the net fiscal benefit
accruing to the Government from the line of credit would be in the range
US$2.5 to US$3.5 million over the life of the credit line on the
assumptions made in the appraisal report for interest rates, loan term
and disbursement.
The EMF and ESF consultancy funds, along with the funding of the
associated administrative costs, are expected to be passed on a grant
basis to the EDIPA, and to the BTC and SMS. The Government would
therefore bear a fiscal cost amounting to the cost of the IDA funds
(0.75w per annum). The net direct fiscal expense associated with the
financial provision for the ESF/EMF would be about US$26,000 per annum
over the life of the IDA Credit. The present cost at 10t would be
US$275,000.
26. The direct fiscal impacts mentioned above should in addition be set
against indirect positive fiscal effects from the creation of new
productive capacity. The technical assistance should therefore be seen
as an investment yielding an enhanced stream of future fiscal inflows.
The successful implementation of the line of credit and technical
assistance will result in the broadening of the tax base through new
businesses. Jobs will also be generated in the new businesses, yielding
additional tax revenue.
27. Analysis of Alternatives. During project preparation, a number of
alternative approaches were considered for the project. The
establishment of a guarantee operation was considered as a means of
mobilizing foreign funds. However, the successful mobilization of funds
through the PIFCA has proved to be a viable alternative. In addition,
the total funds available under IDA terms were inadequate to support a
guarantee operation, and the potential complications surrounding the
tailoring of a guarantee to Armeniaes circumstances (e.g. providing
cover for electricity outages) would have required excessive processing
time in the context of the tight timetable for establishment of the
PIFCA. Further technical assistance was also considered, including a
- 8 -



judicial training component, to administer the economic courts. However,
given the funding constraint, it was decided that the project should
have a clearer focus on enterprise development. It was considered that
the credit line to the domestic banks should be deleted due to
disbursement risk; however, it was considered that the credit line
would be a major incentive for the local banking sector and should be
retained.    The survey of demand for the project components
(paragraph... ) showed that the LOC and the EMF were the most sought
after parts of the project, with a clear majority of respondents
considering them to be very important.
28. Cost-benefit Analysis. There is little evidence currently of rates
of return that are being achieved by long-term investors in Armenia.
However, the demand study of 52 enterprises (table ... ) showed a
considerable interest from potential investors in borrowing at the rates
for foreign currency loans which would prevail under the proposed credit
(the subsidiary loan rate plus a margin of 4 or 5%-). The implication
therefore is that financial rates of return of around 16%- were
anticipated. For reasons set out above there is not expected to be any
major divergence between economic and financial rates.
29. Analysis of the sensitivity of the estimated rates of return to
possible policy changes and sovereign risks can only be tentative.
However, the continuing progress in improving the policy environment and
implementing strict macroeconomic measures, and the growing geopolitical
stabilization, strongly indicate that the number of opportunities for
profitable business will grow. The proposed line of credit can easily be
topped up if it proves successful.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
30. The Bank has played a key role as a catalyst in mobilizing outside
finance, reforming the banking sector and restructuring of the
enterprise sector through privatization and improvement of the
environment for private business. The SAC is supporting a broad reform
agenda, including privatization, while the proposed project follows on
with support to private enterprises, banks , and the capital market. In
the case of the PIFCA, the Bank has been responsible for identifying and
mobilizing private investors in collaboration with the EBRD.
Mobilization has definitely been facilitated by the Bankes own proposed
loan financing input. This input would be gap-filling, representing 33%-
of loan and about 20%- of total financing of the PIFCA. The presence of
the Bank is regarded as important both by EBRD and the private investors
involved, providing a degree of comfort for foreign investors. The line
of credit to domestic banks (LOCDB) would be the first of its kind in
Armenia, and would stimulate medium to long-term financing, which has
not been available because of the collapse of output, uncertain economic
environment and because of the short-term nature of the deposits in the
banks. The LOCDB, supported by Bank financed TA, is also essential to
provide an incentive to the domestic banks to compete with the PIFCA,
and it clearly enhances the Bank's influence in the financial sector
reform dialogue. Bank involvement in direct enterprise strengthening
through the export support fund and match-making fund is complementary
to the enhancement of lending, and provides overall coherence to the
Bank's intervention. Bank assistance in the area of banking and capital
-9-



market development is justified because it would be an essential
complement to the financing component, would be coordinated with donor
agencies, in particular USAID, and would be gap-filling, targeting
specific inputs.
Actions to be agreed
31. The following actions are to be agreed:
By Negotiations
(a) Project processing conditions:
- the PMU established and main local staffing in place
- the LOC advisor hired
- the charter for the PIFCA adopted by the shareholders
- the PIFCA registered and licensed
- a policy statement on the PIFCA, acceptable to IDA, issued
- share capital of the PIFCA paid in
- the charter for the EDIPA adopted by the Cabinet
- management of the EDIPA hired
- export/matchmaking fund manager in place
(b) Policy conditions
- confirmation of loan loss provisioning according to CBA
guidelines to commence by July 1, 1996;
- tax deductibility of loan loss provisions in force.
- loss carry forward permitted in payment of profits tax; frequency
of payment reduced
By effectiveness
(a) project processing conditions
- the LOC adviser in place
- the PIFCA management in place
- the PIFCA accredited
- one commercial bank accredited
- new IAS reporting forms introduced in the commercial banks
- portfolio audits completed in at least 15 banks
(b) policy conditions
- submit to parliament amendments to the present civil code,
dealing with commercial activity
- amend laws on banking and CBA, to include regulations on bank
activities in securities market
- submit to parliament amendments to the existing mortgage and
collateral law,
- initiate negotiation of double taxation treaties with major
potential investing countries
- adopt share depository regulations
- submit to parliament a non-bank financial institutions law
- adopt amended regulations for investment fund licensing
- adopt regulations for an autonomous Securities Marketing Agency
- make necessary amendments to latest company law
Poverty Category:
32. Not applicable
- 10 -



Program Objective Category
33. The project focuses on private sector Development and Finance
Environmental Aspects.
34. While there are not foreseen to be any direct environmental
effects since this is primarily an intermediated credit, subprojects
may have environmental impacts, and the project would therefore be
rated category B. Each subproject, either loan or guarantee, would be
subject to an environmental assessment, according to a manual of
guidelines to be prepared during the processing phase.
Participatory Approach
35. This project has been thoroughly discussed with the appropriate
organs of Government in Armenia. In addition, the PIFCA has been
extensively discussed with the EBRD and potential private investors.
The commercial banks who may participate in the credit have been
visited on a number of occasions and presentations have been made to
plenary meetings sponsored by the Commercial Bankers Association. The
securities marketing supervision, American University of Armenia and
the Yerevan Stock Exchange have been extensively consulted, and NGOs
and donor organizations have been similarly consulted on various
aspects of the design of the project. A survey of public and private
enterprises (reported above) was carried out to determine the extent
of demand for the components of the project.
Project Benefits
36. LOC. The benefits of the LOC are expected to be provided through
the easing of the financing constraint and the development of capacity
in the banking system inter alia to develop and appraise projects. A
total of about 30 to 50 subprojects (at US$120,000 to US$200,000 per
subproject) are expected to be financed under the IDA credit to the
PIFCA, and about 50 subprojects (at about US$100,000 per subproject)
under the line of credit to the domestic banks. The LOC would also
generate benefits through the provision of technical assistance. ESF.
The ESF would make an important contribution in realizing Armeniaes
export strategy by: (a) directly assisting at least 80 to 100 private
Armenian firms increase their shares in international markets; (b)
assisting Armenian firms internalize marketing skills and thus make
them more bankable; (c) developing domestic private sector capacity in
provision of export consulting services, and; (d) assisting EDIPA
develop capacity in delivery of enterprise support services.
Experience elsewhere suggests that expenditure on export support
yields incremental export revenues of a multiple of at least ten.
EMF. The EMF is likely to assist about 50 to 60 Armenian firms to
establish international contacts and close deals in trade, technology
and investment. Based on fees of around 3-5w of the transaction value
and an average co-payment rate of about 50w, a $2 million aggregate
intervention in the form of matching subsidies towards intermediation
fees could result in an aggregate inflow of as much as $40 million in
direct foreign investment. For larger average transaction sizes, this
multiple would be larger. Banks and Capital Market Assistance. This
- 11 -



program is expected to yield external benefits in terms of capacity
building within the banks, the securities regulatory agency (SMS) and
the main securities marketing entities. The co-financed accounting
conversion program will benefit both banks and enterprises.
Project Risks
37. Line of Credit The LOC faces three main risks. Leaving aside
macroeconomic risk, which seems slight, these are (i) risk of a
deterioration of the political situation leading to a reimposition of
a full blockade; (ii) bank systemic risk - the risk of bank failures
or general inability of the banks to achieve accreditation standards
which prevents access to the credit, and; (iii) risk of inadequate
eligible subborrowers. The first of these risks seems slight, given
the direction of progress in international negotiations; the second
is mitigated because of the existence of the PIFCA, which will be
strongly capitalized, and managed by a reputable international
investor. One new commercial bank is also strongly capitalized and
would probably be accredited early on in the project life. The third
risk has been addressed through studies both under the project and
through the Midland Bankes business plan for the PIFCA. Considerable
latent demand for loans at the terms and conditions expected to be on
offer, should materialize. ESF and EMF. In addition to general risks
mentioned above, the ESF and EMF face two main risks. (i) The
environment is still constrained by underdeveloped legal and
institutional structures that discourage foreign firms from entering
into long-term relationships with Armenian firms; (ii) the weak state
of the financial system makes access to finance difficult and costly,
and prevents firms from implementing export, import, or technological
upgrading plans. The first risk is being rapidly overcome. With
assistance from the Bank as well as other agencies, the Government is
rapidly implementing laws and establishing institutions necessary for
a well-functioning market economy. In the case of the second, with
assistance from the Bank the Government is implementing reforms aimed
at improving the financial viability of the banking system. These
reforms should improve the availability of domestically sourced
credit, while in the interim, under this project the proposed lines of
credit and the technical assistance program for the financial system
would contribute in easing the credit constraint. The main risk for
the Banking and Capital Market TA component is failure to transfer
effectively know-how to the banks and securities agencies. This will
be mitigated through careful design of the program, to include cost-
sharing provisions in order to ensure adequate commitment by the
agencies involved.
Status of Project Preparation.
38. The project is due to be appraised in April 1996.
Footnote from text:
1/ MIGA guarantees will be available to cover longer term equity
investments and loans linked to equity investments, as soon as Armenia
becomes a member. Free-standing loans of short or long maturity are
not covered by MIGA.
- 12 -



Contact Points:      Task Manager:
David Phillips(EC4EF)
(202) 473-4054 (tel)
(202) 522-0005 (fax)
Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
(202) 458-5454 (tel)
(202) 522-1500 (fax)
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending July 26, 1996.
- 13 -



