Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N006-0 AM
Interim Fund
Development Credit Agreement
(Enterprise Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the interim 
trust fund established with funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 
184 of the Board of Governors of International Development Association
Dated January 13, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N006-0 AM INTERIM FUND
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 13, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the 
Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association, pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996 (the Interim 
Fund Resolution).
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution, the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(C)
to assist in the financing of the Project, the Borrower intends to 
obtain: (i) a loan from the Kreditanstalt f(r Wiederaufbau (KfW) in an amount 
equivalent to $5,000,000 (the KfW Loan); and (ii) a grant from the United States 
Agency for International Development (USAID) in an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
(the USAID Grant) (KfW and USAID hereinafter referred to collectively as the 
Co-financiers) on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the Co-financiers (Co-financiers’ Agreements);
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Interim Fund to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CBA" means the Central Bank of Armenia.
(b)
"EDIPA" means the Enterprise Development and Foreign Investment Promotion 
Agency established as an autonomous agency under the Ministry of Economy pursuant to 
Decree No. 19 of the Ministry of Economy dated January 30, 1996;
(c)
"ESF" means the Enterprise Support Fund established within EDIPA;
(d)
"Investment Enterprise" means a private enterprise to which a 
Participating Financial Institution proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(e)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means the London interbank offered rate for six-month 
deposits in Dollars, expressed as a percentage per annum; 
(f)
"Operational Manual" means the manual, approved by EDIPA and the 
Administrator, containing eligibility criteria, appraisal approval and supervision 
rules and procedures for grants to be provided by EDIPA to finance activities under 
Part A.1 (a) and (b) of the Project, as such Operational Manual may be changed from 
time to time upon agreement with the Administrator;
(g)
"Participating Financial Institution" or "PFI" means a bank or other 
financial institution, duly established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, 
which shall have been selected by the Borrower for participation in the Project 
pursuant to Schedule 7 to this Agreement, and approved by the Administrator for 
participation in the Project;
(h)
"PIFCA" means Private Investment Finance Corporation of Armenia, to be 
established by private entities and international financial institutions to 
intermediate foreign equity and loans to finance small and medium scale enterprises;
(i)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit established by the Borrower 
within the Foreign Aid Coordination Center under the Ministry of Economy to oversee 
activities under the Project in accordance with the terms of this Agreement;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(k)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Participating 
Financial Institution out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit to an Investment 
Enterprise for a Sub-project;
(l)
"Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreement referred to in 
paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(m)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
entered into between the Borrower and a Participating Financial Institution for the 
purposes of making Sub-loans by such Participating Financial Institution for 
Sub-projects under the Project and the term "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided 
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(n)
"Sub-project" means a specific development project to be carried out by 
an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Interim Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 11,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 1, 2002 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or canceled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next 
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semi-annual installments 
payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 2007 and ending July 15, 
2031. Each installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2016, 
shall be one and one-fourth per cent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded  for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
Page  4
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal; 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise such 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
abovementioned repayment modification; and
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Administrator determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, banking, accounting and environmental practices and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have 
Page  5
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account or payment out of 
the Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the Co-financiers’ Agreements shall have failed to become effective by 
December 31, 1997, or such later date as the Administrator may agree; provided, 
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Administrator that adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b)
  (i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
KfW Loan or the USAID Grant shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreements providing therefor; or
(B)
the KfW Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Administrator that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under the Co-financiers’ Agreements; and (B) adequate 
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01 (b) (i) (B) subject to the proviso in Section 5.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Page  6
Termination Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02.  In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
1, Government House
Republic Square
Yerevan  375010
Republic of Armenia
Telex:
243331 LADA SU
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By /s/ Armen Sarkissian
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
    as Administrator of the interim trust fund established 
    with funds contributed by certain members of
    International Development Association pursuant to
    Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
    International Development Association
By /s/ Johannes Linn
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia 
Page  7
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
   Amount of the
Interim Fund Credit                % of
     Allocated
Expenditures
   (Expressed in
                to be
Category 
  SDR Equivalent)                Financed
(1)
Sub-projects  
 
under Part B
of the Project:
(a)  Goods
6,230,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 
80% of local expend-
itures for other 
items
procured locally
(b)  Works
1,340,000
80%
(c)  Consulting
   50,000
100% 
services and
training
(2)
Goods under
  120,000
100% of foreign
Part A of the
expenditures,
Project
100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-factory
cost) and 80% of 
local
expenditures for 
other
items procured 
locally
(3)
Consulting  
100% 
Services and
Training:
(a)  under Part
  170,000
A (f) of the
Project
(b)  under Parts
3,640,000
A (a), (b), (c), 
(d) and (e) of
the Project
(4)
Operating costs
   50,000
100%
TOTAL
      11,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Page  8
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means incremental operating costs related to 
the operation of EDIPA as a result of the Project, including staff salaries and 
allowance (other than salaries of government officials); communication and 
transportation costs, office supplies and minor office equipment.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance 
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 8 to this Agreement; (b) payments made for expenditures under Category (1), 
unless at least two PFIs have been accredited in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 7 to this Agreement and Subsidiary Loan Agreements, satisfactory to the 
Administrator, have been entered into between the Borrower and the two selected PFIs; 
(c) payments made for expenditures under Category (3) (a), unless a Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement has 
been entered into between the Borrower and PIFCA; and (d) payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 1,100,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2) 
and (3) (b) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
November 1, 1996.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $500,000 equivalent; (ii) services of consulting firms under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (iii) services of individual consultants 
under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (iv) operating costs under such 
terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist in financing such productive 
facilities and resources in the Republic of Armenia as will contribute to the economic 
and social development of the country; (ii) to strengthen investment and export market 
capacity of private enterprises; and (iii) to strengthen commercial banks and other 
financial institutions and the capital markets.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institution Building in the Enterprise, Banking and Capital Markets 
Sectors 
1.
Enterprise Sector
(a)
Provision of grants to private enterprises to support export market 
development activities in accordance with the Operational Manual.
(b)
Provision of grants to private enterprises, in accordance with the 
Operational Manual, to assist in locating strategic investment partners for contract 
manufacturing, technology transfer, fixed capital investment and plant completion and 
buyouts.
(c)
Institutional support to EDIPA through provision of consultants’ 
services, training and office equipment.
(d)
Provision of advisory services to private enterprises in business 
planning, finance marketing,  project analysis and other areas agreed with the 
Administrator.
(e)
Provision of advisory services, training and equipment to the PMU.
(f)
Assistance in local staff development of PIFCA through provision of 
training and fellowships. 
2.
Banking Sector
Provision of consultants’ services, training and equipment to commercial banks 
to improve their capacity in credit management, appraisal, work-outs, liability 
Page  9
management and strategic planning and other areas agreed with the Administrator. 3.
Capital Markets Development
(a)
Provision of consultants’ services and equipment for the development of a 
regulatory body for the securities market.
(b)
Provision of technical assistance in drafting of regulations and 
guidelines governing securities markets.
(c)
Training of regulators, traders and brokers and other capital markets 
intermediaries to provide the foundations of an efficient functioning capital market.
(d)
Provision of public information on operations of securities markets.
Part B:
Financing of Sub-projects through Participating Financial Institutions
The financing of specific development projects through Sub-loans to Investment 
Enterprises engaged in manufacturing, agribusiness, commercial services, trade, 
construction, mining, energy services, transport and communications.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by January 1, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost more than $500,000 equivalent each. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix  2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
Page  10
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Administrator, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
3.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.5 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Commercial Practices
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, may be 
procured at competitive prices, in accordance with the normal commercial practices of 
the respective Investment Enterprises acceptable to the Administrator, due account 
being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and 
reliability thereof and availability of maintenance and spare parts thereof.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.  Employment of Consultants 
1.
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in 
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services 
issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Administrator.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Administrator shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Administrator review shall not 
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection 
of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Administrator; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above. 
Section III.   Eligibility Restrictions
Page  11
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
and works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating 
Countries; consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries 
and bidders offering goods and works from such countries shall be disqualified from 
bidding for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1.02 of the Consultants’ 
Guidelines, only consultants from Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide 
services financed out the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit. 
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement: 
1.
The Borrower shall maintain the PMU within the Ministry of Economy with staff 
and other resources and terms of reference, satisfactory to the Administrator, which 
shall be responsible for the overall implementation of the Project. 
2.
For the purpose of carrying out Part A.1 (a) and (b) of the Project, the 
Borrower shall make available to EDIPA out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit 
allocated from time to time to Categories (2) and (3) (b) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, for the purpose of making grants to private enterprises in accordance with 
the provisions of the Operational Manual, the amount required to finance the 
activities described in Part A.1 (a) and (b) of the Project. 
3.
PMU shall be responsible for carrying out activities under Part A.2 of the 
Project in accordance with the operating guidelines satisfactory to the Administrator, 
which will set forth, inter alia, a fee base for the services rendered to commercial 
banks under Part A.2 of the Project.
4.
For the purpose of carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
select PFIs in accordance with the eligibility criteria and procedures 
set forth or referred to in Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
(b)
shall on-lend to a selected PFI a part of the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund Credit allocated from time to time to Category (1) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement to finance the cost of Sub-Projects in respect of which PFI has made or 
proposes to make a Sub-loan in accordance with the terms and conditions referred to in 
Schedule 8 to this agreement, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered between 
the Borrower and each selected PFI under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, including, inter alia, the following: (i) the maturity 
of the Subsidiary Loan shall not exceed ten (10) years; (ii) an interest rate shall be 
charged on the amounts of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time at the prevailing LIBOR Base Rate plus two percent (2%); and (iii) a commitment 
fee on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate of 0.5% per annum;
(c)
exercise its rights under Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Administrator and the Borrower and to achieve the 
purposes of the Project, and, except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any respective 
provision thereof;
(d)
take or cause to be taken all actions necessary or appropriate to enable 
the PFIs to perform in accordance with the provisions of their respective Subsidiary 
Loan Agreements all the obligations of the PFIs therein set forth, and not to take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance; 
and
(e)
through the PMU, coordinate the overall execution of Part B of the 
Project.
5.
For the purposes of carrying out Part A (f) of the Project, the Borrower shall 
relend to PIFCA, the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time 
to Category (3) (a) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under a Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement to be entered between the Borrower and PIFCA, under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Administrator and which shall include, without 
Page  12
limitation: (i) 10-year maturity inclusive of a 3-year grace period; (ii) an interest 
at the rate of two percent (2%); and (iii) the foreign exchange risk borne by PIFCA.
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, on or about September 30, 1999, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
sub-paragraph (a) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Administrator, by October 31, 1999, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Administrator's views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
provided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 
5 to the Project Agreement, payments for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the Special Account before the 
Administrator shall have authorized withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
in respect thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures 
only if the Administrator shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,600,000 
to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposited in the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,500,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request 
or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify.
Page  13
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories for the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for 
the Project shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  14
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Modifications of the General Conditions
For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
(1)
The term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement;
(2)
The terms "Development Credit Agreement" and "Credit Account", wherever 
used in the General Conditions, are amended to read "Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement", "Interim Fund Credit" and "Interim Fund Credit Account", respectively;
(3)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows:
"15.
"Participating Country" means any country that meets the 
requirements set forth in Section 5(e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board 
of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as determined by 
the Administrator as of the date on which the Interim Fund Credit was approved 
pursuant to Section 5(c) of said Resolution;  and "Participating Countries" 
means, collectively, all such countries;"
(4)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(5)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of 
the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
(6)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
"Association" shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity.
(7)
Section 6.03 is modified to read as follows:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Administrator.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account shall 
have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Interim Fund Credit for 
a 
continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Administrator 
determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the 
Interim Fund Credit will not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (c) at any time 
the Administrator determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out 
of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent 
practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Interim Fund Credit during the procurement or the execution 
of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate 
action 
satisfactory to the Administrator to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund 
Credit, or (d) at any time, the Association determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund 
Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (e) 
after 
the Closing Date, an amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account, or (e) by the date specified 
in 
Page  15
paragraph C.3 (c) of Schedule 8 to this Agreement, the Administrator 
shall, 
in respect of any portion of the Interim Fund Credit: (i) have received 
no 
applications or requests permitted under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of said 
paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such applications or requests, the 
Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right to submit 
such applications or approvals or to make withdrawals from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of 
the 
Interim Fund Credit. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or 
portion of the Interim Fund Credit shall be canceled."
SCHEDULE 7 
Eligibility Criteria and Procedures for Selection of  
Participating Financial Institutions
1.
Except as provided in paragraph 3 of this Schedule with respect to PIFCA, a 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement may be entered into with a PFI, duly established and 
operating under the laws of the Borrower, which, as the Borrower shall have 
determined, and the Administrator shall have agreed:
(a)
has an acceptable audit report which: (i) covers the last year of 
operations; (ii) incorporates a portfolio review; and (iii) is prepared by external 
auditors in accordance with International Accounting Standards ("IAS");
(b)
has been in existence and has produced operating results for a minimum of 
two years; provided that in the case of a merger or reorganization of two or more 
PFIs, at least one PFI existed and produced operating results for a minimum of two 
years;
(c)
has a capital adequacy ratio as defined under IAS of at least 4%, 
incorporating risk-weighted ratio as determined by the Basel Committee of Banking 
Supervision;
(d)
has provided a certificate of compliance from CBA stating that: (i) it 
has a valid banking license, and specifying type and date of license; and (ii) the PFI 
is in general compliance with all relevant banking laws and regulations of the 
Borrower;
(e)
has exposure to any one borrower as a percent of its IAS capital of no 
more than 30 percent by January 1997 or the date of its accreditation as a PFI, 
whichever is later;
(f)
has aggregate exposure to insiders (defined as council members, members 
of the Management Board of such PFI, employees in a management position and 
shareholders with voting rights in excess of 10 percent) of no more than 100 percent 
of IAS capital as of the date of its accreditation as a PFI;
(g)
on the basis of the audit report referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of this 
Schedule, has adopted adequate policies and procedures with respect to credit 
administration, loan servicing, and other key areas of banking practice;
(h)
has established capacity, for credit, accounting, and environmental 
assessment to manage investment lending to enterprises; and
(i)
has adopted a strategic corporate plan acceptable to the Administrator 
which includes, inter alia: (A) a program to fully convert its accounts to IAS by 
January 1, 1998; (B) specific arrangements to increase its capital adequacy ratio to 
8% within a reasonable timetable; and (C) specific arrangements to strengthen its 
capacity for credit, accounting and environmental assessment for management of 
investment lending. 
2.
For the purposes of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the term "International 
Accounting Standards" or "IAS" means the accounting standards issued or endorsed by 
the International Accounting Standards Committee and the term "equity capital" or 
"capital" means assets minus liabilities, as defined under IAS.
3.
For the purpose of enabling PIFCA to qualify as a Participating Financial 
Institution under the Project, PIFCA shall:
(a)
adopt a corporate charter, acceptable to the Administrator;
(b)
adopt an institutional development plan acceptable to the Administrator;
Page  16
(c)
define capital structure, management, and prudential operating guidelines 
including capital adequacy, accounting, investment and provisionary policy either in 
the charter or the institutional development plan;
(d)
register its charter in accordance with the Borrower’s applicable laws; 
and
(e)
have its initial equity capital paid up.
SCHEDULE 8
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans 
Pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
and except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the principal terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Schedule shall apply to Sub-loans: 
A.  Terms 
1.
Each Sub-loan shall be charged interest, on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at the rate determined by the PFI on the 
basis of market conditions and risk assessment. 
2.
Each Sub-loan shall be made for a period not exceeding seven (7) years, 
inclusive of a grace period not exceeding two (2) years. 
3.
The foreign exchange risk on Sub-loans shall be borne by an Investment 
Enterprise. 
B.  Eligibility Criteria
1.
Each Sub-loan shall be made to an Investment Enterprise which shall have 
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Administrator that:
(a)
it is an enterprise duly established under the laws of the Borrower, with 
at least fifty-one percent (51%) private shareholding and engaged in manufacturing, 
agribusiness, commercial services, trade, construction, mining, energy services, 
transport and communications;
(b)
has a maximum debt-equity ratio of 3:1; the term "debt"  means any 
indebtedness maturing by its term more than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred, and the term "equity" means assets minus liabilities; and
(c)
it has its financial statements (including balance sheets and income 
statements) audited for at least the past year.
2.
Sub-loans shall be made for Sub-projects which are determined, on the basis of 
an appraisal carried out in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the 
Administrator, to be:
(a)
related to the type of business in which an Investment Enterprise is 
engaged; 
(b)
technically feasible and financially and commercially viable, based on 
the projected cash-flow analysis; and 
(c)
designed in accordance with appropriate environmental standards and the 
laws of the Borrower. 
3.
The total amount of each Sub-loan made to an Investment Enterprise for a 
Sub-project by a PFI shall not exceed the equivalent of $500,000; and the maximum 
amount of each Sub-loan made to an Investment Enterprise for a Sub-project by PIFCA 
shall be established in PIFCA’s charter or its institutional development plan. 
C.
Other Conditions
1.
No expenditures for goods, works or services required for a Sub-project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been approved by the 
Administrator and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety (90) 
Page  17
days prior to the date on which the Administrator shall have received the application 
and information required under paragraph C.3(a) of this Schedule in respect of such 
Sub-loan; or
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been a free-limit Sub-loan 
for which the Administrator has authorized withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety (90) days 
prior to the date on which the Administrator shall have received the request and 
information required under paragraph C.3(b) of this Schedule in respect of such 
free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall 
be:
(i)
a Sub-loan made by a PFI  for a Sub-project other than the first 
three Sub-loans to be made by each PFI and other than any Sub-loan 
in an amount exceeding  $150,000 equivalent; and
(ii)
notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (i) above, a Sub-loan 
made by PIFCA for a Sub-project other than the first three 
Sub-loans made by PIFCA and other than any Sub-loan in an amount 
exceeding $300,000 equivalent.
3.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) to the 
Administrator for approval, PFI shall furnish to the Administrator an application, in 
form satisfactory to the Administrator, together with: (i) a description of the 
Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Sub-project, including a description of 
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund 
Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub\1eloan, including the schedule 
of amortization of the Sub-loan and proposed security arrangements (collateral, 
guarantee, etc.); and (iii) such other information as the Administrator shall 
reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by PFI for authorization to make withdrawals from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a 
summary description of the Investment Enterprise and the Sub-project, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Interim Fund Credit, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the 
schedule of amortization thereof.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Administrator 
on or before January 1, 2002.
4.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby PFI shall obtain, by written contract 
with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to 
protect the interests of the Administrator and PFI, including the right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the 
Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be 
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Administrator 
if the Administrator shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and 
construction included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund 
Credit to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made 
payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair 
such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Administrator or PFI shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Page  18
Sub-project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to 
perform its obligations under its contract with PFI.
