Page  1
May 11, 2000
His Excellency Levon Barkhudarian 
Minister of Finance  
Ministry of Finance  
Republic Square Yerevan 375010 
Republic of Armenia
Re:
Enterprise Development Project ( Credit No.N006-0 AM) Amendment to 
the Interim 
Fund Development Credit Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to the above-mentioned Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement (the 
Agreement) between the Republic of Armenia and International Development Association 
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 
184 (the Association) dated January 13, 1997 and amended on January 26, 1999, and to 
your letter dated November 15, 1999 requesting an amendment to the Agreement to 
provide inter alia, for the second Special Account for Parts A.1(a),(b) and (c) of the 
Project. We are pleased to inform you that the Association accedes to your request and 
we hereby agree to amend the Agreement as follows:
1.
Section 1.02(j) is amended to read as follows: 
"(j) "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 
2.02(b) this Agreement;"
2.
Section 2.02(b) is amended as follows:
"(b)
The Borrower may for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars special deposit accounts: (i) Special Account A, 
administered by ADA on behalf of the Borrower, for Parts A.1(a), (b) and (c) 
of the Project; and (ii) Special Account B, administered by the PMU on behalf 
of the Borrower, for Parts A.1(d), (e) and (f), A.2, A.3 and Part B of the 
Project, in a bank or banks and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, each respective Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement."
3.
In Section 4.01, all references to "the Special Account" are replaced with 
references to "the Special Accounts." \0c4.
Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is revised as 
per Annex 1 to this letter.  
5.
In Schedule 2, Part A.1 of this Project is revised as per Annex 2 to this 
letter.  
6.
Schedule 5 is revised as per Annex 3 to this letter. 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing, dating and 
returning to us the attached copy of this letter. This amendment shall become 
effective upon our receipt of the countersigned copy of this amendment letter. 
Sincerely,
By /s/ Judy O’Connor
Country Director for Armenia
Country Unit III
Europe and Central Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
Page  2
By /s/ Levon Barkhudaryan
Authorized Representative
Date:
June 1, 2000
ANNEX 1
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category: 
Amount of the
Interim Fund Credit Allocated
   % of Expenditures
(Expressed in
 to be
Category
SDR Equivalent)
Financed
(1)
Sub-projects  
under Part B 
of the Project:
(a)
Goods
9,472,350
100% of foreign 
expenditures,
100% of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory costs 
and 
80% of local 
expenditures 
for
other items procured 
locally
(b)
Works
  367,650
80%
(c)
Consulting Services 
and training
   50,000
100%
(2)
Goods under Part A 
  100,800
100% of foreign 
of the Project
expenditures, 100% 
of local 
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) 
and 
80% of local 
expenditures 
for 
other items procured 
locally 
(3)
Consulting services and 
1,549,200
100%
training under Parts 
A1 (a), (b), (c) and 
(d),(e) and A2 of the 
Project
(4)
Operating costs
   60,000
100%
TOTAL
      11,600,000
ANNEX 2
Part A:
Institution Building in the Enterprise, Banking and Capital Markets 
Sectors
1.
Enterprise Sector
(a)
Provision of grants to private enterprises to support export market 
development activities in accordance with the Operational Manual. 
Page  3
(b)
Provision of grants to private enterprises, in accordance with the 
Operational Manual, to assist in locating strategic investment partners for contract 
manufacturing, technology transfer, fixed capital investment and plant completion and 
buyouts, and purchase of goods. 
(c)
Institutional support to EDIPA through provision of consultants’ 
services, training, and goods. 
(d)
Provision of advisory services to private enterprises in business 
planning, finance marketing, project analysis and other areas agreed with the 
Administrator. 
(e)
Provision of advisory services, training and goods to the PMU.
(f)
Assistance in local staff development of PIFCA through provision of 
training and fellowships. 
ANNEX 3 
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) Category (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Parts A.1(a),(b) 
and (c) of the Project (Special Account A); and (ii) Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of 
Parts A.1(d), (e) and (f); A.2; A.3 and Part B of the Project (Special Account B);
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
provided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions of Part C.1 of Schedule 8 to 
this Agreement, payments for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of 
free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the Special Account before the Administrator 
shall have authorized withdrawals from the Interim Credit Account in respect thereof. 
Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if the 
Administrator shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount equivalent to 
$400,000 to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposited in the 
Special Account A pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; and (ii) an amount 
equivalent to $1,600,000 to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account and 
deposited in the Special Account B pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that each 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request 
or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
Page  4
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the respective 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the respective Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories for the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation;
(e) with  respect to the Special Account A - once the total amount withdrawn 
from the Interim Fund Credit Account to the Special Account A shall be the equivalent 
of $800,000.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for 
the Project shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the respective Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount 
not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by 
the evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Administrator 
shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Administrator 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the respective 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the respective Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
Page  5
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Cleared with and cc:  Messrs./Mms.  Martin Slough (ECSPF), Nickolay Chistyakov 
(LOAEL), 
