Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7563
P1aOJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
(LOAN 1951-YU)
DECEMBER 30, 1988
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and way be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
AIX     -   Agroindustrial Kombinat
BOAL    -   Basic Organization of Associated Labor
BCO     -   Basic Cooperative Organization
BPCR    -   Borrower Project Completion Report
COAL    -   Composite Organization of Associated Labor
ERR     -   Economic Rate of Return
FRR     -   Financial Rate of Return
IB      -   Investbanka - Osnova Banka
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding
PO      -   Participating Organization
SDK     -   Social Accounting Service
SERBIA  -   Serbia Proper in SR Serbia (excluding Autonomous
Provinces of Kosovo and Vojvodina)
SFUR    -   Serbian Fund for Underdeveloped Regions of Serbia Proper
SMA     -   Self-Management Agreement Among Participants in the Project
WO      -   Working Organization
YIB,    -   Yugoslav Investment Bank
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                                              2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)                                         1,000 kilograms
1 centimeter (cm)                                            0.39 inch
1 meter (m)                                                  1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                                             0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)                                               2.47 acres



FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
rHE WORLD BANK
Washungton. O.C. 20413
U.S.A.
O*e i4 cOwcIv.G.wFa
Opwtuam IvaI.mhn
December 30, 1988
MEKORANDUM TO THE'EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Yugoslavia MORAVA Regional
Development II Project
(1,666 1951-YU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of the report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Yugoslavia MORAVA Regional Development II
Project (Loan 1951-YU)" prepared by the Institute for Agricultural
Economics with a Performance Overview Memorandum prepared by the Europe,
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. No further evaluation of
this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has been made.
Attachment
| This document has a mesruted disidbutho and may be used by recipients only in te pwformance
of their oMcial duds Its contents may not oetwns be diclesed without Word Bank authouutin



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA - MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
(LOAN 1951-YU)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface .... ........      ..................................  (i)
Basic Data Sheet ................... .   (ii)
Evaluation Summary .................   (iv)
PROJECT PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW MEMORANDUM.......................
I.       INTRODUCTION .... ............ o.. .. .                          1
II.      IMPLEMENTATION  ..      .......................................... .  3
III.     INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE .................... . . ..... .       9
IV.      FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ....................         11
V.       ACCOMPLISHMENTS   AND SHORTCOMINGS ......... ...........       .. 12
VI.      LESSONS LEARNED .............          ......  ... .... ... .   14
ANNEXES 1 - 6 .................... ................                   17-23
ATTACHMENTS I-II:  Comments from the Borrower .................       25-26
MAP IBRD 15231
BORROWER PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(Not included but available in OED files)
I.       PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
II.      AGROINDUSTRY
III.     SUPPORT SERVICES
IV.      PRIMARY PRODUCTION AND IRRIGATION
ANNEXES 1 - 23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wold Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA - MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
(LOAN 1951-YU)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Morava Regional
Development II Project in Yugoslavia, for which Loan 1951-YU in the amount of
US$87.0 million was approved on March 3, 1981. A total of US$34.6 million of
the loan amount was cancelled, and the loan was closed as scheduled on
December 31, 1986. The date of final disbursement was July 15, 1987.
The PCR was prepared by the Idstitute for Industrial Economics, in
collaboration with the Institute for Agricultural Economics, under contract
with the Borrower, Investbanka. Because it is voluminous, the Borrower PCR is
not included in this report but is available in OED files. A Project
Performance Overview Memorandum, included in this report, was prepared by the
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office to summarize the Borrower
PCR and to discuss various matters not fully covered there. The Overview
Memorandum also compares actual developments with appraisal estimates and
highlights the principal achievements, shortcomings, and lessons learned. The
PCR and Overview Memorandum are based in part on a review of the Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 3163a-YU) dated January 30, 1981, the President's Report
(No. P-2907a-YU) dated February 11, 1981, the Loan Agreement of April 13,
1981, correspondence with the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda on project
issues as contained in relevant Bank files, as well as interviews with
officials in the Bank.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) but
the project was not audited by OED staff. A copy of the draft report was sent
to the Borrower on Sept. 22, 1988 for commtnots. Comments received have been
reproduced as Attachments I and II.



- ii -
PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA - MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT rI PROJECT
(LOAN 19S1-YU)
BASIC QAtA SHEET
Appraisal         Actual or             Actual as X of
KEY PROJECT DATA                           Estimate       Estimated Actual       Aporaisal Estimate
Total Project Cost (USSMillion)             239.4               288.4                    120
Loan Amount (USSMillion)                     87.0                87.0                    100
Disbursed (USSHillion)                   87.0                52.4                      60
Cancelled (USSMillion)                                       34.6
Date Board Approval                                           03/03/81
Loan Agreement Date                                           04/13/81
Date Effectiveness                         07/13/81           08/28/81                   130 /A
oate Physical Components Completed          12/85               12/87                    140 /&
Proportion Then Completed CX)           100                 100
Closing Date                               12/31/86            12/31/86                  100 /a
Economic Rate of Return tX)                  25                  12                       48
Institutional Performance                                     S&tisfactory
Technical Performance                                         Satisfactory
Number of Direct Beneficiaries
(families)                           11.000              10.000                        91
STAFF INPUT lb   EXZY  EY7    FY79   EY80   EXA1  YE82   EYU   E8    EY8    EFY8   EfY_Z   TOTAL
Preappraisal         .6    1.9      .7   72.7   13.9       .0                                           89.8
Appraisal                                20.0   44.1                                                    64.1
Negotiations                                     10.2                                                    10.2
Supervision                                       7.3   19.0   23.4   23.4   24.3   14.1    4.S   116.0
Other                               .2      .0    1.2                      .0                             1.5
TOTAL         .6    1.9       .9   92.8   76.9   19.1   23.4   23.4   24.3   14.1    4.5   281.8
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS                                EY8    FY83   ElM    EXA    ElM    ETfY
Appraisal Estinste (USSMillion)                          11.0   38.0   65.0   81.0   87.0   87.0
Actual (US$Hillion)                                       2.2   12.7   20.6   35.8   48.8   52.4
Actual as S of Estimate                                   2      33     32      44      56     60
Date of Final Disbursemesat July 15. 1987
I i        I           I Specializa-    I Perfor-  I
MISStaN OATA         D Date    No. of    M Man days | tion Represen- I mance    I            Types of
Mo/Yr   Persons   in Field   tation /G            Rating/4  Trend/f  Problems/t
Preparation                2/80       6         108          A.B.C.H.I
Pre-appraisal              4/80       4          72          A.F.G.H
Appraisal                  6/80       8         144          A,B.D.E.F.H.I
Supervision 1              4/81       2           6          ".I                1          2
*     II           10/81       2            7          E,I               1          1
•     III           3/82       2            8          E.1               1          1
•     IV           1 '82       2            9          B.I               1          2
V              /83       3          14          E.G.H              2          2       FP
*     VI            3/84        1          10          E                 2          1        F
VII          12/84       2          12          E,F                2          2       TF
0     VIIt          5/85       2           10          E.F               2          2       TF
IX           11/85       4          12          CAE                3          2       TF
X            10/86       1           8          E                  2          -        -



OTHER PROJECT DATA                                 - iii -
Borrower:                              Investbanka Belgrade
Ggarantor:                             Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
£xgcutina Agency:                      Serbian Fund for Underdeveloped Regions
Fiscal Year of Borrower:               January 1 to December 31
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)        01nar (Din)
CurrenCy Exchance Rate
Appraisal Year Average              US$1.00 = Din 24.6
Intervening Years Average (1981-86)   US$1.00 = Din 163.4
Completion Year Average (1987)   US$1.00   Oin 737.0
Follow-on Proiect:                     None
/I Calculated in terms of months from date of Board approval.
/_ Input as staff weeks. Source: World Bank Planning and Budget Department.
/_  A = Agriculturalist; B = Livestock Specialist; C = Irrigation Specialist;
0 a Marketing Specialist; E £ Economist; F a Financial Analyst;
G a Horticulturist; H = Ag. Ind. Specialist; I a Ag. Cr. Specialist.
/g  1 a Problem-free or minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems; and 3 = Major problems.
/g  1 = Improving; 2 = Stationary; and 3   Deteriorating.
/f  F = Financial; P * Managerial; T = Technical; P = Political; and 0 = Other.



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA - MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
(LOAN 1951-YU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.       The Morava Regional Development II Project was the eighth loan to
Yugoslavia for agriculture and agroindustries and was  'e first direct loan to
Serbia in the agricultural sector. Serbia benefitted .eeviously under two
agricultural credit projects.
2.       The project was implemented in a difficult environment.  World
economic growth was low during the implementation period of 1981-1987, and in
Yugoslavia, GDP grew only marginally in constant prices and consumption
actually declined. In agriculture, the average annual growth rate of gross
social product fell from about 42 during 1972-1979 to 22 during 1980-1984.
For agroindustry, a decline in real wages led to a dampening of domestic
demand, and the country faced increasing constraints on exports, particularly
to the EEC.
3.       Nevertheless, the project was relatively successful and seems to have
helped build a foundation for higher growth in the Morava Region. While
implementation of the primary production component did not reach expectations,
agroindustry in'4istments were implemented approximately as planned and appear
sound for the longer term.
Obiectives
4.       The general objective of the project was to promote the developwent
of the Morava Region in the Republic of Serbia, one of the less-developed
rural areas of the country, through increases in productivity, employment, and
incomes. Further, it was designed to increase the supply of agricultural and
agroindustrial products for the domestic market, expand exports of
agroindustrial products, and strengthen participating institutions. These
obje:tives were to be achieved through a primary production component (502 of
project cost), an agricultural services component in support of primary
production (22), and an agroindustries component (48X). The primary
production component comprised individual sector development (452) and social
sector development (5%). Individual sector development included livestock
(212), orchards (121), vineyards (62), and irrigation (51).



- v 
Implementation Experience
5.       Because of the poor economic environment, livestock and horticultural
development in the individual sector did not meet expectations.  Some 91% of
the projected number of livestock farmers participated but with smaller
investments than anticipated, and orchards/vineyards were established on only
382 of the projected area. The implementation period was about as
anticipated. In contrast, the agroindustrial investments were undertaken
approximately as planned, although the implementation period of 1981-1987 was
considerably longer than expected.
6.       The actual cost of the project was Din 25.3 billion in current terms,
compared to the appraisal estimate of Din 6.5 billion (including
contingencies.)'' The dinar cost figure was affected by delays in project
implementation and much higher inflation than expected at appraisal.
Individual sector primary production accounted for about 271 of project cost,
compared to the sppraisal estimate of 452, and agroindustry accounted for 702,
compared to 48%, b^'ause of the reduction in the former component.
7.       The Bank financed about 43% of project cost, compared to 301
estimated at appraisal, and the remainder was financed by the Serbian Fund for
Underdeveloped Regions, In%estbanka, local banks, and subborrowers. Only
US$52.4 million of the original amount of US$87.0 million was utilized,
because of reductions in the individual sector livestock and horticulture
components and because the rate of depreciation of the dinar during the
project period was higher than the rate of inflation.
Results
8.       It is difficult to estimate meaningful financial rates of return on
the basis of experience to date because of the volatile economic conditions,
specific factors affecting individual activities, and the long gestation
period for orchard investments. The estimates given in the borrower project
completion report (BPCR) range from 3% to 1371 for livestock and from -370% to
3101 for orchards. The BPCR did not present any financial rates of return for
agroindustry, but present estimates are likely to be lower than the 121 to 46%
calculated for the 1985 annual evaluation report. Neither did the BPCR
provide an estimate of the economic rate of return (ERR), but an attempt was
made using customary OED assumptions, and it appears that the average ERR for
the project is at least 121.
Sustainabi it,
9.       In general, the sustainability of increases in production and incomes
resulting from the project depends on the future course of the country's
economy. Investments in primary production appear to be sound, although the
outlook for some activities is more uncertain than for others. Investments in
agroindustries also appear to be sound, and the enterprises should encounter a
1/   The borrower project completion report does not provide a phasing of
costs which would allow conversion to constant terms and to US dollars.



-vi -
growing demand on the domestic and export markets over the medium to long
term, but further improvements in management are needed (particularly in
finance and marketing).
Findings and Lessons Learned
10. The project was relatively successful, in spite of the generally adverse
environment for both primary production and agroindustries. While the
long-term impact of the project cannot be assessed at this early stage, the
project appears to be achieving its overall objective of contributing to the
development of the Morava Region.
11.  There was a substantial shortfall in the primary production component,
and FRRs estimated on the basis of present conditions vary widely, but
agroindustrial investments were implemented approximately as planned and
recent estimates of FRRs are satisfactory. The borrower, Investbanka,
gradually assumed a more active role in supervising subprojects and providing
advice to subborrowers during the course of project imp'ementation.
Participating agroindustrial enterprises made some improvements in financial
and marketing management, and a few introduced cost accounting sYstems.
12. Primary lessons learned are indicated below.
- Greater attention to the managerial capability of participating
agroindustrial enterprises may be required during preparation and
appraisal, and strengthening of management systems may need to be
incorporated into subprojects.
- The strengthening of financial intermediaries needs to be addressed
in the context of future macro, sector, and project operations,
particularly with respect to portfolio and foreign exchange risk
management.
- The Bank will need to ensure that Yugoslavia implements a sound
interest rate policy as part of the framework for future operations.
-   Integrated development of primary production and agroindustries may
be desirable in fragmented economies such as Yugoslavia's.
- Sound preparation and appraisal, including the preappraisal of
agroindustry subprojects and the preparation of procurement
documents, had a substantial impact on project implementation.
-   Additional flexibility in the allocation of funds between individual
and social sectors, and between primary production and agroindustry,
may have been warranted.
- Land consolidation is not likely to be successful unless induced by
market forces.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAV!A - MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
(LOAN 1951-YU)
PROJECT PERFORMANCE OVSRVIEW MEMORANDUM
I   INTRODUCTION
Macroeconomic and Sectoral Context
1.01     The period during which the project was implemented, 1981-1987, was a
difficult one for the world and Yugoslav economies.  Economic growth was low
throughout the world; the volume of trade was stagnant or declining, in
particular, for many food items; commodity prices were generally falling in
real terms; real interest rates were high; and external debt was growing.  For
Yugoslavia, the situation was especially difficult. GDP grew only marginally
in constant prices, and consumption actually declined. Exports of merchandise
were virtually stagnant while imports declined. External debt remained at
about the same level in terms of US dollars during the period, but it was
about triple the level of 1975. Money supply increased nearly seven times in
nominal terms between 1981 and 1986 and domestic credit increased over six
times; the consumer price index in 1986 was about nine times the level in
1981. The exchange rate in 1986 was Din 379 per US dollar, compared with
Din 35 per US dollar in 1981. Federal budget expenditure decreased 222 in
constant terms between 1980 and 1985. Furthermore, the economic setting was
characterized by high volatility and uncertainty.
1.02     In agriculture, the average annual growth rate of gross social
product during 1980-1984 was about 2% in real terms, in contrast with the 4%
annual rate achieved during 1972-1979.1' The growth rate in industry also
declined to 32 in the later period from 7-82 in the earlier. These growth
rates were affected by the reduction in investment in 1980-1983 which resulted
in part from frequent changes in investment policy, according to the borrower
project completion report (BPCR). They were also affected by a protracted
decline in the efficiency of investment. The agricultural trade balance was
in deficit during 1975-1980 and, while the overall balance turned positive in
1981, it returned to surplus with the convertible currency areas only ir 1983.
1.03     On the supply side, the rate of growth of primary agricultural
production appears to be limited primarily by the growth rate of technology,
as yields are low by international standards and have considerable room for
improvement, and labor resources appear adequate.  However, domestic and
export market constraints are limiting on the demand side, and the BPCR notes
that Yugoslavia faced increasing constraints on exports to the EEC during the
1/   This discussion is taken from the agricultural sector memorandum,
Adjustments in the Agricultural Sector - Issues and Options, Report
No. 6130-YU, August 5, 1986.



-2 -
project implementation period of 1981-1987. The BPCR also indicates that the
terms of trade for agriculture deteriorated during this period and nominal
interest rates rose, leading to a contraction in on-farm investment, an
underutilization of facilities, and a general return to traditional farming
methods.
1.04     The major expansion of agroindustries in the 1970s resulted from
autarkic investment programs (which produced some duplication of facilities
with excess capacity in various republics), a burgeoning domestic market, and
an excessive reliance on foreign borrowing. The subsequent decline in real
wages led to a dampening of domestic demand, and the real depreciation of the
dinar imposed a heavy financial burden on the agroindustries and related
financial intermediaries which assumed the currency exchange risk on foreign
loans. The growth of social product of agroindustries slowed, and fixed
investment in 1983 was 33% below that of 1979 in real terms.
Project Obiectives and Experience
1.05     Yet the project was relatively successful, in spite of the generally
unfavorable environment for both primary production and agroindustries. The
overall objective of the project was to promote the development of the Morava
Region, and more specific objectives were to increase the region's livestock
and horticulture production, expand exports of processed food products, and
strengthen participating institutions. While it is too early to judge the
extent to which these objectives will be achieved (especially because of the
depressed economic conditions and the long-term nature of some of the
investments), the project does seem to have helped lay the foundation for
higher growth in Morava.
1.06     To be sure, implementation of the individual sector component of
primary production fell considerably short of expectations, since 91% of the
projected number of livestock farmers participated but with smaller
investments tban planned, and orchards/vineyards were established on only 382
of the projected area. The participation of individual farmers was adversely
affected by the deteriorating economic conditions, particularly the declining
terms of trade for agriculture and the rising nominal interest rates.
Furthermore, horticulture farmers were affected by the harsh weather
conditions of 1984/1985. Nevertheless, interest in dairying, sour cherry
orchards, and vineyards remained high.
1.07     Agroindustries were affected by the adverse environment in terms of
the investment implementation process and initial operations, particularly by
the high inflation, shortages of imports, and climbing nominal interest rates,
contraction of the domestic market, and growing difficulties in exporting to
the ECC. Yet project investments in agroindustry were undertaken
approximately as planned, perhaps because the enterprises were shielded from
the environment through their traditional access to direct and indirect
subsidies. While the viability of the project investments remains to be
demonstrated, they appear sound for the longer term.



II.  IMPLEMENTATION
Physical Implementation
2.01     As appraised, the project consisted of a primary production component
(50% of project cost), an agricultural services component in support of
primary production (22), and an agroindustries component (48X). The primary
production component comprised individual sector development (452) and social
sector development (5?). Individual sector development included livestock
(21X), orchards (13X), vineyards (6X), and irrigation (5X).
2.02     Primary Production - Individual Sector.  The livestock component was
designed to increase productivity, income, and employment of about 2,550
individual farmers. It was implemented essentially over a five-year period
(1982-1986), as anticipated, although the composition of activities changed,
the component fell somewhat short of appraisal estimates in terms of the
number of participating farmers, and investment levels were lower. At
appraisal it was expected that about 33% of the 2,550 farmers would be engaged
in sheep fattening, 30% in dairying, and smaller proportions in cattle
fattening, pig fattening, mixed livestock, broilers, and bee keeping. When it
became apparent that the demand for dairying was greater than anticipated, the
demand for most other activities lower, and the average investment lower, the
project estimates were revised and the number of farmers was increased to
2,875, of whom about 43% would be in dairying, 27% in sheep fattening, and
lower proportions in the other activities.  In fact, because of the reduction
in investment demand, 2,322 farmers participated (912 of the appraisal
estimate and 81% of the revised estimate), of whom 55% were in dairying and
252 were in sheep fattening. The numbers of farmers in cattle and pig
fattening were particularly low in relation to the appraisal and revised
estimates. (Annex 1 shows the structure of subborrowers.)
2.03     Whil  the BPCR does not provide data on livestock investment by
activity, a comparison can be made of the structure of investments expected at
appraisal and that of actual subloan disbursements (Annex 3). The largest
proportions of investment were expected to be for sheep fattening at 362 and
dairying at 232, with smaller proportions for the other activities. However,
the largest proportion of subloan disbursements was for dairying, at 372, with
broilers next at 33% and sheep fattening much lower at 17%. A measure of the
extent of implementation is given by the proportions of approved subloans
actually disbursed. For the component as a whole, this proportion was only
82X, which was the same figure as for dairying. The proportions for goat
raising (a new activity introduced during project implementation) at 532 and
mixed livestock at 56% were particularly low, although these activities
absorbed relatively small amounts of disbursements. The proportion for sheep
fattening also was quite low at 70X. -
2.04     The BPCR indicates that often there was excess investment in
buildings and other facilities relative to stock and forage production, and
that farmers sometimes sold dairy cows purchased under the project. Thus
facilities were sometimes underutilized, and low financial returns resulted.



-14-
2.05     Implementation of the individual sector orchard component was
affected by the various factors explained above relating to the economic
environment. In addition, the component was affected adversely by the harsh
winter of 1984/85 and the drought of the summer of 1985 which killed or
damaged many of the new plantings. According to the BPCR, implemettation was
also affected by the selection of varieties unable to withstand the rigors of
the climate, although it is not clear whether there are varieties available
which would produce high yields of high quality crops and also be able to
withstand the unusually harsh conditions of 1984/85 as seedlings. A novel
feature of this component was the land consolidation program, which was aimed
at establishing block orchards of 10 to 50 ha involving 20 to 100 farmers, in
order to increase the efficiency of production. In practice, this effort was
not very successful, as the large number of small holdings demonstrates, and
the retarded implementation in those areas where it was attempted because of
the adverse reactions of farmers. Finally, the BPCR notes that the inadequate
support services (para 2.12) and problems in marketing of output contributed
to the reduced achievement of this component.
2.06     Sour cherries, plums, and, to a lesser extent, walnuts, were the
major crops established under this component (Annex 2). Implementation
occurred over a period of six years, including the partial first year of the
project (1981). Major investments occurred in years two and three (1982-83)
and in year five (1985). A total of 2,936 farmers participated, or 63f of the
appraisal estimate of about 4,640. Some 1,375 ha of orchards were
established, only 38% of the appraisal estimate of 3,650 ha. The average area
per farmer of 0.5 ha was only 60% of the appraisal estimate of 0.8 ha. Actual
investment in orchards was about Din 360 million, in comparison to the
appraisal estimate of Din 760 million (including contingencies), but the
relationship is distorted by the higher inflation rate than anticipated. Of
interest is the fact that only 70% of approved subloan amounts were
disbursed, L' since many farmers decided not to establish orchards under the
project, or reduced the area, as a result of the factors mentioned above.
2.07     Some 1,814 farmers established sour cherry orchards (compared to the
appraisal estimate of about 1,740) on 802 ha (1,300 ha), resulting in an
average orchard size of about 0.44 ha, substantially below the appraisal
estimate of 0.75 ha.  There was much less interest in plums than expected,
with 437 farmers (975) planting 274 ha (775 ha), giving an average orchard
size of 0.63 ha (0.79 ha). Walnuts accounted for the next largest area
planted, with 123 farmers (195) establishing 92 ha of orchards (170 ha), for
an average size of 0.75 ha (0.87 ha). Interest in the other crops was far
below expectations and was particularly low in the case of blackberries (28
farmers on 12 ha compared to about 620 farmers on about 505 ha) and black
currants (no farmers compared to 280 farmers on 245 ha).
1/   As of March 31, 1987.



- 5 -
2.08     Interest in vineyards was high, as the wineries in the region are
well-established and successful, although the average area planted was only
about 30% of the expected average. Some 2,468 farmers planted vineyards
(compared to the appraisal estimate of 1,830) on 418 ha (1,100 ha), giving an
average area of 0.17 ha (0.55 ha).
2.09     The three appraised irrigation schemes were implemented on a total of
1,040 ha, with the Masurica scheme having been reduced by 195 ha (as a result
of resistance from farmers, according to the BPCR) and the Bojnik scheme
having been increased by 305 ha. Implementation proceeded more slowly than
anticipated, partly because of some technical changes that were introduced but
mainly because of the land consolidation issue. The BPCR indicates that the
construction of the schemes has been completed but that none was operating as
of May 1987 because the land consolidation process was still underway.
2.10     Primary Production - Social Sector.  The project provided for a
piglet breeding unit with 1,650 sows to be established in the social sector to
supply about 31,000 piglets per year to individual farmers for fattening. The
unit was constructed as planned, but the contract operations with individual
farmers were not introduced, and the unit has operated as a breeding/fattening
facility.
2.11     It was envisaged that social sector organizations would establish 220
ha of orchards under the project, consisting of 150 ha of sour cherries, 50 ha
of black currants, and 20 ha of blackberries (Annex 2). After some potential
participating organizations dropped out and others joined the project, a total
of 235 ha was planted, of which only 9 ha was in sour cherries, none in black
currants, and 15 ha in blackberries.  The remaining area was planted to apple
(95 ha), pear (60 ha), peach (30 ha), and quince (26 ha).
2.12     Support Services.  The support services component was designed to
provide technical assistance to individual farmers participating in the
project and to other farmers in the area, through the existing basic
agricultural service, the agricultural and veterinary stations, and the three
major agrokombinats of the region. The BPCR reports that implementation of
this component was delayed because investors did not want to bear the foreign
exchange risk on Bank loan proceeds, and was carried out primarily in 1985 and
1986. Wh5.le some additional staff were recruited, buildings constructed, and
vehicles and equipment purchased, this component did not seem to have a
significant impact on project results.
2.13     Agroindustries.  The agroindustry component was implemented
approximately as expected in terms of the numbers and types of plant, although
one dehydrated food plant was not built and some plants are larger than
planned. However, the implementation process was much more arduous than
anticipated and required considerably longer than expected. The brief
operating experience has been mixed.
2.14     This component was greatly affected by the macro-economic/sectoral
conditions mentioned above (paras 1.01-1.04), particularly with respect to the
investment implementation process and the operation of facilities. Wages were
decliniug in real terms, leading to a shrinkage of the domestic market for
agroindustrial products. It was also a difficult period for the world



- 6 -
economy, and it became increasingly difficult for Yugoslavian agroindustries
to export to the EEC, in particular. Furthermore, the economic climate was
characterized by high volatility and uncertainty. The BPCR notes that, as a
result, the number of food processing enterprises in Serbia incurring losses
and the amount of such losses increased continuously from 1981 through 1986,
and the food processing industry as a whole operated at a substantial net loss
in 1985 and 1986.
2.15     The policy framework also was in a state of flux.  Frequent chauges
occurred in development and investment priorities, and in monetary poliry (in
terms of credit allocation, interest rates, and the exchange risk on foreign
borrowings). Furthermore, the legislative and regulatory environment kept
changing, which had an impact on licensing, documentation, etc.
2.16     The high rate of inflation during the project period caused
particular difficulties for investors. Investment costs soared far beyond
original estimates, and investors did not have the additional equity resources
needed for sound financing plans. Nor were they prepared to cope with large
amounts of debt financing at high and varying nominal rates of interest.
Operations were also) made considerably more difficult by the large amounts of
debt at high nominal interest used to finance working capital, especially when
'combined with the lack of experience with pricing of output under extremely
inflationary conditions and the constraints on pricing under which the
agroindustries operated.
2.17     As noted in the BPCR, the project enterprises also suffered from a
lack of sufficient guidance from the kombinats to which they belonged, which
were expected to provide technical assistance in areas such as investment
planning and implementation, financing, and marketing. This inadequacy placed
even greater pressure on enterprise management, which in some cases was not up
to the task, as indicated n the BPCR and in Bank reports. Management
sometimes was not prepared for undertakings of the size and complexity
involved in the project, in terms of both the implementation of investments
and the operation of resulting facilities. For some enterprises, insufficient
attention and expertise was devoted to the adequacy and quality of raw
material supply and to the marketing of output. Financial management was
frequently deficient, not only in terms of the financing of investment and in
operations, as mentioned above, but also with respect to financial planning in
general and cost accounting. Furthermore, enterprises were not completely
familiar with Bank requirements, such as for procurement, which led to delays
in implementation.
2.18     Another factor which caused some problems during implementation was
the inadequacy of technical personnel in some enterprises. The training
provided as part of the investment programs was not always sufficient, and the
kombinats did not provide enough support to overcome the deficiency.
2.19     Individual project enterprises were affected by the above factors in
varying degrees. Most investments were to have been implemented in 1982 and
1983, whereas four of the fourteen were not completed until 1987, and one
plant (Medvedja dehydrated food) still had not been commissioned as of
September 1987. About half of total investment expenditure was incurred in
1986 and 1987. The structure of investment was approximately as expected, as
the Delises fruit juice and dairy plants accounted for 38% of total investment



(compared to the 302 estimated at appraisal), the Leskovac slaughterhouse, 161
(132), and the Prokupac fruit salad plant, 10% (8%). At the time of
evaluation in mid-1987, seven of the fourteen plants were operating near
projected rates of capacity utilization, two plants had just been
commissioned, and Medvedja was inoperative because of technical difficulties.
The other five plants were operating significantly below projected levels
because of various difficulties with raw material supply, market demand, and
financing, according to the BPCR.
Project Cost and Financing
2.20     The actual cost of the project was Din 25,275 million in current
terms, compared to the appraisal estimate of Din 6,465 million (including
contingencies). The dinar cost figure was affected by delays in project
implementation and much higher inflation than expected at appraisal.
(Inflation averaged 51Z per year 1981-1986). The BPCR does not provide a
phasing of costs which would allow conversion to constant terms and to
US dollars. Individual sector primary production accounted for about 27% of
project cost, compared to the appraisal estimate of 451, and agroindustry
accounted for 70X, compared to 481. This change in composition resulted from
a substantial reduction in the former component. Estimated and actual costs
are shown in the table below.
Appraisal /a     Actual /b
Din M    US$ M      Din M
Primary Production - Individual Sector
Livestock                              1,358     50.3      2,855
Orchards                                 760     28.1    )
Vineyards                                416     15.4    ) 1,108
Irrigation                               349     12.9      2,879
Total                                  2,883    106.7      6,842
Primary Production - Social Sector
Livestock                                203      7.5         344
Orchards                                  44      1.6       )
Vineyards                                 66      2.4       ) 205
Total                                    313     11.5         549
Support Services                              143      5.3         303
Agroindustry                                3,127    115.8      17,581
Total                                       6,465    239.4      25,275
/a   Including contingencies.
/b   In current terms, based on subloan disbursements as of May 31, 1987 and
relationship between estimated cost and approved subloan amounts.
Insufficient data in BPCR to convert to constant terms or to US$.



-8-
2.21     The Bank financed about 432 of project cost, compared to 30%
estimated at appraisal, and the remainder was financed by SFUR, Investbanka,
local banks, and subborrowers. Only US$52.4 million of the original loan
amount of US$87.0 million was utilized, because of reductions in the
individual sector livestock and horticulture components and because the rate
of depreciation of the dinar during the project period (66'i per year
1981-1987) was higher than the rate of inflation.  (Annex 4 gives a comparison
of the appraised and actual allocation of loan proceeds.)  The BPCR provides
only sketchy information on financing, as reflected in the table below. The
amount of Bank financing in dinar terms is based on the amount for
agroindustry, which is given in the BPCR, plus amounts for the other
components derived from the actual cost estimates and the appraisal estimates
of financing proportions.
Appraisal              Actual
Amount      X         Amount      X
(Din M)               (Din M)
Subborrowers    )                      )
) 2,198      34       )
Local Banks      )                     )
) 14,369     57
Investbanka           582      9       )
)
SFUR                1,745     27       )
IBRD                1,940     30         10,906     43
Total               6,465    100         25,275    100
Procurement and Disbursement
2.22     In general, procurement proceeded relatively smoothly because of the
advanced stage of the procurement process by Board presentation (bids had been
invited for construction of 5 plants on a turn-key basis and for purchase of
equipment for another 7 plants, out of a total of 14 proposed for the
project), although some delays did occur because of the resistance of some
investors to Bank procedures.
2.23     Disbursements lagged behind appraisal estimates because of delays in
project implementation, as shown in the table below.
FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    Total
-----…- =------ US$ million --------
Appraisal estimate        11.0    27.0    27.0    16.0       6.0     -       87.0
Actual                     2.2    10.5      7.9    15.2    13.0      3.6    52.4



- 9 -
The process was reasonably smooth, particularly after the establishment of the
special account in 1984. The original closing date of December 31, 1986 was
not extended, although the books were left open to accommodate subsequent
disbursements, and the final disbursement was made on July 15, 1987.
Accounts and Audits
2.24     Investbanka maintained its project accounts in a reasonable manner
and had them audited by the Social Accounting Service (SDK), although the
audit reports were sometimes submitted late because of SDK's inadequate
capacity. The audit reports were also reasonably satisfactory, but the Bank
has continued its dialogue with SDK in the context of this and other projects
and urged greater attention to lending policies and procedures, portfolio
quality, and foreign exchange risk management.
2.25     Investbanka was less successful in securing compliar_xe of social
sector subborrowers with the requirement to have their accounts audited and
submit audit reports. About half the agroindustry subborrowers submitted
audit reports for the mid-term review in 1985, but subsequent compliance was
fragmentary.
III. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Borrower and Implementing Agency
3.01     Investbanka (IB) was the borrower and was to carry out the appraisal,
supervision, and collection of subloans; handle funds; and maintain records
under an agreement with the Serbian Fund for Underdeveloped Regions (SFUR),
the implementing agency.
3.02     In practice, IB carried out a brief review of feasibility studies
prepared for POs by various institutes and initially undertook little
supervision of subprojects, leaving supervision largely to SFUR as
implementing agency. During the course of the project, however, IB began to
take a more active role in supervising subprojects and providing guidance to
subborrowers, particularly on financial matters.
Serbian Fund for Underdeveloped Regions (SFUR)
3.03 As implementing agency, SFUR was to promote the project, implement the
support services component and the cost accounting study, provide part of
project financing, coordinate project implementation through regional
coordination units, and provide general assistance to the participating
organizations. It performed its promotional and coordinating functions
reasonably well, but it had limited staff to assign to the project and had
less success with those aspects for which it had direct responsibility. The
support services component was only partially implemented and appears to have
had little impact. The cost accounting study was undertaken by consultants
retained by SFUR, but most POs did not introduce cost accounting systems.



- 10 -
Participating Organizations (POs)
3.04     Implementation of subprojects was undertaken by three agrokombinats
(Agro-Industrial Kombinat (AIK) Leskovac, Work Organization (WO) Delises, and
WO Prokupac) and about 20 basic organizations not associated with these
agrokombinats. Experience varied, depending essentially on the managerial
competence of the POs. The BPCR suggests that the project did not have any
significant impact on the management of social sector organizations, but some
of the agroindustrial enterprises did improve their financial and marketing
capabilities. Furthermore, a few enterprises did introduce cost accounting
systems and may have a demonstration effect on other enterprises in the region.
Bank's Role
3.05     The BPCR asserts that the appraisal of the project was overly
optimistic. particularly with regard to market prospects and expected
benefits, but it also notes that the drastic changes in the economic and
policy environment could not have been foreseen. The latter judgement appears
more relevant. The basic concept of the project appears sound, even though
the eventual results are still unclear.
3.06     The Bank devoted increasing attention to the management of
agroindustrial enterprises over the course of project implementation,
particularly the financial and marketing aspects. A question might be raised
as to whether greater emphasis might have been given to this matter during
preparation and appraisal, and whether improvements in the management
information systems and especially the introduction of cost accounting systems
might have been required as part of each subproject. With hindsight, one
might suggest that such an approach might have been desirable, although it is
not clear that the enterprises would have agreed. Furthermore, the stresses
which appeared during project implementation as a result of the changed
environment and which highlighted the need for improved managemeit systems did
not exist previously. Still, the need for cost accounting was recognized at
appraisal, and provision was made for preparation of a manual.
3.07     The BPCR indicates that this project and others financed by the Bank
contributed to the acceptance of a project approach to the implementation of
investment policy, including the nse of objective criteria in appraising
investment proposals and assessing the results. The Bank also encouraged IB
to become more involved in supervising the investments which it finances, and
the BPCR further acknowledges the Bank's work in promoting the establishment
of monitoring and evaluation systems.
3.08     While not a major part of the project, technical assistance provided
by the Bank during missions and in reviewing documents probably had an impact,
particularly on the technical aspects of the irrigation schemes, the technical
aspects of agroindustry investments, and the financial management of
agroindustrial enterprises.
3.09     The BPCR suggests that the project contributed to a better
understanding of the weaknesses of social sector organizations with respect to
aspects such as underutilization of capacity, financial management, raw
material supply, and marketing, and the Bank probably helped increase the
awareness.



- 11 -
3.10     Finally, the BPCR expresses disappointment that the Bank did not
agree to a reallocation of loan funds from individual sector primary
production to agroindustry and to social sector primary production. It
contends that the new agroindustry investments would have increased the
efficiency of existing plants, that the proposed social sector primary
production investments were viable, and that the appraisal of the new
investments could have been carried out through procedures already established
for the project. It should be noted that the Bank was concerned about the
general development of agroindustry in Yugoslavia (e.g. overcapacity in some
industries, poor financial management) and wished to review the results of a
proposed agroindustry study before agreeing to major changes in ongoing
projects. Nevertheless, it may have been desirable to reassess the project
when the divergence from expectations became apparent, and modify it as
appropriate.
IV.  FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
4.01     The BPCR presents financial rates of return (FRRs) for selected
livestock and horticulture operations in the individual sector, but the highly
volatile economic conditions and specific factors such as the harsh weather of
1984/1985 and the general overproduction of sour cherries in Europe in 1985
caused farm income to gyrate wildly during the project period, and orchards
were just coming into production at the end of the period. (Annex 5 presents
a comparison of FRRs given in the SAR, the last annual evaluation report (for
1985), and the BPCR.) In the case of livestock, the estimated FRRs range from
32 for bee keeping to 1372 for mixed cattle and sheep. Estimated FRRs for
orchards vary even more widely, from about -370% for sour cherries to 310b for
pears. The experience of project cherry farmers gives an indication of the
situation for orchards, as average net income in 1986 dinars fell from 1.7
million in 1982 to 1.1 million in 1983, rose again to 1.7 million in 1984,
then fell once more to 0.9 million in 1985. The BPCR did not reestimate FRRs
for agroindustry but reports that the financial performance of most
enterprises is marginal to date. Thus FRRs estimated at present would likely
be lower than the 121 to 462 estimated for the 1985 annual evaluation report.
4.02     The situation for economic rates of return (ERRs) is similar.  The
BPCR did not attempt to calculate ERRs, but the nontraded components of farm
revenue, production cost, and iavestment cost streams given in the BPCR for
selected investments were adjusted with the conversion factors listed in Annex
6 to generate the ERRs given in Annex 5. It has not beei. possible to
re-calculate an aggregate ERR for the project on the basis of the information
provided by the borrower. Nevertheless, in an attempt to approximate an
estimate at project completion, the rates in Annex 5 have been aggregated
using customary OED assuAmptions (i.e. a ceiling of 100% for positive ERRs and
-51 for negative ERRs). With these assumptions, the derived average ERR for
11 primary production activities is 24%. Concerning agroindustries, the
borrower's annual evaluation report for 1985 showed an average reestimated ERR
for 12 industries (241) slightly higher than the appraisal average (231). At
appraisal, the ERRs tended to be higher than the corresponding FRRs. It can
thus be reasonably assumed that the average ERR for agroindustries estimated
under 1985 conditions exceeded 241. If a margin of error of 1002 were
assun,ed, because of the incomplete data and the deterioration in the economic
environment since 1985, the present estimate of the ERR for the project as a
whole would still be at least 122.



- 12 -
V. ACCOMPLISHMENTS AND SHORTCOMINGS
5.01     In general, the implementation of the project was relatively
successful, if somewhat delayed, in spite of the unexpected adverse economic
conditions prevailing during the implementation period. Whether this
implementation in the face of adversity will be justified in terms of the
results remains unclear, but the investments appear to be the types which
should be successful in the long run. The products should find a growing
demand on the domestic market over the medium to long term, and those intended
for export appear to meet Yugoslavia's comparative advantages in foreign
markets.
5.02     Shortfalls in implementation were greatest in primary production,
which was affected by the reactions of individual farmers to adverse economic
conditions, land consolidation, and rising variable nominal interest rates.
Livestock was more successful than horticulture, particularly dairying, which
enjoyed more favorable circumstances than most other types of operation.
Because of the long-term nature of investments in orchards, this component was
especially affected by the uncertain environment and by specific circumstances
such as the general overproduction of sour cherries in Europe in 1985.
irrigation was affected by the land consolidation process, some technical
considerations, and bureaucratic delays, although the schemes were finally
implemented and seem to have reasonable prospects. Almost all agroindustry
investments were implemented, after delays caused by factors such as changing
investment policies, cost overruns and consequent financing problems,
difficulties in ensuring adequate raw material supplies, and technical
problems in the case of the dehydrated food plant. Since the agroindustry
component represents about 70% of project cost, the general success or failure
of the project depends on the eventual results of these investments. The
support services component was not very successful. Some facilities were
constructed, but there seemed to be little incremental impact on project
farmers.
5.03     The integrated nature of the project was both a strength and a
weakness. Great care was taken during preparation and appraisal to ensure
that the primary production component would provide adequate supplies for the
agroindustries and that the latter would provide assured markets for project
farmers. In practice, the differential reactions of the individual and social
sectors to the environment resulted in a less integrated project than
planned. Greater flexibility during project implementation might have allowed
further achievement, particularly in the individual sector (perhaps through
the incorporation of non-associated farmers). However, allowing production
for non-project outlets would have introduced additional uncertainties. Thus
it may be that integrated development of the type planned for this project is
the most appropriate for a fragmented economy such as Yugoslavia's.
5.04     As noted above, land consolidation delayed implementation of
horticultural development and the irrigation schemes. While it was probably
essential for the irrigation schemes and may have introduced some efficiencies
into the production of horticultural crops, the advisability of requiring it
for the latter might be questioned. Since farmers oppose the consolidation of
lands, it may be that any lasting movement in this direction will occur only
if market forces so dictate.



- 13 -
5.05     Institutional development was recognized at appraisal as an important
aspect of the project, but there was even greater emphasis placed on this
aspect during implementation. Although the BPCR suggests that the project had
little impact on the management of social sector organizations, there do seem
to have been significant changes in agroindustry enterprises which were at
least partly attributable to the project. Enterprises appear to have
developed a greater awareness that they will need to become increasingly
self-reliant and that they need to improve their management information
systems (especially for cost accounting). Some managers were replaced,
particularly in the fields of finance and marketing. Enterprises also gained
experience in investment planning and implementation. Of course they still
have a difficult task ahead in learning to survive in a more market-oriented
environment and will need substantial further improvements in financial,
marketing, and raw materials management.
5.06     The participating banks also seem to have gained a greater awareness
of the need for improved financial management, particularly with respect to
high variable interest rates, foreign exchange risk issues, and deteriorating
loan portfolios. Furthermore, they gained experience in the appraisal and
supervision of .subprojects. Nevertheless, the project did not focus on the
general strengthening of banks, and therefore its impact was limited to
specific aspects of their operations.
5.07     More generally, the BPCR suggests that the project contributed to the
acceptance of the project approach to investment analysis and implementation
in Yugoslavia, and it mentioned more specifically the use of objective
criteria for appraisal and supervision and the establishment of monitoring and
evaluation systems to assess the results. It also suggests that the project
contributed to a better understanding of the comparative advantage of the
individual sector in activities such as livestock production and of the
weaknesses of social sector agroindustrial enterprises.
5.08     The BPCR asserts that the project appraisal was overly optimistic but
then recognizes that the drastic deterioration in the economic and policy
environment could not have been anticipated. Finally, it states that neither
agroindustrial enterprises nor farmers should be burdened with high variable
(nominal) interest rates. However, for enterprises it is more a question of
improved financial management, although the indexing of subloans to produce
more appropriate debt service profiles under inflationary conditions would
help. For individual farmers, it is partly a question of their becoming
accustomed to more market-oriented interest rates, partly a matter of
inappropriate debt service profiles produced by unindexed subloans, and partly
an appropriate reaction to an unfavorable, uncertain environment.



- 14 -
VI. LESSONS LEARNED
Enterprise Management
6.01     The stresses produced by the adverse economic conditions revealed
substantial weaknesses in the management of agroindustrial enterprises,
particularly in finance, marketing, and raw material supply. While
considerable attention was given to this matter during preparation and
appraisal, it may warrant even greater attention in future operations. If
deficiencies in proposed participating agencies are found, it may be necessary
to build into the subprojects improvements in areas such as financial
structure and performance, financial planning, pricing policy, and management
information systems (especially cost accounting).
Financial Intermediaries
6.02     Weaknesses in the management of financial intermediaries also became
more apparent during the course of project implementation, particularly in
financial management. The strengthening of financial institutions in
Yugoslavia needs to be addressed on a broad front, and future macro, sector,
and project operations need to contribute to the improvement of aspects such
as portfolio and foreign exchange risk management.
Interest Rates
6.03     The role, level, and structure of interst rates have featured
prominently in the dialogue between the Bank and Yugoslav authorities, and
limited progress has been made in improving the system. Changes in interest
rates have bad an important impact on the implementation of all projects
involving credit, including the present one. The BPCR states that
subborrowers should not be subject to high variable interest rates, and this
view may be correct in the sense that indexing would produce a more
appropriate debt-service profile. In any case, the Bank will need to ensure
that the environment for future operations includes the implementation of a
sound interest rate policy.
Intearated Development
6.04     The project attempted to integrate primary production and processing
in order to ensure markets for farmers and raw material supplies for
agroindustrial enterprises, and was partly successful, although this approach
also introduced rigidities which made the adjustment to changing conditions
difficult. On balance, it may be that integrated development is desirable,
where feasible, in fragmented economies such as Yugoslavia's.
Preparation
6.05     Considerable attention was given to the preparation and appraisal of
this project, and its relative success seems to have resulted in part from
this effort. The agroindustry subprojects were preappraised, and this
practice appears advisable, if feasible. Furthermore, the procurement process
was well advanced by the time of Board approval, which kept related delays to



- 15 -
a minimum. The BPCR suggests that training in investment implementation and
operation might have been provided to selected staff prior to the project, and
provisions for such training might be considered for future operations.
However, the general lesson is that the allocation of sufficient resources to
ensure sound preparation of a project pays substantial dividends during
project implementation.
Flexibility
6.06     Even though the integrated nature of the project introduced
unavoidable rigidities, modifications must be introduced in response to
changing conditions. Thus it may have been appropriate to finance additional
primary production investments in the social sector and additional
efficiency-oriented investments in agroindustry, which would have permitted a
further transfer of resources for productive purposes to Yugoslavia.
Land Consolidation
6.07     Land consolidation causes problems almost every time it is
attempted. In some cases it is unavoidable if an adequate return on
investment is to be achieved, such as for the irrigation schemes of this
project. However, if it is not required for the viability of investments and
is being introduced to achieve additional efficiency of production, such as
for orchard development under this project, it may be advisable not to impose
it by administrative fiat. Consolidation for such types of investment is
likely to be successful when induced by market forces but not when imposed by
administrative fiat in the absence of conducive market conditions.



-17 -                          ANNEX 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA - MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
(LOAN 1951-YU)
STRUCTURE OF SUBBORROWERS
Cov',arisons
A#praised      Revised       Actual       Actual/      Actual/
No.      X    No.      %    No.            A ppriaisal   Revised
1. Primary Production
Individual Sector
Livestock
Dairy                753      30  1,241    43  1,270   55          169          102
Mixed                247      10    217      8    145    6          59           67
Pig fattening        209       8    263      9      51    2         24           19
Broiler              120       5     60      2      60    3         50          100
Sheep                864      33    771    27    589   25           68           76
Cattle fattening    203        8    173      6      61    3         30           35
Goats                  -       -       -     -      10    -          -            -
Bee keeping          150       6    150      5    144    6          94           94
Sub-total          2,546    100  2,875   100  2,322  100            91           81
Orchards
Sour cherry        1,742      38                1,814   62         104
Plum                 974      21                  437   15          45
Peach                266       6                     -    -          0
Apple                272       6                    45    2         17
Quince                97       2                  289   10         298
Pear                 200       4                  169    6          85
Walnut               195       4                   123    4         63
Blackberry           618      13                    28    1          5
Black currant        278       6                     -    -          0
Raspberry              -       -                    15    1          -
Apricot                -       _9    -                               -
Hazelnut               -       -                     7    -          -
Sub-total          4,642    100                 2,936  100          63
Vineyards             1,830                         2,468             135
Irrigation                3                             3             100
Sub-total             9,021                         7,527
2. Social Sector
Livestock                  1                            1             100
Orchards                   4                            4             100
Vineyards                  1                            1             100
Sub-total                  6                            6             100
Total                     9,027                        7,533
3.  Agroindustry                14                           14              100



-18 -                                  ANNEX 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA - MORAVA REGIONAL OEVELOPHENT SI PROJECT
(LOAN 1951-YU)
PHYSICAL IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
Comoarisons
Anoraised      Revised        Actual       Actual/      Actual/
unit   Ouantit _y        Ouintity  _   Ouantit        ApRraisal   Revised
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ %   _- _ - -_ -_ _ -_ -
Primary Production
Individual Sector
Livestock
Dairy              head         na              na             na
Mixed              head         na              na             na
Pig fattening      head         na              na             na
Broiler            head         na              na             na
Sheep             head          na              na             na
Cattle fattening  head          na              na             na
Goats              head           -              -             na
Bee keeping        hive         na              na             na
Total                           na              na             na
Orchards
Sour cherry          ha      1.300      36       -            802   5P        62
Plum                 ha        777      21       -            274   20        35
Peach                ha        233       6       -              -    -         0
Apple                ha        238       7       -             30    2        13
Quince               ha         85       2       -             75    5        88
Pear                 ha        100       3       -             77    6        77
Walnut               ha         171      S       -             92    7        54
Blackberry           ha        503      14       -             12    1         2
Black currant        ha        243       7       -              -    -         0
Raspberry            ha           -      -       -              2    -         -
Apricot              ha          -       -       -              6    -         -
Hazelnut             ha           -     _        -              5   -          -
Total                        3.650    100        -          1.375  100        38
Vineyards               ha       1.100            950            418             38        44
Irrigation
Bojnik               ha        195                            500
Masurica             ha        530                            335
Oraovica             ha        205 D
Total                          930                          1.040
Social Sector /I
Livestock /h   Breeding sows   1.650                           1.650            100
Orchards
Black currant        ha         50      23                      -    -         0
Blackberry           ha         20       9                     10    4        50
Sour cherry          ha        150      68                     14    6         9
Apple                ha          -                             95   40         -
Pear                 ha          -                             60   26         -
Peach               ha            -                            30   13         -
Quince               ha          -     ___    11                               -
Total                          220    100                     235  100       107        63
Vineyards               ha        200                             32             16
Ia Borrower report indicates that some data on results were overstated.
/11 Piglet breeding center was constructed but does not operate with contract farmers as intended.
Both breeding and fattening undertaken at center.



- 19 -
Page 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA - MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELQPMENT II PROJECT
(LOAN 1951-YU)
INVESTMENT AND CREDIT STRUCTtORK
(amounts in dinar milliotv
Financing-Actual
Investment                           Credit                   - Equity /1
_.Araised       Actual      Approved    Disbursed /a  Disbursed/              Equity/
Amouylt    S   Amount  XL Amsunnt    X Amount  X1   Approved   Amount  Investment
(%)                   (X)
Primary Produ tan
Individual Sector
Livestock
Dairy                 314    23     na          994   37       812   37         82        na
Mixed                 118     9     na           92    3        Si    2         56         na
Pig fattening          96     7     na           88    3        67    3         76        na
Broiler               131    10     na          733   27       710   33         97        na
Sheep                491    36      na          SSS   21       380   17         70        na
Cattle fattening      178    13     na          114    4        97    4         85        na
Goats                   -     -     na           81    3        43    2         53        na
Bee keeping            32   ...     na           24   J         2!1 *          100        na
Sub-total           1.358   100  2.874 /I    2,681  100    2.184  100           82        na
Orchards
Sour cherry           250    33     na           na             na                        na
Plum                  140    18     na           na             na                        na
Peach                  46     6     na           na             na                        na
Apple                  so     7     na           na             na                        na
quince                 16     2     na           na             na                        na
Pear                   27     4     na           na             na                        na
Walnut                 30     4     na           na             na                        na
Blackberry            154    20     na           na             na                        na
Black currant          46     6     na           na             na                        na
Raspberry               -     -     na           na             na                        na
Apricot                 -     -     na           na             na                        na
Hazelnut              _       - _               _n              na                        na
Sub-total            759   100    357 /,I       401            282              70        na
Vineyards                416          751          733            SSS              76         na
Irrigation
Bojnik /a             152        1,220 If        na            549                       671       SS
Masurica /g           129        1.993           na             na                        na
Oraovica /            -69          466           Oa            _a                         na
Sub-total             3so        3,679          991.3                          146        na
Sub-total              2,883        7.661        4.744          4,380              93        na
Social Sector
Livestock                203          344          434            307              71        na
Orchards Ij
Black currant   )
Blackberry      )      21            S           na              4                          1      20
Sour cherry            23      )
Apple                          )
Pear                           )   218           na            126 .                      SS       25
Peach
Quince
Sub-total              44          223          291            130              45        56       25
Vineyards                                          14 _ki  1M      49 /..          33         23      35
Sub-total                313          633          873            486              56        na
Total                     3,196        8.294        5.617          4.865              87         na



- 20 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
Financing-Actual
Investment                            Credit                   _   Eauity / -
Apraised        Actual      Approved    Disbarsed /a  Disbursed/               Equity/
Amount    %   Amount _%  Amount   _%  Amun                Approved   AnutInvestment
(%)                    (%)
Agroindustry
Prokupac (Prokuplje)
Candied fruit           113     4   1.158   6        na           834                        324        28
Prokupac (Prokupl je
Fru.f salad             250     8   1,754  10        na         1,263                        491        28
Prokupac (Prokupl je)
Confectionery             -     -   1,052   6        na           726                        326        31
Medvedja dehydrated food  SS        2     119   1       na            49                          70       59
Leskovac (vulcje)
dehydrated food        1S9      S        -            -             -
Leskovac cold store        219      7     508   3       na           356                        152        30
Dalises (Vladicin Han)
fruit juice and dairy
Phase I                            260   1       na           232                          28        11
Phase It                         6i663  38       na         S.41S                       1.248        19
Sub-total           929 /4 30   6.923  39        na         5,647                       1,276        18
Vlasotince winery          176      6     676   4       na           440                        236        35
Vranje winery              138      4     207   1       na           1S0                         57        28
Blace dairy                291      9     643   4       na           386                        257        40
Vranjska Banja poultry
slaughterhouse          179     6      652   4       na           444                        208        32
Vraniska Banja feed mill 188        6   1.010   6       na           707                        303        30
Leskovac livestock
slaughterhouse         401    13   2,823  16         na         2,061                        762        27
Kursumlija carpet           29    1        57   -       na            37                         20        35
Total                    3,127   100  17,582 100        na        13.100                      4,482        25
/a   As of March 31, 1987.
/hf  Includes amounts provided by SFUR.
/,   Discrepancy between amount disbursed of Din 49 million and amount utilized of Din 43 million.
/a   Includes fruit juice plant at Din 540 million and dairy/creamy food plant at Din 389 million.
/a   Expanded from 195 ha to 500 ha.
/I   Compared to estimated cost of Din 968 million.
/g   Reduced from 530 ha to 335 ha.  Actual investment cost and financing not given.
/h Actual investment cost and financing not given.
J   Composition changed. but actual area of 235 ha approximately the same as appraisal estimate of
220 ha.
/, Based on disbursement percentages implied in cost table (VI/59) and disbursements as of
March 31, 1987 (VII/AII/T14).
March 17, 1988



. . .                               - ~~~~~~~~~21 -
ANNEX 4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA - MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
(LOAN 1951-YU)
ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
(amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal       Actual      Unutilized
Category                             Amount    2    Amount    %      Amount
(1)   Livestock and Horticulture -
Individual Sector              34.5    40       7.1    14      27.4
(2)   Livestock and Horticulture -
Social Sector                    4.2     5      2.0     4        2.0
(3)   Irrigation                       4.7     5      1.8     3        2.9
(4)   Agroindustr-                    41.8    48     41.1    78       0.7
(5)   Support Services                 1.9     2      0.4     1        1.5
Total                           87.0   100     52.4   100       34.6
March 30, 1988



- 22 -
ANNEXS
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA - HORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPHEHT II PROJECT
(LOAN 19S1-YU)
RATES OF RETURN
Financial
in      K_R /a      am            Economic /Ic
Primary Production
Individual Sector
Livestock
Dairy                         13     neg           7              6
Mixed                         1S        -        137             136
Pig fattening                 28       -            -              -
Broiler                       10        -        neg            neg
Sheep                         18     neg          18             21
Cattle fattening              iS       17          7              7
Goats                          -        -          -               -
Bee keeping                   18       16          3              4
Orchards
Sour cherry                   28     neg        (368)          (341)
Plum                          10        -          0              0
Peach                         21       -           -              -
Apple                         18        -           -              -
Quince                        21        -          -               -
Pear                          27       -         312            389
Walnut                        26        -       (188)          (188)
Blackberry                    25        -          -              -
Black currant                 32        -          -               -
Raspberry                      -
Apricot                        -        -          -              -
Hazelnut                           -               -              -
Vineyards                        14     neg          29             40
Irrigation
Bojnik                        21        -         24              -
Oraovica                      31        -         26              -
Masurica                      26        -         25              -
Social Sector
Livestock                        14        -           -              -
Orchards
Black currant                  -        -          -              -
Blackberry                    23        -          -              -
Sour cherry                   26       -           -              -
Apple                          -       -
Pear                           -       -           -              -
Peach                          -       -           -              -
Quince                         -       -           -              -
Vineyards                        16        -           -              -
Agroindustry
Prokpac candied fruit            20       17           -              -
Prokupac fruit salad             18       12           -              -
Prokupac confectionery            -       24           -              -
Medvedj4 dehydrated food         33       40           -              -
Leskovac dehydrated food         24        -          -               -
Leskovac cold store              27       16           -              -
Oelises fruit juice              21    )               -              -
Delises dairy                    28    ) 18            -              -
Vlasotince winery                22       2S           -             -
Vranje winery                    19       26           -              -
Blace dairy                      13       21           -              -
Vranjska B-anja poultry
slaughterhouse                14      32           -              -
Vranjska Banja feed mill         14      46            -              -
Leskovac slaughterhouse          18       16           -
Kursumlija carpet                21       1S           -              -
/a   Annual evaluation report for 1985. the last available.
/b   FRRs based on basic sample.  Projected income taken at 1986 level
except in the case of cattle fattening and walnut, for which average
income for 1982-1986 is used.
/I   Estimates based on adjustments of nontraded components of farm
revenue, production cost, and investment cost streams given in BPCR
with conversion factors listed in Annex 6.
March 31. 1988



- 23 -
ANNEX 6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA - MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
(LOAN 1951-YU)
CONVERSION FACTORS FOR NONTRADED COMPONENTS /a
Standard Conversion Factor   :  0.75
Farm Revenue
Dairy       :   0.75
Broiler     :    1.11
Sheep       :   0.95
Cattle      :   0.80
Mixed       :   0.75
Bees        :   0.75
Horticulture:    0.75
Farm Production Cost:  0.75
Farm Investment:    : 0.67 /b
/a   Conversion factors have been taken from the Project Completion Report
of June 1985 for the Second Agricultural Credit Project (Ln. 1477-YU).
/b   Based on conversion factors for construction of 0.65 (802) and
equipment of 0.74 (20X).



- 25 -
ATTACHMENT I
Comments from Borrower
10 THE UORLD BANK UASHINGTON DC
FM INVESTIANKA BEOGRAD
ATTN.: MR. GRAHAM DONALDSON CHIEF OPERATIONS EVALUATION DEPARTMENT
ATTACHED TO YOUR LETTER SEPT 22 IE RECEIVED YOUR DRAFT PROJECT
COMPLETION REPORT - YUGOSLAVIA : MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
II /LN. 1951-YU/
PCR HAVE CAREFULLY BEEN REVIEUED BY US AND UE FIND IT ACCEPTABLE
SINCE ASSESSEMENTS GIVEN THEREIN SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLY UITH OUR
LOAN 1951-YU COMPLETION REPORT.
UE SHARE YOUR VIEU EXPRESSED IN PCR ABOUT RELATIVELY SUSEEEEE
SUCCrSSFUL PROJECT COMPLETION IN SPTE OF DETERIORATED ENVIRONMENT
IN YUGOSLAVIA DURING THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION. UE FELL
THAT THE EXPERIENCE GAINED MAY BE HELPFUL IN IMPLEMENTATION OF
SIMILAR PROJECTS IN YUGOSLAVIA IN FUTURE.
MORE EVIDENT IMPACT OF THE PROJECT IS EXPECTED IN THE FORTH
CMING PERIOD CONSI6EEEEEE CONSIDERING THAT, AS YOU MAY KNOU,
SPECIFIC MEASURES HAVE BEEN TAKEN IN YUGOSLAVIA FOR MORE STABLE
ECONOMY RUNNING.
THIS OPPORTUNITY IS TAKEN TO EXPRESS OUR APPRECIATION ONE MORE
TIME FOR THE UOLEEEEE UORLD BANK S COOPERATION IN IMPLEMENTATION
[F THIS PROJECT
BEST REGARDS
BOSKO KOSTIC PRESIDENT
INVESTBANKA BEOGRAD



- 26 -
ATTACHMENT II
Commentt from Borrower
UORLD BANK UASHINGTON DC
ATTN:MR GRAHAM DONALDSON.CHIEF OPERATIONS EVALUATION
RE:YUGOSLAVIA MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II
(LN. 1951-YU) PROJECT COMPLETION PREEE REPORT
REYOUR LETTER DD SEPT.22,1988 TOGETHER UITH PCR RELATIVE
TO A/M PROJECT PLESE BE INFORMED THAT UE SHARE VIEU OF
OUR BASIC BANK INVESTBANKA1BEOGRAD UHICH UAS FORUARDED TO YOU
TZAT EEE THAT UPON CAREFUL EXAMINATON OF PCR BANK FINDS IT ACCEPTA-
BLE.ASSESSMENTS CONTAINED THEREIN SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLY UITH LOAN
1951 YU COMPELTION REPORT.OF INVESTBNAKA.
UE ALSO SHARE YOUR VIEU ABOUT RELATIVELY SUCCESFUL PROJECT
COMPLETION DESPITE THE ECONOMIC SETTING IN YUGOSLAVIA IN THE PERIOD OF
EE E OF IMPLEMENTATION.IN THE FORTHCOMING PERIOD MORE EVIDENT IMPA-
CT OF THE PROJECT IS EXPECTED CONSIDERING SPEIFIC MEASURES TAKEN IN
YUGOSLAVIA FOR MORE STABLE ECONOMY RUNNING.
THANKING YOU ON YOUR KIND COOPERATION IN IMPLEMENTAITION OF THE
PROJECT VE ASSURE YOU OF OUR COOPERATIGN AT AL TIMES.
REGARDS
DR.S.OSTOJIC.VICE PRESIEDENT
UDRUZENA BEOGRASKBANKA
11712 BGBANK YU



Miss nap td-ba papad br Syr  Wald Ranks es fecnwi o ie dvne
v  \ .S f  or ,s, 5 0t b e =f rO tb ,# .5 * t c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lmsreder ofsh s rhr d=tren alscsedTh desmncranr db ndhos
ls _   -I                                                                    loa.a shw on Sb \, tWC,@ .nearmI do ncr np/I. rnlbs pre os eb Wan/U Bakad le
rJ   1 >  - X                                                  N I S     8_         H                       ecvrr oZssh boundirrars~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~th  -  -te -lb P   fIf WYdftk 1df
!               ishnees. a dg-  - he "gs da   a        e,
{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-w \,. .'n-d. -,                     
Be~og
s   /   \   Beiri-e   eUW   ^        <          (~~~~~~~~ ~~%  >     \                      \                                        \                                               s5^~s 
s   %    /' (,        '  <                                , \S                                     Ei   R    B    I    A                                                         Oo
K       \ !                   \-^'C    >te                                % \i~~~~~~~~~~CisC    -I.--- 
Kursumll'a
iNa                                                                       D            I/
-                     ~~~~~Lebae6/ an  e                
I-i fs                                                             Bonr 8Ska                                                             2  9
)~~~~ - I                                         *     e    ja           l       g           ¢                                     ;\                      ,
C                     Cmcz~~~~Tra4a
/  YUGOSLAVIA                                                    |                                             T  H
APPRAISAL OF MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                                  'K--1
H PROJECT-   ,                                                                <                    u ;C        q- i                                            'J
3    REGIONAL CDORDINATlON UNITS                PRIMARY ROADS
A    AGROKOMBINATS                              SECONDARY ROAMS
E    AGRICULTURALSTAT!IS                   _    TRAILS                                                                                                      0  .-
Q    VETERINARYASRICULTURALSTATIONS  -          RAILWAYS
PRIMARYAGRICULTURALPRODUCTION                                                     pS. d   M                                                              A
S-B- U-REGIOIN BOUNDARY                                                                 ;A4
DAIRY FARMS
REPUBLIC AND AUTONOMOUS G
d     SHEEPFARMS                                PROVINCE 5OUNOARIES                            '_
O;LDAIRY/SHEEPFARMS                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY                                    e
, A   CATTLt FATTENING                                                                     i         P                \kc2nis   Ba*
L  PIG FATTENING
BR RROILER FATrENING
~43-30'   IHONEY PRCODUCTION                                                                                                                                                                         Bos    t
ORCIIARDS
*   VINEYARDS                                      o, -- .
IRRIGATION4                                                 BuiOnova 
AGRO-INDUSTRY SUBPROJECTS:                    C,   \
V aINERIES
COLOLSTORE ANO FREEZING TUNNEL             Jo.,
A   FRUIT AND VEGERTALE PROCESSING
MILKPROCESSINE
13  SLAUGHTERHOUSE/
PFOULTPY SLUA GHTE RHOUSE
[C1 rARPET FACTDRY                                                                    -
*  PIGLETEREEDRIGUNIT                             is          '       >                    M AC F                  D         N I           A-sra-                                                  r
L__.. PLAINS                                                                                                                                                             54 
HILLY REGIONS                                                                  0         5        10       IS        20        25KIIOMETERS                                              5-r
X    r      MOUNTAINOUS REGIONS                                                                                                                                               I                      -
rTI                                       A'22                                                                                                                           - 1- .  (



