Document of                   FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2907a-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
INVESTBANKA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
February 11, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit                                Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                                         Din. 27.00
Din. 1                                       US$ 0.037
Din. 1,000                                   US$ 37.04
Din. 1,000,000                               US$ 37,037.04
*  The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973:
on January 16, 1981, the rate was Din. 29.45 - US$1.00.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL                                         Basic Organization of Associated
Labor
GDP                                          Gross Domestic Product
GMP                                          Gross Material Product
ICB                                          International Competitive Bidding
LDR                                          Less Developed Regions
(of Yugoslavia)
SDK                                          Social Accounting Service
SFUR                                         Serbian Fund for Underdeveloped
Regions of Serbia



- i -                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Investbanka.
Guarantor:                Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Implementing Agency:      Serbian Fund for Underdeveloped Regions of Serbia (SFUR)
Beneficiaries:            Fifty-two agricultural enterprises and cooperatives,
including about 11,000 individual (private sector)
farmers.
Amount:                   US$87 million, equivalent, in various currencies.
Terms:                    Amortization in 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
with interest at 9.6 percent. Repayment would be
according to a schedule reflecting the composite
amortization schedules of the sub-loans financed.
Re-lending Terms:         The proceeds of the loan would be on-lent to the
beneficiaries at 11 percent per annum. The foreign
exchange risk of the Bank loan will be borne by the
sub-borrowers in the social sector and by the Government
of Serbia for the individual farmers. Grace periods
ranging from I to 5 years and repayment periods on the
sub-loans generally ranging from 5 to 15 years,
including grace periods, would be applied on basis of
projections of sub-project cash flow, including terms of
any co-financing involved.
------------ US$ Millions ------------
Estimated Disbursements:      Bank FY       FY82    FY83    FY84      FY85     FY86
Annual                          11.0    27.0    27.0       16.0      6.0
Cumulative                      11.0    38.0    65.0      81.0      87.0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



Project
Description:              The project's main objectives are to: (a) assist in the
development of the Morava region--one of the less
developed rural areas of Yugoslavia--through increases
in productivity, employment, and income of the
individual farm sector which is the poorest and the
least developed sector of the project area; (b) increase
production of meat, milk, fruits and processed food
products primarily for the domestic market; (c) increase
exports of processed food products based on primary
agricultural production in the project area; (d)
contribute to institution building by strengthening the
organizational and project preparation capacities of the
regional development institutions in the project area;
and (e) strengthen the appraisal and supervision
capacity of Investbanka, the proposed borrower.  The
project objectives will be achieved by providing finance
for: (a) livestock and horticultural production
primarily on individual farms; (b) strengthening of
technical support services; and (c) increasing
processing capacities to ensure adequate and steady
markets for agricultural products from the project area.
The institutional arrangements for this project reflect
a broad impetus that exists within this region of Serbia
for integrated and coordinated development of the
region. As such, this project is viewed as an important
step in the future overall development of this region
and a possible model for regional development elsewhere
in Serbia and Yugoslavia. Direct beneficiaries of the
project would total about 11,000 individual farm
families. About one-third of these direct beneficiaries
are expected to belong to the target group with per
capita incomes below US$510. The incomes of individual
farmers are expected to increase by 50 percent to 120
percent as compared to pre-project incomes. The
investments under the agroindustries and support
services components of the project would result in
indirect benefits to an estimated additional 31,000
families by providing steady market outlets for their
production as well as inputs and services. The
institutional arrangements for the project are well in
place and the project is in an advanced state of
preparation. All investors have been identified and
major procurement actions have been nearly completed;
the risk of implementation delays is minimal.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:                        ------  US$ Million  ------   Percent of Total
Local     Foreign       Total     Project Cost
Primary Production (mainly
individual farm sector)
Livestock                   29.2        15.0        44.2           19
Horticulture                22.5        11.6        34.1           14
Irrigation                   7.3         2.6         9.9            4
Sub-total                59.0        29.2        88.2           37
Agroindustries                        50.3        37.8        88.1           37
Support Services                       2.7         1.3         4.0            2
Total Base Cost         112.0        68.3       180.3           76
Contingency Allowance
Physical (8 percent)         8.6         5.5        14.1            6
Price (23 percent)          28.1        16.9        45.0           18
Sub-Total                36.7        22.4        59.1           24
Total Project Cost a/                148.7        90.7       239.4          100
(including contingencies)
Interest During Construction    25.0          24.0 b/    49.0
Total Project
Financial Requirements         173.7       114.7       288.4
Financing Plan:                        ------  US $ Million  -----        Percent of
Sources                             Local      Foreign       Total   Total Financing
IBRD                              -          87.0        87.0            30
SFUR                             76.3         -          76.3            27
Investbanka                      25.5         -          25.5             9
Sub-borrowers and
local banks                    71.9        27.7        99.6           34
Total Project Financial
Requirements             173.7        114.7       288.4          100
Rate of Return: At least 25 percent.
Appraisal Report:       Report No. 3163a-YU       Date: January 30, 1981
a/ Including import duties and taxes estimated at US$7.4 million.
b/ Estimated interest during construction on proposed Bank loan, to be financed by
subborrowers.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO INVESTBANKA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
equivalent to US$87 million to Investbanka with the guarantee of the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, to help finance a part of the foreign exchange
costs of an integrated agriculture and agroindustries regional development
project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace with
interest at 9.6 percent per annum. The proceeds of the loan would be on-lent to
individual farmers, mainly through cooperatives, for on-farm development and to
social sector enterprises for agroindustrial investments, for periods generally
ranging from 5 to 15 years including up to 5 years of grace, with an interest rate
of 11 percent. The foreign exchange risk of the Bank loan would be borne by the
sub-borrowers in the social sector and by the government of Serbia for the
individual farmers.   Co-financing with foreign commercial institutions may be
sought for some of the social sector agroindustrial sub-projects.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.         A Basic Economic Mission visited Yugoslavia in October and November
1976. Its report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism and the
Challenges of Development", 1615a-YU, was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 5, 1978. An economic mission visited Yugoslavia in March 1979; its
report entitled "Yugoslavia: Recent Economic Developments", 2623-YU, was
distributed to the Executive Directors on November 8, 1979. In November, 1979 an
economic mission visited Yugoslavia and its report entitled "Yugoslavia: Export
Performance and Policies," 2972-YU, was distributed to the Executive Directors on
November 5, 1980. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Institutional Setting
3.         The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government, enterprises
and public institutions has the leading role in economic and social development.
It accounts for 85 percent of GDP and employs over half of the total labor force.
The private sector predominantly consists of peasant farms and small enterprises,
mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade, transport and tourism. Decision
making at all levels is governed by the principle of workers' self-management
involving a unique set of institutions and instruments of economic policy. The
current system has gradually evolved over the years with important new changes
introduced in the Constitution of 1974. These changes reaffirm and further extend
the decision making power of workers. Responsibility for important social and
economic decisions has been shifted from the federation to the republics and
provinces and communes. Concurrently, the control of workers, through their
workers' collectives, over the socially owned means of production has been
1/ Part I of this report is substantially unchanged from Part I of the Report and
Recommendation of the President for the Fifth Industrial Credit Project
(Report No. P-2863-YU) of October 1, 1980.



- 2 -
potentially increased by a restructuring of all economic organizations.
All economic organizations (such as enterprises) consist of legally autonomous
Basic Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs) which are the smallest units of
production producing a marketable output. The creation of BOALs as the basic
decision making unit provides workers with a more wieldy unit to manage
particularly as the product of their work becomes more easily identifiable.
4.         In addition to the strengthening of decision making power of workers
at the microeconomic level, recent changes have extended the concept
of workers' self-management to the macroeconomic plane. A set of instruments
called social compacts and self-management agreements are gradually gaining
importance in the system of macroeconomic management. These measures enable
widespread participation of all economic agents in the formulation of
macroeconomic policy while extending the responsibility for policy implementation
to decentralized decision makers. During the current plan (1976-80) these
instruments have buttressed conventional monetary and fiscal policy in the areas
of prices, incomes, and employment. In addition a new system of economic
planning has been introduced.
5.         The new system of self-management planning is based as in central
planning on an ex ante medium-term view of the development of the economy.
Similarly, it is based on legally binding undertakings, in the form of medium
term contractual arrangements between all economic units, thus reflecting a
strong commitment to plan implementation. However, in sharp contrast to central
planning, plan formulation is based on participation of all economic units,
including government planning bodies, on a non-hierarchical basis. Following an
exhaustive exchange of information, the planning process involves a series of
iterations to achieve consistency amongst the plans of economic units. Once an
acceptable degree of consistency is achieved, economic units enter into legally
binding medium-term agreements on supply and demand. In case agreements cannot
be reached by the prescribed date the state can impose a temporary injunction.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.         The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades has
been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural
transformation. Between 1954 and 1975, GDP grew at an average annual rate of
about 7 percent in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high
throughout the period, averaging 30 percent of GDP in recent years. Since
population grew at only 1 percent per annum, real per capita income more than
tripled during the period. Per capita GNP in 1979 is estimated to be US$2,430 at
1979 market prices. 1/ The social sector, in particular industry, has been the
driving force of the economy. The share of industry in GDP has increased to
about 49 percent while agriculture has declined to about 14 percent, paving the
way for development of a modern industry/service oriented urban society. The
past two decades have also been associated with the growing integration of
Yugoslavia into the world economy. Between 1954 and 1976 exports and imports of
goods and non-factor services grew by around 8.8 percent and 9.5 percent per
annum in real terms, respectively; much of this in the convertible currency areas.
1/   According to World Bank Atlas methodology.



- 3 -
7.         Although overall growth performance has been impressive, Yugoslavia
continues to be characterized by large regional income disparities. Four
regions, namely Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro, with two-thirds of
the national average per capita income, and Kosovo, with one-third, are
officially designated as less developed regions (LDR). The difference between
the most developed region, Slovenia, and the least developed, Kosovo, is 6 to 1.
In addition to these interregional disparities there are large intraregional
disparities with differences in per capita income as high as 10 to 1 between
communes. These disparities are a product of diverse factors, notably differing
shares of the low productivity agricultural sector and unfavorable demographic
conditions e.g. higher dependency ratios and population growth rates. Until
recently regional income disparities had tended to widen. Since 1971 sizeable
concessionary credits (with about 50 percent grant element), equal to about 9.3
percent of the GDP of the LDR in 1974, have been transferred to the LDR through
the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of the Less Developed Regions.
8.         Linked to the issue of regional income disparities has been the
problem of providing adequate employment opportunities in the modern sector.
Between 1954-76 employment in the modern social sector increased by around 4
percent per annum facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural sector.
Despite this impressive record, considerable imbalances exist. Large
productivity and income differentials exist between the modern (mainly social)
and the traditional (private or individual agricultural) sectors. The
persistence of these differentials has resulted in a high level of demand for
modern sector employment on the part of the rural labor force. The increase of
the working age population caused by the relatively high population growth in the
LDR has further added to employment demand. Large numbers of Yugoslavs have
sought temporary employment ibroad since the late 1960s. At its peak in 1973
Yugoslavia had about 1,100,000 external migrants. However, since 1973, with
changes in policy and the slower growth in the host countries, this trend has
been reversed, accentuating domestic imbalances and placing added pressure on the
social sector to create new work places. Unemployment rates have risen rapidly
from about 7 percent in 1971 to over 12 percent in 1978. 1/ The incidence of
unemployment is highly regionalized, because population and labor force growth
rates, as well as the proportion of agricultural employment, are all much higher
in the LDR. In 1978 unemployment rates ranged from 26.9 percent in Kosovo to 1.5
percent in Slovenia.
Recent Developments
9.         Yugoslavia has achieved a high rate of economic growth in the first
four years of its current economic plan (1976-80). Despite unfavorable external
conditions, GDP has risen at an average rate of over 5 percent since 1976.
Nevertheless, Yugoslavia's economic development in recent years has continued to
be characterized by stop-go policies and cyclical behavior. Rapid economic
1/ These rates are not strictly comparable to those in other countries. They
represent the ratio of registered job-seekers (including some currently
employed) to social sector labor force. The ratio of registered unemployment
to total resident labor force would have been about 8.3 percent in 1978.



growth and inflationary pressure have resulted in balance of payments
difficulties, leading to measures restricting the level of economic activity.
The strong revival in the level of economic activity since 1977 was accompanied
by mounting balance of payments difficulties, which culminated in a record
current account deficit in 1979. Stabilization measures introduced during the
course of 1980 have resulted in slower growth, but have produced a substantial
improvement in the country's balance of payments position.
10.        The main engine of Yugoslavia's impressive economic growth during the
current plan has been industry. Although industrial production rose by only 4
percent in the first 9 months of 1980, it averaged almost 9 percent during
1977-79. The plan placed particular emphasis on energy, raw materials and
intermediate goods production to increase import substitution. These priority
sectors performed well during the first three years of the plan although
production fell slightly short of planned targets. In contrast, the non-priority
sectors, particularly consumer goods, grew at a faster rate than projected.
Climatic factors have resulted in marked annual fluctuations in agricultural
output, which rose between 1976 and 1979 at an average annual rate of 2.9 percent
(compared to a target of 4 percent).
11.        Fixed investment grew at an average rate of almost 9.5 percent between
1976 and 1979, considerably outpacing the 8.0 percent plan target. The plan's
emphasis on import substitution has led to a wave of investment in the priority
sectors, particularly in energy but also in mining, metallurgy, electrical
machinery and chemicals. The share of gross fixed investment in GDP has risen
from 28 percent in 1975 to almost 32 percent in 1979. In 1980, however, fixed
investment is expected to decline by 2 - 3 percent in real terms, as a result of
increasing restrictions placed on investment activity, particularly in
non-priority fields. Strong social pressures on enterprises to create new work
places through additional investment may have been important in causing the
higher than planned level of investment. Overall social sector employment growth
has been rapid at over 4 percent per annum during 1976-79 (compared to a plan
target of 3.5 percent) and has been even faster in the LDR. Despite these
achievements, the combined impact of net immigration, demographic factors and the
contraction in the rural labor force has caused the unemployment rate to rise
from about 10 percent in 1975 to over 12 percent in 1979.
12.        Inflation has also been cyclical.  The stabilization measures
introduced in 1975 and 1976 produced a sharp decline in the rate of inflation (as
measured by the retail price index), which fell from 25 percent in 1975 to 9
percent in 1976. The subsequent revival in activity was accompanied by a
resurgence of inflation. In 1977 and 1978 the retail price index rose by 13
percent, while in 1979, in part due to increases in indirect taxation and fuel
prices, it increased by 22 percent. Cost push factors have also been present.
Although real wage increases have grown more slowly than productivity, nominal
wages have risen rapidly, and enterprises--in order to preserve their high
savings and investment levels--have passed a large part of these increases on in
the form of higher prices.
13.        Yugoslavia's balance of payments record has been one of the weakest
aspects of its performance during the current plan. The plan adopted an import



substitution strategy, and envisaged annual merchandise export growth of 8
percent to counteract the expected decline in workers' remittances. Although
import growth fluctuated widely between 1976 and 1979, Yugoslavia was successful
in containing the average volume of import growth within the 4.5 percent annual
overall limit set by the plan. Nevertheless, rises in import prices boosted its
import bill sharply. Oil price increases alone added $500 million to the import
bill in 1979. Merchandise exports expanded vigorously in 1976, but their growth
averaged only 2.0 percent per year during 1976-79. Buoyant domestic demand,
generated by a rapid rise of nominal household incomes and high rates of
investment, was one of the underlying causes of this deterioration. Workers'
remittances, however, continued to rise in real terms, partly cushioning the
balance of payments. The current account of the balance of payments, after
achieving a surplus in 1976, moved into deficit in 1977 and reached an estimated
$3.7 billion in 1979. In response, government targets for 1980 emphasized
stabilization: investment and output were targeted to rise considerably less
rapidly and great stress has been placed on price stability and the expansion of
exports. In early June 1980, the Government announced a 30 percent devaluation
of the dinar against the US dollar together with a temporary price freeze. This
was followed by amendments to the 1980 plan resolution, reducing growth targets
further and revising merchandise trade targets in the light of terms of trade
developments. Initial results for both exports and imports in 1980 are
encouraging; exports increased by almost 9 percent in real terms during the first
10 months of 1980 and imports declined by 11 percent. They suggest a significant
reduction in the current account deficit will be achieved. A stand-by
arrangement with supplementary financing equivalent to SDR 339 million has been
agreed with the International Monetary Fund in support of the Government's
program to reduce the balance of payments deficit. Stabilization measures, which
will entail slower growth in order to ease inflationary and balance of payments
pressures, are expected to continue in the early 1980's.
Medium Term Prospects
14.        Yugoslavia's current plan was prepared during a period of mounting
external difficulties which were precipitated by the 1974 oil price increases.
It responded to these problems by a concerted import substitution drive in a
number of priority sectors. Despite considerable success in reducing its
dependence on imports, Yugoslavia once again is formulating its five-year plan
against a background of substantial external imbalance and a renewed tightening
of foreign exchange constraints. Priority investments undertaken in the 1976-80
Plan should help Yugoslavia to meet its future energy, raw material and
intermediate goods requirements increasingly from domestic sources. Yugoslavia
will continue to emphasize import substitution in the forthcoming plan
(1981-85). The next plan will also need to emphasize merchandise exports, by
making it more attractive for enterprises to orient their effforts towards
exports rather than home markets. Yugoslavia's export opportunities should be
widened by a new cooperation agreement with the EEC, which provides Yugoslavia
with duty-free access to EEC markets for a wide range of industrial products and
provides concessions on a number of important agricultural products.
Nevertheless, the probable continuation of its external difficulties may force
Yugoslavia to accept a period of slower growth than it has achieved in the
current plan.



- 6 -
15.        Slower growth will make it more difficult for the social sector to
generate additional employment at the pace of the current plan while the demand
for new work places will remain high. Given these difficulties, more emphasis
will be laid on the development of labor intensive activities including
small-scale enterprises.
16.        Finally, the reduction of regional disparities will remain a major
objective of Yugoslavia's economic planning. Financial transfers between
republics will play an important role in this process. In addition, the
Yugoslavs have experimented with encouraging social enterprises in the more
developed regions (MDR) to make direct investments in the LDR. As experience is
gained, these joint ventures could make a significant contribution to the overall
efficiency of production within the LDRs by facilitating the transfer of
technological and managerial knowhow within Yugoslavia. The regional problem,
however, is expected to remain one of the least tractable facing Yugoslavia.
Creditworthiness
17.        Between 1976 and 1979 gross medium and long-term capital inflows
averaged $2.6 billion per annum. Total medium and long-term debt (outstanding
and disbursed) which was $5.8 billion in 1976 is estimated to exceed $12 billion
at the end of 1979. In 1979, a significant portion of Yugoslavia's outstanding
euromarket obligations were refinanced on improved terms. Short term capital
inflows were erratic between 1976 and 1979, but--in common with several other
countries--short-term debt rose in 1979 (by about $875 million) to reach an
estimated $1.3 billion. Official foreign exchange reserves fell by $1.2 billion
in 1979 and at the end of the year amounted to slightly over $1.1 billion. The
value of imports covered by official reserves declined from the equivalent of 2.6
months of imports in 1976 to 0.8 months in 1979.
18.        About three-quarters of the debt extended to Yugoslavia in recent
years has been contracted in convertible currencies through commercial sources.
The bulk of this commercial credit has been provided in the form of suppliers'
credits. Nevertheless, financial credits obtained in the eurocurrency market
have become increasingly important for financing the economy's foreign exchange
requirements. The World Bank is the principal source of non-commercial long-term
credit to Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia will continue to require a substantial inflow
of foreign lending if it is to achieve its medium-term objectives. The debt
service ratio which--taking into account workers' remittances--averaged 16
percent between 1976 and 1979, is expected to increase to over 20 percent during
the next medium term plan (1981-85). Given Yugoslavia's past debt service
record, pragmatism and its demonstrated capacity to implement firm stabilization
policies when these are called for, Yugoslavia remains creditworthy for a
substantial level of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA I/
19.        The Bank has made 65 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about $2,722
million. Of this amount, approximately 45 percent ($1,214.4 million) has been
1/ Part II of this report is substantially unchanged from Part II of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Fifth Industrial
Credit Project (Report No. P-2863-YU) of October 1, 1980.



-7 -
for 22 loans for the transportation sector -- 12 for highways, 6 for railways,
and one each for a natural gas pipeline and an oil pipeline, and two for a port
project. Historically, Bank lending has concentrated on infrastructure
including, in addition to the transportation loans, five power loans, one
telecommunications loan, two water supply and sewerage and five multipurpose
loans (two of which include substantial irrigation components). In recent years,
Bank lending has increasingly focussed on the agriculture sector and nine loans
totalling $480 million (about 18 percent of the total amount lent to Yugoslavia)
have now been made for agriculture. Eighteen loans amounting to $410 million
(about 15 percent of the total) have also been made for industry and two for
tourism amounting to $30 million. The $27 million first Bank loan for air
pollution control was approved May 25, 1976.  In addition, IFC has made fifteen
investments in Yugoslavia totalling about $290 million. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of December 31, 1980 and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.      The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its lending to
Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives are:
(i)    to support Yugoslav efforts to address the critical issues of
regional disparities and unemployment;
(ii)    to promote agricultural development in both the individual
farmer and social sectors by providing basic infrastructure and
credit facilities;
(iii)    to encourage structural reforms in the major sectors through
improved coordination, institution-building and technical
assistance;
(iv)    to help in identifying and financing gaps in basic
infrastructure-particularly transport and energy; and
(v)    to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign exchange
by providing part of the required long-term capital,
encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other
sources of medium- and long-term capital, and supporting
projects which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
It is obvious that every Bank operation cannot address all these objectives nor
be entirely oriented towards the LDR, but the basic thrust of the Bank's
activities in Yugoslavia has increasingly been towards the development of the LDR
and the agricultural sector in particular. Reinforcing this strategy are the
economic surveys of the four LDR undertaken by the Bank and intensified
assistance in project formulation and on-going economic and sector analysis.
21.      The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the LDR
is fully in accord with the Federal Government's policies embodied in the current
1976-80 Development Plan and in the 1981-85 draft Development Plan. In the
current plan period, the Federal Government has agreed with its constituents on
the level of domestic resources to be channeled to the LDR through the Federal
Fund mechanism (see para 7) as well as the distribution of external resources



- 8 -
including Bank lending. The distribution pattern for Bank lending has been
determined broadly on the basis of income levels and population size of
particular regions.
22,     Over the past five years, almost two-thirds of Bank lending has been to
the LDR through operations for transportation, power, agricultural development
and industrial credit. In the next few years significant Bank lending to the LDR
through similar operations but with even more emphasis on agriculture is expected
to continue, with special attention being given to the needs of Kosovo, the least
dleveloped of the LDR.
23.      The agricultural sector deserves attention for a number of developmental
considerations. It is the obvious vehicle for addressing the problems of rural
poverty which underlies regional disparity; it can provide opportunities for
productively employing the rural population, thus reducing the pressure for
creating non-agricultural employment; and it contributes to reducing reliance on
imports and improving the prospects for exports of food and other agricultural
products. The 1976 "Green Plan" called for greater attention to agriculture and
while the social sector is the main vehicle for growth, the Plan clearly
recognizes that the impetus for accelerated growth must necessarily be derived
from the underexploited resources of the individual, low-income sector (which
-old almost 84 percent of the cultivated land and employs over 90 percent of the
farm population). This proposed project as well as forthcoming projects for
apro-industries, irrigation and regional development will support agricultural
development in general and the individual farm sector in particular.
24.      Decentralized management, the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's socio-economic
philosophy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in formulating coherent
sector plans. One of the principal features of the 1974 Constitutional changes
and subsequent legislation, however, has been to revamp the institutional
framework and to introduce mechanisms for coordination. Given the complexity of
the Yugoslav system which requires that the programs of all enterprises be
discussed, negotiated and reflected in legally binding agreements, the process of
dealing with problems and of evolving acceptable solutions is cumbersome. The
Bank has therefore seen it important to exert its influence in shaping the policy
framework and fostering coordination, particularly in the power and transport
sectors where significant progress has been achieved.
25.      Through its future operations the Bank will seek to consolidate the
institutional reform successfully achieved in the past. Further development of
the appraisal and supervisory capabilities of the banks will remain a major
objective. In transport, intermodal coordination will be sought through the
implementation of the results of the rail costs and road user studies undertaken
under the Eighth Highway Project (Loan No. 1377-YU approved March 15, 1977). The
Bank will concentrate its lending operations in areas where its incremental
institutional and/or policy coordination impact is greatest.
26.      A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and to address the critical
issues of unemployment and regional disparities. The Bank has successfully
introduced Yugoslavia to organized cofinancing and become a significant vehicle
for attracting additional sources of credit through cofinancing arrangements,



-9-
forging new banking relationships for Yugoslavia and in some cases securing
improved terms and conditions of commercial loans for the country. The Bank,
however, remains the major source of long-term external capital for the
foreseeable future and, equally important, its significant level of operations in
Yugoslavia is regarded by international financing institutions as evidence of
international confidence in Yugoslavia's economic performance, policies and
prospects. While an increase in cofinancing on Bank projects is desirable, both
the projects and sub-projects involved must be suitable for cofinancing given the
complex system of management in general and the banking and foreign exchange
allocation systems in particular.
27.      Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounts to about 8.7 percent of
Yugoslavia's total debt, outstanding and disbursed. The outstanding debt to the
Bank is expected to remain a fairly stable ratio of Yugoslavia's total debt
outstanding and disbursed. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total debt
service was 5.8 percent in 1979 and is projected to be about 5 percent by 1985.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Agriculture in Yugoslavia
28.      The agriculture sector, which occupied over one-third of the population
and accounted for about 14 percent of the GMP 1/ in 1978, has grown at an average
annual rate of about 3 percent during the period 1968-78. Agricultural
development in Yugoslavia is of crucial importance to (a) meet an estimated 4
percent annual increase in domestic consumption requirements; (b) provide for
increases in exports; (c) meet the raw material requirements for expanding the
agro-industries subsector; and (d) to achieve employment and income objectives
primarily through development of the individual sector.
29.      The country has three distinct climatic zones and a predominantly
mountainous terrain. Agricultural activities are consequently many and varied.
Fifty-eight percent of the national territory is recorded as agricultural land,
two-thirds of which is arable and the rest pasture. The soil is better than in
other southern European countries, especially in the fertile plain in the
northeast which includes Vojvodina and which, while containing only one-sixth of
the country's total area, encloses nearly one-third of the arable land and
produces more than half of the country's wheat and maize and three-quarters of
the sugar beet. In the hilly areas covering much of Serbia, Slovenia and Bosnia,
a mixed farm pattern prevails. The mountainous regions to the west and south
contain extensive upland pastures suited to livestock rearing. Along the
Adriatic coast, in the Mediterranean climatic zone, vineyards and olive and
citrus groves flourish while further south, in Macedonia, sub-tropical crops such
as tobacco, cotton and rice are grown.
1/  GMP (Gross Material Product) corresponds to GDP (Gross Domestic Product)
less output of certain services, such as public administration, defense,
education, health and social insurance.



- 10 -
30.      An important feature of Yugoslav agriculture is the co-existence of
social and individual farm sectors. The social sector, which grew out of the
postwar collectivization, is made up of a number of different institutions
including kombinats (integrated factory farms), cooperatives and research
institutions; this sector accounts for about 28 percent of the total agricultural
output, controls 16 percent of agricultural land, and employs about 5 percent of
agricultural manpower. In contrast, the individual farm sector, which consists
essentially of privately held family plots not exceeding 10 ha of arable land and
which controls 84 percent of the cultivated land and employs about 95 percent of
agricultural manpower, is handicapped not only by fragmented, but by poor quality
land, and has been neglected in terms of provision of basic infrastructure,
financing and technology. For the most part, these two sectors are inherently
complementary rather than competitive. The cooperation which exists between the
two sectors takes the form of trade in input and output and the contracting of
joint production.
31.      Yugoslavia's principal strategy in agricultural development has been to
emphasize growth of the social sector as the principal means to achieve
large-scale market production and self-sufficiency in food. As a result, the
agricultural production in the social sector grew at an average annual rate of
10.9 percent during 1954-72. In contrast, during the same period the individual
sector grew at an annual rate of 2.9 percent. While the objective of
self-sufficiency in food was substantially achieved through this emphasis on
social sector growth, there remain large income differentials, with average
incomes among individual sector farmers ranging from less than a third to less
than half of those workers in the social sector and there has been a rapid
depletion of the labor force in the agriculture sector which contributed to the
rural-urban migration and increased overall unemployment in the economy.
32.      The strategy of Yugoslavia's draft Agricultural Development Plan
(1981-85) is based on continueu' development of social sector holdings as the main
vehicle for growth and increased cooperation with the individual farm sector.
The draft plan stresses the importance of agricultural development and outlines
measures to develop the individual sector as a means of addressing the problems
of unemployment, rural poverty, regional income disparities and low
productivity. The plan aims at growth in agricultural production of 4.5 percent
per annum, based on annual growth in agricultural production in the social sector
of 6 percent and in the individual sector of 4 percent. Agroindustries, a
priority activity, are expected to grow by 7 percent per annum to meet strong
consumer demand. The less rapid growth of the individual sector reflects its
limited absorptive capacity and the difficulties in providing the large number of
individual farmers involved with appropriate inputs and markets.
33.      Responsibility for formulating agricultural policy and plans rests with
the Republics and Provinces, all of which are represented on the Federal
Committee for Agriculture, the President of which is a member of the Federal
Executive Council with the rank of Minister. Due to decentralized decision-
making, all functions associated with policy and plan implementation rest with
autonomous self-governing organizations, such as agrokombinats and cooperatives.



- 11 -
Agriculture in Serbia and the Project Area
34.      Serbia 1/ is the largest producer of agricultural commodities in
Yugoslavia. The importance of agricultural development and the need to alleviate
the constraints facing the agriculture sector, particularly among individual
farmers, are recognized and have been addressed in Serbia's five year
agricultural development plan (1981-85) in which agriculture has been designated
as a priority activity. The plan strategy is primarily to encourage social
sector growth while promoting increased cooperation between the individual and
social sectors, with each sector drawing on its respective comparative
advantages. Thus meat, milk, fruits and vegetables would be mainly produced by
the individual sector and industrial crops, cereals, and processed food products
mainly by the social sector. The plan strategy is sound and is consistent with
performance of the two sectors in the past.
35.      The project area, located in the South Morava and Toplica sub-regions of
the Morava region in the southern part of Serbia (see map), consists of 18 towns
or communes populated by 646,700 inhabitants in 1977. Both sub-regions are
predominantly agricultural since over 50 percent of the population depend on
agriculture for their livelihood. Individual farmers own over 97 percent of
arable land, 93 percent of orchards, 92 percent of vineyards and almost all the
livestock in the project area. Average farm size is about 4 ha. Farm
fragmentation is a constraint to efficient farm management. In contrast to the
individual farming sector, the social sector farming is of limited importance in
the project area comprising about 50 relatively small estates which contribute
about 11 percent to agricultural income in the area.
36.      The project area has considerably underutilized potential for increased
livestock and horticulture production. The main constraints to further
development, aside from natural constraints due to hilly terrain, low proportions
of fertile soil, and susceptibility to floods, are lack of investment capital,
lack of technical assistance, weak institutional framework and a poorly developed
agroindustrial sector which limits the market opportunities available to the
farmers in the project area. The development of the project area is important
not only for increased production, but also to reduce income disparities between
the project area and the other parts of Serbia. Accordingly, Serbia's 1981-85
Plan assigns the highest priority to implementation of the proposed project which
would help alleviate some of the above constraints and would help achieve the
Plan objectives.
Bank Involvement in Yugoslavia's Agriculture Sector
37.      The proposed second Morava regional development project would represent
the eighth Bank loan for agriculture and agro-industries in Yugoslavia. Since
1971, when it first became involved in the agriculture sector in Yugoslavia, the
Bank has financed three nationwide agricultural credit projects (Loan Nos.
1129-YU, 1477-YU and 1801-YU), four agriculture and agro-industry projects in
1/ The Socialist Republic of Serbia consists of Serbia Proper and the
Autonomous Provinces of Kosovo and Vojvodina. The term Serbia in this
report refers to Serbia Proper only.



- 12 -
Macedonia, Montenegro and Bosnia Herzegovina (Loan Nos. 894-YU, 1370-YU, 1371-YU
and 1621-YU), as well as three irrigation and multipurpose projects with
agricultural components (Loan Nos. 777-YU, 1360-YU and 1616-YU) and one drainage
project (Loan No. 1756-YU). The Bank's involvement in these projects has been
both in the social and individual sectors. As summarized in Annex II, these
projects are generally proceeding satisfactorily.
38.      Within the framework of Yugoslavia's agricultural development plan and
the Government's objectives, considerable Bank lending for agriculture is an
essential element of the Bank's strategy to support the less developed regions,
improve income distribution, alleviate pockets of rural poverty, increase rural
productivity and productive employment opportunities and contribute to a
reduction of imports and an expansion of exports. The Bank emphasizes the
development of primary agricultural production (irrigated and rainfed) in the
individual sector and agricultural processing facilities in the social sector to
provide the outlet for this production. In recent years both Yugoslavia and the
Bank have increased their commitment to the development of the individual
sector. The mix between involvement in the social and individual agricultural
sectors in Bank projects in Yugoslavia is determined in each particular case,
taking into account factors, such as, the Federal and Republican/Provincial
governments' own efforts for the social and individual farm sectors and the
relative investment requirements in each republic or province needed to bring
about a balanced agricultural development between primary production and
processing capability.
Performance Under Agricultural Credit Projects in Serbia
39.       Under the nationwide First and Second Agricultural Credit projects
(Loans No. 1129-YU and 1477-YU), Serbia has received US$22.4 million. These
funds have been almost fully committed for sub-projects in the social and
individual sectors, and the sub-projects are proceeding satisfactorily. Serbia
will also receive US$14.5 million under the Third Agricultural Credit Project
(Loan No. 1801-YU) approved in February 1980. The project area, however, will
not receive any substantial funds from this allocation. Investbanka, the
proposed borrower under this project, is not a participating bank in the three
nationwide agricultural credit projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.      The proposed Yugoslavia Morava Regional Development II Project will be
undertaken in the South Morava and Toplica sub-regions of the Morava Region which
is located in the southern part of Serbia (IBRD Map No. 15231). The project area
is one of the lesser developed areas in Yugoslavia with an income per capita
(US$1,100) of less than half of the Yugoslav average. The first Morava Regional
Development Project (Loan 1262-YU) was approved in May 1976 and mainly supported
the development of water supply and sewerage systems and included two small scale
pilot irrigation schemes. It also included three studies of: (a) ways to promote
economic development of the South Morava and Toplica sub-regions; (b) ways to
adjust to flood hazards in the Morava Region; and (c) an action program to
improve water quality in the Morava Region. Except for the economic development
study (reference (a) above), the implementation of the first project is being
carried out by different organizations than those involved in this proposed



- 13 -
project. Though behind schedule, the first project is proceeding satisfactorily
(see Annex II, page 7).
41.      The proposed project has evolved from the first of the above three
studies. The study was carried out by the Serbian Fund for Underdeveloped
Regions of Serbia (SFUR), completed at the end of 1978, and outlined a long-term
investment plan for 20 years (1980-2000) covering all sectors of the South Morava
and Toplica sub-regions' economy. Since agriculture employs the largest segment
of the population of these sub-regions and is the least developed sector, the
proposed project has been designed to promote agricultural development. The
project was prepared by SFUR with the help of Yugoslav consultaots and the
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program. The preparation report was submitted to the
Bank in December 1979 and following preparation/preappraisal missions in February
and April 1980, an appraisal mission visited Yugoslavia in June 1980.
Negotiations were held in December 1980. The Yugoslav delegation was led by
Mr. Borislav Atanackovic, Secretary for Finance of Serbia. Annex III summarizes
key events leading to the presentation to the Executive Directors and special
conditions provided for in the Loan Agreement.
Project Objectives and Description
42.      The proposed loan and project are summarized in the Loan and Project
Summary at the beginning of this report and described in detail in the report
"Appraisal of a Morava Regional Development II Project" (No. 3163a-YU). This
report dated January 30, 1981 is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
43.      The project's main objectives are to; (a) assist in the development of
the Morava region--one of the less developed rural areas of Yugoslavia--through
increases in productivity, employment, and income of the individual farm sector
which is the poorest and the least developed sector of the project area; (b)
increase production of meat, milk, fruits and processed food products primarily
for the domestic market; (c) increase exports of processed food products based on
primary agricultural production in the project area; (d) contribute to
institution building by strengthening the organizational and project preparation
capacities of the regional development institutions in the project area; and (e)
strengthen the appraisal and supervision capacity of Investbanka, the proposed
borrower. The institutional arrangements (see paragraphs 45 to 51) for this
project reflect a broad impetus that exists within this region of Serbia for
integrated and coordinated development of the region. As such, this project is
viewed as an important step in the future overall development of this region and
a possible model for regional development elsewhere in Serbia and Yugoslavia.
44.      The project would consist of the following specific components:  (a)
primary agricultural component: sub-loans, (i) to an estimated 8,870 individual
farmers for livestock development to produce milk, beef, pork, chicken, and lamb,
as well as for the establishment of a total of 3,650 ha. of new rainfed fruit
plantations and 1,100 ha of rainfed vineyards, (ii) for three schemes to irrigate
about 930 ha involving an additional 2,130 individual farmers, and (iii) to
social sector enterprises for the establishment of about 220 ha of orchards and
200 ha of vineyards. Most of the output from these components would be supplied
to processing facilities which are proposed to be established or modernized/



- 14 -
expanded under the project; (b) support services component: strengthening of
the existing agricultural technical assistance services in the project area; and
(c) agroindustries component: sub-loans for the establishment and expansion of
14 agroindustries concerned with processing of milk, meat, poultry, fruits,
vegetables, as well as two wineries and a livestock feed mill.
Project Organization and Implementation
45.      Institutional Arrangements.  The borrower of the proposed loan would be
Investbanka. It would on-lend the Bank funds, together with its own resources
and special funds from the government of Serbia. The Serbian Fund for
Underdeveloped Regions (SFUR) would be the project implementation agency (see
paragraph 48-51 below). The Bank would enter into a project agreement with SFUR
which would formalize its responsibilities and obligations under the project
(Project Agreement). The various organizations and institutions in the project
area have already prepared several agreements among themselves for the purpose of
carrying out the project (Loan Agreement, Recitals (B) (C) (D) and Section
3.01(b)): (a) a consortium agreement among Investbanka, SFUR and several other
local banks to ensure funds needed for the project (see paragraph 60); (b) a
self-management agreement among all participants including the agrokombinats and
other basic organizations who will carry out the specific investments in the
project area, which specifies their respective responsibilities and obligations
under the project; and (c) a subsidiary agreement between SFUR and Investbanka
which defines their relationship under the project (see paragraph 49). Working
drafts of these agreements have been discussed among the concerned parties and
reviewed by the Bank. The finalization of these three agreements would be
conditions for effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01).
46.      Investbanka commenced operations on January 1, 1978 under the new
Banking Law, as the legal successor of the Yugoslav Investment Bank (YIB) and the
Belgrade Bank. Investbanka is a basic bank, affiliated with Yugoslavia's largest
bank, the associated bank Beogradska Banka of Belgrade, and can carry out all
types of credit and banking operations in Yugoslavia (see paragraphs 38-43 of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Fifth Industrial Credit
Project (Report No. P-2863-YU of October 1, 1980) for a description of the
banking sector in Yugoslavia). Although Investbanka is not a borrower under
previous Bank loans, its predecessor, YIB, was the central investment banking
institution for Yugoslavia and, as such, was the borrower under eleven Bank loans
for a total of $345 million tiuring 1961-1970. During the 1970s, none of the Bank
loans to Yugoslavia were channelled through YIB because: (a) banking reforms in
Yugoslavia decentralized power to regional banks and virtually eliminated YIB as
a central investment bank; and (b) the Bank in 1974 began DFC-type lending to the
newly formed regional banks at the request of the Government of Yugoslavia.
47.      Investbanka is a majoi source of credit in Serbia in all sectors and
accounts for over 45 percent of on-going investments. In 1980 Investbanka
employed 2,961 staff and had 23 business units (branch banks) and 61
sub-offices. Total assets of Investbanka at the end of 1979 amounted to US$4.3
billion and long-term loans constituted by far the largest asset category at
about 77 percent of total assets. The organization, lending policies and
procedures, and the financial situation of Investbanka are satisfactory. To
perform its responsibilities under the project Investbanka has established a



- 15 -
Project Operations Division. A staffing list for this Division has been agreed
with Investbanka and 9 out of the proposed 15 staff members have already been
assigned, including the director of the Division. It has been agreed that the
Division would continue to be adequately staffed and responsible for all
sub-loans under the project (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(a)).
48.      SFUR, the implementing agency, was created as a legal entity in 1961 to
stimulate and support the accelerated economic development of the underdeveloped
regions of Serbia. More than 80 percent of its total resources, which in 1979
amounted to US$56.5 million are derived from contributions by social sector
organizations in Serbia which are legally obliged to contribuLe 0.5 percent of
their annual gross social product for the development of less developed areas of
Serbia. SFUR supports enterprises in less developed areas, directly through
loans or joint venture participations, or indirectly through interest rate
subsidies and grants. SFUR is managed through an Assembly, made up of 51
delegates elected by municipal and regional assemblies and the Assembly of
Serbia. SFUR's Assembly elects an Executive Committee which consists of 17
members and is responsible for all policies and operations of SFUR and appoints
its Director. The Director of SFUR runs day to day operations and is assisted by
a deputy director, four economists, and six engineers.
49.      SFUR has had for Geveral years an agreement with Investbanka under which
inter alia Investbanka carries out appraisal, supervision and disburse-
ment/repayment of all sub-loans made by SFUR and provides other selected
administrative and support services. This arrangement allows SFUR to concentrate
on its development functions while retaining authority on all loan approvals.
Investbanka receives a commission of 0.14 percent on gross funds handled during
the year. This relationship between Investbanka and SFUR has worked
satisfactorily in the past and will be continued under the project through a new
agreement (the subsidiary agreement referred to in paragraph 45, reference (c))
which would be concluded prior to effectiveness of the Bank loan (Loan Agreement,
Recital D and Sections 3.01(b) and 7.01).
50.      SFUR would be responsible under the project to: (a) mobilize and ensure
participant commitment for project implementation, principally by means of the
self-management agreement among all participants referred to in paragraph 45
(reference b); (b) ensure timely project implementation by organizing regional
coordination units; (c) review progress in project implementation on the basis of
monitoring and evaluation arrangements agreed for the project (see paragraph 58);
(d) combine its funds with funds from the Bank, Investbanka and other local banks
to finance investments under the project and together with Investbanka and the
other local banks to provide funds, if needed, to cover cost over-runs under the
project; and (e) assist the various participating organizations in the project
implementation (Project Agreement, Sections 2.01 and 2.02).
51.      SFUR's performance in managing thorough project preparation and in
mobilizing Government and participant commitment to date has been excellent. For
project implementation SFUR has appointed a Senior Advisor to work on a full-time
basis. In addition, coordination units, one for the South Morava sub-region and
one for the Toplica sub-region would be established and located in the respective
Regional Chambers of the Economy. Regional coordinators have already been
designated and are active in assisting the participating organizations. The



- 16 -
above institutional arrangements are considered satisfactory in view of the
excellent performance already witnessed during the preparation and appraisal of
the project.
52.      Implementation and On-Lending Procedures.  The project is in an advanced
stage of preparation and full-scale project implementation would start
immediately following approval of the proposed Bank loan. Completion of all
project investments is projected for end 1985. Most of the individual farmers
and basic organizations participating under the project have been identified and
designs and technology packages have been developed.
53.      The investments for horticulture production will mark a major beginning
for developing modern and high productivity horticulture in the project area. A
novel feature of this component will be land consolidation to establish block
orchards and vineyards consisting of typically 10 to 50 ha involving 20 to 100
farmers. This would improve the efficiency of establishing new plantings, of
carrying out pest control, harvesting and produce-handling, and of providing
support services. Groups for the first two years of the planting program have
already been formed. In regard to the irrigation component the agrokombinats in
the project area would implement the schemes and recover costs from the
individual farmers.
54.      The support services component would consist of strengthening the
existing agricultural services and agricultural/veterinary stations in the
project area. For this purpose SFUR would arrange with the Institute for the
Application of Sciences in Agriculture (Belgrade) to prepare, by August 31,
1981, a detailed plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for support services in the
project area (Project Agreement, Section 2.04(b)). Training provisions for staff
of different participating organizations under the agroindustries and support
services components have been included in the project.
55.      In order to assist the participating organizations in project
implementation, additional technical assistance would be provided. The
participation of the International Trade Center in Geneva is being sought in
export marketing of frozen fruits and dehydrated vegetables produced under the
project. Investbanka and SFUR would require for designated agroindustrial
sub-projects that suitably qualified and experienced consultants be engaged (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02(a)(vii)(B)). In this regard, understandings have been
reached to the effect that for four of the agroindustrial sub-projects,
consultants would be engaged to examine market prospects, appropriate technical
design and specifications, as well as assist in bid evaluations.   SFUR would
engage suitably qualified and experienced consultants to work with a Yugoslav
institute (to be designated by SFUR) to design a cost accounting system (for
completion by January 31, 1983) to be used by the agroindustries to be financed
under the project (Project Agreement, Section 2.04(a)). Expenditures for this
technical assistance would be eligible for financing under the loan. The average
cost per man-month of consultants services is estimated to be US$10,000 and an
estimated 24 man-months of consultant services are included in the project. The
average cost per man-month includes personnel cost, travel cost and subsistence
expenses.
56.      Appraisal Criteria.  The participating organizations under the project
would submit sub-loan applications simultaneously to Investbanka, SFUR and local



- 17 -
banks for approval of sub-loans. To avoid duplication of work and speed-up
sub-loan approval, it has been agreed that Investbanka alone would appraise each
sub-project and would make the appraisal report available to SFUR and relevant
local banks. Detailed appraisal guidelines and methodology have been developed
and agreed between the Bank, local banks, Investbanka and SFUR. Investbanka
would make sub-loans in accordance with these guidelines and would ensure that
inter alia, sub-projects are technically feasible and have a minimum 12 percent
financial and economic rate of return (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, paragraph 2
(B) and (C))
57.      Eleven out of 14 agroindustry investments already have been fully
reviewed by the Bank and found financially viable and technically feasible; a
further review by the Bank will not be necessary unless there is a major change
in design of a subproject and/or investment costs increase by more than 20
percent of the appraisal estimate including contingencies. For the remaining
three agroindustries, for which preliminary Bank review indicates economic
justification but needed additional analysis (see paragraph 55), Investbanka
would prior to approving the sub-loan submit the subproject appraisal report to
the Bank for review and approval. Sub-loans under other components of the
project would be made by Investbanka in accordance with the methodology already
agreed with the Bank (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, paragraph 2 (C)).
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
58.      Investbanka would be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the
project and would submit quarterly progress reports and annual evaluation reports
to the Bank. To help prepare the annual evaluation reports assurances have been
obtained that Investbanka (a) would by September 1, 1981 engage qualified and
experienced consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to
design and carry out a monitoring and evaluation system in accordance with agreed
terms of reference (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05(b)). The total cost of the
evaluation system over an eight year development period for this project is
estimated to be US$300,000 (constant prices). This cost would be borne by
Investbanka. A similar evaluation system has been established for several
previous Bank financed agriculture projects (Loans 1129-YU, 1477-YU, 1621-YU and
1801-YU).
Project Cost and Financing Plan
59.      The estimated total project cost, including physical and price
contingencies but excluding interest during construction, is US$239.4 million,
with an estimated foreign exchange component of US$90.7 million or 38 percent.
The cost estimates include import duties and taxes estimated at US$7.4 million.
An average 8 percent physical contingency has been allowed and an average price
contingency of 23 percent on base cost price plus physical contingencies has been
included in project costs to meet expected inflation in foreign and local costs
during the project implementation period of five years. Interest during
construction on the proposed Bank loan would add an additional US$24.0 million to
the foreign exchange requirements of the project, but would not be financed from
the Bank loan; it is expected that about US$17.0 million will be covered from the



- 18 -
internal cash generation of the subborrowers, with the balance of about US$7.0
million to be financed from other sources. Details of the cost estimates are
shown in the Loan and Project Summary.
60.      The proposed Bank loan of US$87 million would finance most of the
estimated foreign exchange cost of equipment and materials, civil works and
support services. The loan would be made to Investbanka for 15 years, including
3 years of grace. Investbanka would on-lend the loan proceeds to the
sub-borrowers, in accordance with the terms and procedures described below (see
paragraphs 61-62). As in the case of other agricultural loans in Yugoslavia, the
foreign exchange risk of the Bank loan would be borne by the sub-borrowers in the
social sector and by the government of Serbia for the individual sector farmers.
The Bank loan would be repaid on the basis of an adjustable repayment schedule
reflecting the composite repayments of sub-loans by the sub-borrowers. The
balance of the project financial requirements of US$201.4 million (including
interest during construction), of which US$27.7 million comprise foreign exchange
requirements, would be financed as follows: SFUR would provide US$76.3 million,
Investbanka would provide US$25.5 million and the sub-borrowers and local banks
would provide the remainder US$99.6 million from their own resources including
possible funds from co-financing. A consortium agreement among Investbanka, SFUR
and local banks in the project area to ensure availability of local funds,
including the provision of funds to cover cost overruns, has been agreed upon and
would be finalized as a condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Recital (C),
Sections 5.01 and 7.01 and Project Agreement, Section 2.01).
61.      The terms of sub-loans under the project would be related to the cash
flow projections of the investment. The repayment period of individual and
social sector sector sub-loans for horticulture and irrigation would range up to
15 years including a grace period of up to five years. For agroindustry
sub-projects, repayment periods would normally not exceed 13 years including
grace periods of up to three ytars, except in cases where co-financing from
foreign sources is involved, i-;> which case, repayment and grace periods may be
extended to 15 and 5 years respectively. To encourage co-financing for some of
the agroindustrial sub-projects no sub-loan would exceed 36 percent of the total
estimated cost of the sub-project (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1 and Schedule 5,
para. 2(C)(iii)(c) and para. 3(5)). Similar co-financing provisions have been
provided under several industrial credit projects in Yugoslavia and were applied
to the Third Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1801-YU).
62.      The interest rates for on-lending under the project would be as follows
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 3(B)): (a) for Bank funds the on-lending rate
to be charged by Investbanka would be a minimum of 11 percent. The on-lending
rate on the Bank funds is in line with the average cost of long-term foreign
exchange resources in Yugoslavia and in the international capital markets; (b)
for the portion of domestic funds provided from resources of the local banks,
interest rate would be a minimum of 10 percent; and (c) for the portion of
domestic funds which are provided from SFUR special development funds, the
interest rate would be determined in accordance with the prevailing rates set by
the Serbian authorities (currently between 4 and 5 percent). Understandings were
reached during negotiations to the effect that, in the event that the permitted
lending rates on resources of local banks (item b above) are increased, the
lending rates for sub-loans under this project would be correspondingly
increased. These on-lending rates are in line with the rates agreed for the



- 19 -
recently approved Fifth Industrial Credit Project (Report No. P-2863-YU of
October 1, 1980 - see that report, paragraphs 40-41 and 65-66, for a detailed
description of interest rate structure and policy in Yugoslavia). The annual
rate of inflation in Yugoslavia has varied considerably over the last 4 years
averaging about 14 percent in the period 1976-79. While inflation increased
sharply in 1979 and 1980, the projected annual rate of inflation for the next 3
years is estimated to be 16 percent. Although the proposed on-lending rate on
local bank funds would still not achieve a positive real rate, it is about 3
percent more than the current minimum charged by Yugoslav banks. In the social
sector where the sub-borrowers bear the foreign exchange risk, the real interest
rate on Bank funds would be positive. Efforts to pursue an Lbjective of
increasing domestic interest rates will continue through dialogue with the
Yugoslav authorities. Assurances were obtained under the recently approved
industrial credit project to the effect that the responsible Yugoslav authorities
would review with the Bank, at least annually, the interest rate policy of
Yugoslavia in the light of prevailing market conditions.
Production and Markets
63.      As a result of investments in livestock and horticultural production,
irrigation and support services under the project, farmers would be able to
intensify production, raise yields and shift to higher value activities. The
project would thus induce an arnual incremental output of primary agricultural
products, valued at US$59 million and annual incremental output from
agroindustries of about US$132 million at May 1980 prices. Market prospects for
incremental production under the project have been analyzed in considerable
detail during project appraic..1. The market analysis shows that good market
opportunities exist for the production expected under the project in view of
future incremental domestic and export market requirements. About US$12 million
of the annual incremental output is expected to be exported.
Accounts and Auditing
64.      As required by Yugoslav law, all banks and enterprises are audited
annually by the Social Accounting Service (SDK). Normal audit by SDK does not
conform to generally accepted international standards. However, SDK has since
1974 implemented a training program, for its staff, with the Bank's support, to
undertake internationally accepted audits of Yugoslav banks and other borrowers
under Bank loans. This has resulted in most of the Bank's borrowers having been
audited by SDK according to internationally accepted standards, including five of
the Yugoslav banks which are borrowers under previous Bank financed agriculture
and industrial credit projects. Assurances have been obtained to the effect that
Investbanka would arrange with SDK to have its accounts audited in a similar
manner according to internationally accepted standards. Investbanka would submit
its audited accounts to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal
year (Loan Agreement, Section 5.04). Investbanka would maintain separate
accounts for sub-loan disbursements under the project. SFUR is not expected to
receive any funds under the project and, therefore, no audit arrangements for it
are considered necessary.



- 20 -
Procurement and Disbursement
65.      Agroindustrial plants and equipment estimated to cost about US$54
million would be procured following international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with the Bank guidelines. This would consist of: (a) turn-key
construction and equipment for a poultry processing plant, a livestock feed mill,
a cold store and a dehydration plant, estimated to cost a total of US$24 million;
and (b) equipment, with an estimated cost of US$30 million, for milk processing,
fruit juice processing, meat processing, a dehydration plant, wineries and drip
irrigation. Bids have already been invited for most of these facilities with the
exception of a dehydration plant and a milk processing plant for which design
consultants have been appointed and for which bids are expected to be invited for
equipment procurement by mid-1981. Domestic manufacturers would receive a 15
percent margin of preference or the actual level of import duty, whichever is
less in bid comparisons. It is estimated that out of about US$54 million,
foreign suppliers would be awarded contracts valued at about US$30 million (56
percent). Procurement actions to date have been taken in accordance with the
above procedures, and assurances have been obtained that the procurement
arrangements outlined above would be followed for further procurement under the
project (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4). Arrangements for project implementation
are well advanced. In order to avoid loss of one growing season and a processing
season it was necessary to start preliminary works under the horticulture
component and appoint consultants for several agroindustries. Retroactive
financing of these expenditures up to the amount of US$1.0 million is therefore
recommended under the project.
66.      ICB would not be suitable for works and equipment connected with other
project components valued at US$185.4 million; namely, the livestock,
horticulture, irrigation (except drip equipment), and support services components
of the project and the civil works for processing plants included under item (b)
of paragraph 65 above. Works and equipment involved are not suitable for
international procurement as they are unlikely to be attractive to foreign
contractors and suppliers due to the dispersion of investors, wide differences in
the type of construction and equipment required, phasing of contracts over 4
years, and relatively small size of each contract. Procurement of these
components would be done through existing commercial channels or local
procurement procedures and would be supervised by Investbanka. Sufficient
commercial channels and civil work contractors are available in Yugoslavia to
provide adequate competition for the supply of goods and civil works needed under
these components.
67.      Bank disbursements would take about 5 years, although the entire loan is
expected to be committed by end of 1984. The expected annual disbursement of the
proposed loan proceeds is given in the Loan and Project Summary. Disbursement of
the Bank loan would be made against 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 50
percent of the amounts disbursed by Investbanka on account of local expenditures,
in both instances for the purposes of encouraging cofinancing (see paragraph 61),
subject to a maximum of 36 percent of the total estimated cost of the respective
sub-projects (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1).



- 21 -
Benefits and Risks
68.      The project investments are designed to make a wide impact on the
development of the South Morava and Toplica sub-regions of the Morava Region
through development of agriculture - the sector which contains the poorest and
the least developed segments of the Region's population.
69.      Beneficiaries.  Direct beneficiaries of the project would total about
11,000 individual farm families who would receive sub-loans for livestock,
horticulture, and irrigation development. About one-third of direct
beneficiaries in the project area are expected to belong to the target group with
per capita personal incomes below US$510. The incomes of the direct
beneficiaries are expected to increase by 50 percent to 120 percent as compared
to the pre-project incomes. The investments under the agroindustries and the
support services components of the project would result in indirect benefits to
an estimated additional 31,000 families by providing steady market outlets for
their production as well as inputs and services.
70.      Employment.  The project's contribution to employment would be
substantial. At full development the project investments would result in 1,710
permanent full time jobs and a 2,460 man-year (a man-year treated equal to 200
working days) increase in employment of hired seasonal labor. About 3,520
man-years of increased family labor requirements would be generated on
participating farms which would reduce underemployment and pressure to migrate
from the project area.
71.      Production and Foreign Exchange Effects.  Most of the incremental
production due to the project would be used to satisfy domestic consumption
needs. However, part of the incremental output valued at US$12 million annually
or US$240 million over the 20-year life of the project would be exported,
resulting in foreign exchange earnings - one of Yugoslavia's highest-ranking
requirements.
72.      Institution Building Effects.  The project's non-quantifiable benefits
would include: (a) the institutional development of Investbanka, SFUR and other
participating organizations through provision of training and through experience
gained in preparing, implementing, and evaluating a regional development project
of this size and scope; (b) fostering of increased cooperation between the
individual and social sectors and technological improvements of production
systems in the project area; and (c) use of this project design as the model for
similar regional development projects in other parts of Yugoslavia. In fact this
latter effect is already beginning to be realized, since SFUR has started work on
a similar regional development project in the Adrena River Basin and, at a recent
conference of representatives of less developed areas of Yugoslavia, a great deal
of interest was expressed in the institutional and other design features of the
project.
73.      Economic Rate of Return.  A wide range of investments would be financed
under the project and their composition is fairly well known in view of the
advanced state of project preparation. The weighted average economic rate of
return on the whole project is expected to be about 25 percent, with the
livestock, horticulture, irrigation and agroindustries components averaging 14
percent, 22 percent, 26 percent and 32 percent, respectively. Changes in



- 22 -
investment costs and net benefit streams were made to test the sensitivity of the
project's rate of return to deviations from assumed values and even under severe
adverse assumptions the project's economic rate of return does not fall below 9
percent, with the less adverse assumptions ranging between 15 to 19 percent.
Financial analysis has also been carried out on most components of the project
and the estimated financial rates of return vary between 12 and 32 percent for
the primary production, between 21 and 31 percent for the irrigation schemes, and
between 13 to 33 percent for the agroindustries.
74.      Risks.  The institutional arrangements for the project are well in place
and the sub-projects are in an advanced state of preparation. All investors have
been identified and major procurement actions have been nearly completed. The
current economic stabilization measures recently introduced in Yugoslavia have,
in some instances, caused delays in the timely availability of local funds for
Bank financed, on-going agricultural projects, but the consortium agreement (see
paragraph 60) under this project is expected to minimize such difficulties.
Thus, no significant risk or uncertainty is foreseen for the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Investbanka, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and SFUR, the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank, and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
76.      Provisions in the Agreements of special interest are noted in paragraphs
45 through 67 of this Report and the most important provisions are listed in
Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness for this proposed
loan (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01) are that the execution of the three local
agreements among the participating organizations related to the financing plan
and project administration (referred to in paragraph 45 of this report) have
been duly authorized or ratified.
77.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
February 11, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                                                   ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YUGOSLAVIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                          -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) _
TOTAL            255.8                                 MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL     142. 7              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b              EUROPE                 COUNTRIES
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  380.0       850.0    2430.0                  2749.5                    9499.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      872.0      1459.0    2035.0                  1641.4                    7021.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      18.4        20.4      22.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.9         34.8       40.7                   53.9                      76.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       26.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         29.0
YEAR STATIORARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        72.0        80.0      86.0                    77.2                     142.8
PER SQ. NM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    124.0        139.0     154.0                   129.5                     523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          30.5        27.4      25.0                    30.6                      23.5
15-64 YRS.                          63.2        64.8      66.0                    61.1                      65.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    6.3         7. 8      9.0                     8.2                      11.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.2         1.0       0.9                     1.6                       0.7
URBAN                               3.6         3.2       2.9                     3.3                       1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      23.0        19.0       18.0                   22.8                      13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      10.0         9.0        8.0                    8.9                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.4         1.3        1.1                     1.5                      0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          59.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           85.0        93.0     114.0                   113.1                     110.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   125.0       130.0     136.0                   125.3                     131.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           93.0        93.0     101.0                    91.0                      98.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        28.0        32.0      39.0                    39.6                      62.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       4.0         3.0        2.0                    4.3                       0.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   62.0          67.0      69.0                    67.8                      73.5
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            88.0        55.5      34.0                    55.9                      13.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           1616.0      1000.0     762.0                  1030.1                     624.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      1350.0/c     410.0     409.0                   929.4                     218.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             200.0       179.0     166.0                   289.7                     121.2
URBAN                                          70.0      70.0
RURAL                               ..       1610.0    1770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        17.0      17.0                    17.0                      17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.0         3.8        3.8
URBAN                               3.3         3.2       3.3
RURAL                               4.4         4.3       4. 1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               1.6         1.4
URBAN                               1.7         1.3
RURAL                               1.5         1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              55.4        87.9        ..
URBAN                              92. 7       98.4        ..
RURA.                              36.1        80.1        ..



- 24 -                                                      ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YUGOSLAVIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVlAGES
-  HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  L     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b               EUROPE                 COUNTRIES
EDUCATION
ADJUJSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                111.0        105.0     100.0                    105.9                    100.1
MALE                 113.0       108.0      101.0                   109.3                    102.2
FEMALE               109.0       103.0       99.0                   103.0                    102.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 58.0         69.0      79.0                    64.0                      87.1
MALE                  63.0         79.0      83.0                    71.1                     84.4
FEMALE                53.0        58. 0      75.0                    56.9                     84.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. 1% OF SECONDARY)  72.0          72.0      75.0                     28.8                     19.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            33.0         24.0      22.0                    29.4.                     21.3
SECONDARY                          13.0         27.0      30.0                    26.1                      16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        77.0         83.0      85.0                       ..                     98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         35.0      88.5                     84.6                    339.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         85.0        166.0     210.0                    192.2                    932.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4         88.0     161.0                    118.5                    354.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  69. 0        85.0       89.0                    93.0                    327.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0           4.0        3.8                     5.7                      3.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      8344.6       9174. 2]  10065. 7/*
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   35.0         36.5      36. 3                    30.4                     36. 1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              63.0         51.0      33.0                     37.0                      7.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 18.0         23.0      32.0                     29.3                     38.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                45.4         45.0       45.9                    40.9                     44.6
MALE                                 60.3         58.3       59.4                    55.9                     58. 1
FMiALE                               31.0         32.3       32.7                    26.2                     31.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8          0.8        0.7                     1.0                      0. 8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16. 4/e       15. /f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  41.5/e        41.4/f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9/e         6.6/f
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.0/e        18.4        ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..     430.0                   385. 8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1962; /d Including migrants workers abroad; /e 1963; /f 1968.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of Aprl, 1980.
October, 1980



- 25 -                                                                            ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFIN9ITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nu~ Alth-ugi. the otto .te drown Iron source  genera.lly judged the most authoritat-v and reisbl, it should also ho -rted that thy may not ho intr-
rainll   p,-hlo hecu-  uf the loch of atu-da-di-ed dofiottli-  aad --oopte uaod hy diff-eeeo               outne   to rlerlgthe dons.  Tho data ne, nto.-
iccen,  .ec itdo-tibe orders tO  ugrittdo, indicate reoe,ad rhar..t. -lee  ertio    major dolleeo-s  betwenor.                    rio
7he  e oet  grtsuc()th   00tut ..ru..y of ehe  u( n  r-ryte  and (2) . r-uetry grop  10h o-vho, high- -eaerg-ptocomo than the  .tounc  group
of theeuh)et ocurcy (oroyt fr  'Cooral IcpluuOil.isyoree-e  grou p wher  "Middle  oreSoth AttIcs  edl Piddle  ast'E         I  oh..se he..... of stronger
ocio-tul.ur.i .flfn;rl-)  I.Icheefen               gupdt rS, ho. ur.r.g.. one popultion wighted aihei  morst                      . oh indiaru.  oud ah-w  only when a
leshol fl rho oeu.ntni-  it o gr-o  has data for thor indirutu,  Niece thinuveg  of ...unnrio  amon..g rho iodicatre doyp-ds .. rho  -olahillty o
daaan   a  p   oiforo, ruoion oust he  ue.rt iad to colai`sg aorgo f roe ind itroo   to arthc               hs   vrgsaeol   ofli   oprn   A   au
tor roe iditain   t  oraion  amog rho  -or-sy ued refene-ato groups.f-t  .. P  i   t
100  ll   (nouun   nqh-i oN tiop Per Phvb                                                                        cay.    upieio     ri  dbysmer0   eeetagpp
Totol    tona  oTloto  -rooapiniog land urea sd in,land _tnors.                                aitsn quiia  Irnambye sho                        at  baienmit  100.l    .gp_
far  -P~~~~~, P..r.ra,- -f  T12                                    PeolaionnorSasetalNed- ntalturan.end ula --opuarim  btaS
1970, urd  1979 data.l hhs-hilirttsIj  f.l_;tioecnrerm.g   NopP                                                          lsoe....smsr   emaety  nge
19                                                                                       d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nb   ald   AO  pnieipa  getbnli so   apeialse     hospitals  and.rn
Cora  Poorlotir9   Old-ter(lio)-A fJl   ;16,17,nd17                                         dissions ran gospira  Sad  - Total number of dmia hos  o  r itceg
dnER  .  fCmhOpNasdiiedb -Pthonube  of. hedt.bl.-t                                                                                                          -     tytf
Orho PpulTle  I   CAerTAi of oriut)  ~- infli uha  i o    otf      -rlaoioo;..ph.r.,Et-l---P-iigpii-IY..td
amngtrorio II 9-hat  -170  and        -  prtpt.   90 I90  15778data,Av rng  Dieto  iS- tbld lteffaooa ne  PhoueodY                                   oa.ubn   e   el
dup.utc   e)minsg  oshl                                                                                        nas  fagopo   a ividual               at wAn eAe  living  .uar.n
To.o,    e   nyor20  -Cren   oumtotrooece   e   asdo  ig                                      n  their. main pmoolo.  A hoarde  onldge  mayi        . n h.mypnt be    .Alue  tol
total  epulolon h  age  od se   nod obfi meenltry and0 f1r7ilny rates           eaiht.ool  for atatiatiral purposes.              .    d-tliy  1     
Prjd to tsenc   o    ota.o.ae    onro   ftee  eesasm                                     Avenage numbe'r ofPireons        T Net 1neo - tonal  orin.i and cana  - Aveesgea-
Con)      60dlol  liospenn97  th0alga  7.   aaa    h  pans                        do-llingsy.Heapeni         .. Nonllingah..2 ode ono tp l.na ban   stotos   sad
encore drr festilty  earn sloo han  three lovalo naamingddecline.inhn.coopied parts
fetltyutnd 00o  noe  ee  aed pase family.  planoing. pefrance.8                Acces  no.i ien    -.Ic.t  A beeeosne of dsitdge) -Y total  unhat. and ndadsl
it-ltoltyE   bhy  nosigden d on  ofhbns  oltinycombin tions            y of  .. tohtito.e...eibald dflieg w.i.th- elctictp             t  lvigqortra
udfer-tilit   moods  farc proet.ite  iOtOO o5t.                                           of1A-R notol  uran  ande-o deligocepc-vey
Stutlcuacy_populanien-Toaststionaty  population Oboes to 00 growsheiecsr!                                            apied  .__ti.
the bicti ca.t- it qal notI        da rt,ada th  t....the ago.%- strt tooe-.          bNSCATofN    ..-    .11F:
nl .oreaai   Thiisylta . is -schieved  onlyafte   fectiirycae deoline no             _dla,red ta-opm-tigulos~ lig..id                                    lotr.
th  nplnnnt Inoe  of iam-1- set dcpcod tto fatowly  pl      nti  geonest-iot        Priar  scoo -.t. total  mal adsfmle     es.ttl  ml  adfsI
etnio...trd 00 nba basisgo.nd pro ofrdcaosrsiso  rho i.-b.ti.    pof une                    pIaysho-g  populantoas; toinatl  itctodn   obides   agd   hl
fc i tilisu  000tnr   h   aso   eln    fferlt   ast   e  ae                                ec b-iar1 adjute  foe.g   diffth a  lenths of l nimnyql sdaca      ---m; tfoe
.ot  -reiiPRc  ropulattios 1  is reahe ti-Tie ppeani. whenattonn   papog at~bi.n.inc  sos puptis ace belowo  aoe1b  off toi arboetl age.
thnr booh   l ben  eahe..  tecotdard  shool -tnatl, male andfemale - CmpooedsssboE;DUcAadON
P   iupula .... _eos Tho .edrcsnio-deqriyeftnllfastifety                                                                            pence dftappeotsdAprimadyEi-Ite-ction;
Pe sh,  o  -p  Mid-yea   opuef  o      -per  quat ilometen   (10N      g .ta.s  -ti.        proidesh gI-nl.oateal  or~ te -a G.ai..n itst.1no as fanpoIk
rcfoaf                                Tha.                                                  rs..allypoof 12 nol 17  enn  of ago;  oeeson n p-otnsos sef gsae ts _
Pe-qt   o  aetlun  lan -h Cupl.netd as ahtove f nrinulthna i epoclued
otl.        IIIndoalIanolmetPPsrcaoe of, tecoeday  .ld- Toationldtestadn6o11
Pouaio   g  rucun(ecot                hloe    Il  yss,anha-g    15-nld  tcncl  ndsnel   nubn  egeawho   ponaidps
A   oar)  an  etie   (65hpear  ad oven) as p-rreetage  of midyer  op-enly un.as  eprtensiffscoday  eaintlIs
lotion;1960, 171, and1978 dno.                                     Pupo-tencat   ra.tio -fnisr' and            thoonofe pr- tly std iena enrlle i
peon p-plaiich. forh150--tio9hN-7p.andti570-7.                                                 c        ..spndn   levels. -b1     rb.   h    fr.    h. 
Pooatnmuh  ae(ann)-  ra  -ul  rwherso h-eb-n PhOdP                                          S.rAdoT literacy  rare (erneen  -d Ifa      saol-  (able to coe  and ...t.d)
lur.iros   r too  ity7-O   d9 ...nd  90-8                                                       s    tapanoent ig   o  stal-    .. Fdat  opuaton agep1 o-ad  even'-t-t.a
pcpolrioo  196, 191, sd 197  dan.pld ..Nb- fa                       I-d...ilyoi                       2t07t   ..Fo--l    -
Cadey Det   aeIperosn)     nuld.t.pn.osodo    i-ea                                          asne tar  (e   (bPs.n  poultion). dY VPssagetirace  opiget  motor.
puplanico 196, 1971.,  ae 1978 dana.                                                        cans sering- las   hn  ih  prons  notludna T.btane1   hearses an1d i
he,.P    o   eroaro  periodo ifshe  sopeien                th ressa  o  tt an-peiicdn-     Nadic clven  (pa t-ood sand-1 donoidrda by .-bAlltype  of  hsntte  oe radi
yItty  come; usu.all  floe-year 1v60egna enigi 96,17,ad  1977.7                              bcn-deaaes t  gnei   pbi   e  eosa   fpooaie   ncoa    ni
Poil  Faola-hnecoa.anua  ltluA.adsl  g- thoa  -anh-  of occa Ppacs                       ceaselt    elooi citocrie  and Lin yeses.1t also       blgarrtt   of oaf -to.se
Iunit Panaug-Iers(ptcootof  sntndtameo  -.ercntag  cfmanttdcounrie  ablishd-lcening
C"d. Birth E~~~~~~t. (P- th...-d) -masscoeCieclattsl(oe thusanthoecarto)t-  hamstheoveraedcicuIt
I_den u:t Pon U,  Proui    per Capit A196-71d010h) -. ihndee. ofpocaiaasa                      nnoO"ilger intonest amoopPe..d.f tend as a P1 pto tca   o-
Pponuciot  of. all,90,- f      1o9c78diin.  Pounoaaldsse    a  Fo   n                        lina..io.  devote  pr..i.     n thocorht   ding. geneesi      . ah-.   n  .oesde
in..  Rn caledari pose   - bAtsr..    -omoliacee  pninbt ry goods( .g. su  inse               sooi"aiy" - if  eppasatlas   ontnsae
ten ore eludd).ltAggregatei p          hdc.e  of ech  oui ty i  based. .   ontf'          -rdinhn   sold-   d.ri  the pon,taodeg Admlsatons tof dr..is-ia cinosd
coitecal. anaag  produte pi-yrteagh; 16i-gbi 19760so 19781 .data7                             r. .t.a-dmb le  nt.a..-   bl     rt-..do    plti;..ld.ol-
Peril tp1it soolu   noiA-(torreth  of. d                A. re emns .-bromptdf  camlt          ..-l.  -    .Y_ h.                                                   fI!
enryf      qivln  o   etIoc_upies o  _nsiab.. In co_ te  panes pis                         .p.
noocs  andchaesc    "tc.PStsple                    ld   omly   fed  ses,t               eno  to noesl ad.tonfapry   bu...t eocldie  hoy aoeioob   studets. etc
.uaoit-  e  ud    dt  fo   roosae,ad  eseo               dincbonoo   neaie-                sefoiioc   t  nr thoun  cropeltiieaa .n.oncompashis;  96.d 197  mod l
ceete  ero nnimate  by PD bese  on pysioioiny- eedsrfe neeaofont-   197tdane
Per. o  Facod sppldy of i utiCn(grams pee day)    Iootet  rofee- of pen Onpit              Inutry (eerone  - Laortfrc  to- picipg  tonaearI' n    ans
'O.tul  uf  oo  per dayi.Ne  supl  ofa-  food              ..i d define   .as shone,  is-  aedd oleoniir    , !wtrad  a   spnoeyeo  enrol labot  fence; 1560
quecnr   r   llrsiie    salihdb lilACgooidc fo   oia                                       197  and.1978 does.p,
r,   ~~~hilh or. .,'17bl.Td rat:suivir  rats oe cepufdus  ota, mte  an.d fml teho  fo.rc  as
-lioci  pPnud  ite p;196 -6,17  uih.td  1977 65 dots.             178dt1                    ,    bi.ai.
Chil  (roe  1-i) Mrtlit .plate  (.peeitood) -ti Aprud dathas ipee  thoas..d  n               t00 n~ba tarot i thuPoe..-.        - -l    t-i.d
tries rooc donned iron life  isblno; 1960, 1970 sod 1977 date.   INCOME NioTliNTTIOS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lbl:    60    9
.a.t,  ,,,  ,,I-t,d ly IAII b ... d                               Poceotsg.ofphyate.Togia.(bth indnehIan-lied)- Serov7d bytiches
..i yp   ttno             ponra)hAveage.eaiber o t    peerst of body    reaiinh,g.           o  hoebod .F.!L.~.   .-                    pl-..o   ..   ..    .
sh-bIrth   1960,   1970    65d 1975 dec..d17    t.f.i     .pr tg   ft.     blft.   9017    d17 
Telco  inctlito  ate (rc thusand  - AnualPdath oforausuneroe  eo             pv_tCAiS  RO
ofr ugepee. chrueso  lr b.tirths-.feiatdAbout   ovcyduas   evly    ron   atta)  - oha  anrrl   -
Onteenn Ouo Waer (cnreo  of orulotee)    tona, uran, ed rua     l-pit           Abolte (povrn    L num   -no l,n rhoe  eoo  levl  olo   hih    msii
woe       60cBoupyof (includPrtreate    purfeosoaten    on  enEared hof  li-o1amiand               Rtafftoedahie...   f 1. Ptiipi. 
l_nriortndot  loaea   t t      ma entant1 nes  rnshus   a  be                            tonol income 0t
.roaoalutso          ldipytof   tho hoS         oionrmmbr o        f .lp,,I ,    the B-   ofsbod  atoons ..rtlan Iont~ Nelo   Aboatd  roeri1m Lvl(pne)-na
eon .o-o  touon  a.ip.    rtoet   ac   f  h  day lofecingosudea    yneno  popuatin Tobirdednone)6wo ae "senlfo too'
Aere-s to teeoa lisnosal~ flucteat of con lget   - _total  urbany sad .dd                              :t,.       t-
rural  f-Nubro   iopl   (totl, ubeo   sdruay) 1961v6d h97 e                1ordeost.ofppl.i.-dl1  .d6  .d-
disynau  as peesetogs of th Ic maer tin   -opultio.. I  sndah a die-                  fthomitand   ocial  atoflviiu
po.notInud thcolriraddsue. ti uc w1thnotPn'ethse..-    .Dp..l  R tci                                                       ei   nlai   n   r(rioaSpem
19, 9111p 1-1 yll-, t.  hildr   to thi.  g. gl..p; far rd.-I.pi.g                                        Onroher.198
ntdou  od-oic-ad  eat-one            19h watr-hrn 70 ane d   rho7 ses. ofO     ITRBTO
pm  icitysa  end sicilan  irso....el,laticos.Ir-  _                                                        bhi   . h~.dki)    R-id  y  i 



- 26                                                           ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                                   Annual Growth Ratee (.)
Indicator                      (million US$ at                       -Actual_el
current prices)                      -Actusl                             Ci            Prolected
1978               1974    1975    1976    1977       1978       1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product/a              52,674               14.8      3.6     3.4      7.7       6.6       7.0      4.1     4.3      4.4      4.0
Agriculture                          6,595                5.6    -6.6      9.6     5.3       5.0        6.0     4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0
Industry                            22,413               17.5     6.8      3.9     9,5       8.7        8.0     4.5      4.8      5.1      5.1
Services                            18,019                3.0     4.3      0.2     6.1       9.2        6.0      3.7     3.7      3.7     3.7
Consumption                           41,531               20.7     0.9    -2.2    10.7        5.0        5.5      3.9     3.7      3.8      3.9
Gross inveatment                      17,561                8.6      8.8     6.0    12.4       9.7        8.8    -1.3       1.2     2.8      2.7
Exports of GNFS                        8,655                2.2    -8.3    10.6    -4.4       -1.0       -3.4      7.9     7.9      7.9      7.9
Imports of GNFS                       12,247               12.7    -8.1    -5,0    12.5        0.0        9.3    -0.3      1.7      3.2      3.5
Gross national savings                14,977               -5.2     8.2    14.6    -0.6                    -        -        -       -        -
PRICES
GDP deflator                           252.7              134.9   164.3   201.4   221.5    252.7           -        -        -       -        _
Exchange rate                           18.6               15.9    17.4    18.2    18.3       18.6
Share of GDP at Market Pri5Xs (7)                               Average Annual Increase (,)
17(at ceur7rent lrices /  Y5 lS                   SUu 197-/5san7l8o   reS                      95Y
Gross domestic product            100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0  100.0                 5.9        6.5        5.6         4.5         6.5
Agriculture                      22.5   16.1    13.9    12.6       12.2   10.9               3.3        2.9        3.9        4.0         4.0
Industry                         42.2   37.4    43.8    43.7       45.2   48.7               6.3        8.3        6.4         5.2        8.1
Services                         29.0   38.1    33.6    34.2       33.1   30.9               6.9        4.7        4,9         3.8         5.0
Consumption                        67.2   72.8    74.3    78.4       75.7   72.3               6.5        6.9        4.0         3.8         5.5
Gross investment                   36.5   32.3    33.0    31.4       29.0   28.8               4.7        5.5        7.0         2.8         6.3
Exports GNFS                       13.9   18.5    20.4    18.7       22.0   23.6              10.2        6.7        0.9         7.9         8.0
Imports GNFS                       17.5   23.5    27.7    28.3       26.2   24.6               9.8        6.7        3.0         3.3        4.9
Gross national savings             32.6   29.6    29.9        -         -      -               5.3        6.2         -           -           -
As % of GDP
1960      1970    1975
PUBLIC FINANCE
Total revenues                                               -        33.1    36.8
Total expenditures                                           -        33.2    37.2
Surplus (+) or deficit C-)                                   -         0.1    -0.4
Foreign financing                                            -         0.0    -O.4
1960-70    1970-75   1975-80    1980-85        1985-90
OTHER DVDICATORS
GNP growth rate   (7)                                      6.1        6.7        6.0         4.2          6.2
GNP per capita growth rate                                 5.0         6.6       5,0         3.3          5.3
ICOR                                                       5.4        4.6        5.8         6.8          4.6
Import elasticity                                          1.6        1.0        0.5         0.7          0.8
/a   At market prices; components are expressed at factor costs and will not add due to exclusion of net
indirect taxes and subsidies.
/b   Projected years at constant prices.
/c    Estimate.
EMENA 1C
June 4, 1980



-27 -                                                        ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
YUrOSLAVIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                                 Annual Growth Rates (%)
Indicator                 (million US$ at                                            (at constant 1972 prices)
current prices)                       Actual                              e/               Projected
1978             1974    1975      1976     1977      1978-     1979      1980      1981     1982      1983
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandipe exports             5,671            0.0      0.0      14.5     -5.3       1.0       3.6       7.9       7.8      7.9       7.9
PrimarY-a  /b                1,304           -10.B    -3.1      16.6       3.9      1.5        3.5       7.6      7.4       7.5       7.6
Manufactures                 4,637             3.5      0.4      13.9     -8.8       0.8       3.6       8.0      8.0       8.0       8.0
Merchandise imports             9,988            16.9    -2.8      -6.5     18.5       3.8      13.8       0.0       1.9      3.5      4.0
Food    /c                     605            13.6  -40.9       45.8       4.3    -24.2       13.8       0.0       2.0      4.0       5.0
Petroleumi                   1,432           -11.4    -5.0      10.1      12.0      11.6      10.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Machinery and equipment      3,634            16.4    22.3      -8.8      17.8       7.1      16.6       0,0       2.0      3.5       4.5
Others                       4,317            22.2   -11.9    -12.7       22.1      4.4        9.9       0.0      2.0       4.0      4.0
PRICES
Export price index                                158     172      10       202       220     247.7    276.1    301.3    325.6    348.5
Import price index          1972 - 100           175      184       189      216       226     239.2    277.0    304.2    329.0    351.7
Terms of trade index                            90.3    93.5      95.2      93.5     97.3      103.6      99.7     99.0      99.0      99.0
Composition of Merchandise  dade (7)                       Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current pricesY                               (at constant 1972 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990            1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Exports /a                  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0               8.1        5.7       3.6        7.9        8.0
Primarty   /b              49.6   29.4   19.5   24.6   24.3   24.3                 -       -1.3       5.0        7.6        8.0
ManufactureT               50.4   70.6   80.5   75.4   75.7   75.7                 -        8.1       2.9        8.0        8.0
Imports                     100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0               9.0        7.4       4.5        3.7        5.2
Food    /c                  9.1    7.2    5.5    5.6    5.7    6.0                 -        5.0      -0.2        4.3        6.4
Petroleum                   5.4    4.8   12.3    6.6    5.5    4.9                 -        8.2       6.5        0.0        3.0
Machinery and equipment  36.8   33.2   33.9   42.6   43.7   45.3                   -        9.4       9.2        4.2        6.0
Others                     48.7   54.8   48.3   45.3   45.1   43.8                 -        6.0       2.0        3.7        4.6
Share of Trade with          Share of Trade with                    Share of Trade OTth                   Share o} Trade witc
Industrial Countries (7.)      Developing Countries (7)        Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (7,)    Centrly    P     Eccon  %
1965      1970       1975      1965       1970       1975          1965       1970       1975              1965    2970
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                          40.1       53.3       34.0      17.4       13.6      16.8             0.4       0.7        2.1               42.1    32.4     47.1
Primary                        61.0       70.2       54.0       9.1        8.2       8.9            0.2        0.2        1.9              29.7    21.4      35.2
Manufactures                   24.0       41.9       26.0      23.8       17.2      20.0            0.6        1.0        2.1              51.6    39.9      51.9
imports                          55.3       66.1       59.1      16.0       12.7       15.7           0.1        0.1        0.6              28.6    21.1      24.6
/a   SIrC 0-4
lb   SITC 5-8
/c   SITC 3; includes lubricants, coal and electricity.
7-  Projected years at constant prices.
/e   Estimate.
JeENA 19
June 4, 1980



- 26 -
YUGOSLAVIA - BALACE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Indicator                                                       Actual                                     /I                   Pr19 ected
1970     1974      1975      1976      1977      1978        1979    1980    1981        1982    1983    1985    1990
.LANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services             2,967    7,410    8,172    9,282   10,074   11,685           13,041  15,435  17,936   20,674  23,653  30,785  56,909
of which: Merchindise f.o.b.            1,680    3,805    4,072    4,878    5,254    5,671            6,746   8,115   9,549   11,131  12,856  17,064  33.795
Imports of goods and services             3,368    8,600    9,175    9,112   11,656   12,702           16,264  18,827  21,306   24,069  26,944  33,589  58,059
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.            2,874    7,520    7,697    7,367    9,634    9,988          13,549  15,692  17,553   19,655  21,855  27,059  47,374
Net transfers                                 61                                         -         -        -         -        -
Current account balance                    -340   -1,190   -1,003         170   -1,582   -1,017        -3,224  -3,392  -3,370   -3,395  -3,290  -2,804  -1,150
Private direct investment                    -         -        -         -         -         -
MLT loans (net)                              210      482    1,076    1,093    1,402    1,150           1,160   3,955   4,061    4,223   4,416   4,059   3,245
Official                                    55      232       328       427       240        35          -I       64      91       154      145      138       64
Private                                   155       250       748       666    1,162    1,015         1,161   3,891   3,970    4,068   4,271   3,921   3,182'
Other capital                               -81       270       127       -47       -19       182         745    -178    -231       -290    -501    -613    -767
Change in reserves                           186      438      -200   -1,211        199      -315       1,319    -386    -461       -538    -625    -642  -1,329
1/
International reserves                       -      1,609    1,809    3,020    2,821    3,136           1,817   2,203   2,663    3,201   3,826   5,038  10,886
of which: Gold                            -          62        62        62        64        69
Reserves as months imports                             2,2      2,4       4.0       2.9       3.0         1,3      1,4     1.5        1.6     1.7      1.8      2.3
IrERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements                          640    1,426    2,171    2,096    2,665    2,700           2,859   5,367   5,793    6,519   7,300   8,662  11,679
Official grants                           -         -
Concessional loans                         67       170       i34       134       159        29          13       12
DAC                                       0       135        71        62        66        11         11       11      -         -
OPEC                                              _
IDA
Other                                    67        35        63        72        93        18           2       1
Non-concessional loans                    573    1,256    2,037    1,962    2,506    2,641           2,846   5,355   5,793    6,519   7,300   8,662  11,679
Official export credits                  39       134       203       283        75        74          22      66       96       115      127      146     188
IBRD                                     37        90       154       119      133        IO        207      281      326       349      359     360      389
Other multilateral                      -         -         -         -         -           8          21      24       12       -       -         -       -
Private                                 497    1,032    1,680    1,560    2,298    2,409           2,596   4,983   5,359    6,055   6,814   8,157  11,102
Yugoslav export credit (net)                (-35)   (-130)    (-80)   (-100)   (-213)   (-130)          (-130)   (-177)  (-230)  (-290)  (-501)  (-613)  (-766)
External Debt          /2
Debt outstanding anT
disbursed                              1,933    4,926    5,820    7,145    8,946   11,pi4          12,174  16,129  20,190   24,412  28,829  37,143  57,172
Official                                885    1,647    1,934    2,395    2,712    2,!60           2,959   3,023   3.115    3,269   3,414   3,739   4,278
Private                               1,048    3,279    3,886    4,750    6,234    8,054           9,215  13,106  17,075   21,143  25,415  33,404  52,893
Undisbursed debt                        n.a.      1,262    2,784    2,551    3,212    n.e.           1,257   1,268   1,281    1,303   1,355   1,455   1,551
Debt service
Total service payments                    503    1,217    1,437    1,440    1,612    1,865           2,166   2,046   2,720    3,653   4,619   7,105  12,583
Interest                                128       285       343       364       381      455         466      634      988    1,358   1,735   2,502   4,149
Payment as 7. exports                    16.9      16.4      17.6      15.5      16.0      15.9      :16.6    13.3    15.2        17.7    19.5    23.1    22.1
Average interest rate on new loans (%)   7.1          6.4       8.1       7.1       7.4       7.7         8.0      8.0     8.1        8.1     8.1      8.1      8.1
Official                                  7.0       6.0       8.3       7.0       7.3       7.7        -       -        -         -        -        -       -
Private                                   7.5      10.5       7.5       8.6       9.3      -           -        -       -         -        -        -
Average maturity of new  loans (years)   16.5        18.0      15.2      18.3      15.4      15.1.       10.8    10.4    10.1       10.1    10.1    10.0        9.8
Official                                 18.5      19.0      16.5      10.0      15.9     15.1         -       -        -         -        -        -
Private                                  10.9       8.1      10.9       5.7      7.5       -
!e    Estimate
/1    Includes estimated foreign assets of commercial banks.
r2    External borrowing reported in the historical balance of payments is not consistent with external debt data.
3T   Preliminary estimates (obtained in January 1981) indicate that the current account deficit for 1980 has been reduced to $2.2 btllion,
as a result of successful stabilization measures.  The Five Year Plan for 1981-B5 is under preparation.  The Plan projectioas
will be evaluated in a forthcoming Bank mission.
EMENA Region
Junp ,4, 980



-2  -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of December 31, 1980)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)           Purpose           Bank
Undisbursed
Twenty-five Loans fully disbursed                                  732.6
777    1971   SFRY                          Multipurpose Water   45.0       1.8
894    1973   Stopanska Bank Skopje         Agricultural
Industries           31.0     1.1
916     1973   Naftagas                      Gas Pipeline           59.4    19.9
1012    1974   Stopanska Banka Skopje        Industrial Credit    28.0       0.3
1013    1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Industrial Credit    22.0         0.1
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                    Railways               93.0     9.0
1060    1974   Port of Bar                   Harbor Expansion      44.0      3.7
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik             Water Supply and
Wastewater            6.0     2.4
1129    1975   Vojvodjanska Banka            Agricultural
Credit               50.0     3.4
1173    1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod        Pipeline              48.4      1.9
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda          Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources            20.0     6.0
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &       Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise          Sewerage             45.0    15.5
1264    1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise       Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit          Control               38.0     7.8
1277    1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka   Second Industrial
Pristina                     Credit                50.0     5.3
1360    1977   Management Organization       Multipurpose
"Metohija"                   Water                54.0    47.2
1370    1977   Investiciona Banka            Agriculture
Titograd                     Industries            26.0     9.8
1371    1977   Stopanska Banka Skopje        Agriculture
Industries           24.0    15.6
1377    1977   Road Organizations in
Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Serbia, Macedonia, and
Kosovo                      Roads                  56.0     0.5
1469    1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in      Second Power
each Republic                Transmission          80.0    36.4



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year              Borrower(s)            Purpose              Bank  Undisbursed
1477    1977   Vojvodjanska Banka              Second Agricul-
tural Credit          75.0       61.8
1534    1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                     Railways              100.0       15.6
1535    1978   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia and
Serbia                       Roads                  80.0       17.1
1561    1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosne i Hercegovine          Hydro Power            73.0       44.6
1611    1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina        Third Industrial
Credit               40.0        18.1
1612    1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fourth Industrial
Credit                20.0        8.6
1613    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Fourth Industrial
Credit                20.0      16.1
1614    1978   Investiciona Banka              Fourth Industrial
Titograd                      Credit                20.0        5.8
1616    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Macedonia Strezevo
Irrigation           82.0       62.5
1621    1978   Privredna Banka                Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                      Agriculture and
Agro-Industries       55.0       53.0
1678    1979   Roads Organizations of
Kosovo, Montenegro,
Vojvodina and Herci-
govina and Macedonia         Roads                 148.0       83.7
1756    1979   Zagrebacka Banka               Croatia Sava
Drainage              51.0       51.0
1759    1979   Road Organization of           Earthquake Rehab-
Montenegro                    ilitation-
Highways              21.0       14.7
1768    1979   Port of Bar                    Earthquake Rehab-
ilitation-Port
of Bar                50.0       50.0
1769    1979   Railway Organization           Earthquake Rehab-
of Montenegro                 ilitation-
Railways              14.0       13.0
1801    1980   Vojvodjanska Banka             Third Agricultural
Credit                86.0      86.0
1819    1980   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia,
Serbia and Vojvodina        Roads                 125.0      125.0



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
1909a/  1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina        Fifth Industrial
Credit              50.0       50.0
l910a/  1980   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fifth Industrial
Credit              30.0       30.0
1911a/  1980   Investiciona Banka             Fifth Industrial
Titograd                      Credit               20.0       20.0
1912a/  1980   Stopanska Banka                Fifth Industrial
Skopje                        Credit               10.0       10.0
Total (less cancellation)                                2,722.5   1,024.2
of which has been repaid                                  339.5
Total now outstanding                                    2,383.0
Amount sold                              9.2
of which: Amount repaid                 8.0                  1.2
Total now held by Bank                                   2,381.8
Total undisbursed                                                   1,024.2
a/ Not yet effective.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at December 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                          Type of                  Amount in
US$ million
Year             Obligor                       Business                  Loan
Equity   Total
1970   International Investment               Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia           Corporation         -      2.0      2.0
1970/  Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.p.A.  Automotive
1972/                                          Industry         12.4      0.6    13.0
1980
1971/  Tovarna Automobilov in Motoriev    Automotive
1980     Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt   Industry              9.2      0.9    10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972/  FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler-           Automotive
1980     Benz A.G.                             Industry         16.3      0.8    17.1
1972/  Sava Semperit                          Tires             12.5      2.5    15.0
1978/
1980
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira            Pulp and Paper   71.9       -       71.9
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO               Special Steel    10.0       -       10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                         Cement Plant      10.0      -       10.0
1975   RMK Zenica                             Steel             50.0      -       50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrznute         Food and Food
Hrane/Unilever                       Processing         4.0     2.4      6.4
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin  Pulp and Paper
Products         15.6      2.6    18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                            Hermetic
Compressors       7.0      -        7.0
1980   Investiciona Banka Titograd-
Udruzena Banka                      Tourism            21.0      -      21.0
1980   Radoje Dakic                           Machinery         18.7      -       18.7
1980   Eight Republican/Provincial            Small-Scale
Banks                                Enterprises       31.1     -       31.1
Total Gross Commitments                                 289.7    11.8   301.5
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                               143.8      5.2   149.0
Total commitments held by IFC                           145.9      6.6   152.5
Total Undisbursed                                        76.6      1.8    78.4



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The main dam is completed and the reservoir is filled. About
one-third of the irrigation network has been completed with the remainder
expected to be completed by end-1981. Project costs have been substantially
above appraisal estimates, but the overrun financing is being provided by
the Province of Kosovo and from Federal sources. After a delay of about
five years, a law has been enacted by the Kosovo Government which is
assisting in the provision of agricultural extension services to the
individual sector. In the absence of land consolidation, on farm
development and use of sprinkler irrigation have been slow. Recently,
organizational arrangements and revised schedule of implementation were
agreed upon, with irrigation of about 400 ha expected in 1981.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25
1973: Effective Date: November 28, 1973: Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
All loan funds provided under the project have been committed by
subloan agreements through Stopanska Banka. All but one of the subprojects
financed under the loan have been completed. Progress on this remaining
subproject has been delayed since work ceased after disputes arose between
the contractor and the sub-borrower. These are in the process of being
resolved and work should be resumed shortly. The Closing Date of the loan,
originally December 31, 1978, has been postponed thrice to June 30, 1981, to
permit completion of construction of the last subproject.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973;
Effective Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The costs of equipment and civil works had increased by end 1975
by about 71 percent over the appraisal estimate. As a result of this and of
a reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the project was
redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116). Phase I is a
reduced version of the original plan. Phase II provides for a pipeline
extension to link up with the pipeline constructed under the Sarajevo Air
Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing was
obtained. Naftagas obtained additional local currency financing required
for Phases I and II. A delay of more than three years in project
implementaion has occurred as a result of the increased project costs and
revision of the project. While two of the three sections have been
11 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
completed and gas deliveries have commenced, the third section has been
delayed due to the reorganization of the borrower and a consequent change in
project administration of the third section which is now scheduled for
completion by late 1982. This change in project administration for the
third section was approved by the Executive Directors in November 1980
(Second Amendment to Loan 916-YU, November 14, 1980, R80-324).
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit; US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The loan is fully committed and essentially fully disbursed.
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date; December 31, 1980.
The loan is fully committed and essentially fully disbursed.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974: Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways 1973-77
Investment Plan. Government efforts to combat inflation caused railway
tariffs to lag behind inflation and gave rise to financial and
administrative difficulties which, in turn caused substantial delays in
project implementation. Tariff increases and institutional developments,
including improved investment planning and management, the formation of COIs
and the signing of Social Agreements on railway and transport policies
substantially alleviated these problems. Serious flooding in Macedonia in
1980 has delayed completion of some works by RTE Skopje. Closing date has
been twice postponed, from June 30, 1979 to June 30, 1981, to allow full
utilization of project funds and completion of disbursements on contracts.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
All major port civil works are completed except the grain silo
facility, edible oil reservoirs and the railway marshalling yard. Final
completion of these items had been expected by end 1979. However, the
earthquakes of April/May 1979 in Montenegro resulted in severe damage to
port installations, particularly in the older parts of the port, caused
further delays but works are now proceeding. Closing date has been extended
to December 31, 1981 to permit completion of works.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date; June 26, 1975; Closing Date;
December 31, 1981.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have
put construction about two years behind schedule. Services to the Bank
financed Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in
time for its initial operation and remaining water supply component has now
been completed. Construction is progressing satisfactorily on the sewerage
component.
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit; US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975;
Effective Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
The Project Operations Unit of Vojvodjanska Banka, established in
March 1976, has worked satisfactorily. Project operations have shown
progress with respect to appraisal methodology and related aspects of
institution building. While the project has been completed and withdrawals
from the loan virtually completed, disbursements were behind appraisal
projections, given initial organizational and learning curve problems,
delays in procurement, unfamiliarity of participating banks with withdrawal
applications, timetaking translations and the time lag between commitments
and disbursements. A Project Completion Report is now being prepared.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 28, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project has been completed, about a year behind original
estimates and deliveries of oil have commenced. The revised cost estimates
of the project indicate a cost overrun of about 45 percent because of
required changes from original project components and increases in local
costs. The Borrower obtained supplementary financing from various sources
both foreign and local. Upon review of the award of a site preparation
contract in one case, and the procurement procedures regarding a telemetry
supervision control system in another case, the Bank concluded that the
procurement procedures were not in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement and the relevant portions ($470,000 and $112,000, respectively)
that would have otherwise been eligible for disbursement were cancelled from
the Loan. A Project Completion Report is now being prepared.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date; December 31, 1981.
The regional development study undertaken under this project has
provided the basis for the preparation of the proposed Second Morava



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Regional Development Project. The flood control and water quality studies
are progressing satisfactorily after initial delays in selecting
consultants. Construction of the Vrutci Dam is about 1-1/2 years behind
schedule due to foundation, design and construction problems which, however,
are being overcome by intensified efforts of the borrower in the supervision
of the contractor and consultation with the panel of experts. Construction
is completed on the principal parts of the Cacak and Titovo Uzice
components, the remainder are well advanced.  Feasibility studies on sewage
treatment plants in Cacak and Titovo Uzice have been completed. The pilot
irrigation components which were delayed pending the establishment of
suitable monitoring arrangements, are underway.  The creation of the
Republic Water Community of Interest was delayed due to the longer than
anticipated process of seeking agreement among all the Yugoslav parties
concerned on the structure of the organization. Staffing has been
strengthened in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice and in the
Republic Water Community of Interest.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June
8, 1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Construction of the water distribution system and sewage
collection is progressing satisfactorily and should be completed by early
1981. Construction of the sewerage treatment plan is underway and expected
to be completed by end 1981.
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The gas transmission line has been completed and initital
deliveries of gas began in December 1979, one year later than originally
planned. Difficulties in finalizing contracts for the supply of gas were
the major cause of delay. Construction of the gas distribution network and
high presssure loop-line around the city of Sarajevo is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed.
Disbursements are, however, somewhat behind appraisal estimates and Closing
Date was extended by one year to December 31, 1981.
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Construction of the dam, intake weir and feeder canal are
progressing satisfactorily and overall project progress is about one year



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
behind schedule. Awards of other procurement contracts are underway and it
is expected that by mid-1981 all major contracts would have been awarded. A
demonstration irrigation farm of 32 ha involving 28 farmers has been highly
successful.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 million Loan of
March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Progress of all major works is satisfactory. The winery and the
cold store are completed. Plantations of vineyards and orchards are on
schedule. Irrigation works are nearly completed.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date
June 30, 1982.
Sub-loans for all seven agro-industrial sub-projects have been
approved by the Borrower and loan proceeds for the individual sector have
also been fully committed. Progress in project implementation is slower
than expected due primarily to slow processing of bids and contract
finalization.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
All road contracts have been awarded and 109 km (82 percent) has
been opened to traffic. The Highway Master Plan for Kosovo and the studies
on Road-User Charges and Rail Costs have been completed.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Contracts totalling about 90 percent of the loan amount have been
let and physical execution is underway on the most critical sub-stations and
lines. The tariff study and most of the least cost development study have
been submitted to the Bank. Delays continue to be experienced regarding
management studies, revised interrepublc agreement on joint operations,
remaining portion of least cost development study and securing of foreign
financing for balance of items to be imported.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit: US$75.0 million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
All participating banks have identified the main investors. About
85 percent of loan proceeds were committed as of end-1980 and in the social
sector, all agroindustry investments are in the procurement or
implementation phase; however, the project is about one year behind



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
appraisal estimates. Measures to speed-up disbursements and overall project
implementation are being discussed with the participating banks. The
project monitoring and evaluation system is working satisfactorily.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: US$100 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: September 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Bank financed investments are progressing well. The level of
compensation payments is however increasing and substantial tariff increases
have failed to keep pace with inflation. Disbursements are on schedule.
Loan 1535 Ninth Highway: US$80 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: August 10, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Croatia section opened to traffic ahead of schedule. Slovenia and
Serbia sections expected to be completed by fall 1981. Disbursement rate is
satisfactory.
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power: US$73 million Loan of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Contracts for equipment totalling about 75 percent of the loan
amount have been let. Physical progress is satisfactory and relatively
problem free. However, Part B of the project (Mostar power plant), which is
not Bank financed, has been delayed primarily due to additional studies
needed concerning site geology.
Loan 1611 Third Industrial Credit: $40.0 million Loan of July 26, 1978;
Effective Date: November 16, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Commitments to date are about $35.0 million of which about $10.0
million is for special projects. The remainder will be committed for a
further single special project (lead smelter), which is now in final stages
of preparation. Disbursements are slightly behind those expected at
appraisal.
Loans 1612, 1613 and 1614 Fourth Industrial Credit: $20.0 million each
Loans of July 26, 1978; Effective Date: November 16, 1978;
Closing Dates: December 31, 1982.
Loans 1612 and 1614 are almost fully committed. Slower commitment
of Loan 1613 was due to the Borrower underestimating time for completion of
project preparation. Commitment process has now been accelerated.
Disbursements for Loans 1612 and 1614 are well ahead of the disbursements
expected at appraisal, while Loan 1613 is substantially behind.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan 1616 Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation: US$82 million Loan of August 23,
1978; Effective Date: February 14, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
Construction of the dam, alimentation canal, main canal and
irrigation network are underway. Thermal pipeline, diversion tunnel and
coffer dam construction have been completed.
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agro-Industries; US$55 million
Loan of November 6, 1978; Effective Date: March 28, 1979;
Closing Date; June 30, 1983.
Subproject approval and processing of tender documents have been
proceeding more slowly than expected at appraisal. About 40 percent of loan
has been committed. Substantial cost overruns may necessitate a reduction
in scope of the project.
Loan 1678 Tenth Highway:  US$148 million Loan of April 9, 1979; Effective
Date: August 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The five participating Republics/Provinces have awarded 63
construction contracts, 40 of which have Bank financing. Disbursements are
somewhat ahead of schedule.
Loan 1756 Croatia Sava Drainage; US$51 million Loan of October 11, 1979;
Effective Date: April 17, 1980; Closing Date; June 30, 1985.
Contract documents for procurement of drainage works has been
prepared. Consultants have been appointed to study and monitor subsurface
drainage. Progress, although somewhat behind schedule, is satisfactory, but
disbursements are lagging further behind appraisal estimates.
Loan 1759 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Highways: US$21 million
Loan of September 21, 1979; Effective Date: December 19, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project on schedule, emergency works completed and contracting for
restoration works completed with some works in progress.
Loan 1768 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Port of Bar: US$50 million
Loan of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project implementation about nine months behind schedule due to
delays in preparation of final designs and bidding documents.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Loan 1769 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Railways: US$14 million loan
of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Disbursements of about $1 million for urgent reconstruction works
have been made. Contracting procedures for remaining works have been slow
and disbursements are behind schedule.
Loan 1801 Third Agricultural Credit: US$86 million Loan of February 29, 1980
Effective Date: August 25, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
About 25 percent of the loan has been committed.
Loan 1819 Eleventh Highway: US$125 million Loan of April 23, 1980; Effective
Date: August 7, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Slovenia and Serbia have completed pre-qualification of
contractors, called for bids and completed analysis. Croatia and Vojvodina
contracts have been approved by Bank. Consultant for toll study has been
selected. CRO and ITE co-sponsoring Highway Safety Conference in Yugoslavia
October, 1981. Co-financing was obtained for an amount of US$110 million in
October, 1980 (see Semi-Monthly Report to the Executive Directors, R80-299).
Loans 1909, 1910, 1911 and 1912 Fifth Industrial Credit: $50.0, $30.0, $20.0
and $10.0 million, respectively, Loans of February 9, 1981;
Effective Date: May 15, 1981;_Closing Dates: October 31, 1984
Terminal date for declaring the loans effective is May 15, 1981.



- 41 -
YUGOSLAVIA: MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare              12 months
the Project:                                      (January to December 1979)
(b) Agencies which prepared Project:                  SFUR with assistance from
Yugoslav consultants and
the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program.
(c) Project first presented to Bank:                  December, 1979
(d) First Bank mission to review Project:             February, 1980
(e) Departure of appraisal mission:                   April, 1980
(f) Completion of negotiations:                       December, 1980
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:                    May, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Project is in an advanced stage of preparation and retroactive
financing of expenditures of up to US$1.0 million is recommended to avoid
delays in project implementation and to achieve one earlier crop year (see
paragraphs 52 and 65).
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)   As conditions of effectiveness, the three local agreements among
the participating organizations related to the financing plan and
project administration to be concluded (Loan Agreement, Section
7.01; paras. 45 and 76 of this Report);
(b)   Terms of sub-loans to be related to cash flow projections of the
investments (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, paragraph 3(C); para. 61
this Report); sub-loan limit of 36 percent of sub-project cost
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 1 and Schedule 5, paragraph
2(C)(iii)(c); paras.61 and 67 this Report); the interest rate for
on-lending under the project would vary by source: (a) on-lending
rate for Bank funds would be a minimum of 11 percent, (b)
on-lending rate for local bank funds



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
would be a minimum of 10 percent and (c) special development funds
on-lent by SFUR would be at rates in accordance with the
prevailing rates set by the Serbian authorities (currently between
4 and 5 percent). (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, paragraph 3(B);
para. 62 this Report);
(c)   Investbanka to institute a set of project evaluation procedures
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.05 (b); para. 58 this Report);
(d)   SFUR would engage suitably qualified and experienced consultants
to (a) prepare by August 31, 1981 a detailed plan for support
services in the project area and (b) prepare a cost accounting
system to be used by the agroindustries to be financed under the
project (Project Agreement, Section 2.04; paras. 54-55 this
Report). Investbanka would require that suitable qualified and
experienced consultants be engaged to prepare, for four of the
agroindustrial sub-projects, a report examining the technical
design and marketing prospects (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02
(a)(vii)(B); para. 55 this Report).



IA                        o~~~~~~~~~A A
(0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
I                               4
APPRAISAL OF MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
EA REGIONAL COORSINATION UNITS                   PR MAlRI 00A,00
A GDROKAMOINATA                                  SECONDARY BROAGSA
*  AS Al DO TORAL-STATIONS                       TRAILS
AFTERINAR-ODAIDSLTURALSATAIONS               RAILWAYS
DAI RY FARMS                                  AEPLULIC ANT AUSOAONDIIS
ADSAHE EP  P F RAS RNA-                           V-    NANTCE AOUDANORIES
03    H ONEYPROOULTION
LLOTRC ARDSA
iRRIOATIAOLNAORROA                      L
C9IANPAFDVEGEABLr BA                                                                                  A C        E      D 
MILKPROLESSAlLING ADA'I>
SLAUGBTERHOUSE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~NAVAFLLA
0        FE[AWLGA                                                                                                                                                                                                        P IAN0
~~LLY ALAIOSN                                                                                                                                           EP 5AS 
MDININTOADO REGIONS                                                                                                                                                                                              D
311.3                   45                                      U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-0 SI



